                               Documentof
                              TheWorldBank


                                                ReportNo. 26241-TP




                      PROJECTAPPRAISALDOCUMENT

                                 ONA

             PROPOSEDTRUST FUNDFOREAST TIMOR GRANT

                     INTHE AMOUNT OFUSD1.7MILLION

                                  TO

              THE DEMOCRATICREPUBLIC OF TIMOR-LESTE

                                 FORA

         SECONDPETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCEPROJECT


                              June 18,2003




Energy Sector Management Unit
East Asia andPacific Region

               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                 Currency Unit=U.S. Dollar


                      FISCAL YEAR
                      July 1to June 30



          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

          ADB: Asian Development Bank
           CAS: Country Assistance Strategy
        CPAR: Country Procurement Assessment Report
           IDA: Intemational Development Association
           IMF: Intemational Monetary Fund
        MOPF: Ministry o fPlanning and Finance
          NCB: National Competitive Bidding
          NDP: National Development Plan
      NORAD: Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
           SOE: Statement of Expenditures
         TFET: Trust Fundfor East Timor
   UNMISET: UnitedNations Missionof Support inEast Timor
        USAID: UnitedStates Agency for InternationalDevelopment
       USTDA: UnitedStates Trade and Development Agency
           TSO: Timor Sea Office
           TSP: Transition Support Program
           TSS: Transition Support Strategy
        TSTD: Timor Sea Tax Division




 Vice President: Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Director: Xian Zhu, EACNF
 Sector Director: Christian Delvoie, EASIN
 Task Manager: Charles McPherson, COCPO

                                                           FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
                                           TIMOR-LESTE

                 SECOND PETROLEUMTECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT

                                            CONTENTS

                                                                                          Page
      Project Appraisal Document                                                             1

      A. Project Development Objective
         1. Project Development Objective                                                   2
         2. Key Performance Indicators                                                       3

      B. Strategic Context
         1. Sector-related Transitional Support Strategy Goals Supported by the Project     4
         2. Main Sector Issues and GovernmentStrategy                                       5
         3. Sector Issues to be Addressed bythe Project and Strategic Choices                5

      C. Project Description Summary
         1. Project Components                                                              6
         2. KeyPolicy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project                    7
         3. Benefits and Target Population                                                  7
         4. Institutional and ImplementationArrangements                                    7

      D. Project Rationale
         1. Project Altematives Considered andReasons for Rejection                         8
         2. Major RelatedProjects Financedby the Bank and/or other Development Agencies     8
         3. Lessons Leamed andReflected inthe Project Design                                9
         4. Indicators o f Recipient Commitment and Ownership                               9
         5. Value Added o f World Bank Support inthis Project                              10

      E. Summary o fProject Analysis
         1. Economic                                                                       10
         2. Financial                                                                       10
         3. Technica1                                                                      10
         4. Institutional                                                                  10
         5. Social                                                                         11
         6. EnvironmentalAssessment                                                        11
         7. Participatory Approach                                                         11
         8. Safeguard Policies                                                             12

      F. Sustainability andRisks
         1. Sustainability                                                                 12
         2. Critical Risks                                                                 13
         3. Possible Controversial Aspects                                                 13

This document has a restricted distribution andmay be usedby recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
]withoutWorld Bank authorization.

G. Main Grant Conditions
   1. Implementation                                            13
   2. Financial                                                 14

H. Readiness for Implementation                                 15

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                    15

Annexes

Annexes 1& 2:        Project Design Summary and Description     17
Annex 3:             EstimatedProject Costs                     18
Annex 4:             Cost Benefit Analysis Summary              18
Annex 5:            Financial Summary                           18
Annex 6:            Procurement and DisbursementArrangements    19
Annex 7:            Project Processing Schedule and Budget      28
Annex 8:            Documents inthe Project File                29
Annex 9:             Statement of Grants                        30
Annex 10:           Timor-Leste At-a-Glance                     31

                                     TIMOR-LESTE

                       SecondPetroleumTechnicalAssistance Project

                             ProjectAppraisalDocument

                              EnergySector ManagementUnit
                               East Asia andPacific Region


Date: June 18,2003                            Task Manager: CharlesMcPherson
Country Director: Xian Zhu                    Sector Director: ChristianDelvoie
ProjectID: PO82942                            Sector: Energy- LC
LendingInstrument: Grant                      PovertyTargetedIntervention: [ ] Yes [XINo

Project FinancingData


                      Source                     Local     Foreign        Total
Trust Fund for East Timor                          0         1.7          1.7

Total:                                             0         1.7          1.7

Grantee: TIMOR-LESTE

ResponsibleAgencies: Timor Sea Office

ImplementingAgency:      Timor Sea Office
      Contact Person: Alisa Newman
             Address:    Timor Sea Office, GovernmentBuilding 3, Dili, Timor-Leste
                   Tel:  670 723 4152 (x 6637)
               E-mail:   alisamnewman@yahoo.com

EstimatedDisbursements(Bank FYKJSD'OOO):

Annual              50.0              960.0          690.0
Cumulative          50.0             1,010.0         1,700.0
ProjectImplementationPeriod: June 2003 -June 2005
ExpectedEffectivenessDate: August 1,2003           ExpectedClosingDate: December31,2005

                                               2


A. ProjectDevelopmentObjective

 1.ProjectDevelopmentObjective

 Over the next several years Timor-Leste's petroleum sector is expected to provide
revenues accounting for up to 50 percent o f GDP and 85 to 90 percent o f government
revenues and foreign exchange. These figures will drive future poverty reduction
programs, facilitate economic recovery, and allow for donor exit.

Against this background, technical assistanceto Timor-Leste inthe petroleum sector to
date has been significantly under-funded, amounting to a mere 0.2 percent o f the budget
and less thanthree percent o f donor flows. Inthe near-term, a considerable shortfall
relative to needs exists. Although issues related to the entry into force o f the Timor Sea
Treaty and signing o fthe Greater Sunrise Unitisation Agreement have beenresolved,
challenges facing Timor-Leste's petroleum sector are daunting; they include: complex
ongoing and new negotiationswith companies and governments (on the development o f
the Greater Sunrise field and Jahal and Kudatasi fields, among others); agreement o f a
new petroleumminingcode and modelproduction sharing contract for the Timor Sea
Treaty area; oversight o f the development o f Bayu-Undan, a major liquids and liquefied
natural gas project; maritime boundary negotiations; increasingly significant tax
compliance issues; the development o fminimumtechnical capacity; the design and
implementation o f a sustainable administrative fiamework for the sector; a growing need
for domestic and international public information outreach programs; and transparent and
efficient management o f petroleum revenues to ensure that they contribute to the
development o f the people o f Timor-Leste.

Thus, inlinewith vital needs, the proposed project will provide support to two key
government divisions involved inoverseeing petroleum sector development: (1) the
Timor Sea Office (TSO) inthe Office o fthe Prime Minister; and (2) the Ministry o f
Planningand Finance (MOPF), specifically, the Timor Sea Tax Division (TSTD) and,
separately, a petroleum revenue management function. The TSO has been the lead
agency on all sector policy and strategic topics and has conducted all international
negotiations; the TSTD is now facing rapidly escalating oversight demands; and there
currently exists no office inthe Government charged specifically with the critical task o f
implementing apetroleum revenue management strategy. Fundingfor these areas will
focus on maintaining and increasing capacity incore functions, including the retention
and/or recruitment o f essential international advisers, the provision o fprogrammed and
just-in-timetechnical assistance, critical operatingcosts (e.g., travel for essential
negotiations and tax audits), and the provision o f selected infrastructure for basic office
functions (TSTD).

Technical assistance support to Timor-Leste's petroleum sector to date has already
generated significant returns. Bymeans o f example, relying on funds provided inpart by
the first Trust Fundfor East Timor (TFET)-funded PetroleumTechnical Assistance
Project, the TSO negotiating team successfully shifted more than U S D 200 million in
value to the Timor-Leste Treasury inthe negotiations on the Greater Sunrise Unitisation

                                                    3


Agreement and an estimated USD 300 million to the Treasury inthe Bay-Undan
negotiations, assuming these projects proceed as currently scoped. Without the critical
technical assistance provided under the first Petroleum Technical Assistance Project, it i s
unlikelythat Timor-Leste wouldhaverealized such gains. Similarly, the few visits to
petroleum company headquarters inPerth already taken by the TSTD have boosted
company tax compliance considerably.

The selection of activities for funding over the next 24 months under the proposedproject
has been closely coordinated with the other donor programs inthe sector (see SectionD,
2). These programs remainrelatively limited, however, and are still fragmented. During
implementation and over the next 24 months, the Bank will continue to work with the
Government and other donors to develop a more strategic, sustainable approach to
fundingmedium-and longer-term activities relatedto petroleum sector development.

2. Key PerformanceIndicators

The intended outcome o fthe project is successful and sustainable oversight o fthe
petroleum sector inthe areas o f investment and project development, sector policy and
administration, and revenuecollection and management.

Performance indicators include: orderly development o f existing major projects; progress
on new licensing and maritime boundary negotiations; demonstrable progress on
international and domestic information outreach programs; completion of drafting andthe
adoption of key sector legislation; and enhanced tax compliance, auditing, legal
interpretation, and revenue collection and management. Immediate indicators include:
successful retentiodengagement o f qualified consultants and advisers; the definition and
implementation of training programs; administrative development and acquisition of
essential supporting infrastructure.

                         PerformanceIndicator                       Mid-Term Completion
 Engagement o f indicated consultants (detailed inproject              X
 Procurement Plan)
 Definitionand implementation o f training for TSO (petroleum          X
 economics) and TSTD (accountingiauditing)
 Acquisition o f office infrastructure (TSTD)                          X
 Demonstrable expansion o f information outreach, especially local     X
 outreach and including inside Government and National Parliament
 Start up o f negotiations o n new development projects (Jahal and     X

 Start up o f negotiations on maritime boundaries                                 X
 Presentationo f draft model contracts andnew PetroleumMining                     X
 Code to National Parliament
 Evidence o f expanded tax audits                                      X
 Presentationo f draft petroleum revenue management legislationto                 X
 National Parliament

                                              4


Monitoring and evaluation will be addressedthrough regular reporting andperiodic
project supervisionreports. See Section Cy1below for a description o fproject
components.

B. Strategic Context

1. Sector-related Transitional Support Strategy Goals Supportedby the Project

While there i s currently no Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Timor-Leste, the
proposed project i s inline with the objectives o f the November 2000 Transitional Support
Strategy (TSS), which notes that careful management o f oil and gas revenues will be
requiredfollowing the country's Independence, which was achievedMay20,2002.
Following the TSS, the World Bank has prepared strategy-related reports that discuss
concerns relatedto oil and gas revenue management, including background papers for
donor meetings inOslo (December 2001) and Dili (May 2002), a Country Economic
Memorandum (March 2002), and a Poverty Assessment (April 2003).

InMay2002, the Government issueda State ofthe NationReport and aNational
Development Plan (NDP), which outlines the Government's development andpoverty
reductionobjectives. A Stability Program, announced inJanuary 2003, serves as a guide
for the Government's fiscal 2004 planning and budgeting exercise, highlightingareas o f
the NDP that the Government considers immediate priorities. InJuly 2002, insupport o f
the NDP, the Government signed a PolicyDevelopment Letter inrelationto the
Transition Support Program (TSP), a series o fbalance o fpayments support operations
financed by grants from a host o f donors, including the World Bank. The TSP was
designedto bridgethe gap untiloil and gas revenues come on stream. TSP I(FY2003)
focused on the creation of institutions and establishment o f the legislative andregulatory
framework and strengthening o fmanagement systems for core government functions.
While still ongoing, TSP I1(FY2004), expected to become effective July 2003, will focus
on good governance, service delivery for poverty reduction, andjob creation, reflecting
Stability Programpriorities.

The documents and programs mentioned above consistently emphasize the central
development role to be played by petroleum inthe medium-to long-term and, by
implication, underscore the importance inthe near-term o f ensuringthe continued
functioning o f those government offices involved inoverseeing petroleum sector
development. At the May 2002 Dili donors meeting, donors agreed to allocate TFET
funds for technical assistance to support the Government inits oil and gas negotiations.
The subsequentUSD 240,000 Petroleum Technical Assistance Project was signed onthe
occasion o fthe December 2002 Timor-Leste and Development Partners Meeting. It
provided support for expert industryconsultants to aid the TSO with the difficult,
complex negotiations with international oil companies and neighboring countries that led
to the entry into force o f the Timor Sea Treaty and the signingo f the Greater Sunrise
Unitisation Agreement and investor commitment to proceedwith the LNGphase o f the
Bayu-Undan development. The project continues to support the ongoing draftingo f

                                              5


 sector legal, contractual, and fiscal arrangements associatedwith agreements resulting
 from the negotiations and development o fBayu-Undan.

InDecember2002, TFET donors andthe Government agreedto allocate anadditional
USD 1.28 millionto the petroleum sector. TFET donors andthe Government agreedto
increase this allocationbyUSD 0.42 million, to USD 1.7 million, inJune 2003. The
grant financing will be usedto continue support to the TSO andprovide support to the
MOPF (specifically, the TSTD and apetroleum revenue management function). Specific
goals inthe TSS and related strategic reports to be addressedby the proposedadditional
technical assistance project include: maintaining and strengthening capacity inkeypolicy
andoversight areas; urgent attention to the completion of appropriate legal andregulatory
frameworks and to the management o fpetroleum revenues; and coordination with other
donors on near-term and medium-termobjectives. These goals are to bereflected inthe
CAS that is expected to beprepared inthe coming months, based on the NDP.

2. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy

The over-riding issue inthe sector remains the lack o f capacity to addressnear-term
sector priorities. These include:

    0   Oversight o f development o f the Bayu-Undan field;
    0   Preparation o f a legal framework for future licenses and development projects;
    0   Progress on agreement o f maritimeboundaries;
    0   Design and development o f sustainable institutional capacity;
    0   Public information and outreach on petroleum sector issues;
    0   Ensuringsustainable revenue collections from contractors exploiting Timor Sea
        resources; and
    0   Ensuring transparent and efficient management o fpetroleum revenues.

The Government's approach to the capacity issue has been to seek complementary
contributions from multilateral and bilateral donors to fund intemational industry
consultant assistance on the most urgentpriorities. The near-term strategy has been
necessarily somewhat ad-hoc, and the Government i s actively exploring with
intemational donors the possibilities for a more coordinated, sustained program o f
assistance for the medium-term.

3. Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices

Theproposedproject is consistent with the Government's strategic approach inthat it:
(a) provides fimdingfor just-in-time technical assistance, while (b) simultaneously
focusing on the retention and strengthening o f core sector functions critical to the
medium-term.

The designo fthe proposedproject has been closely coordinatedwith other donor
initiatives. The decision to concentrate on preserving continuity andenhancing core
policy andoversight functions fills a gap left by other programs.

                                              6



Beyondthe proposed project, the World Bank expects to play a continuing leadrole in
supporting the Government inthe design and implementation o f a sustainable longer-
term program (see Section D, 2).

C. ProjectDescriptionSummary

1.ProjectComponents

The proposedproject will provide support to two key agencies: the TSO and MOPF
(more specifically, the TSTD and a new petroleum revenue management function o fthe
MOPF). The table below shows the breakdown ofproposed project supportbycategory
and cost.

Expatriateconsultant services account for the largest share o fproject costs. For the TSO
these include, on a residentialbasis, a coordinator, general legal adviser, petroleum
negotiations adviser, media director, and external consultant support inthe areas o f fiscal
and financial advice, commercial oil and gas law, and intemational strategy. Consultant
services going to the MOPF include a resident tax/legal adviser, an outside tax audit
adviser and a resident expert inpetroleum revenue management.

Goods to be provided will go to the TSTD to cover essential office upgrading, including
such items as photocopiers, printers, fax, telephone and internet connections inDili, and a
branch office to be opened inPerth(the location o f the majority o f taxpayers).

Training support has been allocatedto the TSO for Englishlanguage andpetroleum
economics/commercial practices, and to the TSTD for tax accounting and auditing.

Finally, funds havebeen set aside for support o f incremental operating costs, including
staff travel andper diem associated with negotiations (TSO) and tax audits (TSTD).

               Project Componentsand Costs (includingbreakdownby category)

                                              7




 2. Key PolicyandInstitutionalReformsSupportedby the Project

 The proposedproject will provide abasis for the development o f a revised legal,
 contractual, and fiscal framework for petroleum operations. The proposedproject will
 also develop the capacity o f core Timorese staff indealingwith the range issues involved
inpreparinga framework for, andoverseeing, petroleuminvestment andpetroleum
operations, including the efficient administration o f taxes and management ofrevenues.

3. BenefitsandTarget Population

Immediate beneficiaries will be officials inthe TSO and staff inthe MOPF who are
responsible for coordination o fpetroleum sector activities, including follow-on from
negotiations on the Bay-Undanproject, and the provision o f legal, auditing, financial
management, media, and other advice and support. Their capacity will be strengthened
through proposedtraining as well as through continuing collaboration with top-level
consultants who provided assistance through the first Petroleum Technical Assistance
Project. The entire population o f Timor-Leste will benefit considerably from the
revenues expected to result from Bayu-Undan and other gas development projects.

4. InstitutionalandImplementationArrangements

Implementation. The TSO, coordinatingwith the MOPF, will be responsible for
implementing the proposedproject. World Bank technical staff will supervise the
proposed project.

Project Management. The TSO will manage the proposedproject. The Coordinator o f
the TSO is designated as Project Director andwill be accountable for effective
management o fthe proposedproject.

Disbursement. The proposedproject i s expected to disburse over two years from the date
o f effectiveness. Disbursement will use traditional disbursement methods-direct
payments or Statement o f Expenditures (SOE). The documentation supporting SOE
disbursements will be retainedby the TSO for at least one year after receipt bythe
International Development Association (IDA) o f the audit report for the year inwhich the
last disbursement was made.

                                               8


Financial Management. Overall financial management o f finds under the proposed
project will be the responsibility o f the TSO, which has employed a financial manager
acceptable to IDA. This responsibilitywill include certain key functions: operation o f the
Special Account; submissiono fwithdrawal applications (either for direct payments to
consultants or replenishment o fthe Special Account); maintenance o f adequate records
and supporting documentation for expenditures; andpreparation o fperiodic summaries o f
expenditures as may be requiredby IDA.

Audit. The TSO will be responsible for preparation o f annual financial statements o f all
project expenditures, and Treasury will make the necessary arrangements to have these
auditedby independentauditors acceptable to IDA. The audit report will be submitted
not later than six months after the end o f each fiscal year. For cost effectiveness and
expediency, the Treasury envisages this audit will be included as one o f the tasks when
the auditors conduct the audit o fthe Government accounts and/or the other IDA-
administered, TFET-funded projects.

Procurement. The procurement volume under this project i s expected to be limited. To
mitigate the risks, it was agreed with the World Bank's procurement accredited staff, the
head o f the Government's Procurement Division, the Government's procurement adviser,
and the TSO Coordinator that the Government's procurement adviser will be assigned as
the project procurement specialist to assist the TSO inemploying the project consultants.
The procurement adviser i s a retiredWorld Bank procurement staffwith over 29 years o f
diverse procurement experience; he will assist the TSO incarrying out project-related
procurement.

Reporting. Reporting andperiodic monitoring will be established for the proposed
project.

D.Project Rationale

1. ProjectAlternatives ConsideredandReasonsfor Rejection

Fundingo fother sector priorities was considered but rejectedonthe grounds that:
(a) they were o f lesser urgency; and (b) they had attracted, or hadthe potential to attract
funding from other donors.

2. Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or other DevelopmentAgencies

The proposed project will follow directly on from, and i s complementary to, the first
Petroleum Technical Assistance Project fundedby TFET andunder World Bank
supervision.

The UnitedNations has seconded a member o f the Civilian Support Group o f the United
Nations Mission o f Support (UNMISET) inTimor-Leste to the TSO inthe role of
Coordinator/Legal Adviser. This arrangement will expire at the end o f the UNMISET
mandate inMay 2004.

                                               9



 The UnitedStates Agency for IntemationalDevelopment (USAID) is providing bridge
 financing to support certain direct staff costs (two positions) and certain operational costs
 at the TSO. This assistance expires at the end of June 2003.

 TheUnitedStates Trade and Development Agency (USTDA) financed support to
preparations o f a mediudlonger-term legal, contractual, and fiscal framework for the
 sector and recommendations on the design o f institutional arrangements. This support
 ended inMay 2003. USTDA i s considering increments to, or extensions of, its assistance.

The Norwegian Government is financing the secondment o fthree expertsto the United
Nations Development Programme inthe areas o f (1) petroleumpolicy advice and sector
management (located inthe DesignatedAuthority for the Timor Sea Treaty area); (2)
sector taxation andtax compliance (located inthe Timor Sea Tax Division); and (3)
petroleum engineeringassistance (located inthe Oil and Gas Directorate o f the Natural
and Mineral Resources Directorate).Beyond secondment o f the three resident experts,
Norway, through the Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation ( N O W ) ,has
put inplace aNOK 30 million (approximately USD4 million) program o f support to the
sector covering two resident technical consultancies (inthe Directorate), additional short
term consultancies, training, workshops and equipment. Fundingfrom the proposed
project will inpart complement the N O W funding.

The International Monetary Fund(IMF)has provided initial direct support and outside
consultant assistance on a petroleum revenue management strategy (including a possible
"oil fbnd"). Further support may be considered. Inaddition to this outside advice,
however, it i s critical to have an adviser located within the Government to assist in
implementationo f this strategy.

The Asian Development Bank (ADB)has funded, andhas agreed to extend funding until
the endo f 2003, a Petroleum Fiscal Adviser who i s providingcrucial support to the
conduct o f commercial negotiations and significant petroleumfiscal advice.

3. LessonsLearnedandReflectedinthe ProjectDesign

Experience inother World Bankprojects underscores the importance o f the following as
keys to success inthis type o f technical assistance: (a) counterpart commitment (see next
section); (b) effective capacity incore policy, oversight, and coordinating functions; and
(c) access to high-quality intemational consultant expertise. The proposed project is
designed to provide assistance inthe latter two areas.

4. Indicationsof RecipientCommitmentandOwnership

The PrimeMinister has taken a direct participatory interest inthe activities to be
supported by the proposedproject, and the implementingagency-the           TSO-is   within
the Prime Minister's office. The activities which will be supportedhave been assigned
the highestpriorityby the Prime Minister.

                                             10



5. Value Added of WorldBankSupportinthisProject

The World Bank Group's Oil and Gas Policy Unit,which will task manage this project,
has extensive world-wide experience indesigningand implementingpetroleum sector
technical assistance, not only inthe activities to be financed under the proposedproject,
but inrelatedplannedfuture activities, e.g. legal and fiscal frameworks, institutional
capacity development, andpetroleum revenue management. Participation inthe proposed
project will provide a platform for assistanceinother areas andinthe design o f a broader,
longer-term technical assistanceprogram.

E.SummaryProjectAnalysis

1.Economic

Not applicable.

2. Financial

Not directly applicable. However, the fiscal impact o f successfil sector development and
effective oversight of tax compliance will be substantial. Conservatively estimated,
development o f the Bayu-Undan field alone i s expected to allow for donor exit within
three to four years, andto contribute as much as USD 75 millionper year to the
Government's budget by 2006. The benefits o f investmentinnegotiations support have
already become apparent. Experiencedandwell-rounded negotiators can shift significant
sums to the Treasury incomplex petroleumnegotiations. Thebenefits o finvestmentin
tax compliance are also apparent. Evensimple audits, especially ina period where tax
rules are not yet well understood, have provided significant returns to the Treasury.

3. Technical

Not applicable.

4. Institutional

    (a) ImplementingAgency: The TSO i s the implementingagency.
   (b) Project Management: The TSOwill provide the staff necessary to manage the
       project.
   (c) Procurement Issues. The Government's procurement adviser will be assigned as
       the project procurement specialist to assist the TSO.
   (d) Financial Management Issues: The project financial management systemto be
       putinplacewill need to be acceptable to IDA.

                                             11


5. Social

Not directly applicable, but expected petroleum revenues will have major implications for
the ability to fundpublic services inhealth, education, andbasic infrastructure, which are
crucial for poverty reduction.

6. Environmental Assessment

Environmental Category: C

Not directly applicable. However, the technical assistance providedunder the proposed
project is designed with the development o f the country's oil and gas reserves inmind.
This development, inturn, will have significant environmental implications. Such
implications will be taken into account as part o f the negotiations. Exploitation o fthe
Bayu-Undan field will occur under the Timor Sea Treaty between Timor-Leste and
Australia, which entered into force inApril 2003. The Treaty establishes a Designated
Authority with regulatory authority over environmental matters. The Designated
Authorityrecently took over from the Joint Authority (established bythe UnitedNations,
on behalf o f Timor-Leste, and Australia in2000), which had adopted environmental
standards o fthe highest level (essentially an Australian environmental regime) and
includes a full-time expert Australian environmental regulator. These standards and
access to this expertise are continuing under the Designated Authority.

Inaddition, aPetroleumMiningCode included inthe Timor SeaTreatypermits the
DesignatedAuthority to issue environmental regulations. The Code, and associated
regulations to be issued under the Treaty, prevent the DesignatedAuthority from issuing
contracts unless companies can show their ability to meet the environmental standards
established; oblige companies to protect the environment inand around the contract area;
andempower the Designated Authority to make a company pay for the remedy o f any
environmental damage. Furthermore, the Production Sharing Contract concluded with
the Bayu-Undan operator ConocoPhillips anditsjoint venture partners requires thejoint
venture to: develop an Environmental Management Plan to be approved by the
DesignatedAuthority; prevent pollution o f the marine environment; andpay for the costs
associated with clean-up o f any pollution from petroleum operations within the contract
area. The Production Sharing Contract also requires the contractor to submit to the
DesignatedAuthority a plan for decommissioning the project. This planmust include:
steps reasonably required to prevent hazard to the environment, and environmental,
engineering, and feasibility studies reasonably necessary to support the plan.

7. Participatory Approach

   (a) Primary beneficiaries: The TSO inthe Office o f the Prime Minister and the
       MOPF will bethe primary beneficiaries o fthe proposedproject.

   (b) Other Key Stakeholders: Implementation ofthe proposedproject will be
       coordinatedwith other key ministries and departments, such as the Ministryo f

                                              12


        Development andEnvironment, which includes the Oil and Gas Division o f the
        Departmento fMineralResources.

8. Safeguard Policies

As a Category C project, an Environmental Assessment will not be undertaken.          It is
considered that the existing environmental regime and successor regime, as described
above, will provide adequate safeguards with respect to the environment. Duringproject
implementation, World Bank experts will review these regimes and provide feedback to
the Government as necessary. Since successful development of Timor-Leste's petroleum
resources, which the proposedproject would support, will have environmental
implications, the possibility o fpreparing a strategic Environmental Impact Assessment
will be explored with the Government duringproject implementation.

Similarly, the Projects inDisputedAreas Safeguards are not invoked under the proposed
project. The Timor Sea contains areas o f overlapping boundary claims by Timor-Leste
and neighboring countries. These could become the object o fmaritime boundary
negotiations, andthe proposedproject providesTimor-Leste with the possibilityo f expert
advice and support inthis area. The project does not, however, involve any activity ina
disputedzone. The World Bank's other Safeguard Policies are not relevant to the
proposed project.

F.SustainabilityandRisks

1.Sustainability

While promoting the conditions for sustainability, the proposedproject, in and o f itself,
will not ensure it. Institutional capacity inthe sector over the project period will continue
to depend largely on short-term expatriate support and short-term funding. Longer-tenn
sustainability will depend critically on available long-term funding andon the
development o f local capacity. As noted above, the World Bank will continue to work
with the Government and with other donors over the project implementation periodto put
inplace long-term capacityto manage Timor-Leste's petroleum sector.

The long-termbenefits o fthe proposedproject to Timor-Leste will depend ultimately on
the proper management o fthe petroleumrevenues that the successful development of
Bayu-Undan and other possible oil and gas fields are expected to generate. The proposed
project includes support to the design and implementation of a revenue management
system.Other current technical assistanceprojects (e.g., USTDA,NORAD, andIMF)
and anticipated follow-on projects are designed to put inplace expatriate and,
increasingly, local capacity to ensure effective sector and revenue management. That
said, the track record inother petroleum producing countries shows that there canbe
significant risks inthis area.

                                               13


2. CriticalRisks

Riskso finappropriateconsultant selection are considered negligible. The main
consultants have been or will be identified and selected based on their skills and
experience. Several well-qualified candidates have already beenidentified for planned
new consultancy appointments. Consultants already inplace have a proven record o f
performance. The risk o f complications as a result o f anticipated consultancy turnover i s
considered moderate andwill be monitored closely duringproject supervision.

Procurement risk i s rated "high" due capacity issues. To mitigate this risk, the
Government's procurement adviser will be assigned as the project procurement specialist
to assist the implementing agency inemploying the project consultants. The procurement
adviser is a retiredWorld Bank procurement staff with over 29 years o f diverse
procurement experience.

3. Possible ControversialAspects

Theproposedproject will inter alia fund highprofile negotiationswith political
overtones. These have the potentialto be controversial, and indeed, at earlier stages, and
even recently, became so. However, the professionalism of the negotiations has never
been brought into question and i s not expected to be at risk during fundingunder the
proposed project.

G. MainGrant Conditions

1. Implementation

   (a) The Recipient shall:

       (9      maintain the Timor Sea Office, assigned with such functions,
               responsibilities and funds, satisfactory to the Trustee, and with competent
               staff in adequate numbers, including a Project Director and a financial
               manager acceptable to the Trustee, for the day-to-day implementation and
               management o f the Project; and

       (ii)maintaintheTimorSeaTaxDivision,assignedwithsuchfunctions,
              responsibilities and funds, satisfactory to the Trustee, and with competent
               staff inadequate numbers for assisting the Timor Sea Office inthe
              implementation andmanagement o f the Project.

   (b) The Recipient shall maintaininthe Recipient's ProcurementDepartment, until
       completion o f the Project, a procurement specialist, with terms o f reference
       satisfactory to the Trustee andprovided with adequate support, funds and
       resources as shall be required to enable suchpersonnel to carry out its functions
       underthe Project.

                                             14

   (c) The Recipient shall, not later than October 3 ,2004, employ an independent
       auditor acceptable to the Trustee.

   (d) The Recipient shall, not later than August 31 2003, andJuly 31,2004, furnishto
       the Trustee, for its review andcomments, an annual budget planfor its Fiscal
       Year 2003/2004 and its Fiscal Year 2004/2005, giving details o fproposed
       disbursement estimates, including a cash forecast for at least three (3) months,
       and, thereafter, finalize and adopt each suchplantaking into consideration the
       comments of the Trustee.

   (e) The Recipient shall:

       (0    maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
             evaluate on an ongoing basis, inaccordance with the indicators set forth in
             Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the carrying out o f the Project and the
             achievement o f the objective thereof;

       (ii)prepare,undertermsofreferencesatisfactorytotheTrustee,andfurnishto
             the Trustee, on or about August 31,2004, a report integrating the results o f
             the monitoring and evaluation activities performedpursuant to paragraph (e)
             (i)fthisSection,ontheprogressachievedinthecarryingoutoftheProject
               o
             duringthe period precedingthe date o f saidreport and settingout the
            measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out o f the Project
             and the achievement o fthe objective thereof duringthe period following
             such date; and

       (iii)reviewwiththeTrustee,bySeptember30,2004, orsuchlaterdateasthe
            Trustee shall request, the report referred to inparagraph (e) (ii) o fthis
             Section, and, thereafter, take all measures requiredto ensure the efficient
            completion o f the Project and the achievement o f the objective thereof,
            based on the conclusions and recommendations o f the said report and the
            Trustee's views on the matter.

2. Financial

   (a) The Recipient will maintainrecords and accounts to reflect inaccordance with
       sound accountingpractices, operations, resources, and expenditures inrespect o f
      the project.
   (b) The Recipient will:
        (i)havetherecordsandaccountsreferredtoinparagraph1aboveauditedfor
            each fiscal year inaccordance with appropriate auditing principles by
            independent auditors acceptable to IDA.
       (ii)hrnishIDAassoonasavailable,butinanycasenolaterthansixmonths
            after the end o f each such year, the report o f such audit, insuch scope and
            detail as IDA shall have requested.
      (iii)furnishIDAsuchotherinformationconcerningsaidrecordsandaccounts
            and the audit thereof as IDA shall from time to time reasonably request.

                                              15



     (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account
         were made on the basis of statements o f expenditure, the Recipient will:
           (i)maintain,inaccordancewithparagraph1above,recordsandaccounts
               reflecting such expenditures.
          (ii)retain,atleastoneyearafterIDAhasreceiveditsauditreportforthefiscal
               year inwhich the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all
               records evidencing such expenditures.
         (iii)enableIDArepresentativestoexaminesuchrecords.
         (iv) ensurethat such records are includedinthe annual audit referred to in
               paragraph 2 above, andthat the report o f such audit contains a separate
               opinion by said auditors as to whether the SOEs submitted together with the
               procedures and internal controls involved inthe preparation can be relied
               upon to support the relatedwithdrawals.

H.Readinessfor Implementation

Consultants for the main assignments under the proposedproject are inplace or have
already been identified. The procurement documentationfor the first year's activities are
complete and ready for the start o fproject implementation.

Project implementation arrangements have beenappraised and found to be realistic and
o f satisfactory quality.

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies

This proposed project complies with all Bank policies.

                                 16



  & - L L J & M W
Task Manager: CharlesMcPherson



                         f




Country Director: XianZhu

                                                        17
             Annexes 1& 2: Project DesignSummary andDescription
                   TIMOR-LESTE: Second PetroleumTechnicalAssistance

 The proposedproject will support a range o factivities inthe Timor Sea Office (TSO) and
 inthe MinistryofPlanningandFinance(MOPF). The objectiveofthe project is to
 ensure continued and enhanced functioning o fthese critical agencies over the next 24
 months insupport o f an orderly, beneficial developmento fthe petroleum sector. Project
 components and performance indicators are summarized inthe table below.

    Project Component                     PerformanceIndicator                Mid-Term      Completion
 Technical Assistance        Engagement o f indicated consultants              Completed
 (via Consultant             (detailed inproject ProcurementPlan)
 Services)
 Training                    Definition and implementation o f training for    Completed
                           I TSO (petroleum economics) and TSTD
                            1(accounting/auditing)                           I            I
IOffice infrastructure       Acquisition o f office infrastructure (TSTD)      Completed
 Technical Assistance (via   Demonstrable expansion o f information            Completed
 Consultant Services)        outreach, especially local outreach and
                             including inside Government and National
                             Parliament
 Technical Assistance (via   Start up o f negotiations on new development     Negotiations
 Consultant Services)        projects (Jahal and Kudatasi)                      started
 Technical Assistance (via   Start up o f negotiations on maritime                          Negotiations
                                                                                              -
 Consultant Services)      1 boundaries     -                                              I  started

 Consultant Services)        Petroleum Mining Code to National Parliament
 Techmcal Assistance (via    Evidence o f expanded tax audits                  Completed
 Consultant Services)
 Techmcal Assistance (via    Presentationo f draft petroleumrevenue                         Completed
 Consultant Services)        management legislation to National Parliament

 Specific items to beprovided and financed include:

 (a)   limitedoperating expenses, including staff travel andper diem, o f the TSO and
       MOPF related to performance o ftheir petroleum negotiations, policy, oversight,
       information outreach, audit and revenue management functions;
 (b)   the acquisition o f limitedIT and communications office equipment considered
       necessary to effective performance o f the TSTD;
 (c)   international consultant support to the TSO and MOPF on a full-time andjust-in-
       time basis inpetroleum sector management and revenue management, legal,
       technical, financial, auditing, and media outreach functions;
 (e)   focused training o f local TSO and TSTD staff inpetroleum economics and taxation
       andaccounting/auditing.

 Inaddition, theproposedproject will provide support for the carrying out o fproject
 audits.

 The proposed hndingwill complement support providedby other agencies including
 NORAD, ADB, USTDA, and the IMF.

                            18


          Annex 3: EstimatedProject Costs
    TIMOR-LESTE: SecondPetroleumTechnicalAssistance


ProjectComponentsand Costs (includingbreakdownby category)




       Annex 4: Cost BenefitAnalysis Summary
    TIMOR-LESTE: SecondPetroleumTechnicalAssistance

              [Not Applicable to this Project.]


            Annex 5: FinancialSummary
   TIMOR-LESTE: SecondPetroleumTechnicalAssistance

              [Not Applicable to this Project.]

                                                 19


            Annex 6: ProcurementandDisbursementArrangements
                 TIMOR-LESTE: SecondPetroleumTechnicalAssistance

1. Procurement Assessment

The TSO, the implementingagency for the proposedproject, is successfully
implementing the first Petroleum Technical Assistance Project. As a result, TSO has
processed bid evaluation reports and awarded contracts for consultants inaccordance
with the Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, publishedin
January 1995, revised inJanuary and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999
(hereinafter referredto as the Procurement Guidelines). Therefore, even though the
exposure to World Bank procurement procedures i s limited, TSO, with the assistance o f
the Government's Procurement Division and the Government's procurement adviser, i s
capable carrying out the procurement requiredunder the proposedproject.

However, the overall capacity o f the TSO involved with procurement i s "weak" and the
associated risks are inthe "high" category due to lack o frules, regulations, andpractices
that may not fully support the principles o f competition. Some o f the laws that have yet
to passed are those dealingwith ethics, bankruptcy, commercial codes, investments, land
and property ownership. Inaddition, the TSO does not include experienced procurement
staff. Finally, a review o fthe current "Law on Procurement" regulation 2000/10, which
i s currently being revised, pointed out the following discrepancies:

(a) National laws and regulations (2000/10) have beenreviewed under the World Bank's
     Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) and several provisions were found
     to be inconsistent with the World Bank's Procurement Guidelines. For example, in
     the nationalregulationthe U.S. dollar is stated as the currency o fpayment, whereas
     the World Bank allows bidders to express their bids andreceivepayments inthe
     currency o f any member country up to a maximum o f three foreign currencies. The
     regulation places emphasis on national sources for procurement under USD 1.O
     million, while the World Bank's preference is intemational competitive bidding
     unless the contract i s unlikely to attract foreign competition. Underthe regulation,
     the procurement entity may extendthe bidvalidity period, whereas under the World
     Bank's Procurement Guidelines the procurement entity may request extension o fthe
     bidvalidity periodbutbiddersare not obligatedto extendthe date. However, the
     regulation also states that ifthe regulation conflicts with the procurement rules o f a
     donor or funding agency, the requirements o f those rules shall prevail. Therefore,
     consistent with national regulations, all procurement for consultancy services shall be
     inaccordance withthe Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by
     WorldBank Borrowers,publishedinJanuary 1997, revised inSeptember 1997,
     January 1999, and May 2002 (hereinafter referred to as the Consultant Guidelines).

(b) For the selection o f consultants, there is no conflict betweenthe World Bank's
     Consultant Guidelines and the national regulations. However, the regulations do not
     require inclusion o f the draft contract form inthe Request for Proposals. The
     regulations meet the World Bank's requirements, i.e. the World Bank's Standard

                                               20


    Requestfor Proposals: Selections of Consultants (includes Standard Forms Contract),
    published inJuly 1997 andrevisedinApril 1998 andJuly 1999, andwhich shall be
     usedwhile invitingproposals.

 (c) The procurement volume under the proposed project i s expected to be limited. To
    mitigate risks, the following was agreed with the World Bank's procurement
     accredited staff, the head o fthe Government's Procurement Division, the
    Government's procurement adviser, representatives o f TSO and MOPF:

     0   that the Government's procurement adviser will be assigned as the project
         procurement specialist to assist the TSO incarrying out the project-related
         procurement activities. The procurement adviser i s a retiredWorld Bank
         procurement staff with over 29 years o f diverse procurement experience;
     0   TSOwill have easy access to IDAprocurement specialists based inthe Country
         Office;
     0   for all individual consulting assignments and all contracts costing over USD
         50,000 or more, prior review andapproval by IDA o f all terms o freference and
         consultant's qualifications, experience, and terms o f employment.

2. Implementation

Since this i s a very small project consisting o f 14 short-term consulting assignments (8
ofwhich are incumbents or current advisers), three International Shopping contracts for
small equipment, miscellaneous National Shopping contracts for fumiture and small
equipment,andtwo project audits, a simplifiedprocurementcapacity assessmentwas
carried out by the Procurement Accredited Staff (Mr.Ronald Isaacson) inthe World
Bank's Dili,Timor-Leste office, which indicatedthat the procurement staff inthe
Government's Procurement Divisionare generally proficient inimplementing the
consultant assignments under this project according to the World Bank's Procurement
Guidelines. The paragraphs below outline the procurement arrangements that will be
followed to employ the consultants and to purchase goods funded by the project.

The Project Director based inthe TSO will beresponsible for project relatedprocurement
decisions within the TSO andthe MOPF and will be responsible to obtain approvals from
theprocurement specialist and ContractAssessment Commission (whennecessary).

A. Procurementof Goods

The procurement o f goods will follow the World Bank's Procurement Guidelines. Goods
to be procured under the proposedproject will include computers, printers, overhead
projector, scanner, fax, andoffice fimiture. Biddingdocuments acceptable to the World
Bank will be usedfor the procurement of goods fundedunder the project.

(i)   International Shoppingprocedures shall be used to procure computers, printers, and
miscellaneous office equipment. These contracts will be awarded by comparing price

                                             21


quotations obtained from at least three international suppliers from a minimumo ftwo
countries, inaccordance with the Procurement Guidelines.

(ii)NationalShoppingproceduresshallbeusedtoprocuremiscellaneousoffice
equipment and furniture. These contracts will be awarded by comparingwrittenprice
quotations obtained from at least three domestic suppliersinaccordance with the
Procurement Guidelines.

B. Consulting Services

Selection o f consultants and formats of consultant contracts will be done inaccordance
with the WorldBank's ConsultingGuidelines. The procurementmethods follow.

(i) Individual Consultants: The TSO and MOPFwill need individual advisers and
consultants to carry out the complex and specialized tasks under the proposedproject.
The selection o f individual consultants would be basedon their qualifications for the
assignment inaccordance with Section V o f the Consulting Guidelines. The TSO and
MOPF will prepare the TOR o fthe various assignments and send them to the Task
Manager for no objection. The specific methods to be employed by the project are
outlined inthe following two sub-paragraphs.

      a. TSO and MOPF will solicit a minimumo fthree CVs o f qualified consultants
         who have the competency to carry out the terms o freference, inaccordance
         with the provisions of 5.1 to 5.3 o fthe Consulting Guidelines. Underthe
         guidance o f the procurement adviser, the TSO will prepare the consultant's
         evaluation report and draft contract. The procurement adviser, and when
         necessary the Contract Assessment Commission, will approve the consultant's
         evaluation report and draft contract before they are submitted to IDA for review
         andno objection.

         The above procedures will be followed for the selection o f following advisers:
               (i)     Resident Legal Adviser o f the TSO;
               (ii)    ResidentPetroleumNegotiator o fthe TSO;
               (iii)   Outside LNGMarketing Adviser for the TSO;
               (iv)    Outside Tax Audit Adviser for the MOPF (TSTD);
               (v)     Resident Petroleum Revenue Management Adviser o f the MOPF.

     b. TSO will select the followingpositions inaccordance with Clauses 5.3 and 5.4
         o f the Consulting Guidelines as they are either incumbents or have performed
         similar assignments for TSO under the first Petroleum Technical Assistance
         Project:
               (i)     Resident Coordinator o f the TSO;
               (ii)    Resident Media Director o f the TSO;
               (iii)   ResidentFinancial Manager o fthe TSO;
               (iv)    Outside Political and Strategy Adviser for the TSO;
               (v)     Outside CommercialPetroleum Law Adviser for TSO;

                                                22


                  (vi)    OutsideFinancialAdviser for the TSO;
                  (vii)   Outside PetroleumFiscal Adviser for the TSO;
                  (viii) ResidentTax Legal Adviser ofthe MOPF (TSTD).

   (ii) Auditing: The Treasury i s responsible for contracting an auditing firm to audit all
       o f the TFET fundedprojects. Treasury will include the audit o fthis project on the
       list o fprojects to be audited. The first audit o f the project i s scheduled for period 1
       July 2003 through30 June 2004. Selection for the first audit will be Single-Source
       Selection as the Treasury has a three-year renewable contract with its current audit
       firm. Services for project auditing oftheremaindero fthe project will beprocured
       under contracts awardedinaccordance with provisions o f Section I1o f the
       Consulting Guidelines, and provisions o fparagraphs 3.13 through 3.18 applicable
       to Quality and Cost Based Selection o f consultants.

3. Procurement Methods

(i) Procurement of Goods (US0 40,000)

     (a) International Shopping (IS): Procedures for IS will be usedfor goods costing
         less than the equivalent o fUSD 20,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount
         estimated not to exceed USD 35,000. These contracts will be awarded after
         solicitation and evaluation o fwritten price quotations from at least three suppliers
         intwo different countries, inaccordance withthe procedures acceptable to the
         World Bank.

     (b) National Shopping (NS): Procedures for N S will be used for goods costing less
         than the equivalent o fUSD 2,500 per contract up to an aggregate amount
         estimated not to exceed USD 5,000. These contracts will be awardedby
         comparingprice quotations obtained form at least three domestic suppliers, in
         accordance with the World Bank's Procurement Guidelines.

(ii) Consulting Services (US0 1,222,800)

Selectionof consultants under the proposedproject will follow the provisions o f the
World Bank's Consulting Guidelines.

  (a) Individual Consultants: TSO and MOPF will require individual advisers and
       consultants to carry out some o fthe specializedtasks o f the project, such as legal
       (international law, commercial law, tax law, audits, petroleum law), media, project
       management, fiscal, negotiations support, financial analysis, petroleum engineering,
       andpetroleum revenue management. Consulting contracts for these tasks financed
       underthe proposedproject will be awarded to individuals inaccordance with
       paragraphs 5.1 to 5.4 o f the Consulting Guidelines. The World Bank's Standard
       Contractfor Short-Term Individual Consultant: TimeBased Remunerationfor
       Small Assignments will be used.

                                              23


  (b) Single Source and Quality and Cost Based Selection: Selectionfor the first audit
      will be Single-Source Selection as the Treasury has a three-year renewable contract
      with its current audit firm. Services for project auditing o fthe remainder o fthe
      project will be procured under contracts awardedinaccordance with provisions of
      Section I1of the Consulting Guidelines, and provisions o fparagraphs 3.13 through
      3.18 applicable to Quality and Cost Based Selection o f consultants.

(iii) Training (USD 31,000)

Expenses for Government staff to attend training courses inadvanced law o f income tax,
language and complex legal interpretation, intemationalprofit shifting and transfer
pricing, auditing, business accounting, and financial statement analysis will be disbursed
with prior approval of the World Bank. The estimated total cost o ftraining for TSO and
MOPF staff is USD 31,000

(iv) Incremental Operating Costs (USD 406,200)

Incrementaloperating costs will include transportation andper diem to permit certain
memberso fthe TSO andMOPFwhose travel i s not otherwise provided for to participate
innegotiations, carry out tax compliance activities, collections, audits, communications,
etc. These will be procured according to normal commercial procedures acceptable to the
World Bank.

4. Prior Review Thresholds

IDAwill conduct a prior review o fprocurement for all contracts costingUSD 50,000 or
more and all individual consulting contracts. The Task Manager will approve all terms of
reference, qualifications and experience o f the candidates, andthe terms of employment.

5. Ex-Post Reveiw

Ex-post review inthe ratio o f one out o ftwo contracts will be conducted regularlyby
IDAto identify areas o fimprovement. IDAwill conduct supervision missions half
yearly for the life o f the project.

6. Disbursement

The proposed project i s expected to disburse over a period o f 24 months from date o f
signing. Disbursement will use the traditional disbursement methods-direct payments
or SOEs, reimbursements, etc. All disbursements against contracts for individual
consultants costing USD 50,000 equivalent or more will be fully documented. All other
contracts will be made against certified SOEs. The documentation supporting SOE
disbursements will be retained by the Treasury for at least one year after the receipt by
IDAofthe audit report for the year inwhichthe last disbursement was made.

                                              24


 7. Special Account

To facilitate timelyproject implementation, the Government may establish a Special
Account denominated inUS.dollars under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. If
the Special Account i s established, the authorized allocation for the Special Account will
be USD 175,000. The replenishmentapplications should be submittedbythe Treasury
on a monthly basis or when the balance o fthe Special Account i s 20 percent of the initial
amount, whichever comes first. The Special Account will be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA.

8. Financial Management Assessment

The financial arrangements described inSection C, 4 were verified and discussed with
TSO andMOPF(TSTD) representatives and a World Bank FinancialManagement
Specialist. Given the nature o f the proposed project and expenditures involved, these
arrangements were assessedas satisfactory and acceptable.

9. Accounting Organization and Staffing

As indicated above, the TSOwill assign its financial manager, who is acceptable to IDA,
to ensure that the financial management tasks are carried out ina systematic and timely
order.

10. Funds Flow

The funding sources for the proposed project will come from TFET. The TSO will be
responsible for requestingdisbursement from TFET for agreed project activities. The
disbursement requests will be routed through the designated Government official
authorized to sign applications to withdraw funds from the Grant Account established for
the project. Basedon authorizedrequests to disburse funds, IDAwill withdraw andpay
funds directly to a supplier or transfer funds to a Special Account to bemanagedbythe
Government. It is likely that the majority o fproject funds will flow fkom IDA directly to
the consultants.

11. Retroactive Financing

No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account for payments made for
expenditures prior to the date o f signature of the Grant Agreement, except that
withdrawals, inan aggregate amount not exceeding USD 170,000, may be made on
account o fpayments made for expenditures inthe categories o f consulting services and
goods before that date but after May 1,2003.

                                              25


12.Planning and Budgeting

The preparationo fthe budgetplans for project implementation will be the responsibility
o f the TSO. The budget should beprepared insuch detail to allow meaningful monitoring
ofproject implementation. The budget shouldbe coordinated with the procurementplans
and supported by a cash forecast o f at least three months.

13.Accounting and Reporting

The primaryresponsibility for maintaining accounting records for the proposedproject
will be with the TSO. The TSOwill liaise with the MOPF(particularly the TSTD), who
will assist inthe maintenance of accountingrecords o fthe MOPF for the proposed
project. The TSO will establish appropriate accounting and internal control procedures
for authorizing payments, recording o f all project-related expenditures, periodic financial
reporting, and preparationo f annual financial statements for external audit. The
accounting system should be designed to maintain separate project accounts for TFET-
funded activities inaccordance with the Trust FundGrant Agreement.

14. Auditing

Periodic internal auditing of the project activities will be carried out inaccordance with
Government auditingprocedures. The TSO will prepare annual financial statements for
the project and have them audited by an independent external auditor acceptable to IDA.
The auditor will be requiredto provide an opinion on the financial statements, the
operations of the Special Account, and the withdrawals from the grant based on SOEs.
The independent auditor will be appointed on terms o freference acceptable to IDA.

                                                          26


                     Table A: ProjectsCosts by ProcurementArrangements
                                           (inUSD'000 equivalent)
I       Expenditure Category           I7r-T             Procurement Method                              Total Cost
II                                     I     A b -    I    NCB        I  Other*     I    NBF
  1. Goods                             I              I               I                                      40.6

  2. Consulting Services               I              I                  1,224.1
                                                                        (1,222.80)
  3. Training                                                               31.0                             31.0
                                                                           (31.0)                           (31.0)
  4. Incremental Operating Costs                                           406.2                            406.2
                                                                         (406.2)                           (406.2)
                Total                                                      1,700                            1,700
                                                                         (1,700)                           (1,700)

  * Includes goods to be procured through national and international shopping, technical services, training, staff of the
  project management office, and incremental operating costs related to managing the project and operating TSTD office
  inPerth.

                            TableB: ConsultantSelectionArrangements
                                             (inUSD'000 equivalent)

      Consultant Services                                                                                           Total
      and Audit                                                                                                 1    cost  I
      Expenditure                                            Selection Method

      Category
                                QCBS        QBS       SFB        LCS        SBCQ        Other         N.B.F.
                                                                                       (IC/SS)
     A. Firms                      3.O                                                    3.O                         6.0
     B. Individuals                                                                     1,216.8                    1,216.8
     Contingencies Total          3.0                                                  1,219.8                     1,222.8


              Table C: Thresholdfor ProcurementMethodsandPrior Review

     Expenditure Category             Contract Value            Procurement Method            Contracts Subject to
                                                                                                  Prior Review
                                                                                                    (USD'OOO)
     Consultant Services               >USD50,000                     IC, QCSB, SS                     1,132.2
     and audits                   (IndividualsandFirms)
     Goods                            >USD 10,000                        IS, N S                        20.0



     OverallProcurementRiskAssessment:

           High
           Average
           Low

                                         27


The Government o f Timor-Leste's Procurement Divisionhas employed a retired
World Bankprocurement staffwith 29 years o f diverseprocurement experience; he
will continue as the procurement specialist for the proposed project. However, the
Government has yet to pass laws dealing with ethics, bankruptcy, commercial codes,
investments, land andproperty ownership, etc. The Procurement Law i s beingrevised
following the UNCITRALmodel Procurement Law, but has yet to be ratified. These
issues are discussed inthe CPAR, which i s being finalized. Therefore, the overall
procurement risk assessmentinTimor-Leste remains high.

                      Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds

    ExpenditureCategory          Amount inUSD'000              FinancialPercentage
ConsultantServices                     1.222.8           I 100%for individual consultants
                                                            and 96% for consulting fm
Goods                                    40.0              100%of foreign expenditures,
                                                           100%of local expenditures (ex-
                                                           factory cost), and 90% o f local
                                                             expenditures for other items
                                                                  procured locally
Training                                 31.0                           100%
IncrementalOperatingCosts               406.2                           100%
Tntal                                 1.700.0

                                       28


              Annex 7: Project ProcessingandBudgetSchedule
              TIMOR-LESTE: SecondPetroleumTechnicalAssistance

 Processing:




Budget(per SAP as of 6/17/2003*):
IFund Source       IStaffsalaries ITraveVOther    ITotal        I Percentof TotalI
 BankBudget (BB)    $8,581.80      $470.40         $9,05 1.58     100%
 Trust Fund(TFET)   $0.0           $0.0            $0.0           0%
 Total              $8,581.80      $470.40         $9,051.58
 Percent of Total   95yo           5yo             100%           --100%


Bank Group Staffwho worked on the projectincluded:




 M e i Wang                      Counsel
 Morag van Praag                 Senior Disbursement Officer
 Abdul Haji                      Senior Financial Management Specialist
 Allison Berg                    Operations Analyst

                                        29


                     Annex 8: Documents inProject File*
             TIMOR-LESTE: SecondPetroleumTechnicalAssistance


A. ProjectImplementationPlan

Project implementation arrangements have beenappraised and found to be realistic and
of satisfactory quality.

B. BankStaffAssessments

Project Procurement Capacity Assessment prepared by Dili office procurement
accredited staff.
Project Appraisal Document for the First Petroleum Technical Assistance Project,
World Bank, Report No. 25140-TP.

C. Other

Detailed Project Procurement Plan by component prepared by Timor Sea Office and
Timor Sea Tax Division staff inconjunctionwith project Task Team.

*Including electronic files.

                                               30


                           Annex 9: Statement of Grants*
               TIMOR-LESTE:SecondPetroleumTechnicalAssistance




*As of 6/17/2003; all are TFET Grants administered by the World Bank with the exception of Transition
Support Program I.

                                     Timor-Leste at a dance                                                                         10H1l02


                                                                         East
 POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            East    Asia 8,       Low.
                                                              Timor    Pacific     income      Developmentdiamond'
2001
 Population, mid-year (millions)                                0.83    1,826        2311                    Life expectancy
 GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                              470      900         430
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                0.39    1,649        1,069

Average annual growth, 1995.01
 Population (%)                                                            1.I 1.9
Labor force (%)                                                            1.3         2.3                                          Gross

Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                                          capita                            enrollment
                                                                                              ~



Poverty (% ofpopulation belownationalpovertyline)                 40
Urban population (77 of totalpopulation)                          24       37           31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                  57       69           59                          I
Infant mortality (per 1,000live births)                           86       36           76
Child malnutrition(% of children under 5)                                   12                      Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)               63        74           76
illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                              48        14          37
Gross primaryenrollment (% of school-agepopulation)              113      107          96             -East        Timor
    Male                                                         112      106         103                     Low-income group
    Female                                                       114      108          a8

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                   1998        1999     2000         2001     1Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                 0.39         0.27     0.32         0.39
Gross domestic investmentiGDP                                   21.o     29.0         25.0
Exports of goodslGDP                               15.6         19.3       1.6         1.o                        Trade

Gross domestic savingslGDP                                     -13.0    -50.0        -47.0
                                                                                                                    T
Gross national savings/GDP                                      23.3     46.5         29.3

Current account balancelGDP                        -5.4          2.2      16.5        -1.5
Interest paymentslGDP
Total debtiGDP
Total debt servicelexports
Presentvalue of debtiGDP
Presentvalue of debtiexports
                                                                                            I                  Indebtedness
                                          1998     1999        2000     2001      2001.05
(averageannual growth)                                                                        I
GDP                                         ..    -35.5         15.5     18.2          0.2              -East       Timor
GDP per capita                                                                                                  Low-income group
                                                                                                         ~
Exportsof goods and services                                                                  I




STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                  1998         1999     2000         2001
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                        41.1         43.2     25.9        25.4
Industry                                           14.7         16.8     18.8         17.5
  Manufacturing                                     2.7          2.8      2.7          2.5
Services                                           44.1        40.1      55.3        57.1

Private consumption
Generalgovernmentconsumption
imports of goods and services                      38.9        44.1      63.8        60.9


                                                  I998         I999     2000         2001
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                                     -3.6      3.4         -2.3
Industry                                               ..     -33.3      26.4          9.5
  Manufacturing                                        ..     -50.3      10.1          6.9
Services                                               ..     -48.1      31.2        22.6

Privateconsumption
Generalgovernmentconsumption
Gross domestic investment
Importsof goods and services

Note: 2001 data are preliminary estimates.
 The diamondsshow four key indicators in the country (in bold) comparedwith its income-groupaverage. If data are missing, the diamondwill
   be incomplete.

                                                                                                                                Tim0r-Leste

PRICESand GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                                     1998       1999       2000        2001       Inflation(%)
Domesticprices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                                140.0         3.0         0.0
Implicit GDP deflator                                            7.2         3.0        2.5

Governmentfinance
(99 of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                                                          7.0                96     97     58    99      00    01
Current budget balance                                                                  8.5               -GDP        deflator +CPI
Overall surplusldeficit                                                                -5.2

                                                                                                1
TRADE
                                                    1998       1999        2000        2001
(US$miliions)                                                                                     Export and importlevels (US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                                     61        52           5          4      250T
  Coffee                                                                       4           3
  n.a.                                                                                           200

  Manufactures                                                                                   150
Total imports (cif)                                   152       119         205         237      100
  Food
  Fuel and energy                                                                                 50

  Capital goods                                                                                    0
                                                                                                        95    86    97    98    59    00    01
Export price index (1995=100)
Import price index (1995=100)                                                                                  E3 Exports      FS Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                                    1998       1999       2000         2001
(US$millions)                                                                                     Current account balance to ODP (YO)

Exports of goods                                        61        52           5          4       2o T
imports of goods                                      152       119         205         237
Resource balance                                     -122       -92        -258        -303

Net income                                               0         0           3          4
Net current transfers                                 100         98        307         293

Current account balance                                -21         6          53          -6

Financing items (net)                                   22        -6        -36           14
Changes in net reserves                                 -1         0        -17           -8

Memo:
Grossforeign assets (US$ millions)                      0          0         1.o
                                                                              16         1.o
                                                                                         24
Conversion rate (DEC, /ocal/US$)                       1.o       1.o

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS a/
                                                    1998       1999       2000        2001
(US$millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed
  IBRD
  IDA

Total debt service
  IBRD
  IDA
Composition of net resourceflows
  Official grants
  Official creditors
  Private creditors
  Foreign direct investment
  Portfolio equity

World Bank program
  Commitments
  Disbursements
  Principal repayments
  Net flows
  Interest payments
  Net transfers

              ~~

Development Economics                                                                                                                    10/11/02

a/ East Timor has not incurredany external debt as all assistance has been in the form of grants.

MAP SECTION


