Document of
'rh UXJw4A Ra,ilr
I. IL%  TV  M J  .L L JWA  L1.
FOR OFFIC'1A'L'USk' O'NLYI
Report No: 24197-CO
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
>1.rL-3oz t'v, ± r -~,y I l1)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$11 MILLION
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA
FOR AN
ENERGY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
06/20/2002
Finance. Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Colombia, Mexico, and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latn . Ameri.a and the (aohhPan ReeaLn
I liS UOCUIful l1 U U I[VNLLAVU WSULIUUIUI1 UUIU uy U1 Ur ULVU uy LCUVIVLPU11 UlUY ilW FVI1UIUkI"mur, UL UsiVi
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURENCY EQUIVALNETS
(EYv&hAnOp R atm Pf.fw-toue F1Pj1hnXrn  MlI
Currency Unit = Colombian Peso Col$
Col$1.00 = US$ 0.00045
USS 1.00 = Col$2;200
FTS.CAI. WFAR
January I December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACIEM.           Asociaci6n Colombiana de Ingenieros Electricistas y Mecanicos (Colombian
Association of Electrical and Mechanical Engineers)
ACODIS           Asociaci6n Colombiana de Distribuidores (Colombian Association of Distribution
Cnmnnnies)
ACOLGEN          Asociaci6n Colombiana de Generadores (Colombian Association of Generating
Comninc"es)
BOO              Build, Own, Operate
CASEC C~~~%or '.e11  ^1Ambie.w1 l  del  Sc.or Eulec Co:mbiu -.ov  ('IIluColomk.bWVAL0 liar  q.-  Poveector
Environmental Committee)
CIF                ost, iLnsurance, rreignt
CNE              Comisi6n Nacional de Energia (National Energy Commission)
COLGAS           Compaflia Colombiana de Gas (Colombian Gas Company)
CONPES           Consejo Nacional de Politica Econ6mica y Social (National Economic and Social
Policy Council)
CORELCA          Corporaci6n El6ctrica de la Costa Atlantica (Atlantic Coast Electricity Corporation)
CREG             Comisi6n de Regulaci6n de Energia y Gas (Energy and Gas Regulatory Commission)
CVC              Corporaci6n Aut6noma del Valle del Cauca (Valle del Cauca Autonomous
Corporation)
DANE             Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadistica (National Statistics
Department)
ThNP             Departamentn Nacional de PlaneaciAn (National Planning Denartment)
DSM              Demand-side Management
EC- A            E mnprea rdo%h%orana Ae GIas (G'as T"n.a.vivv;^n Co,,rtion)
ECOPETROL        Empresa Colombiana de Petr6leos (Colombian Petroleum Corporation)
EEBD             Er,,p,-esa dEp e iu Energia ure ougoua (Bogota oruwe Co.yorat'orn")
EEC              European Economic Community
EMCALi           Empresas Municipales de Cali (Cali Municipal Services Corporation)
EPM              Empresas Publicas de Medellin (Medellin Municipal Services Corporation)
ESMAP            Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
ESTAP            Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project
FEN              Financiera Energetica Nacional (National Energy Finance Company)
Vice President:  David de Ferranti
Cnninth Manaver-ireetMr:   Olivier T afmnrrade
Sector Manager/Director:  Danny Leipziger
I uTak i UeaII Leaden,'T i ak Mvianage:.  rEuuaouu ZI.leiZLI



ARIpRFXV1ATIohN AND AC(ROMVMq h,A(ntiniud. .)
G-DP~ ~~     t_ Grss rDomestic DroAuct
IBRD             International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICEL             Instiitu- - COWn1biano ud EAcCrillicacion (Colombian EiecLrificaLion Institute)
ICONTEC          Instituto Colombiano de Normas Tecnicas (Colombian Technical Norms Institute)
iCR              implementation Completion Report
IDB              Inter-American Development Bank
INEA             Instituto Nacional de Energias Alternas (National Institute of Alternative Energy)
IPP              Independent Power Producer
IRR              Internal rate of return
ISA              Interconexi6n Electrica S.A. (National Interconnection Company)
ISAGEN           Government-owned power production company
JNT              Junta Nacional de Tarifas de Servicios Puiblicos (National Public Service Tariff
Committee)
L PG             .Liqnified Petroleum Gas
MHCP             Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito Puiblico (Ministry of Finance and Public Credit)
MAITErCOT        Pmnreca NMainnal Minersa T dan (Nationnl Mining Cornpration)
MIS              Management Information System
JV=IE,           Mvinisterio de MiLnas yu Enrl (Mni, y, ofMrea.nry)
MTR              Mid Term Review
r<'LsuS          Mi'llilon US$'
NPV              Net PresentValue
OED              Operations Evaluation Department, Worid Bank
OLADE            Organizaci6n Latinoamericana de Energia (Latin American Energy Organization)
PPA              Power Purchase Agreement
PROMIGAS         Promotora de la Incorporaci6n de Gasoductos de la Costa Atlantica (Atlantic Coast
Gas Company)
PSR              Public Sector Reform Loan
SCI              Sociedad Colombiana de Ingenieros (Colombian Association of Engineers)
SIE              Energy Information System
SSP              Superintendencia de Servicios Publicos (Public Services Superintendence)
TA               Technical Assistance
UNDP             United Nations Development Programme
TJME             Unidadde Planeamiento Minero Energetic (Mining and FnPrgv P1annino Unit)
USAID            US Agency for International Development
Measurement Units
00b                  Barre;
bpd                 Barrels per day
BT-u                 British Thermal Unit
cal                 Calorie
cf                  Cubic foot
cfd                 Cubic feet per day
gal                 US gallon
CGWh                Gigawatt-hour (109 Wh)
kcf                 Thousand cubic feet
kW                  Kilowatt
J                   Joule



J                    Joule
LPG                   Liquid petroleum gae
it                   Liter
MV I u               M UJillior, BI U
Mcf                   Million cubic feet
MW                    Megawatt (10 W)
TJ                   TeraJoule (10 J)
TOE                  Ton of oil equivalent.
12
XWS~~~~~~JIL %i_ UUJA, LIV.L jV 91Jj
ENERGY CON VERSION FAC T ORS
1 TOE = 7.3 bbl
1 MTOE = 12.4 TWh (heat content equivalent) = 12,400 GWh
1 -1,o  = I OAI96 fTTT
I cf of gas = 1000 BTU
;Ik'wn   - 80U UkaI
1 m gas = 9000 kcal



COLOMBIA
VNVR1YVT1rCUTWrrA1. AVS1STANCr            PRnOJCT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          1
4- Achievement of Ohiective and Outnuts                                             4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               8
U. Sus anaUiiUiI L
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 12
9. Partner Comments                                                                13
10. Additional Information                                                         13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               17
An ,     conic Costs 2n. Benef:s                                                 NT/A
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              24
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                   25






Project ID: P006893                                       Project Name: Energy Technical Assistance Project
I eam Leader: Eduardo H. Zolezzi                          TL unit: LUSIt
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 20, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Energy Technical Assistance Project            L/C/TF Number: CPL-38270; TF-22917
Country/Depariment: COLuIrNIA                                            Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
SectoUFr4U3bscUo. Bl - InIILILUoUU: Develovpr..er.Lt BR- ruu il
Enterprise Reform; GG - Oil & Gas Adjustment
KEY DATES
PCD:   06/06/93                               Effective: 06/19/95           09/05/95
Appr-a.isal: I10/127/l93                             .UTR:                      06/05/98
Approval:  12/15/94                                Closing: 12/31/99            12/31/2001
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBLA/NATL.PLANNING DEPT.; MINISTRY OF
MININ G AND EN.RGY
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
virp Prveidont:      navid dPe Feirrnti                        Sbahibi H1unsin
Country Manager:     Olivier Lafourcade                         Yoshiaki Abe
Sector Mannger:       Danny Leipziger                           P   ter Ludwig
Team Leader at ICR:  Eduardo Zolezzi                            Jayme Porto Carreiro
ICR Primarv Author:  Fernando Lecarnq
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HriHigiiy Unsatisfactoxy, H=High, SuSubstantiai, M=iviodest, N-=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HL
institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
(J,nhih, , t Rl;.nru                     5:
.Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Rarkeornund



The objectives and design of the Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project (ESTAP) need to be assessed
in liiht ofdvpuelo7pments which culminatpd wuith a randical reform ofthe pnergr ctor and the power
subsector in particular. The 1980s were characterized by periodical financial crises in the power subsector
-hich led the -overnment to embarko n a sweepin. overhale of i.ts instittional str-uctre. Discoveries of
large natural gas deposits also pointed the way towards the need to provide altemative means of expanding
suppflies -, rnn,rA - deelpi. t.L. insedia.,nol nC,ctuitira.c^r for *his sn,,o nc f enr.ergy. t,wh fan1.
support through the Energy Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP), during 1991-92 the
Goverunmnt draf%ed supporting 1leg.sain  '     T  D...... ... -..,v 0.A ,           -y
and Gas Regulatory Commission (CREG) for restructuring the power subsector. Government policy
corIISLteU of U1iLVu.A..ng copeI1JioUI Uy ucrL%eaLI1:IrI a UiUUngr-base~U Wuv,1oaL., LiI%Aa ILVAI frcu-11.4ILy adu ani
open-access transmission network, disengaging itself from direct participation in electricity production and
JuisulLu_-u'__            -4u   dvsr- ..e.t  o fpwrplnsadutlte,A '+nI-. eelpet fnw oe
Ul UIUULUUI ULLVU611 UIV~U311VIAL VI jJUWVl pIJaitiZ a1U UUUUvlb U1UV1L4NUIIDLLV U1-. U _.VJJ1UjAUUL Uk JUVW IJ%UWVi
stations with private sector participation, introducing regulation where market mechanisms could not be
eilect.iVt, WanU UIUoUdiiCing pilCIng UIJb *IU i IMU;L iUbQj. 111 UIl, g: NUULbV.LU1, UI 'JUVYIIIUIUIIWL I U t
developing the resource by promoting gas-based electricity generation in order to reduce the reliance on
hydroelectricity, at ractiiig private sector participation in building an iifrasturucture of gas pipelines,
stimulating exploration, creating an efficient gas trading and transportation system with private sector
participation, together with a market simiiar to that of the power sector.
Achieving these objectives presented considerable challenges: power sector regulation at the generation
level required taking into account multiple, abundant and competing fuels (hydroelectricity, natural gas,
coal and oil), there was little worldwide experience with bidding markets for electricity (the UK had
developed one in 1990, and Argentina was in the process of putting its market in place), and even less
experience with implementing them in systems with a large hydroelectric component. There was also scant
local experience with the natural gas industry and the possibilities of implementing a natural gas market.
Furthermore, the size of proposed privatizations presented, a priori, difficult challenges.
Under these circumstances, the project was conceived as a multipurpose and efficient instrument for
sunnorting the reforns (thereby maintaining the momentum gained during the organization of CREG and
the preparation of sector laws), and channeling resources to the energy sector, as a continuation of support
initially prnvided by ESMAP and subseauently offered by the Public Sector Reform (PSR) loan.
lrioinal Ofhihrtives
Project objectives were: (a) to implement regulatory reforns for the power and gas sub-sectors by
strengthening the newly created entities in charge of regulation and energy policy formulation and
implementation, in order to help them build experience and thereby increase their chances of performing
efficiently; (b) to implement strategies specifically designed for the energy sector, respecting environmental
concerns and constraints and attracting private investment in the sector; and (c) to develop a demand-side
management (DSM) strategy and assist in its implementation.
flOOCOOIf&  A TIheL bjet.i.es .,.,  appn  -_priate, and I,, - - reJ.7ec... C ....t.... p-.. .- re, gardi6
energy sector reform, particularly in the power subsector, as well as the need to support the development
L_C ..^_# ---         L-4 L--       #A_        # L -  . . :LDA+ B _ '-   T# _-r --- -#-#A +
U/J trsc 6UJ a"u0c"uv rtrggbr& X"" Ucctg &grm&ssc &U aJ1F&vysfsS$f6 A&"&& _rm   C$V* xx"m&  BV^AwJ&C
with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) at the time, which emphasized policy reform,
irnstiuutional development, as  we a tyxt,o   its ro n urce l,ansferU to   U of   (.;U
assistance. The objectives also reflect the Bank's role in the power sector (transparent regulation,
commercialization and corporatization, andprivate investment). Project objectives haud been estaublished
during the groundwork which had been going on since three years before, with Bank participation.
Although objective (c) was not direcdty iinked to tne primary rejorm and privatization objectives, it was
included to reflect ongoing studies supported by ESMAP.
-2 -



3.2 Revised Objective:
l1- ob,ec   ,vre r.t ---,r--ar
3 3 Oricninal Connnnnents:
The project was originally designed around five components:
(a)  Overall Regulation, Pricing and Energy Policy: assistance to the Energy and Gas
Regulatory Commission and to the Energy Policy Unit for developing a competitive industry,
disseminating information regarding utilities' performance, protecting users, pricing services
efficiently, controlling and focussing the allocation of subsidies to the poor, and structuring
energy strategies, taking into account environmental and socioeconomic constraints;
)     S        C   S A     asIsancUJL  !   Inkin D  A.  eg l n -s A_AAAl  b_C-L1 vIn . A A  AA * t_ A _ aIbW _ A AA U_
and privatization experts to help mobilize private capital (both domestic and foreign) for new
jAJW~ ~11i4UUUWLU 1~U1UUUU JLUJ~'L .bUIVLUVLL VI VAIM11lI, JJUU114,-bU%LVIJWi luunu~
powerI geneLrat1ion aAnd disbfibutifOn projCc` s, diveur,en- ofei-V gpbi-sco  osrle
power plants, corporatization and privatization of utilities, and creation of the new grid
cor,Lpaai-y kla r-I missiI lu1) Lo V faci.Ul, J IL4ULouI am1UU .,ngelcicity gene,-rdato;
(c)  Specific Gas Sector Assistance: assistance in developing a new industry structure and
regulations for the natural gas market incorporating private sector participation and
competition; assistance to the Government in attracting private companies to the sector;
(d)   Environment: assistance in executing sectoral environmental assessments together with
project environmental assessments, formnulating energy sector environmental regulations and
guidelines, and promoting user awareness and participation in the definition of energy sector
projects; and
(e)  Energy Demand Management and Safetv Enhancement: develonment of a demand-side
management (DSM) strategy for efficient energy use; assistance in devising mechanisms for
disseminating information to help users in making fiuel and eqipnment choiree.
AvsP-v.vmPnf Comnonent fa) wav oripnted townrdvsachi-v.ing nhiectivhos regarding the imnlnmin.tntinn °f
regulatory reforms, thefocus of support being the Energy and Gas Regulatory Commission.
C'nnpnnenPtv (h) and (c) were nriontod tnwnr.dv nrnwiding v,nnnprt to thew Thnidlad do Pln,,eAc.;on .Mer-o
Energetica (UPME), the Energy Policy Unit of the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME), and to
achieving objiectives associated with energy strategy imnlom"tntinn .   the inttar cou.ld encompass a wide
number ofprojects, particularly when supportingprivatization strategies. Component (d) reflected the
r    D-.fr.nentc ncencintnA with the need in rnnt-nmnlnt- --,,;n,ir,.m-,-t6 conhce- in the firhpl-em.ntatios. of
energy sector strategies, and component (e) responded to the objective of developing a demand-side
managem-t s.ratneg. Cor..ponents           U.ve  cd it objectves a. d c .,r,4ld- ro-ea a,g.i,.ed to
beneficiary agencies, thereby maintaining the project adequatelyfocused on achieving its purpose.
3.4 Revised Components:
Considering that improvmig energy efficiency could be achieved throueh a combination of market forces
and public management programs, the Government decided to use the project mainly to support the
imnlementation of market-based policies and requested Inter-American Develonment Bank's aDT'Ds)
backing to set up public energy efficiency programs. The project focused on the implementation of price
efficiency and regulatorv refnrm= Conqernifntlvy the Fnerv r)-mand Mannagement and Rnfetv
Enhancement component was truncated at an early stage in the implementation process. The reallocation
ofnpro,ipt fiinti to refflpet thic chanAge was made e'ffppt-iv.v in 1000a
-3 -



3.5 Quality at Entry:
in addition to assessing the relevance of the objectives and the project's design as refiected in its
comnponents, quality of preparation depends on an objective recognition of risks and the measures to
mitigate them. T-ne project was complex: the Government had taken bold decisions which involved the
creation of several new organizations to support the sector reform program, including the energy and gas
regulatory agency (CREG), a semi-autonomous planning unit (UPME) within the Ministry of Mines and
Energy (MME), and the wholesale market. It had also created ECOGAS, a new gas transport company
with the responsibility of putting into place a gas pipeline network linking the main cities in the interior to
different gas fields. All these organizations had been created when the project was prepared, and their
needs could be reasonably well estimated, thus ensuring that project funds had a reasonable chance of being
utilized. Risks explicitly recognized during project preparation included (a) institutional weakness to
develop and enforce regulations, (b) political risks associated with obstacles to raise tariffs or reform and
privatize companies in the public sector, and (c) the possibility of a slow response from the private sector.
These risks were addressed by providing loan-funded training, in-house technical assistance to CREG, and
advice to Governnent regarding the prudent use of Government guarantees. The project posed no
environmental risks and, given its focus on environmental assessments, it was classified in Environnental
Category B.
Assessment. Project preparation is rated as Highly Satisfactory (HS): objectives and components were
congru ent an.d real.;s.;c. AUl;t.;o,---ly #heroec be.e.ted  om . - as;sta,.ce /VAfAD, DOD .'a-.)
so that in many ways it had already been launched when it was conceived. As a consequence, many of
.L ..e__  qu_a: TXNj-  B _ _ A  ...-  -1J. __-__. I- -- --  _.._:: --  -.:J
s    sUgtLW  JUJ . 3JL4L SI/UWL Wrt              "Is UUUyJ/I.&L (41 UVUI15Ui1r5uJIU1  Su ) L U ULU USULglyJUr
self-organization, an understanding that learning would be at the heart of the process, and a high degree
Uo ownershi.p of te PLI JUJeL- by UbreFtujiiua.) ( J, UEIVJL; IVIIVL,). IfThefacUtors were .alu matriaUlTi in
reducing some of the risks identified during preparation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Regulatory Reform. CREG has been the principal beneficiary of the project, which is as it should be,
given the pivotal role it plays in supporting the edifice of structural reform, including privatization. Its
achievements include: (a) developing regulations for establishing the competitive wholesale market; (b)
developing pricing formulae for regulated users; (c) establishing the rules regarding the competition for
unregulated supplies; and (d) developing regulations for natural gas supplies. Evidence of CREG's success
in power subsector regulation includes: (a) prices for regulated users which exhibited, until recently, a
decreasing trend, thereby reflecting the decline in prices in the wholesale market; (b) the existence of over
2,500 unregulated users who are being supplied by power companies outside the boundaries of their local
distribution company (unregulated users are now classified as those with a load above 100kW or
55MWh/month); (c) the commissioning of 'merchant' power plants which rely on the spot market for their
revenues; and (d) the successful privatization of around 60% of the installed capacity, and private
management of distribution companies which supply over 50% of regulated users.
Gas subsector regulation has also progressed in order to support the development of a market for a
resource which has only recently been available in regions other than the Atlantic Coast. CREG has been
successful in establishing rules for pricing supplies to regulated users, thereby facilitating the penetration of
natural gas at the domestic and small commercial and industrial levels. CREG's activity has facilitated the
establishment of private sector distribution companies which supply practically all natural gas users.
A.though the objective associatt -th ectalishing a weln-nra remlafor authnrih, has r-
-4 -



is not to say that the decisions taken by CREG have not been debated and criticized; this is pretty much to
be expcLeUU Iorn   I a VrLUdLUI WiIU m-lUSt take tnutipie cuidlicting initeress inlo acouint in ius udcision
making, involving consumers, generators and suppliers. It should also be noted that there are a number of
issues outstanuing which CnrEG has not yet been able to address due to their tecnincai compiexity. Some
of the areas where CREG's competence has been called into question, and where there is a genuine issue
that remains to be solved are: (a) doubts regarding tne price signais emanating from the wholesaie market
and the likelihood that they will provide sufficient incentives to build new power plants (a problem closely
associated with the predominantly hydro base of the power system); kb) the deregulation of gas prices at tne
wellhead, which has been favored by producers together with MME, and opposed by CREG (wellhead
prices for the two major fields continue to be regulated, whereas 'new7 gas fields are deregulated); and (c)
the regulation of prices remunerating plants which operate due to bottlenecks in the transmission network,
and which have been exacerbated by terrorist attacks (prices for these plants were capped by CREG and
producers have gone to Court to seek redress).
Energy Sector Strategy. The divestment of state-owned assets was highly successful: the most impressive
achiPvemePnt was 2rmlahiv the t irn-.rni,nd nf rm.nrpesa de 1inaerufa de Bongta (EEBI), hAl1f of x,,hich wuas
sold off to foreign investors; the resources were used to strengthen and refurbish its generation (2,500MW),
tranrnmnissi^n and hstr.ibutinn assets, tn redu mc osses and to 4tran-lino it nperat4nn  Th. cor.pany, n,hich
was an economic basket case, is now one of the most profitable in the power sector. The operation was
,liran*lx, c,lnnnrti,4 by1 the arntar't ,n,hinh f'nanrnd the rann.rd nno,sinn and ,tnnetrnan* bi,anlA  ser,.0,s
The project's design, which provided flexibility in its uses of funds, proved its value for financing key but
uncornventional experses, such as a  studytp for EEB's labor leaders to  Fer -.ntid Utilities ;r. +-e
region. This proved to be crucial for obtaining union support for the privatization operation; it would have
be en vce,y dA:.cut o - a.c1th +_i Lkr-- +o.vrU-;r +s; chr.els vhr%+   A-vesu.et whih .^.r.
we.,,i %IA UIflL,UL LVAUULl U*% ULF. UULW$AL tVnVLA,fltAIL VuLa.tUIMatI. JLL'4US V%,U11Ufl1La WifltfIl II%,i IL
highlighting are the sale of power plants owned by Government (around 2,700MW in 12 power plants), the
__rIv_+:__44__f om  o LheU wr,-+ pefo..n- ubtincr.ul      r +Ue co-r.ty whcAsreu_h
j.131 LIVaUzZLVI VI aVIJIJ4 VI UI~ V, W%la jJU.iiJVIiUIII, UJUIVULIU11 %,I.JQIpUUV ill UA.U- %UULUIUY, WIULdI, Ora VLU Ulu;
Atlantic Coast region ("electrificadoras" of seven departments, sold as two companies), and the
privatization of tuhe generation an disurIbution assets Uo EPSA, a large power cornpally in uhe souz.L.
A definitive retreat of the State from the power sector has not been accomplished. On one hand, the
IvIcurVIIU UUIILj, a wel-C1,1WU48UU I1IULUiL;iJai e.-L.iprIise, 15 I1Liky .o LU[IUdlu ul Ule pUUliVc setLUI. A large
Govemment-owned generator (ISAGEN) has been targeted for privatization, but legal and political
UlbpUteb II Vf UllupeUcU It. rIUnily, a IIUIIIUt U01 mIauUy u1SflOuuUn cuimpwcsb rin  In pU17IC UjaUUS,
despite having been targeted for privatization. The reasons for this are, inter alia, the poor shape of the
enterprises, a lack of political will on the part of tLe cenutli Government (which responus paratiay to local
interests which have opposed privatization), and labor union opposition. The most critical case is probably
the Caii municipal utility company which has been iaken over by the Puolic Services Superintendence
(SSP) due to its precarious financial condition; its eventual privatization is, however, beyond the central
Government' s purview.
The ultimate outcome of the privatization strategv implemented by the Government. desnite beine
successful insofar as it accomplished the goal of disengaging it from having to devote public resources to
investment in the sector and to shouldering the financial consequences, also exhibits some unsuccessful
episodes. The principal problems have been related to Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) of thermal
niantc which were contracted with the nrivate Sector hy different State comnanies; these agreements contain
capacity payment provisos and, as a consequence of the country's recession and the stagnation of power
dermand, outpiut from these private sector plants has been minimal With a cnnsenquent increase in the  ar ge
purchase price per kWh. The Government has tried to find legal recourses to find a solution to this
prnblem, with little suceess; in fact, oP^e nf the PPAs T (Tormnroo), associated with a plant w.hich was never
completed, led an arbitration tribunal to award US$60 million to the developers. Nevertheless, these events
shold be seen ,mth,n a u,-der cortext: (a - -udging long term- contracts on the basis of their performance in
- 5



the short run is likely to be biased -PPAs could still turn out to be adequate; (b) the development of the
wholesale spot and contract markets have provided a mechanism whereby the independent power producer
(lPP)I(PPA) fonnat is no longer required; and (c) the privatization policy has successfully accomplished its
primary purpose of shifting the risks involved in power production from Government to the private sector.
TTPMF'c rol- a a7n 1apeWvnf Mf   cnsists of Ir n oppmnay t'lc nfainnIvnd dplPmqnd rnnditinn, pnmnrilv
in the power and gas subsectors. It responds to conditions mandated by the Electricity Law whereby the
Gove,rnmen.t rs -nnndrhlp .fh,inr erng that r%nxxrpr i rvnnipe are ciifFcie.nt tn cotisfy dPm2fnd4 Tin th. npr
subsector it took over functions previously accomplished by Interconexi6n Electrica S.A. (ISA), such as
e, ,M, 1,-nn .nAirona^vnoempnsin plans.0 onon4mng its cfron thm'nrnE nhrprt4ves hoZe beer. <>oppnml,c4,o
UPME has been successful in taking over functions for power sector planning (which involved the
imp.eent-fion. of complex- sof.tW-we- models), aswell as act;.g as &nar ..  -A-4- gt .-ng&n
dissemination center for potential investors in both the power and gas subsectors.
Finally, gas subsector promotion has been successful: there is now a network of gas pipelines linking the
principal fields on the Atlantic Coast with the main cities in the interior, including Bogota, Medellin and
Cali. Natural gas has penetrated significantly as evidenced by the growth in the number of users which
increased from 0.94 million in 1995 to 2.2 million in 2000 (a 19% annual increase). The project was
directly involved in supporting the organization of private regional distribution enterprises (so-called
"exclusive distribution zones") which serve primarily smaller regulated users.
As part of its overall strategy, as embodied in the Domiciliary Public Services Law, the Government
eswvlisneu a supervisruy organizatuun, Ulu ruouc SirviUes aupaulwILIUCeU. (Sar), which wulUU coIInUro
the quality of public services, including the power, water, gas and telecommunications subsectors. This
entity nas not periorm-ed well ana -as been beset by pubIic scandals; in thc power sector it has nau to take
over non-performing State-owned distribution companies, but has been unable to implement their
successfu reorganization. Tne Superintendence was not a beneficiary oi me I A, wnicn wouid nave neiped
it, particularly in its early stages, to carry out its functions more competently; it was not included as a
beneficiary during project preparation because it had not yet been organized at the tme (in contrast to
UPME and CREG). However, it should have become a beneficiary during project execution when its
critical role became apparent.
Assessment T-he project achieved its development objectives, in particular those associated with
implementing regulatory reforms and the incorporation ofprivate sector investors. Considering that
when the project was conceived eiements such as the wholesale marketfor power, the competitive bidding
procedures and the gas pipeline infrastructure were at the blueprint stage, having accomplished the
initial concept is quite remarkable. When comparing actual results with expected ones as outlined in the
TA 's Technical Annex (excepting those associated with demand-side management, which was dropped),
(i) all of the regulatory expected results were achieved; (ii) privatization of a substantial amount of
generating capacity was executed, transmission and generation of ISA were separated, and dispatch and
clearing house functions are in operation; (iii) gas industry regulations have been put in place and
private gas distribution companies have been established; and (iv) environmental legislation and codes
relating to the energy sector were prepared.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Regulation, Pricing and Energy Policy: through the mechanism of ad-hoc "hot line" assistance to
CREG, the project was instrumental in consolidating a solid regulatory institution with a core of competent
experts who have successfully developed the regulations underpinning the wholesale power market (bidding
procedures, network and ancillary services pricing, costing of grid constraints), pricing rules, subsidy
allocation, and gas subsector pricing procedures, among others.
-6 -



Specimfc ouptpuis whicn can De mgnignieu are an aiugnneni o0 pnces ana costs (wirn decreases m inausmnai
and commercial tariffs) and a rationalization of cross subsidies within domestic user classes. For exanple,
the average unregulated high-voltage industrial tariff decreased from around 6 US0/k7Wh in 1995 to 4.3
US¢/kWh in 2000, thereby reflecting lower prices in the wholesale market; a similar evolution can be seen
in unregulated commercial prices which aecreasea trom OUSO/KW1I to 4.6 UNP/KWh. Kegulatea industnal
and commercial users faced similar decreases (from 9.7USO/kWh in 1996 to 7.1USO/kWh in 2000 for
industrial customers and from i2.2US/k-Vwi in 1996 to 8.3US0/-k-Wh in 2000 for commercial users).
Tariffs for residential users do not exhibit simnilar pattems and they have remained on the same level
(around 5.7US¢/-k-Wh) due to the gradual elimination of subsidies other than those which are explicitly
mandated by law, thereby substantially bridging the gap between costs and prices.
Significant developments which have resulted from the power sector's reform are the organization of
aenp.rtinn ani dictTihiit-inn acnniatininq (ArorCxFN and ArnniAD   rw-p'nctivPev) whirh interfhrt- uwith
CREG in defense of their associates' interests. By contrast, consumer associations do not possess
resources com-paable to th.ose of prbducers; ultimately, consumer protection is REG' s responsibi
Specific Power Sector Assistance: the divestment and privatization of a large number of state-owned
enterprises (EEB, EPSA, Chivor, Betania, Tasajero, Termocartagena, and the seven distribution companies
on the Atlantic Coast, among others) was accomplished, although there remain a number of problem
companies which have yet to be transferred to private sector management.
01IOW16  Gas eorAs theI1LUU. ULq jJectJM. supporLtu uv1 creatioln uI gas diauU  zonUeUNIZ  0 WLU%.LI Uave
been operating successfully and are managed by private sector entities.
Environment: the project supported a small number of studies, six of which were oriented towards: (a)
analyzing legislation and regulation regarding environmental licenses and recommending requirements for
energy projects; (b) incorporating environmental criteria in hydroelectric plant specifications; (c) putting in
place an environmental information system for the energy sector; and (d) designing a system for assessing
environmental costs related to the power subsector. Other components were nevertheless executed, albeit
without direct proiect support, through cooperation between UPME, the Ministry of the Environment and
sector companies such as ISA and the Empresa Colombiana de Petroleos (ECOPETROL). The power
sector has organized an Environmental Committee (CASEC) for establishing sector environmental policy.
Enermv Demand Management and Safety Enhancement: a small study was executed before transferring
the component to IDB. The scope of this component was achieved through the IDB-supported activities.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
P.TI A
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The cnepnt of an independent regulator was alien to the Colombian juridical organi7ztionn For this
reason, CREG was established within the purview of MME, but its statutes (notably the ability of its
experts to block the influpnrce of othpr Ministerial representatives in the Conmmission) provided it wuith a
ring- fenced enviromnent which has enabled it to operate independently. Evidence of its independence is
p~roided byh thA nroccainnal attp,-rntc to cisuhvert the Crr.micsionn's rrpApntinle .uhi,-h hwve nir,cirnatped ir.
Congress or within Govemment itself. It is a credit to Governnent that these attempts have proved
r oaoofloonr ita rnaoci,l v c'l,r4 mrni noir e irn tainn af An4-c,,s_nnn,ah,n rfol*,pi it 1100 lutirntVhltsort a*A
unsuccesosU.      possible s1wrt  g-aims m +E-  "v-Ar 4 h.. It~-+-1- --7-- -



for supporning CRF.T The pr^ijt h^d a maj^r instih,tinnal imnact it etahli-hed CRF.§ and lpMF. as
credible, well-functioning teams which have accomplished their functions competently. Both organizations
arp highly reoarded in termc of seriosnPess and capability, and exercise a majnr infliuenre on the
development of both the power and gas subsectors.
Assessment The measure of effective institutional development is given by the stature and reputation
with which an organization is regarded. In the case of the energy sector, CREG and the organization of
the wholesale market stand out as remarkable achievements, considering, at least in the case of CREG,
its precarious insertion within the overall organization of Government. Its reputation for technical
competence and seriousness is perceived as a guarantee for sector investors. The TA loan was
instrumental in providing resources which allowed the institutions to build up their reputation and the
impact is consequently rated as high.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Facatrs outsnide .the contrfol n v,ero..nment or l,frlfl)Oe.-ti-lO agency:
The major factors affecting the ultimate outcomes of the Government's strategy, and outside its control, are
the reLated phenomena of econom-ic re_ession and termrimsr Orne of the reasons which allowed snme
consumer prices to drop was the economic recession and the consequent stagnation of demand which
tran-sloitA ,,in- -,Ir, mw ,pri arc m the w.,hOlmsole p,ower mrV-l.i (w hpih wxpv re P-trPA in l,nzew A 1iHrp  pr-e
thanks to regulations that allow costs -whether higher or lower- to be passed on to consumers). However,
this has created its own set of wrnhlnn-, wAit*.,srin d-. ,lnhvtc as to whoetio- rore it,,oo have tn be put i
place in order to guarantee future private investment in power plants. Lately, terrorist activity has led
(such as network separation due to natural causes) and which have become a part of daily life. Originally,
U.IV aoLs of such mvt,UW (u.Se tV UtoL VI *LhtLIL %U.i3Fanj ^ were FasOse onI u.o cJon e ,fIwevefl ,  tis ir effectt
created local monopolies, raising prices, and leading CREG to deviate from its market (bidding) -based
_-A-u _  A +_- -   OA  :_ _ AA  -A-1 T...   -- _ A..-44   IMAs At  TW   -- OAO+-A  vA-% T   _OA  A_ .A_ A A.IAA_
4JFaUW.,IR auU L S   J.liIL.U F U  51 U    ULiI.    u IU a S11W tdUqaL uvSJWL3a 1wauLura 1rLuaLU1y
stability and, as indicated above, has led some agents to go to Court
S.2 Factors generally szubject to government control:
The innrwnnpet nrrvaf 7atinn nrw-pre nff_ictrfs,itinn ^nr.nanipc h^s re nultpA in t4ipptsning thep nbrhlp.s
faced by them and may result in cutting off of supplies. Government unwillingness to complete the process
has bee.n ascr.bed to a iwefe.nn.c for in tai- the pr.v 'atinn ^f ISAGEN, a maj^r .,tat.tro!!ld
generation enterprise, which would have produced greater revenues compared to those resulting from a
pr.vati&tionn of the Ai-."t4 ..n cnnormparie in *h evenEt ISAGEN's -rh,ouatatinn -weas ir.,.,fi fnr a
number of legal reasons), and the distribution companies are in worse shape-thereby making privatization
more A,=-,c I+ n less I ,--- ab
IUfL SL11I1tUL am. r.oojtL.aU.
5.3 .aCtor.c pon rnlIv yuh,ivcf tn i,nnlomvnti.r" ancy,' control
The project was nominally under the control of UPME. In practice, implementation took place through
m,,i;lt noPn,ii.c.i Cr1RF, I TPMF MMF, nNlM  The trni;Pt uwav mannaap,1  a cornm.iftpp eeith
representatives of UPME, CREG, and DNP. This organization was successful in providing a medium for
disucussing -.-A .,tma.A s .-A contracts '.o bn h0 finAmaA *-,,  i  T A -nA in arnrnrol cases, r-- quirmng
greater justification or a better definition. The implementing agency itself took a passive position in regard
to the proJect wLhch was VOa   1...Lla d.^-A au ..Luv   Th".. a .1, ,'o implemention waa sucess lC, as
evidenced by a high degree of activity throughout the execution phase (the project financed 70 contracts for
corssuluLLrg adil uaiiug), su;LLIi-r [giumu awarevness of tL0sU o1rg=onL01s acuvely ss-eWedbu .. EaK ng
advantage of the opportunity to finance required studies or advisory services. However, it was arguably
*  _ rr _:    -_ -  - -!-I         _ -_  -_ Sclts  J._J  -  .0 r__ _t _ *1_       '       A
MsumIclut wnLu a puiULuai UCHLiLawy, buU;n ib Oar, UIU IIUL apply lur SUppUI L %.nveU Li1 ILItLUUC oIirelu
- 8 -



by the TA. an overview of the state of the sector and an effort to seek improvement by more aeqressive
marketing of its potential benefits would have been profitable. It would also have been financially feasible,
as the nroject never exnerienced a shortage of funds. and most reauests for sunnort were annroved
5.4 Costs and financin5:
By loan closure on December 31, 2001, total project expenditure amounted to US$ 12.1 million, equivalent
to 97% of total budget. By the same date, US$10.85 million of the TA loan funds had been disbursed.
equivalent to 99% of the budgeted total. The TA loan funds financed 90% of total project costs. There
appear relatively large differences between the estimated allocation of funds at appraisal and actual costs:
this is not surprising given the wide scope of the project, which was necessary in order to function with the
flexibility reauired to support a large number of activities, most of which could not be accurately identified
or scoped during preparation.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
The changes that have taken place in the energy sector, as indicated in the background section,
revolutionized the trding mechanisms of electricity. in its current form, it would be practically impossible
to conceive retaining these trading mechanisms without the existence of CREG to adapt the legislation,
including several hundred of its own regulations, to evolving market circumstances. The interests involved
include those of private power producers, suppliers and unregulated consumers who have, as indicated,
created lobbying organizations which, despite frequent disagreements, provide CREG with backing. In the
case of UPME, if the sector is to evolve through private investment it becomes essential to provide
information -in any case a typical and proper function for Government within a market context- in order to
support economic decisions by potential generators, transmission enterprises, distributors and suppliers.
UPME's planning functions, particularly, as is the case in Colombia, where hydro projects are involved,
require providing and sharing information. Both CREG and UPME exercise functions which are intimately
linked with the market oriented approach for electricity and, to a lesser degree, natural gas. Given their
essential nature, their sustainability is practically assured. Disbanding these institutions would only be
likely if the market itself were to disappear. This event would probably'be linked to radical, political, and
constitutional changes which would reverse current economic thinking in order to revert to a "commnand and
control" economy. Despite Colombia's acute social conflict, such an outcome has a low probability of
materializing. Nevertheless, assaults on CREG arising from Congress (through initiatives aimed at
reverting to a more "controllable" scheme), the judiciary (through suits filed by individuals or by
organizations and oriented e.g. towards obtaining more favorable prices), or Govemment (seeking to curb
the regulators' power and independence), are likely to appear periodically; but their chances of success can
be expected to become progressively more remote, as CREG continues to consolidate and its peculiar
characteristics become accepted. In this sense the project provided resources for CREG to survive its
infancy, when it was at its most vulnerable. Future resources for CREG's operations are derived from its
budget which is mandated by law to be a percentage (not to exceed 1%) of all regulated companies'
operational costs; consequently, CREG cannot be starved from funds. Regarding the continuity of its
personnel, CREG's five commissioners are appointed by the President upon the recommendation of MME.
Commissioner's terms are fixed and they cannot be fired (a decree exempting CREG from serving at the
Government's pleasure protects their permanence); this is not to say that CREG is totally shielded from
political pressure: crises do occur and in 2001 all commissioners resigned due to an acrimonious dispute
with MME regarding the deregulation of wellhead prices for natural gas. UPME derives its budget
(currently around US$5 million) from contributions of state energy and mining companies (ECOPETROL.
ISA, FEN and Minercol); FEN and Minercol are being downsized and this would require that either
ECOPETROL and ISA' shoulder a larger proportion of UPME's future budget or that it become more
-9-



dependent on MME.
Assessment. The project's institutional achievements have consolidated during the first seven years of
implementation. Barring highly unlikely extreme political shifts, private enterprises in the energy sector
are unlikely to return to public ownership, and beneficiary institutions such as CREG and UPME can be
expected to continue to perform their function, together with the wholesale market for electricity. This
supports a Highly Likely rating for project sustainability.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Results of studies and expert advice under the TA project were put into use as soon as they were available;
transition arrangements were not required.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7 ! _I.ndi,,c,
Lending. The Bank responded expeditiously to sector reform requirements which it had been supporting
since 1988, through: (a) an incisive OED review of Bank lending and sector performance which set the
stage for the reforms; (b) ESMAP support to prepare the ground for reforns and draft legislation; and (c)
the Public Sector Reform loan which supported the preparation of final drafts of enabling legislation
through 1994. As noted in the quality at entry section, the project concept was appropriate, it responded to
the 1993 CAS, and it took advantage of experience gained in the initial years of the reform process.
Consequently, lending performance of the Bank can be rated as Highly Satisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision. Because the project responded to well-defined needs of organizations which had recently
heen rrentIA snd thprpfnrp rpniiirpd iirapnt ciinnrt itc Pypt-iitinn hpnpfitpA frnm a hpA etart ixh4i,h
facilitated implementation. The Bank's contribution to implementation through staff advice, and adjusting
the nmie-rt tn chiffinor npp,A waS duly rPrncgi7PA hu the. 11nirmant Wn-,pA-nr the Bar-k's -+.4h-
decreased during the last years (1999-2001) of implementation because of reduced budgets for supervision
9an.d ponstaints on staffl a -aiflab# i U ity) Th.er wvem fh-e task  over +he proect's sx-xeA d-uti;on
two of which were in charge during the last three years; this may also have contributed to a lessened
through the project. The mid-term review (MTR) took place in May, 1998. It concluded that project
im. pler.eh..to  had  -been +   -A.sat.r   --+- fotD CPss .h.ee...r.t (inlu;  a I10%o rv-14ctiOii in 1uhe
average final tariff to regulated end users as a result of regulatory measures), the success in privatizing
Er;.presa de nleIi1l. UV, LBougo a, jJIrogrIs LU esLaUiis;ngii UatLLUab g Ua UUUUUI1 VILtLIcbe, uau Ulu
reduction of subsidies to the power sector. The MTR ratings were all either Highly Satisfactory
kurveiupmnunt VUJVdIU:-Vb, couULVIt I L iUIILL, pIAel-UUIIVUL) Ul SaiifiWLUry- (irUpleMrntaiiun progress, project
management). Based on these considerations, supervision can be rated as Satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall Bank Performance. The Bank's role in strengthening the energy sector through reforms, private
sector participation and the introduction of competition in a totally command-controlled environment can be
considered as an unqualified success. Problems with regulation and the wholesale market remain; this is to
be expected, particularly under the very trying circumstances of Colombia's current social unrest which has
severely tested the new institutions put in place since the early and mid-90s. The project was instrumental
in achieving the sector-level goals and the Bank's perfornance during both preparation and implementation
- 10 -



provided the required backing, as well as the necessary feedback during the early years of the project, to
ensure an ec-r -nmic uise of its resources. Based on the project s success, overall Bank perfjrrmance is
rated as Satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Preparation. A coordinating group (known as the Coordinating Committee) provided guidance to an
Pypriif4in. T Tr%4 (Imm   -          7a.)nUJLj as c:e   in  Loan1 Agreent. The Coordiaig
Unit was staffed by a Project Coordinator, and the clerical support of two assistants. The Committee's
firQt mPwting t.ook p ma 1 n V=u-%H 1979, WUs rLoutuI UVboIr uhe efiieciuveness daae or me ioan. Meetigs
continued roughly on a monthly basis and preparations for implementation, including the identification of
diferent studies and uhe d.rafing of tLems of reference, were taKen at an early date in order to initiate the
project promptly. The Committee also liaised with the Bank's Task Manager and the United Nations
Developmuent PrLogrmme (iJnuP) to iitiuae execution upon effectiveness without deiay. The Borrower's
ratingfor preparation is Highly Satisfactory based on its demonstrated ownership of the project and its
foresight in setting up its management.
.7.'- 5~~"~ Goe.e.t imple,..t4.4u,5 JJC,JUo,,,.anee:
Government Implementation Performance. During implementation, Government participated through
the beneficiary agencies and the Coordinating Committee. Government implementation support was
satisfactory with two exceptions: (a) as mentioned, the lack of political will to go through with the
privatization of some distribution companies; and (b) a major obstacle during project execution which
occurred in 1998 due to a clerical error when Loan proceeds were classified in the Budget Law as
Government expenditures rather than multilateral loan resources. As a consequence, 1998 disbursements
were blocked temporarily. The TA functioned smoothly from an administrative and financial viewpoint7
and transfers of funds were facilitated by the Government's acceptance of a procedure whereby they were
turned over directly from the Bank to UNDP without having to go through the National Treasuriy. Dunring
negotiations, it was agreed that the Borrower would furnish yearly forecast sources and uses of funds, semi
annual reports on project results and on the meeting of targets set in the imnlementati.n prongra for joint
review with the Bank. The Coordinating Unit furnished this infornation for supervision missions. Based
on the Government's active support for the proiect and its resnontive_farilitatinn Grovernment
implementation performance is rated as Satisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
T1emen43... Age"..    PefoAi. a mui.u-aencyi project, performance shoui be assessed by
beneficiary:
UPME/ Coordinating Committee/ Coordinating Unit: nominally in charge of the project, UPME was
seconded by the Coordinating Commitee in which, in addition to the JPME and T)NP renrecPntativ;es,Q Saf.
from CREG participated in most of the meetings. During implementation, the project was demand driven,
with most studies and advisory support proposals emanating from CREG, T IPMF nnd MMP. The
Committee screened the proposals, and in some cases recommended further definition of objectives or
clearer terms of reference. As noted above, a result of the demand-driven approach was the fal.-e to
support significantly SSP, currently the weakest institutional link in the power and gas sectors. Projects
where UPME was the beneficiary were imnlemented correctly, as evidencd by the prducton of sector
plans and its capacity for taling over functions such as power sector indicative planning, which were
formerly under the nurview of SA  The Coordinaing Unit peform.ed pr dy an awldnsu autive IunUction
which consisted of guiding projects, once they were approved by the Comfittee, from the proposal stage to
imnlementation, by liaisincg wiuth T NMp.



UNDP was in charge of managing project funds; all the project's financial arrangements were administered
by UNDP which also conducted proposal evaluations and awarded the contracts. UNDP's role was
particularly valuable when dealing with disputes. Because of its status as an intemational agency,
complaints were acknowledged and addressed to the satisfaction of all parties. UNDP's overall
performance was satisfactory.
CREG: the Regulatory Commission was the major beneficiary of the project Although the project was
instrumental in capacity building, at least two of the major studies it supported, in excess of US$1 i.5
million, were not ultimately implemented: (a) the study for analyzing network charges associated with grid
constraints was partially shelved, although the Commission used some of its results for implementing a
modified approach; and (b) the study for putting in place a futures market was not implemented for
multiple reasons including doubts about its capacity to provide incentives for system expansion. In
fairness, these were not dead ends insofar as they allowed CREG to explore altemative approaches to
market organization, but their inconclusiveness points out a weakness in supervision which could have
oriented the studies during execution, towards implementation of solutions more compatible with the basic
tenets of the Colombian power market.
MME: the Ministry benefitted from long term advisory services which supported it in the privatization of
power pn.tc                                                               eto the A fr1n,14nn u,tilties in the At!ont_ ('o.t rein;n, e r.soA bfr the,.  4+tion o.
other distribution companies was not carried through and this has proved to be a serious mistake.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Borrower performnance was satisfactory; parficularly when considering the comnlexity of the nrmiect
However, it should be judged in conjunction with the Bank's supervisory performance insofar as orienting
sunnort to other notential beneficiaries; this role, which wou ld have required a wider view of the energy
sector, was not vested in any specific participant. The Bank did not assume it, in part because it would
have required greater supervksion resourres, whilst the implementing agenries focused on their own. nees,
and the Coordinating Unit, as indicated by its name, was more oriented towards practical aspects of
imnlementntinn A nossible solution woild hsve called for fnrnninnonan o tcidAe nm.hpr to the
Committee, whose functions would have included: (a) supplementing the Committee's criteria on the
Antipininrv nf nrorinsI sdie- (h~ hnlanninG the inhprpnt tpndenr ovnf the iwrnl rtentnrm aaPnrpaa
approving each others requests and avoiding confrontation; (c) providing suggestions for executing studies
uhi,ch coIld be necess- fir-nm a sector np ctnA-rives but  - e Ar t ur.der 'e,o  hf y of +L-erce
represented in the Committee; (d) curbing the "proclivity to spend" syndrome given the absence of budget
tVraJuamIn; adU (e) pJov iLUIUr5 vaLUauiq ups. vinYun UpjVL11U lU tU U 4I BUaI-
8. L esson I earneiA
rl   _+  ..A. U .t c_.U--   4ts 4-              r TA:-I..-
E.e..Aiu. vviu, w.Aic IuJ.Iuted Lt vUt pLroje1t' a sUcceass as a TAr OperauUo inclUd.
Consistency of objectives with development needs. Once the basic legislation regarding sector reform
was in place, there was no turning back: new institutions had to be strengthened and the project
became essential to the sector.
Preparation. Previous activity in sector reform, with Bank support through ESMAP and the Public Sector
Reform Loan, helped the project to be prepared with particular care. hlie lesson points out the
desirability to initiate reforms with small support packages, either through grants or through existing
loans, before embarking on a larger TA project.
Chner%hipF The prject wasactive throughout its duration, with dermnand for suinrt Pmainating frnm
- 12-



beneflciary organizations according to their needs, rather than through external pressures.
Flexibilitv. The TA adanted itself to sunnorting expenses which would not have been available through
conventional financing, such as the study trip noted above for union leaders of Empresa de Energia de
Bogota (F.FB) and nrovided a fast response in providing resnurces to attend training events (courses.
seminars) which would otherwise require extensive paperwork. The project's design also allowed
sunpporting beneficiary organizations throu gh mediuim-term (!-2 yer) advisnry cnntrqcts wi:th locrl
specialists which would not have been possible otherwise. Flexibility was rated as one of the major
TA avanta.ges by benefi_iaries.
"Hot line" assistance. On call contracts with specialized consultants were an effective means for quickly
accessing advisory support, reducing costs and red tape.
IJI3UI U1~1L 11 GI~J1~U~.  IlL U.L. )1 JiI.JL  UUUIOUL.LLIlL.UIL arLEIlt LAJIILIVUULMU LU 1L.UIaAt1%AUHUIV.
project's image, particularly when awarding studies for which competing proposals had been solicited:
in       .A_                 L..T rh.TrT-l       L_.__.J  -.  ---         --'I
iU *uiese cases conL,UdCl. manager- beiLUy uvpLr MLed.IoIR.iiy hliipeu LU avviu uViuluilnautio wiui
disgruntled contenders.
Follow-through. The TA project escorted the Government during the crucial phase of setting up the new
institutions; however, the energy sector reform is still underway and will require Government to
concentrate on unfinished business, in particular: (a) providing continued support to CREG, UPME,
and IME; (b) analyzing and implementing reforms to SSP; and (c) persevering in the privatization of
those power companies (specially distribution enterprises) which it controls through its equity
participation.
In reyard to the nroiect's shortcomings the lessons include:
Rxtpndinii TA to other institutionL arinLn execution of a uride-rnoingn oneratian such as the enerov
sector TA, the Coordinating Commnittee should bear in mind the possibility of extending assistance to
nrgcni7ntfanh not oriainmliv contemnl2ted as henefiinriare in this n2rtirildar c-se, a sector-w. ide
perspective would have identified SSP as a potential beneficiary. The suggested outside member of
the Cn^mmffittpe r-niui h ve dFtFcte this ghnrta,nm,ino,
Trade-off between flexibility and focus. The large numnber of contracts awarded under the TA was
indicative of a degree of dispersal which did not contribute to its efficacy; this shortcoming could have
been addressed through tighter supervision.
TA supervision. Despite involving relatively modest amounts of financial resources, TA projects require
an important supervision efftort. T.he  tk s1,.-ldA either be ----ed to -Ae_ - ti-  or it
should make arrangements for independent monitoring of project execution (e.g. through an
IU1UVjrICe1lUL IIIVr.IIUr.  VI Ul'.e Cor.UU.UUIaLU1.r Cor,-V1LiLLL), 'uUlrUh 1'A IUnds, LU UppleVhI1V,1IL ILts rsIurLU.
Inspection. Studies contracted under TA projects need to be closely followed during their execution to
assure that they respond to the agency's real needs and to avoid having to shelve them upon
completion.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
1Mb_  "- I                 C4-    Ar A   I_ __rAATAI
i ii DOAK was the soUl sponoUr UOI UI,. I Z% lUadi.
(b) Cofinanciers:
-  .-



(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- I4 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
ANNEX 1
Key Performance Indicators/ Log Frame Matrix
Indicator/ Activity Component         Projected Impact (TA       |Timing/ Target I Actual
Annex)
Module 1- Regulation, Pricing and
w uergy Pulicy
Regulatory Commdssion Assistance
Hannd-nn trinian in ani a1tnn nf      Competent team of regulatory  Conti-m      I A,hi~.d
regulatory principles; assistance in initial  experts             acivity
regulatory implementation; ad-hoc
("hot-line) assistance on debatable/complex
decisions
Development of information systems for  Software developed and tested; |De 1997  Achieved '96
regulation                           I system implemented        I               I                                   I
Pricing studies (development models for  |Electricity pricing formulae  |Dec 1995  Achieved '96-'97
cost estimation and ninanciai impact  r.e,
assessment)                           Gas pricing formulae gazetted  Dec 1996     Achieved '96-'97
Regulatory reviews (establish audit   First utility reviewed     |Jan 1997        Achieved '97
principles and procedures)
Developm.en.t of -tra-smssion -dA     Promulzation of nower codes  Dc :995       .Achi:eved '95l
distribution rules to ensure open access to  Promulgation of gas codes  Dec 1996  Achieved '97
the grid
Development of service standards and  Anclllary power regulatory  Oct 1996        Achieved '97
customer iiaison procedures           procedures gazetted'
disseminated
Ancillary gas regulatory    Oct 1997        Achieved '98
procedures gazetted/
1 disseminated              1               1_1
Energy Policy/Planning Unit Assistance
|Assesmpnt nf IInit'q rnle. and repniirement' IWork program ready  lfle' 1Q99 Q   Achievued '95
|Training of Unit staff in strategy and policy Skilled team to address  Continuous  Achieved
| analysis                           | coomination o0 poweristrategies Activity
analyss                              |and policy in support of MME
Development of an overall Energy Strategy Comprehensive energy strategy
published                  |Dec 1995        Achieved (first published 1994)
Software developed and tested;
DevelopmenIVt of energy infort.ion  A1 systm implemented; en1eg   Dec 1997        Achieved through UINE (Unidad ae
statistics published       |nformaci6n Minero-Energ6tica) '96
Coordination of eriergy subsector indicative Indicative plans published
XCoordination of eergy subsector indicative                       Annually        Achieved (annual publication)
Module 2 - Power Sector Assistance   |                           l               l_l
iAssstari eo D-iensrateonals o        S   o a
|Distribution Divestment Analysis of  |Sale of assets and shares  |Jun 1998      |Achieved (EEB privatized, Atlantic Coast|



pOWfr pla l; SLUAIUA ar.d diIsulen; options  I uuIiue)            II VUI%1A.xUUdo              b pfivaut~u, 22 powvI
sales promotion; tender documents                                                 plants sold off/ privatized) '97-'98
preparation and bid evaluation; assistance
in contract negotiation
Assistance in Attracting Private Sector
Investment in Future Plants
Prefeasibility/ feasibility studies;  Award of contracts for new  Jun 1998        Achieved (1,810MW new private
pL.0.aA.J ~J V.LtI.L JAJ~ULESAL WL-A I'  " ., JJL  A IQVV                   0.aal
-F.parea,;-at oftender docur.^enti ^    ....dbdpnata.^.w(Tt!40M)g erA.o .nce.995
evaluation; assistance in negotiation with
private sector enterprise regarding Power
Purchase and Fuel Purchase Agreements
Assistance to Grid Operator    _                          . _       .. .nnc .
separation ot generation and transmission: ureation ot ISA-transmIssion  v ,     . Actileved by creating IsAutN separate
design of new transmission company                                                 generation company '95
busciness cturilr ; npn2rept^nn ofbun ess
plans
Improving operating models according to  Satisfactory operation of  Dec 1996       Achieved (supported by Power Market
competitive generation procedures set out  dispatch and clearing house             Development Loan) '95-'96
uy Uu. Ermiuly neug:a.onj Co.mU-Ision1IV IICLUl UcIIUUs u irWe new operAatiUn 
rules
Assistance to vertically integrated utilities  Separate accounting systems  Jun 1996  Achieved '95-'98 depending on company
in setting separate accounts for electricity  implemented
and transmission                      I                           I               I_I
Module 3 - Gas Sector Assistance       _                           _________._        _                                l
Iueveiop pian for ine implementaton oi a  Iran reauy              iDec I96        I Acmeved 9 i
new gas industry structure with private
sector participation
Advise the Government on negotiation with Company (ies) established  |Dec 1997    | Achieved (Five private gas distribution
the private sector to set up new mixed gas                                         companies) '98-'02
company (ies)                         l                           l               l_l
IvMouuie 4 - LilviJunmenl             l                           l               l
Sectoral Environmental Assessment     l                            l              l                                    l
Ilevelnnmen,t of eern V sector       hPuh li   n of nannr-nr nt- DDAG 1996         P       -arfiav schieved -Min-t-v nf the l
environmental policy and an environmental energy sector environmental              Environment/UPME/CASEC)
action plan                           policy and of an environmental
action plan
lSuppor **.ec implemcn.er. fon of **e   |S."Te;UAI-wIo                  ruu          civdfrr      rcris         le 
environmental action plan             environmental units                         the Energy and Mining Environmental
I  I                                         Nl| Management Group
Development/review/enactment of natural  Publication of legislation and  Dec 1997  Achieved (Ministry of the Environment)
gas ana eiectrcity environrmentai enaoilng  coaes                 I9 7--uu - Power sector guideiines set by            I
legislation and codes                                                             ISA
Development of energy sector operating  Publication of guidelines  Dec 1997        Partially achieved (through
guidelines for solid waste disposal, liquid  |ECOPETROL)
effluent control, air emissions control, and
post-closure remediation                                                          I
Awareness workshops                   Upgrading of MME staff skills Continuous     Achieved - UPME staff skills
I and improved local cavabilities I         I
in environmental management |
______________________________      _  |and  environmental planning  l            |_           ._l
Project Environmental Assessments     I
Review environmental impact of projects in I Inputs to indicative energy  IDec 1997  Achieved '00



expansion plans                       expansion plans            l
Update assessments according to standards Updated project environment  |Continuous  | Achieved for specific projects
developed as part of sector assessment /  lassessment            I              I
Awareness workshops
'       I         *Jfl_  - ""Y aa.                  . U  f~U...... fUhlUI5
sector environmental policy and an    and improved local capabilities
environmental action plan             in environmental management
and environmental planning
Module 5 - Energy Demand
Management and Safety
Enhancement
Demand-side Management Strategy
Assist in the development of an energy  A coherent strategy for energy Annually   Strategy developed through
Aprannndcidp rnnnnarPmtnt ctr atPmv   j4emsn,LA_ci  nnnannsmnt anA a             lflR.qnnngnrrl nrna.srt
prioritized action plan
Promotion of safe and efficient gas use
Develop standards for gas quality supply,  Gas quality supply standards  Dec 1997  Achieved through IDB/UPME. Standards
standards for materials and equipmedt;  published                                established with ICONTEC
design parameters, instaliation and
operational procedures                Materials and equipment    IDec 1998
standards published        l               l_l
- 17 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
- -;A n i r i.--i; nAua;a;   t-iiiL   - -Percentage of
~.iFr ~JiJii~,uw.t  ~-':w7 "_7                          AOpprais,al
Regulation, Pricing, Energy Policy                    5.05           6.85            126
Power Sector Assistance                               2.76           2.24             76
Gas Sector Assistance                                 0.20           1.67            835
Environment     '                                     1.44           0.54             38
Energy Demand Management                              0.85           0.03              4
'Project Coordination Unit                           0.47            0.74            156
I o-a: Base:ine Cost                                 i0.77          12.07
Physical Contingencies                               0.46           0.00              0
Price Contingencies                            [     1.17   |       0.00              0
Total Project Costs        [    12.40    I      12.07  1               1
Total Financing Required              12.40          12.07   |
- 18-



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Ixprdlt urw ate ory,                                                           otrcurementa etho i"  Ta Cos
ApenditxlCate°7 l,! g j t'.- ,iC :;  " ~ NC, ,. N,             F. ;, ,;     Cost
|1. Works                1    0.00     1    0.00     |    0.00.|       000           0.00
(U.UU) j      (U:OO)       (0.00)    I   (Oj.UU)      (0.
2. Goods                      0.50          0.00         0.00          0.05         0.55
_______________________       (0.50)        (0.00)  j    (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.50)
3. Services   -               0.00          0.00    I    9.50     |    1.00         10.50
Consulting Services          (0.00)        (0.00)        (9.50)       (0.00)        (9.50)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.60         0.20         0.80
Training Expenses       J    (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.60)        (0.00)       (0.60)
5. M   en                     0.00          0    '       0.00 A0.5 IA0.15
Consulting for Project      (0.00)         0.00)        0.00)         0.00)        0.00)
Coordination Unit
6. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00    1    0.40          0.00         0.40
IUNDP administrative fees  I    nn( )       ( nn0    I   (O AOI        (0  )        (I AM
Total                 1    0.50     1    0.00     1    10.50         1.40    1   12.40
I  I  (O.JO)  I    (0.00)   I   (;.O)         (0.00)      I (1.00)
Note: figures in hrackets are the respectve nmounts finun.ced by th.e Bank lrnn
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
EIcpenditum  -. ..,I......           Procurem'ent 'Metliod 1
-. pendit `Cqat1egory,,                                . iC' "  2 a "-' N.B.F.  Total Cost
|1. Works                     0.00     I |   0      I |    .ne    I    0.00    I     -°.° 
I                        I    (0.00)   I   (0.00)   I    (0.00)   I   (0.00)   I   (0.00)
12. Goods                     0.00     1    0.66    1    0.00     I    0.00    1    0.66
_____________________  _ g    (0.00)   1    (0.66)  (    (0.00)   j   (0.00)   1   (0.66)_  1
13. Services             I    0.00     I    0.0          8.84 R        1       I    1006    1
|Consulting Services     '   (°°0.00)      (0.00)       (8.84)        (0.00)      (8.84)
AUieaoIIllna oi,.            A A(%                 I             I 1   0          A        I
14.onsce!!angervics      I     .01         'A.00           A 0.6  1       0.0  1       0.1  1
|Training Expenses           (0.00)        (000)         (0.61)       (0.00)       (0.61)
la. miscellaneous             0 U.UU00      U.UU         U 0.41  I    U.UU         U.41
Consulting for Project      (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.41)        (0.00)      (0.41)
- rdn3ln Un -t
16. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.33          0.00         0.33
UNDP admini-strative fees  I  (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.33)   I   (0.-0)   I   (0.33)   I
Total                 |    0.00          0.66         10.19         1.22         12.07
[          I    (0.00)   1    (0.66)   [  (10.19)   1   (0.00)   j   (10.85)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Banik Loan. All costs include contingencies.
vIncludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
19 -



Project Financing by Component (in USS million equivalent)
i f|, [Percentage of Appraisal
ILtOnU   I  Apprau5a;s UiumW e I    ActuaHZIatL  Estimate.-
|                 D Bank    GovL   |  CoF.      Bank       GovL   |  CoF.     Bank | Govt. | CoF.
Regulation, Pricing,      2.95       1.40                5.15       1.22              174.6   87.1
Energy Policy
Power Seetor Assistance   Z.3                            2.10                         4b.6
Gas Sector Assistance     1.76                           1.67                          94.9
Al A'rn                          1
E,UVIIuJUIntII            V. ti                          U.Jj                        II 'V
Energy Demand Mgt.        0.03                           0.03                         100.0
TraiUnig                  0.65                           0.61                          Y3.8
Project Coordination Unit  0.82  |                       0.74   |                      90.2
I and t- P             l         l          I                    I         I         l       l      l      l
-20 -



;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
rn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
C.,
0
C:
c
a)
ci
o a'
'2
UJ z
C, : 
Ce



A --A      .I 
z'.MMVx 4. """EL Tpuaa
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty          Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
| entlfieatlon/PeMnthonear  | Count          Specialty                     Progress     Objective
IIdentification/PlreDaration IIIII
5/17-6/2/93                 5   Energy Specialist, Cofinancing
Specialist, Engineer, Institutional
Specialist, Natural Gas Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiaon
I AM'7-1 I11 /0 l           <   snv     ni2
Cofinancing Specialist,
Engineer. Institutional
Specialist, Natural Gas
Specialist
!SuDervision
12/10-12/19/1995            1   Energy Specialist (TM)
6/3-6/16/1996    l          2 l Energy Specialist,ProjectOfficer  HS           HS
7/17-7/21/1997              2   Energy Specialist, Project Officer  S           HS
5/3-5/8/1998(MTR            2   Energy Specialist, Project Officer  S           HS
)
12/15-12/22/1998            3   TM, Project Officer,              S            HS
Administrative Assistant
11/16-11/19/1999            2   ProjectOfficers                    S           HS
11/16-11/18/2000            2   Energy Specialist (TM), Project    S            S
Officer
5/31-6/1/2001               2   Energy Specialist (TM), Project    S            S
Officer
ICR
I    Consultant
(D) Staff:
Stage of rouject Cycie                  Actual/atest Est_i_mate_
-               |     No.Staffweeks      |         US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              31.3                         72
Appraisal/Negotiation                   33.9                        77.2
Supervision                             93.5                      270.5
ICR                                      4.0                        11.0
Total                      j           162.7         [            430.7
- 22 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                         O H  OSUOM       O N  O NA
S7 a                                      ,~  _   _  _,,  , ,, 3n  , .,  IrA
Le' aecuor ruiicGes         _ A               \Ju \j lvi IJ m j IVA
F Physical                               O H  OSUOM       O N  * NA
- -, - I                               \  -   c,,\ rrt'  .,f  *,%   a  ,
Lnl rinanciui \sj i \.J .)qJ \J lvi \H. IV S        O M'A
F Institutional Development              * H  O SU O M    0 N  0 NA
rN Environmental                         O7 O SU O Mvi      N  O IVA
OPoverty Reduction                O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
O Cender                           OH O SU OM O N *NA
OI Other (Please specify)         O H   OSUOM      O N   O NA
ni ,DPri ate sector de,elo0pment         O H  O*SUO,M     O N  O .NA
O Public sector management               0 H  O SU 0 M    0 N  0 NA
nI Other (Pleane specify)                O H  O SU OnM    O N  nO NA
-23 -



tWAnnIe  W. R4aLIgs UI oBankR andU JUR I WWI e1 VI jPl uinuic
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                   Rating
3 Lending                                             *HSOS OLu OHU
S^ Supervision                                        O     HS  S   O U    O HU
Z Overall                                             OHS OS 0 u O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
F Preparation                                         *HS OS        O  U   0 HU
F Government implementation performance               O HS OS       0  U   0 HU
ER Implementation agency performance                  OHS OS        O U    O HU
Z Overall                                             OHS OS O U 0 HU
- 24 -



Annev 7 1lat of SRunnni-non flna.umnantn
Supporting documents can be found in the Project File.
- 25 -



AdAdfisiona I A-nnex 8.BR  rwer's Contribution
lEv0_u1*Ive Suimm0PU
Thbe Gover."nment ecrr.o,paeo a cofat to prepare. arao t  of fhe 1  .mSet Technica! AAcasitance
Loan contracted with the World Bank. The objective of the assessment consisted of evaluating the results,
UfljJOtW ..,.. z. .ndo  benef.ts  fromU  La E.-g; 6  Sec'.or   ,TA, ide, At;n 'fl1 f  b - 01tstW  V . reaalte t o : -
regulatory improvement, institutional modernization, private participation in energy sector activities, the
I Uh assessm Cnita-^ly kJq1 WyLIeVLLU1qer LLe.iJV a sUVIU ppo rUPJUId UUAU1, ULe sIA Y U C UJL ofprojec.L excuto,
including specific studies and individual consultancies, accomplished the objectives established in each of
LUC componrits-U  UreILIVU LI Uthe LAJUd PiwrLILUIWL tULWCH LULe GoJUV-UiLUmXL iLU Uian   VY UL IU xidBLLr. I l1
assessment also sought to identify those aspects which have still to be achieved, and to propose possible
areas wiuch require suppuit Lo currct emsLung prolellis, anu to courlplement, consolid^ie anwor improve
the sector's reforms and regulations.
The assessment's conclusions include:
*  The TA was a very important support for implementing and deepening the institutional reform,
the regulatory framework, institutional strengthening, and the incorporation of private capital
in the power and natural gas subsectors.
*   Studies commissioned by CREG with TA resources contributed to improving norms which
nr.mn1pmPntpd ^nd nprftp riPglmIti,nn qnmF. n,-nnnegC^ _ih ne the sep^r^tinn nf noprgti-rknc
and the wholesale market from ISA, and the implementation of a system of financial
deriva_tives i;nthde uwholesalIe market, ar^e still mndr stluy by the authonrities.
*  Resources allocated to international and national assistance to CREG contributed to its
technical strengthening and to the preparation of technical and economic norms.
*  Resources aulocated to ur'vM sutenguieneu uns organizauon by proviuing it with oos uisat
support the development of those plans for which it is responsible and by training and
upgrading its human resources.
*  In those cases in which some studies did not vield exnected results, this was due more to the
natural dynamics of the regulatory and planning processes, and to a better coordination of the
affected institltinns, rather than to pnmblems associated with the loan itself.
*  In the area of incorporation of private capital, the project's results were highly positive.
Results obtained in the capitalization of EEB constitute by themselves an enormous
contribution to the Government's objective in attracting private investment to the sector.
*  There are also significant resources oriented towards complementing the restructuring of the
power sector and promoting the incorporation of private capital, as in te case of
non-interconnected areas. Currently, the results of this study are under scrutiny by MME and
the Ministry of Finance in order to make the required policy and promotion decisions.
*  RPeqrdina the mrnqqive extenRinn fnahir gas, siinnnrt nmvided bv the nmiect in nrenarincy
and implementing the bidding procedures for awarding exclusive distribution areas was highly
sccei.'pfill TPivu arepa uwprp 2lward&li which arp ci-rrent1v in nnprtinn
-26 -



*  The environmental subsector received proportionally the smallest amount of resources. This
was consistent with the transition phase during which the loan was disbursed. The studies that
were executed will be used by UPIME in structuring power and gas sector plans.
* Some resources, such as those which were assigned to FEN could have been channeled to
institutions with more limited budgets compared to those of the former, whilst nevertneiess
acknowledging the study's usefulness.
*  The project gave no priority to SSP, a vitally important entity in the institutional setup.
*  Reforms to the energy sector and the mcorporation ot pnvate investment are associated with:
improvements in the quality of electricity service, the generation of economic price signals in
the wholesale market, the establishment of efficient cost-reflecting prices, and an increase in
the coverage of natural gas.
The assessment identified a number of areas where further support is needed to correct existing problems
and to complement and consolidate the sector's reform and its regulation. Seven years after the initial laws
were passed, institutional strengthening is still required due to factors such as:
*  The market's dynamics which creates tensions and pressures of different types such as
regulatory periods coming due;
*  Greater demands vis a vis the institutions due to the presence of private sector agents;
D   Rotation of staffin kpy onrgni7§%tions suCh as CREG, SSP, TP TTM, and MMF whirh, together
with the increasing comnplexity of the organization, is a source of weakness of the scheme as a
whnole;
* The country's circumstances (a prolonged economic slump, social and political conflict, and
the uncertainty associate with an election year) which are fertile ground for populist initiatives
which could weaken the framework;
*  Budgetary constraints of some entities;
*   Structural problems of SSP;
*  Delays in the privatization of 14 distribution companies;
*  The f e      -p,latI.-, I     ,,htch ,^r.ma Adue l" DPt fl rvPrr 2nn2 fnr siunnpl anti
distribution-businesses, which may have a significant impact on tariffs;
* The urgency in defining wholesale market rules when the capacity charge comes up for review;
*  Uncertainty regarding the discussion of naurial gas we;ihcad prnces; and
*  Tnitiatives originating in Congress which could lead to backsliding in the sector's reforms.
The following are areas of institutional strengthening where technical assistance would be useful:
*  CREG: the Commission's main needs lie in studies of a certain magnitude, related to the
evaluaion an.d reforms of the w-holesale mrket, the distrbution and supply businesses, as well
as natural gas and LPG activities. Currently, CREG is searching to support studies on the
order of cupS3 mi"ion which k.L,d fic M.lt -.o, mn_.c w.t. its own budt_. (which noLnts to
around US$3 million). Other areas where support would be welcome include alternative
- 27 -



natural gas commercialization schemes, the regulation of programs for normalizing service
cirnn1v in _lih nnrmnl q.c, nid rn inqtihutinn2l nmornim fnr mnnitnring the whnleqale market7
together with SSP. It would also benefit from a high-level training program in the regulation
andi imrnnntinn nf -nmip ttvin
*  UPI,ME: the planning unit requires resources to strengthen its information system. It also
intends to pursue a diagnosis of energy uses in the residential and commercial subsectors to
promote rational energy use.
*  SSP: this is probably the least developed organization, and the one which most requires
strengtnening. Tnis would require a political decision to restructure and strengthen it. Tne
monitoring system to be managed by CREG and SSP would be a valuable opportunity for
supporting the supervisory function and developing it tecnnicany. with the provisos of Law
689 of 2000, which assigned to SSP the function of supervising and controlling the rules which
seek to develop markets and competition, this entity will require considerable support for
training its personnel and implementing control and decision-making mechanisms, together
with a strengthened information system. Equaiiy important is the fimction of taking over
non-performing utilities which will require support from specialized consultants to find
managerial solutions to these companies' problems.
  ?BA?    f. e M;nietvmr an- aa"A cnmrt fnr invpcftmpnt h%inLmncr r>mirpf tn mrnmntp cprviuP in
eight non-interconnected areas, to be initiated by the new Government, and support in
*  Ministry of the Environment: studying the potential for renewable energy in electricity
production and the possibilities for its development within the rules of the wholesale market,
together with an objective study regarding PCBs and a strategy for their disposal.
- 28 -



j                a       ~~~~~~~~~~TI!II~~~~~~~~1
OD                              i   
-         'S ~         ~'iiI'4'
K  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~  I                     I~~~~~~~~~~~~~R4
8 ~~~~~1 ih!
3                             '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~it
.9               iii"



-30 -



MAP SECTION






IBRD 31251
j0   N|ARAGUA  .   I
|12n     Caribbean                         )    12      4    V-
I       ~~~~~Sea      SnaRiocItcadm fe5K *Y   9|     CLMI     ,-r
Sea          SantoaM cl10  o ,  /ok   1    £ SantaFe  i7. _
ATLA  g)    h(                | ECtADOR/  BZ
no                                       B R A Z IL IO 
Cartoe$"?g7      ,   .Xl           2)    /BAI 
|-K. PAN kM A            krn\1R                   1   \ E R U         |
| > \N1 M.arPX_ yocaribo  BOLIVIA  |
Wtonteria  NIl 
DE         ~~~~~~~~70,
SANTANXik r             y a sins e pnd acafd s  the,MoP Daigi Un,t. TheW oddBank
e osiodaries .aa, d ns (o any oh -nfnnn at X
I 8;                }bJ              R (  AR  JCA ' X  t
|"  5 XALLE I     ~   Calnta 2          endasiosnenT or acceptnc Af sc  udana 
~) ) N T I t G. UIA  SANTADE  Rio Cosrno
PACIFIC ~CTOC~Cceo
OCEAN      D1|           \IS*CUnD MAM`ARa \ on1 P * CA :NAR
|-oo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~          I C  H A D OA )x)   a,/tj- 
I~~~~~~~                     ~~~~~~~~ io  (&A tE\  \t '  ')-
4| COOBi                    P 
|   *  DepertrnentLECaitl  Tf    M E T   A   G. ;ar1  RPe 17w~ - 
|   vrS3  Naonal Ca7 /l          Yapal
I~~~~~~~~~ \<A                             0 0 
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AF
L      ~ ~~~~~~O 50  n0 150 MILE      Guai     GL U2 A  NI
/mctena         G IJ AlV I AnR E
JLLE C 100  20  KILMEER          1    Gurtr              .|CA U
L 78° . 740 _D70°      DECEMBERI
Al ttr*                       AUPE
r  41~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*
0.  E C UA D  7'OR.4'.6        G. AAR
(   Popoy6n@ j~~~~~~7j-/~~JN.~~~  G U A I N I~R A 7  1
NA I  Deartment,kCapitals ioAencAa VI
0  Naiona CaCApiETAl
0  0  0                        VA PEILE
OOMBIAo      KILMEER
78'     74'                  70,~~~~~~~~~~RPA  1
O  Department Capitals  AMRLUNA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DCEBE 200-









IRA A O%IPII&I 
Report No.:          24197
Tvne:      ICR



