Documet of
The World Bank
Report No. T-6469-Co
TECHNICAL ANNEX
COLOMBIA
ENERGY SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
NOVEMBER 17, 1994



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(as of November 1994)
Exchange rate used in this study:
US$ I = 840 Pesos
FISCAL YEAR OF GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA
January 1 - December 31
ENERGY CONVERSION FACTORS
1 TOE       =      7.3 bbl
I MTOE      =      12.4 TWh (heat content equivalent)
I kcal             3.968 Btu
I CF of gas  =      000 Btu
1 kWh        =     860 kcal
1 m3 gas    =      9000 kcal



ACRONYMS
ACLEM                    Colombian Association of Electrical and Mechanical Engineers
ANDI                     Asociaci6n Nacional de Industriales
BOO                      Build, Own, Operate
CARBOCOL                 Carbones de Colombia
SCI                      Colombian Association of Engineers
CNE                      National Energy Commission (Comisi6n Nacional de Energia)
COLGAS                   Compaflia Colombiana de Gas
CONPES                   Consejo Nacional de Politica Econ6mica y Social
CORELCA                  Corporaci6n Electrica de la Costa Atlantica
CVC                      Corporaci6n Aut6noma del Valle del Cauca
DANE                     'Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadistica
DNP                      National Planning Department (Departamento Nacional de
Planeaci6n)
DSM                      Demand-side Management
ECOPETROL                Empresa Colombiana de Petr6leos
EEB                      Empresa de Energia de Bogota
EEC                      European Economic Community
EMCALI                   Empresas Municipales de Cali
EPM                      Empresas Publicas de Medellin
ESMAP                    Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
FEN                      Financiera Energetica Nacional
INEA                     Instituto Nacional de Energias Alternas
IBRD                     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICEL                     Instituto Colombiano de Electrificaci6n
ICONTEC                  Instituto Colombiano de Normas Tecnicas
IDB                      Interamerican Development Bank
IFC                      International Finance Corporation (World Bank Group)
ISA                      Interconexi6n Electrica S.A.
JNT                      Junta Nacional de Tarifas de Servicios Publicos
MHCP                     Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
MIS                      Management Information System
MME                       Ministry of Mines and Energy
OED                      Operations Evaluation Department, World Bank
OLADE                    Latin American Energy Organization
PCR                      Project Completion Report
PROMIGAS                 Promotora de la Incorporaci6n de Gasoductos de la Costa Atlantica
SIC                       Superintendencia de Industria y Comercio
SIE                      Energy Information System
TA                       Technical Assistance
TERPEL                   Terminales de Distribuci6n de Derivados de Petr6leo Ltda.
UNDP                     United Nations Development Program
USAID                    US Agency for International Development



ABBREVIATIONS
$                 Colombian Pesos
bbl               Barrel
Bpd               Barrels per day
BTU               British Thermal Unit
cal               Calorie
CF                Cubic foot
CFd               Cubic feet per day
CIF               Cost, Insurance and Freight
CNG               Compressed natural gas
DSM               Demand side management
gal               US gallon
GDP               Gross domestic product
GWh               Gigawatt-hour (109 Wh)
IRR               Internal rate of return
kCF               Thousand cubic feet
kW                Kilowatt
J                 Joule
LPG               Liquid petroleum gas
I                 Liter
MBTU              Million BTU
MCF               Million cubic feet
MUSs              Million US$
MW                Megawatt (106 W)
NPV               Net present value
TJ                TeraJoule (1012 j)
TOE               Ton of oil equivale t.
TCF               Tera cubic feet (10o)



COLOMBIA
ENERGY SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Technical Annexes
DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION ......................................................................................1
MODULE 1: REGULATION, PRICING AND ENERGY POLICY ...............................                                                                                                              .....................................4
Assistance to the Energy Regulatory Commission .....................................................................................                                                                                            5
Assistance to the Energy Policy Unit (EPU) ......................................................................................8
MODULE 2: POWER SECTOR ASSISTANCE .....................................................                                                                                                   ................................ 10
Assistance in Divestment: Power Generation and Distribution .....................................................................................     11
Assistance  in  Attracting  New   Investment ..................................................................................... 13
Assistance  to  the  Grid  Operator .....................................................................................  14
MODULE 3: GAS SECTOR ASSISTANCE .....................................................................................                                                                                                                    15
MODULE 4: ENVIRONMENT .....................................................................................                                                                                                                               16
Sectoral Enviromnental Assessments (SEAs) ..................................................................................... 17
Project Environmental Assessments(PEAs) .....................................................................................                                                                                                 18
MODULE 5: ENERGY DEMAND MANAGEMENT AND SAFETY ENHANCEMENT ................................ 19
Demand  Side  M anagement (DSM ) Strategy  .....................................................................................                                                                                              20
Promotion of the Safe and Efficient use of Gas .....................................................................................                                                                                         20
Overall Technical Assistance Project Implementation .....................................................................................                                                                                    21
ANNEX 1 .....................................................................................                                                                                                                                            22
COLOMBIA: LESSONS FROM THE BANK EXPERIENCE IN THE POWER SECTOR ..........                                                                                                                                                 ................ 22
Bank  Experience ..................................................................................... 22
Main Issues and Ways to Tackle them .....................................................................................                                                                                                     24
Sector Specific Recommendations .....................................................................................                                                                                                         25
ANNEX2 .....................................................................................                                                                                                                                               27
OPERATIONAL GUIDELINES FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN ..................................................... 27
ANNEX3 .....................................................................................                                                                                                                                               28
LOAN ADMINISTRATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA AND
UNDP .....................................................................................                                                                                                                                               28
ANNEX4 ......................................................................                                                                                                                                                            31



I



DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Background
I .    Colombia's energy sector is complex and involves a large number of public and private
institutions in the power, hydrocarbons and coal subsectors. The power subsector includes over
thirty operating enterprises which are overwhelmingly within the public sector; these companies are
mostly owned by the National Government through the Ministry of Finance, with the exception of
three major municipal companies (Bogota, Medellin, and Call). The hydrocarbons subsector is
commanded by the state oil company, ECOPETROL, with private sector participation in crude
production and distribution of oil products and gas. The coal subsector can be roughly broken up
into export-oriented suppliers where the state coal company, CARBOCOL, either operates in
association with private companies or manages coal mining contracts, and internal market suppliers
where numerous small mining enterprises deliver coal to industry and power plants. The Ministry
of Mines and Energy (MMvIE) is in charge of overall energy sector policy; the Minister presides over
the Boards of the major power sector companies controlled by the National Government, as well as
the Boards of ECOPETROL and CARBOCOL. Formulation of power and gas regulation is
responsibility of the Energy Regulatory Commission (Comisi6n de Rgulaci6n de Energia y Gas),
and its enforcement is entrusted to the Superintendency of Public Services (Superintendencia de
Servicios Puiblicos). Finally, the Energy Finance Corporation (FEN), also state-owned, operates as
the sector's financial arm by providing credit, mainly to power sector enterprises.
2.     The power subsector is emerging from a decade of financial crisis as well as a severe
supply emergency in 1992; it has not been successful in maintaining continuity of supply to its
customers and has failed to achieve financial self-reliance. Deep flaws in its institutional and
regulatory framework are reflected in a history of overspending and massive underpricing. The gas
subsector exhibits a picture of underdevelopment: although major finds were made in the early 70s,
deliveries of natural gas have been limited principally to the Atlantic Coast region (where the vast
majority of current demand is located); there is no country-wide pipeline network and the major
cities of Medellin and Cali have lacked natural gas supplies (Bogota has only recently been supplied
with it from local sources). The oil sector exhibits extremely high profits due to rents received from
crude production but its vertical integration raises questions as to whether its efficiency could be
increased. The state coal company has run into serious financial problems due to high sunk costs in
the Cerrejon mine and lower than expected prices on the international market.
3.     Sector Strategy. The Government's proposed strategy regarding public sector enterprises
has been to reduce its presence through divestment and reliance on market forces. In the energy
sector the state cannot withdraw completely because of potentially costly market failures due to: (a)
economic rents from natural resources such as oil, gas, coal and, to a lesser extent, the hydroelectric
potential; (b) the importance to society and the economy of a secure power supply; (c) monopoly
characteristics of transmission and distribution of electricity and natural gas; and (d) environmental
degradation resulting from energy-related activities. Addressing these policy problems in Colombia
is particularly complex due to the country's large and diverse endowment of energy resources.



- 2 -
4.      The Government's proposed energy sector strategy seeks to ensure a reliable and efficient
supply supported by an economic pricing policy and private sector participation. The approach to
the sources of market failure will consist of using regulatory instruments applied within an industry
operated by private entrepreneurs. The Government intends to: (a) reduce tariff distortions and
create a transparent mechanism of targeted subsidies as established in the Constitution; (b) stimulate
a rational and economic use of fuels; and (c) create the necessary institutions (including commercial
regulations and pricing procedures) for introducing efficiency incentives into the energy sector.
5.      Implementation of this strategy has proceeded by addressing the power sector, where
government failure has been most prominent, followed by the natural gas subsector due to its
linkages with the former: power supplies are to rely on natural gas for near term generation
projects, whereas the feasibility of economically distributing gas to major urban communities will
depend on having a large base consumption from power plants. Oil and coal sector institutional
issues have not been addressed as yet, since they are perceived as less pressing due to the profits of
the former and the sunk cost characteristics of the latter's problems.
6.      The Bank's strategy has been to: (a) assist in building institutions to introduce market
incentives in the energy sector; (b) support policies in order to ensure the economic supply of
electricity and gas with due consideration to environmental constraints; (c) promote institutional
options which confine the Government's role, as far as possible, to that of regulator and policy
maker; (d) advise the reduction of public resources in the sector by attracting private capital; (e)
analyze alternatives to rehabilitate the power sector's finances and improve resource allocation
through correct price signals and focused subsidies for the poor; (f) promote channels for users and
stakeholders to voice their opinions in sectoral matters that affect them; and (g) recommend the
efficient use of energy by expanding supplies of natural gas and rational energy use. This strategy
addresses the main issues raised in two recent Bank energy policy papers' and in the LAC Gas
Sector Strategy.2
7.      The Technical Assistance project has been oriented towards providing support to the
Government in the implementation of sector reforms, and it therefore concentrates on power and
natural gas where there is evidence that the Government has committed itself by clearly defining its
role and that of the private sector, by articulating a well-defined strategy and by initiating
implementation actions. Concerning the electricity industry, it is vital to maintain the impetus of
institutional reform already under way and, in relation to the emerging natural gas sector, assistance
in setting up adequate organizations will be critical for its efficient development. The project will
also assist the Government in defining an overall strategy involving other energy sectors, in
identifying the scope of required reforms and in developing an implementation plan.
8.      Institutional Reform. Institutional change has been taking place since 1991. A new
Electricity Law and a Public Domiciliary Services law were promulgated in July, 1994. An Energy
Regulatory Commission has been created to develop the regulatory controls in the electricity and
gas sectors, with power to prepare rules and issue specific resolutions concerning economic
World Bank Policy Papers, The World Bank's Role in the Electric Power Sector and Energy. Efficiency and Conservation in the
Develoving World (1993).
2 Tle World Bank Strate2zv for the Natural Gas Sector in LAC (1991).



- 3 -
regulation (pricing mechanisms, restriction on anticompetitive behavior), technical regulation and
customer service regulation. At the same time an Energy Policy Unit within MME has been created
to ensure that economic, environmental, and social costs are taken into account by producers and
consumers. A Superintendency of Public Services will replace the Ministry of Development in
enforcing the regulatory controls developed by the Energy Regulatory Commission.
9.     The Government's proposed power subsector institutional reforms3 include: (a) fostering
efficiency through competition together with a strong, transparent and independent regulatory
framework; (b) an institutional restructuring involving the separation of national transmission from
generation and the corporatization of existing state power companies by ultimately transforming
them into joint stock corporations; (c) completing the financial restructuring and rehabilitation of
the subsector through tariff and subsidy reforms; and (d) promoting the participation of private
sector capital in new projects as well as divesting itself of existing power plants and utilities.
10.    The implementation of these reforms is under way: Coopers & Lybrand, a consulting firm,
was and is assisting the Energy Regulatory Commission in its initial setup phase; private sector
participation has been promoted through: (a) the installation of 95 MW (Mamonal) of private
generation in an industrial complex in Cartagena; (b) a 150 MW BOO contract awarded through
international competitive bidding (ICB) to Sevillana de Electricidad, a Spanish utility (both of these
projects are already in operation); (c) a 880 MW BOO contract (ICB) in Barranquilla awarded to a
consortium led by ABB and currently being negotiated; (d) the award of a 150 MW ICB project
awarded to ENRON (Termovalle); and (e) invitation to pre-qualification for a 300 MW BOO
thermal plant on the Atlantic Coast (La Loma). The generation capacity of these plants totals 1575
MW, which represents 16% of the total installed capacity in Colombia. These developments are to
be followed shortly by the organization of the open access network operated by an independent
transmission company. These achievements should be seen as the consequence of the effort that
went into devising the sector's reforms. The TA project will support the restructuring program
which will require greater funds given the increasing complexity of the tasks which lie ahead.
11.    The gas sector's basic institutional framework will be promulgated in 1994; the
corresponding groundwork has been developed by Coopers & Lybrand. The Bank has supported
these implementation efforts by financing consultants' work through the Japanese Grant Facility and
the Public Sector Reform Loan. However, much remains to be done: the Policy Unit requires
support for discharging its functions effectively; the structure of the natural gas industry must be
decided and the necessary institutions must be developed; power sector plans related to divestment
have yet to materialize and many regulations and market structure alternatives have yet to be
implemented.
12.    Project Objectives. The proposed TA project provides a direct application of the country
assistance strategy by preserving the momentum gained over the immediate past regarding
institutional reform by passing from the study and design stages to the more resource-intensive
phase of recommended actions. The objectives of the project are: (a) to implement regulatory
reforms by strengthening the newly created entities in charge of regulation and energy policy
3December, 1992 letter from the Minister of Mines and Energy (reproduced in Annex 4).



- 4 -
formulation and implementation for the power and gas sub-sectors in order to help them build
experience and thereby increase their chances of performing efficiently; (b) to implement strategies
specifically designed for the energy sector, respecting environmental concerns and constraints and
attracting private investment in the sector; and (c) to develop a demand-side management strategy
and assist in its implementation.
13.    Objectives specific to the power sub-sector are to achieve the divestment of state-owned
assets or enterprises, to attract new private investments for system expansion, and to execute the
institutional reforms required for putting in place a fully competitive market at the generation level.
Objectives specific to the gas sub-sectors are to assist in developing the industry's structure and
regulations for building up a gas market, and to assist in setting up the required organizations. The
environmental care objective is to develop a consistent set of environmental guidelines for energy
sector development. Demand-side management objectives are to develop standards and guidelines
for efficient energy use and to disseminate them among consumers and industries.
14.    Project Description. The Technical Assistance project seeks to facilitate and speed up
the transition from a publicly-owned sector organization to one with private participation.
Comprehensive institutional and policy reforms in infrastructure may require many years to design
and implement, even in developed countries. The process is necessarily iterative and progressive.
It is therefore necessary for Bank assistance to be of sufficient duration and with sufficient leverage
to provide consistent, sustained support to the varying needs at different stages during this process.
In order to ensure a successful transfer of knowledge, the project will inevitably have to span a
significant period of time (estimated to be around 4 to 5 years); otherwise, given the volatility of
institutional memory, the resources are likely to be lost.
15.    The outputs of the project are summarized in the Action Plan matrix (Annex 4).
Monitoring of project progress will involve both a control of technical assistance output through
progress reports and review meetings with consultants, and a control of timely implementation
actions by the Government. The recipients of technical assistance will be the institutions involved in
sectoral reforms, namely the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Mines and Energy (in particular its
Energy Policy Unit), ISA (the interconnection company) and the Energy Regulatory Commission;
this list could be extended to other institutions, such as the Superintendency of Public Services,
insofar as energy matters are concerned.
16.    Project Components. The elements of the TA have been organized into five modules,
corresponding to: (a) overall regulation, pricing and policy activities; (b) specific power sector
tasks; (c) gas sector activities; (d) environmental matters; and (e) energy demand management and
safety enhancement. Each of the following sections provides sector-specific background and a
detailed description of each component within the project including its recipient, its objectives and
scope, and the proposed organization for implementation.
MODULE 1: REGULATION, PRICING AND ENERGY POLICY
17.    The predominantly public-sector ownership of energy resources has precluded economic
regulation regarding the supply of electricity or natural gas. If these sectors are to accept private



-5-
sector participation, regulation becomes practically indispensable due to Irarket failures stemming
from natural monopoly characteristics. Similarly, sector planning has been concentrated within
government-owned operating organizations; with private sector participation, centralized and
compulsory planning has been replaced by indicative planning and responsibility for this function
has been vested in an Energy Policy Unit in MME.
18.    The organization of the Energy Regulatory Commission is currently under way,
particularly insofar as power sector regulations are concerned; the Policy Unit is being organized
but its resources, originating within Mme's budget, are insufficient and need to be supplemented.
Other institutional developments taking place concern the Electricity Law and the Domiciliary
Public Services Law which will provide the basic framework for policy implementation.
19.    The assistance envisaged in this module will be addressed principally to the Energy
Regulatory Commission and to the Policy Unit of MIME. Project components for these institutions
span both the power and natural gas subsectors:
(a)  Assistance to the Energy Regulatory Commission in power subsector matters, which
is required beyond the design phase (currently being completed with Coopers &
Lybrand) for establishing the operational procedures for price setting and regulatory
reviews of the Commission;
(b)  Assistance to the Policy Unit in: (i) supporting MME for overall energy policy and
strategy formulation; (ii) coordinating the power sector's indicative expansion plan;
(iii) providing information to private investors and MIME with respect to future
investment prospects; (iv) developing policies for rural electrification and energy
supply to isolated communities; and (v) developing expertise for drawing up a
natural gas expansion plan;
(c)  Assistance to the Energy Regulatory Commission in developing a statute for Natural
Gas, together with the sector's regulations, using a similar approach to that of the
power subsector, thereby keeping pace with the evolution of the natural gas
infrastructure;
(d)  Assistance to both the Regulatory Commission and the Policy Unit in developing
guidelines for environment protection (as described further on in the Environment
Module section).
Assistance to the Energy Regulatory Commission
20.    Background. The Energy Regulatory Commission was established by the Electricity Law
of July, 1994, and its mandate includes the following functions: (a) regulating activities in the
energy sector in order to promote an efficient supply; (b) fostering competition and preventing
anticompetitive or monopolistic behavior; (c) establishing mechanisms to calculate tariffs for
regulated public services in the energy sector, including transmission charges; (d) developing
administrative and financial performance indicators for monitoring enterprise management; (e)



- 6 -
reviewing and modifying the Operations Code for the interconnected system; and (f) protecting
consumers and monitoring the quality of service delivered by power and gas enterprises.
21.    The Role of the Regulatory Commission will be complemented by the Superintendency of
Public Services who is in charge of enforcing regulations and supervising utility performance
regarding service quality.
22.    Electricity. Some of these functions are being analyzed for the power sector by Coopers
& Lybrand. Their consulting activities have been focused principally on organizing a wholesale
market for electricity, defining the overall regulatory controls and addressing pricing problems both
at the wholesale and retail levels.
23.    The Regulatory Commission will continue to promote the pricing adjustment policies
which have been implemented in the last few years. Electricity tariffs have been continuously
revised in order to reach economic cost levels and eliminate price distortions within consumer
sectors; the following table summarizes average tariff levels as a percentage of economic costs
during 1991-1993 as well as the target levels for 1994-1997:
YEAR                    1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997
Percent of Economic Cost        72.7  70.9  83.0  87.0  92.7  97.7  100
24.    Gas. There exists no gas-specific legislation in Colombia; gas-related activities in
exploration, development, transportation and distribution are guided, by analogy, by the Petroleum
Code. Recognizing the need to put in place a regulatory regime the Government has hired Coopers
& Lybrand (with Japanese Grant Facility funds) to assist in the drafting of a statute that would
establish the basic principles for the functioning of the gas sector. The corresponding decree is
expected to be promulgated in 1995. However, extensive work will be needed to: (a) prepare the
subsidiary legislation, rules and regulations required to complete and enforce the institutional and
regulatory framework to be defined in a Gas Decree or in a Gas Law; (b) set up and make
operational a gas trading and transportation enterprise (particularly in the areas of contract
development and pricing policies, including use of system transportation charges); (c) define the
conditions for the participation of the private sector in the construction of pipelines under BOO and
BOT schemes; and (d) train staff within the Energy Regulatory Commission and the Energy Policy
Unit to deal with gas-related matters.
25.    Natural gas costs are on the order of $1 per million Btu (Mbtu) at the wellhead; wholesale
and retail costs vary considerably according to location; for example, they are on the order of
$1. 8/Mbtu for wholesale deliveries and $3.8/Mbtu for retail delivery in Bogota compared to values
which are expected to be 27% higher in Cali once the pipelines are put in place. Prices are set by
MME and exhibit wide ranges of variation from one market to another which reflect the fragmented
nature of the industry. With the development of new trunk pipelines and the interconnection of
producing fields, bulk prices should become more uniform and a pricing policy will have to be
developed to address the issues which will arise in the context of an integrated gas industry
structure.



-7-
26.    Objectives and Scope. The TA to the Commission is conceived to extend beyond the
Coopers & Lybrand contract in order to guide the Commission in its initial phases of operation thus
ensuring that decisions are in accordance with power and gas sector policies, thereby building up a
consistent body of regulatory precedents. The TA will also cover those areas which have not been
addressed in the initial phases.
27.    For the power sector the project will provide assistance, including training, in the
following areas:
(a)  Price Regulation: advice on rate schedule modifications, computer modeling for
tariff calculations and financial evaluations, as well as the resolution of conflicts at
the wholesale market level;
(b)  Consumer Protection: this regulatory area has no precedents in Colombia and the
project would assist in establishing service standards, developing service quality
monitoring methods for distribution enterprises, organizing procedures for
responding to consumer complaints, and disseminating information to consumers
concerning utilities' performance;
(c)  Technical Matters: support on matters such as the value of lost load, cost analyses,
financial analyses, codes and norms for distribution concessionaires, network
charges, and recommendations relative to the modifications of the interconnected
system's operations agreement; technical assistance will be provided in the form of
advisory services concerning specific areas;
(d) Environmental Matters: support to review and consolidate energy related regulations
into a consistent framework (see Environment module).
28.    Coopers & Lybrand is developing the regulatory principles that will integrate the new
natural gas statute, including pricing structures, mechanisms for pricing adjustment over time,
guidance on key contents of licenses, and a network code. The TA would provide guidance on the
scope of specific regulations and use of the pipeline network in areas such as:
(a)  Comprehensive models for trading licenses, and contracts for purchase, sale and
transportation of gas;
(b)  The execution of cost studies and financial analyses necessary for establishing price
levels for regulated consumers and setting use-of-system charges;
(c) Identifying the conditions that will govern the general terms and conditions to be
observed by users of the transportation system (e.g. gas quality specification, entry
pressure, measurement standards, priority rules in the event of capacity limitation,
daily gas dispatch, methods of accounting, billing and settlement arrangements, etc.);
(d) Specifying the accounting arrangements for gas utilities.



- 8 -
29.    Finally, the assistance to the Energy Regulatory Commission will provide advice relative to
decision making procedures, in matters such as instituting regulatory proceedings (e.g. whether or
not to institute public hearings or to rely on more customary procedures), as well as defining the
legal characteristics of regulatory decisions (Ministerial Decrees or possible altematives). Some of
these basic issues should be decided within the current consulting project and the TA would provide
additional support on unresolved questions.
30.     Results. The TA will help develop a body of regulatory principles and precedents for the
power sector. This should result in achieving a Regulatory Commission that can command the
energy sector's respect insofar as sound economic decisions are concemed, thereby providing the
private sector with visible assurance that power sector investments will not be subject to arbitrary
rules. The TA will also help develop the bulk of enabling legislation to make effective the
provisions of the natural gas statute under preparation. It will also provide training for the Energy
Regulatory Commission staff in matters related to the gas subsector.
31.    Implementation and Monitoring. The assistance will be carried out through specialized
consulting services. Monitoring project results will vary according to the type of product (e.g.
computer models vs. training); given the difficulty associated with monitoring training components
and the performance of a regulatory entity, an annual performance audit by an independent expert
will evaluate the project's progress, particularly regarding the functioning of the Regulatory
Commission.
Assistance to the Energy Policy Unit (EPU)
32.    Background. The Policy Unit has been visualized as a relatively small group of skilled
staff who would supervise the execution of strategic planning studies which would be contracted
either to sector enterprises (such as ISA in the power sector) or consulting companies and would
advise the Ministry on energy strategy and policy. Its function regarding the energy sector consists
of acting as a provider of information in order to enable public and private entities to make
appropriate economic decisions. This function is particularly relevant in Colombia because of the
high cost of obtaining information due to a complex energy sector with multiple and abundant
energy sources and interfuel substitution possibilities. The project will support MMNE in setting up
the Policy Unit in order to fulfill its functions efficiently. Issues to be addressed include:
(a) Defining the role of Government in ensuring energy supplies and electricity in
particular;
(b) Defining the procedures to be followed for structuring a National Energy Strategy
together with indicative expansion plans for power and gas;
(c) Defining planning criteria for addressing risk-associated issues;
(d)  Providing information to developers regarding the recommendations resulting from
the power subsector indicative plan and defining the scope of Government action



regarding the response of power utilities and private sector enterprises to generation
plant installation in order to ensure reliable supplies;
(e)  Addressing development and social-related issues such as coverage extension
policies, rural electrification and power supplies to isolated communities;
(f) Addressing the question of the institutional structure of the oil subsector and
possible restructuring requirements;
(g)  Developing expertise in order to formulate a gas sector expansion plan;
(h)  Introducing the environmental dimension into sector planning;
(i)  Procedures to be followed for involving users and other stakeholders in decisions
regarding energy sector projects.
33.     Objectives and Scope. TA assistance to the Policy Unit would be oriented towards
addressing the above issues. The ultimate objective of the proposed assistance is to organize the
unit and provide staff training in order to efficiently fulfill its responsibilities in response to sector
developments. It would consist of the following major tasks:
(a)  Assessment of Policy Unit staffing requirements and human resources in regard to its
responsibilities;
(b)  Assessment of infrastructure requirements (e.g. computer and communications
resources);
(c)  Defining the scope for execution of specific projects (e.g. pre-feasibility and
feasibility studies) to support the expansion plan and their budgetary requirements;
(d)  Defining principles for structuring the indicative power sector expansion plan;
(e)  Defining similar procedures for the gas sector;
(f)  Building in environmental constraints, costs and tradeoffs into both the power sector
and gas sector development plans;
(g)  Assisting in the development of a National Energy Strategy;
(h) Assessing alternative structures for the oil subsector;
(i)   Addressing other policy areas, such as distribution and electrification plans.
34.     Results. The TA will seek to develop a skilled Policy Unit which can effectively
coordinate and evaluate the execution of power sector plans, provide information to the Energy



- 10-
Regulatory Commission and serve as a source of high-level support to the Ministry of Mines and
Energy for strategy and policy formulation. The recipient will be responsible for putting in place
the TA recommendations. The TA will extend over the period of initial operations of the Unit in
order to provide on the job training and thereby ensure that it will function effectively.
35.    Implementation and Monitoring. Technical assistance will be provided by a resident
individual consultant, an international expert with ample experience in managing and organizing
advisory government institutions in the energy field, supplemented with specialized support in
specific subjects. Consulting firms will provide support in developing the energy strategy and a
training program will be designed for the Unit's staff. MME will be responsible for the
implementation of project recommendations, such as creating the requisite positions with the
corresponding budgetary appropriations and hiring the required personnel. Project monitoring will
take place: (a) through periodical reports from the energy expert; and (b) through an annual audit
similar to the Energy Regulatory Commission audit.
MODULE 2: POWER SECTOR ASSISTANCE
36.    The technical assistance to the power sector has been conceived as a complement to the
on-going institutional reform plan. Implementation has proceeded on several fronts:
(a)  In 1991 and 1992 the Government initiated a financial rehabilitation of the power
sector through a number of debt/equity swaps and debt rescheduling operations;
(b)  Actions on the price front have consisted of a 14% average tariff increase in real
terms between 1991 and 1993, and the approval for targeting subsidies exclusively
to the lowest income consumers and reducing them drastically for all others;
(c)  The new Electricity Law, which sets the legal framework for the power and the gas
sector reform was promulgated.
37.    Within the power subsector, the project consists of the following components: (a)
implementing sector strategies and policies, particularly the divestment of state-owned assets; (b)
completing the legal and regulatory reform of the energy sector; and (c) providing assistance in the
process of attracting private sector capital (both domestic and foreign) for new investments.
The components can be broadly classified into the following categories:
(a) Assistance to the Energy Regulatory Commission as described in the previous
section;
(b) Assistance to the Ministry of Finance in the procedure of divestment of government-
owned assets;



- 11 -
(c)  Assistance to MI/Ministry of Finance/DNP and sector enterprises in establishing
the conditions for attracting new investments in power subsector generation and
distribution;
(d)  Assistance in organizing a National Grid Company (ISA-Transmission) with the
exclusive function of operating and developing the national transmission network, as
well as acting as a clearing house for commercial transactions within the electricity
market,
(e)  Assistance in organizing the operating mode of the National Grid Company and
developing software tools required under new commercial procedures.
The following sections describe each component separately.
Assistance in Divestment: Power Generation and Distribution
38.    Background. As part of the financial rehabilitation of the sector, the Government has
become the principal shareholder in a number of enterprises; in accordance with the strategy for the
power sector, the Government has planned to sell shares of power utilities to the private sector.
The initial targets are electricity distribution companies which represent, in general, the weakest link
in the power generation-transmission-distribution chain. The recipient of this TA component would
be the Ministry of Finance as major shareholder in the targeted power companies, and the Minister
of Mines and Energy.
39.    Objectives and Scope. The Government's objective in involving the private sector in the
power sector is to strengthen management and improve efficiency of power utilities, as well as
limiting its own exposure in terms of guarantees. The rationale for providing technical assistance
for these projects lies in the difficulties associated with obtaining financially attractive proposals; an
approach based upon an outright sale is unlikely to elicit a reasonable response given the lack of
information and experience in Colombia related to these operations. Consequently, the assistance
will focus on developing viable alternatives (e.g. the issue of bonds convertible to shares or leasing),
which may vary from one project to another (depending on plant type, size, age, fuel procurement
and transmission connections), in order to accomplish the Government's objectives. The assistance
will be oriented towards providing potential bidders with as much information as possible in order
for them to prepare proposals on the basis of reasonable risk assessments based upon project
characteristics, the legal framework and available guarantees. Nevertheless, the guiding principles
will be "transparency", simplicity, and maximization of long term economic benefit to Colombia.
40.    The proposed technical assistance would consist of: (a) providing the Ministry of Finance
with options for divestment of power utilities; (b) marketing and promoting the project according to
the preferred option; (c) assisting the recipient in the bidding process; and (d) providing advisory
services in negotiation of successful bids and contract design.
The assistance would involve the following tasks:



- 12 -
(a)    Analyzing the conditions of power utilities and preparing divestment options;
(b)   Preparing a project brochure;
(c)   Identifying potential investors and promoting the project among them;
(d)   Preparing invitations to bid;
(e)    Performing a preliminary screening of proponents;
(f)    Preparing procedures for bid evaluation;
(g)    Analyzing financing altematives proposed by bidders;
(h)   Bid analysis and recommendations;
(i)    Assistance in contract negotiation and contract design;
(j)    Procedures for monitoring contract performance.
41.     Results. This component of the project should materialize in the effective divestment of
power utilities. The major milestones to be achieved for each sub-project, which are the major
responsibility of the recipient, consist of:
(a)    Hiring of TA consultant services;
(b)   Design of strategy for sale of shares of selected power utilities;
(c)    Distribution of invitations to bid;
(d)    Sale of shares;
42.    Implementation and Monitoring. The assistance will be carried out by teams of
specialists. Each subcontract will be awarded to a single consortium of intemational/national
consultants on the basis of their technical proposals. General terms of reference for the hiring of
consultants have been prepared; the detailed terms of reference for each project and the evaluation
of proposals will be carried out by the project coordinating unit together with the TA recipient's
staff and extemal advisory assistance. Project results will be monitored and evaluated according to
the success in divesting the assets.



- 13 -
Assistance in Attracting New Investment
43.    Background. The new power sector strategy envisages that generation should expand
according to an indicative plan that will provide information to potential investors, as opposed to a
compulsory one. It is also envisaged that all additional thermal plants will be in the private sector.
Consequently, it is expected that companies will develop new generation plants according to their
needs and will bear the responsibility for these investments. In accordance with the strategy
independent power producers will own, in the next four to five years a total of 1575 MW
44.    Most of the current developments (with the exception of the Mamonal plant owned by
PROELECTRICA and the Termovalle one owned by a consortium led by ENRON) have relied
heavily on attracting investors by providing government guarantees to the private contractor
ensuring its cash flow. This stage should be considered as an intermediate step while the private
sector builds up experience working within the new institutional framework of the power sector.
Once confidence is established a full market operation will be reached where power producers can
enter the generation business without government support.
45.    Objectives and Scope. The recipients of the TA would consist of MME and the power
companies interested in signing long-term power purchase agreements with independent power
producers. The ultimate objective of this TA component is to assist the Government in reducing its
exposure in the electricity generation business by attracting private investors. The major tasks
(which may vary in scope from one sub-project to another) envisioned for this component consist
of:
(a) Developing prefeasibility or feasibility studies for selected candidate plants;
(b) Assisting the recipient in the preparation of tenders for soliciting private sector
participation;
(c) Advisory services in the negotiation of successful bids and contract development.
46.    Results. This component of the project should materialize in awarding the building and
operation of power plants to successful bidders. The major milestones to be achieved for each sub-
project, which are the major responsibility of the recipient, consist of:
(a) Hiring of TA consultant services;
(b) Approval of bidding documents;
(c) Distribution of invitations to bid;
(d) Bid award;
(e) Completion of BOO (or similar) contracts.



- 14 -
47.    Implementation and Monitoring. The assistance will be carried out by teams of
specialists. Each subcontract will be awarded to a single consortium of international/national
consultants on the basis of their technical proposals. General terms of reference for hiring
consultants have been prepared; the detailed terms of reference for each sub-project and the
evaluation of proposals will be carried out by the project coordinating unit together with the TA
recipient's staff and external advisory assistance. Project execution will be monitored according to
its success in attracting private investors and executing the projects.
Assistance to the Grid Operator
48.    Background. National transmission is currently the responsibility of ISA (which also
owns a major portion of system generation) and other utilities which own trunk lines. The
Government is at present the major shareholder in the company and it intends to separate the
generation and transmission businesses into different corporations. Dispatch procedures and
software were developed during 1980-1986 and will require substantial modifications under the
new sectoral structure.
49.     Objectives and Scope. The TA seeks to provide advisory services in the process of
reorganizing ISA into separate corporations. Financial, accounting and personnel aspects of the
transition to these new corporations are important areas where advice will be given. The ultimate
objective consists of organizing a separate network operator entity which can efficiently fulfill
functions of system dispatch under the new wholesale market rules, transactions clearing, system
security, transmission maintenance and, possibly, support for the MME Policy Unit.
The activities envisaged for this component consist of:
(a) Procedures for the corporate separation of ISA in transmission and generation, and
organization of the new enterprises;
(b)  Advice during the separation process;
(c)  Modification of dispatch rules and clearing house functions according to the
procedures and Grid Code recently developed within the Energy Regulatory
Commission consultancy contract;
(d)  Specification, development and testing of the settlement software; training of ISA's
personnel on the use of economical load dispatch and financial settlement models;
(e)  Development of information systems for dispatch and settlement.
50.    Results. Two types of results will gauge the progress of this component:
(a) The effective and satisfactory separation of generation and transmission;



- 15 -
(b) The efficient operation of the grid operator with respect to system dispatch and
transactions clearing.
51.    Implementation and Monitoring. The TA will be executed mainly through large
international consulting firms associated with local consultants. The project will be monitored on
the basis of its success in achieving the results listed in the previous paragraph.
MODULE 3: GAS SECTOR ASSISTANCE
52.    Background. Current natural gas consumption is 400 million cubic feet per day
concentrated mainly in the Atlantic Coast and Santander regions. The gas is used primarily for
electricity generation and industrial heat, with a relatively small residential and commercial market.
Because of the limited size of the gas industry and the dispersion of producing gas fields, there is no
integrated national pipeline network.
53.    Gas development is currently a responsibility of ECOPETROL, the state oil company.
The interests of this enterprise have naturally been oriented towards crude production and refining
activities where it derives most of its income. This situation is likely to become more pronounced
with the recent discovery of large oil fields. The consultants who are analyzing the gas sector's
structure have proposed the creation of a gas-dedicated company similar to the grid operator in the
electricity subsector; the government is examining this proposal and intends to organize it with
private capital participation.
54.    In December 1991 the Government designed a program to substitute gas for more costly
fuels, in particular electricity, which is used extensively for domestic uses. In March, 1993,
prompted in good measure by the large gas discoveries in the Cusiana oil field, the Government
decided to accelerate the implementation of the gas program and approved the National Gas Plan
setting a number of objectives and preliminary proposals, including:
(a)  The use of private capital in the construction of new trunk lines on a build-own-
operate (BOO) and build-operate-transfer (BOT) basis;
(b)  Deregulation of gas prices for large consumers (power generation and large
industry);
(c)  Protecting the interests of smaller consumers and promoting substitution of gas for
electricity;
(d)  Encouraging competition in gas supply, where appropriate, by providing gas
producers with access to pipeline networks.
55.    The plan envisages investing US$ 550 million in the 1994-1998 period in construction of
gas pipelines and the creation (with private sector participation) of a mixed capital enterprise in
charge of gas transportation and promoting the development of new gas pipelines. The long-run
plans of the Government contemplate an ambitious investment program of up to $3 billion by 2020.



- 16 -
A major initial step in the implementation of the Government's policy was taken in late 1993 with
the award by ECOPETROL of a BOO contract for the principal trunk pipeline connecting the
Atlantic fields to the central region fields.
56.    Components of Gas Sector Technical Assistance. The most important component of
the assistance to the gas sector is directed towards implementing the new institutional framework
through the Energy Regulatory Commission and the Policy Unit (see Module 1) in order to
accomplish the objectives stated above. Specific Gas Industry components responding to the
strategy of minimizing Government's involvement and encouraging development with private sector
participation will be included:
(a) to develop a plan for the implementation of a new gas industry structure with private
sector participation;
(b) to advise the Government on negotiations with the private sector to set up a new
mixed-capital gas company(ies).
57.    Objectives and Scope. The objectives of this component are: (a) to improve the
operations of the gas sector and promote natural gas use; (b) to render gas pipeline investments
viable; and (c) to create a large gas market with private sector participation. The Technical
Assistance will support the development of a plan for the implementation of a new gas industry
structure, and assistance to the Government on negotiations with private companies involved in
setting up new enterprises in this subsector.
58.    Implementation. Legal and commercial advice to the Government regarding negotiations
with the private sector will be provided by lawyers and a merchant bank with international
experience. The Ministry of Mines and Energy will be responsible for the supervision of the
consultants' work
MODULE 4: ENVIRONMENT
59.    The energy sector has become aware of the importance of environmental issues, and the
power sector organized a Power Sector Environmental Committee with an executive branch at the
vice-presidential level within ISA, the interconnection enterprise. Power sector project analysis is
now routinely complemented with an environmental impact assessment encompassing both physical
and social consequences. A Power Sector Environmental Assessment, financed by ISA and
supervised by the Bank, was completed and delivered its conclusions and recommendations by mid
1994. It is worthwhile noting that there has been considerable receptivity to these considerations
and that, as a consequence, a number of projects have undergone design modifications.
60.    The Government has recently organized a Ministry of the Environment which will also
address energy-related problems. The Technical Assistance project will assist in the construction of
a consistent set of guidelines, which will constitute an appropriate base for future sectoral
environmental regulations.



- 17 -
61.    Environmental Assistance Components. The size and scope of physical and regulatory
components contained in both the power sector and the gas sector plans require two kinds of
environmnental analyses:
(a)  Sectoral environmental assessments (SEA) for the purpose of establishing
environmental guidelines to address a sectoral environmental plan, and
regulatory/institutional measures, particularly taking into account the role of the
private sector;
(b)  Specific environmental assessments dealing with selected new private sector
projects.
Sectoral Environmental Assessments (SEAs)
62.    Background. The set of proposed assessments would encompass the energy sector as a
whole, but would include differences in emphasis according to the stage of development of power
and gas, and could also extend to the coal subsector. The assistance would capitalize on the
experience gained by the Power Sector Environmental Assessment and would translate it into
guidelines for monitoring both existing energy projects and future developments.
63.    Objectives and Scope. The Government's objective in developing environmental
regulations is to comply with the 1991 Constitution, which explicitly mandates the protection of the
environment as well as the socioeconomic heritage and the well-being of indigenous groups. The
SEAs would:
(a)  Identify the main environmental problems caused by energy projects;
(b) Develop environmental operating guidelines for planning purposes;
(c) Develop standard relocation procedures and guidelines;
(d)  Develop methodologies for costing environmental and socioeconomic consequences
of energy projects and integrating them with project analysis;
(e)  Develop procedures to involve users and communities affected by energy sector
projects in the corresponding decisions;
(f) Disseminate the relevant policies, guidelines, regulations and codes through
workshops and seminars to the concerned industries and government departments in
order to stimulate awareness with respect to environmental issues.
The results of the SEAs would be used as the basis for promulgating and publishing energy
sector environmental codes.



- 18 -
64.    The recipients of this TA component would be the Energy Regulatory Commission and the
Energy Policy Unit as well as the subsectors' environmental organizations (e.g. Power Sector
Environmental Committee, ISA Environmental Office). It is worthwhile noting that the Assessment
should take an integrated approach: the impacts of developing power, coal and gas should be
analyzed simultaneously. The project will include a training component oriented towards
developing key environmental management skills. These include: environmental impact assessments
and environmental auditing; data base development and management; development of
environmental information systems and library services; and development of environmental
education and awareness programs.
65.    Results. The SEA would provide a common reference for: (a) development and
publication of an energy sector environmental policy and an environmental action plan; (b)
enforcing environmental norms concerning all activities related to the production of electricity and
natural gas, and to their transmission and distribution to final consumers; (c) publication of
guidelines for the energy sector in respect of solid waste disposal, liquid effluent and air emission
control, and post-closure redemption. The training component will result in increased awareness at
the sector level and better decision making capabilities in environmental management and planning.
Project Environmental Assessments(PEAs)
66.    This component will be oriented towards financing the execution of specific assessments
related to projects at the feasibility and prefeasibility level; it will also seek to identify remedial
measures in the existing system in order to comply with the regulations developed as part of the
SEA. In particular, it should extend to those power plants being proposed for divestment as well as
those which are identified in the power and gas sector expansion plans.
67.    Objectives and Scope. The project environmental assessments will identify the effects of
selected projects together with the required remedial measures and their cost in order to include
them in the evaluation of expansion plans and to provide prospective investors with a realistic
estimate of costs they will have to incur.
The scope of the required analyses varies from one project to another, and a rough classification
would include the following items:
(a)  Existing hydro plants: requirements for watershed conservation, water quality
control and non-energy uses (irrigation, fishery requirements and drinking water),
risks for downstream settlers;
(b)  Future hydro plants: watershed conservation, water quality control, biomass disposal
consequences, socioeconomic effects, archaeological, historical and cultural site
conservation, wildlife conservation, population relocation alternatives and costs,
construction consequences on local residents;
(c) Thermal plants: air emissions; wastewater discharges, solid waste generation,
storage, transportation, and disposal, cooling water requirements and management;



- 19 -
(d)  Transmission lines: consequences of clearance requirements on wildlife, farming
communities, populated centers and archeological sites;
(e)  Gas pipelines: consequences on land use, fragile ecosystems, socioeconomic effects
(indigenous peoples and other ethnic groups affected by the project), archeological
sites; safety (prevention of leaks, spills, corrosion);
(f)  Coal mines: land use consequences, transportation requirements, wildlife
conservation, underground mine safety, air emissions, water discharges, solid waste
disposal, socioeconomic impacts on communities living around the mines.
68.    Component Projects. The following is a non-exhaustive list of existing projects and
future developments which are likely to require an environmental assessment:
(a)  Combined cycle power plants projected for installation in the Valle and Atlantic
Coast regions;
(b)  Future coal plants, starting with the 300 MW station to be installed on the Atlantic
Coast;
(c)  Future gas pipelines (Guajira-Barranca trunk pipeline and the regional subsystems);
(d)  Transmission lines required for reinforcement of the interconnected network.
69.    Implementation and Monitoring. The PEAs will be developed by teams of experienced
consultants supplemented by specialized advisors. The training component will include the
participation of energy sector staff in short courses and seminars organized with consultant teams.
Project monitoring will take place through an evaluation of the SEAs and the PEAs by experienced
environmental consultants.
MODULE 5: ENERGY DEMAND MANAGEMENT AND SAFETY ENHANCEMENT
70.    Background. The World Bank/UNDP Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
(ESMAP) conducted a study in 1991-1992 on energy use in the residential, commercial and public
sectors4. The study emphasizes, in particular, the electricity-intensive household consumption in
Colombia: whereas other higher income Latin American countries such as Argentina, Brazil and
Mexico exhibit an average domestic consumption in the range of 130 to 150 kWh/month, Colombia
shows an average of 230 kWh/month. This has led to an atypically high residential sector share in
total sales (around 50%) which reflects uneconomic electricity use caused by low prices and
constraints on the supply of substitute fuels.
71.    This module is a complement to the energy pricing component and is aimed at providing
information to energy consumers so that they may make more informed decisions on its use. Even
4Draft Report- "Energv Efficiency for the Residential, Commercial and Public Sectors",
ESMAP, June 1993



- 20 -
though the adjustment of power and gas prices to cost related levels will stimulate a more rational
use of energy, there will still be a need to provide information on the most efficient ways to use
energy both for industry and for households.
72.    This Technical Assistance will focus on: (a) the development of a demand side
management strategy; and (b) the promotion of safe and efficient gas use. The Government of
Colombia also attaches a high priority to the development of a national strategy for the rational and
efficient use of energy. The Alternative Energy National Institute (INEA) of the Ministry of Mines
and Energy requires clear guidance to develop its mandate. This TA will provide the MME with a
demand side management strategy that INEA, and other institutions in the energy sector, will
implement.
73.    In the electricity sector, satisfactory standards and acceptable processes for certification of
end-use equipment are already in place, whereas the development of the gas industry in Colombia is
at an incipient stage and therefore standards, codes and operational procedures require upgrading to
acceptable levels. ICONTEC, the national institute for standards and norms, has been addressing
these issues in a limited way. It is providing certification of equipment but additional resources are
required to speed up the process of upgrading gas related standards and codes.
Demand Side Management (DSM) Strategy
74.    Background. The DSM strategy will be a complement to the pricing and regulatory
reform efforts to implement a coherent energy sector policy. This project component will study
consumer characteristics and behavior to identify main causes for market failure, such as lack of
consumer information, and support the development of an energy demand management strategy to
induce the rational use of energy.
75.    Objectives and Scope. The key objectives of the DSM strategy will be: (a) the rational
utilization of energy sources; and (b) efficient resource and investment allocation. The work will
include the updating of information on consumer profiles and behavior as well as consumer
equipment, and the evaluation of potential savings and the prioritization of areas for action. The
preparation of a DSM strategy presupposes the implementation of an efficient energy pricing policy.
76.    Implementation. Consultants' services will be required for assisting in drawing up the
DSM strategy and for developing a prioritized action plan. The MME, through LNEA, will be
responsible for the supervision and monitoring of the consultants' work and for carrying out the
implementation plan.
Promotion of the Safe and Efricient use of Gas
77.    Background. A system that will ensure the safe and efficient use of gas is a pre-requisite
for the orderly development of this sector. Appropriate standards and codes are essential building
blocks of this development. The Colombian gas industry has been making use of standards applied
in developing countries on a case by case basis. There is, however, a need for reviewing, updating



- 21 -
and consolidating the set of standards and codes appropriate to the country's environment, that
should be followed by all the players in the sector for an integrated and efficient development.
78.    Objectives and Scope. The specific objectives of this TA are to review and formulate for
the gas sector: (a) standards for materials and equipment; (b) design parameters, installation and
operational procedures; and (c) standards for gas quality and supply, using international gas
standards and codes as the basis. Local and foreign consultants will be required to review the
existing standards and codes, identify the standards which are missing or which need updating, draft
the necessary versions and obtain their approval by the appropriate authority.
79.    Implementation and Monitoring. This project component will be developed in
cooperation with the local gas industry. The Ministry of Mines and Energy will be responsible for
the supervision and monitoring of the consultants work.
Overall Technical Assistance Project Implementation.
80.    The project will be carried out by an Executing Unit attached to the Energy Policy Unit of
the MIME and will be guided by a Coordinating Group in charge of overall orientation. A full-time
project coordinator will be in charge of the executing unit and will be assisted by consultants hired
to do specific tasks as required. The Coordinating Group will be integrated by representatives from
the National Planning Department, the Ministry of Mines and Energy, and the Energy Regulatory
Commission.
81.    Bank staff will hold a project launch workshop in Colombia shortly after the loan signing
in order to review needed startup actions. The project will be supervised by Bank staff through
receipt and review of the Annual Implementation Programs, monitoring of Semi-Annual
Implementation Reports and regular supervision missions. In the case of the Energy Regulatory
Commission, in addition to Bank supervision, independent experts will be hired to perform an
annual broad audit of the its activities. A midterm review of the project to assess progress of major
reforms and institutional buildup pursued under the project and to determine the need for
adjustments will be held before October 31, 1997. Inputs needed to supervise the project are
esimated to total about 12 staff-weeks per year during the first two years and 10 staff-weeks per
year subsequently. Supervision will require the involvement of Bank specialists in environrnent,
energy regulation, energy economics, power, natural gas, privatization, as well as outside expertise
in power and gas regulation.



- 22 -                              ANNEX 1
COLOMBIA: LESSONS FROM THE BANK EXPERIENCE IN THE POWER SECTOR'
Bank Experience
I.     Since 1950, the Bank has made 31 loans to the Colombian power sector totaling US$ 2.2
billion. However, the bulk of Bank lending, US$ 1.94 billion, through 15 loans, was made during
1970-87. Thirteen operations were Specific Investment Loans (SILs), one Financial Intermediary
Loan (FIL) and one Sector Adjustment Loan (SECAL). About 58% (US$ 1.13 billion) were
granted directly to the two largest municipal power companies in Bogota (EEB) and Medellin
(EPM) through eight operations. During this period, EEB has been by far the largest borrower of
Bank funds with four loans totaling US$ 701m. Four loans for US$ 430.5m were made to EPM.
The national generation and transmission interconnection company (ISA) also received four loans
totaling US$ 300m.
2.     Through the Government one loan was made to Financiera Electrica National (FEN) for
relending to municipal and Government-owned power companies; and one SECAL for US$ 300m
intermediated by FEN. Over the same period the Inter American Development Bank (IDB) also
lent just over US$ 1.9 billion to the Colombian power sector. In less than 20 years, the World
Bank and the IDB each lent nearly $2 billion for electric power in Colombia - a very high lending
level for one sector in a country of 30 million people.
After 1970, institutional, financial and operational efficiency achievements in the power sector fell
short of forecasts, and by the mid- 1980s, the sector was in financial crisis. The large investments
made in power depended heavily on government transfers and on external borrowing, and were a
major cause of fiscal deficits and balance of payments problems.
3.     At the request of the Colombian government, OED reviewed the World Bank's lending
through this period of rapid power generation expansion and financial crisis. The study benefited
from the active support of the Colombian power authorities. The government followed up with a
two-day seminar, in which OED and other Bank staff participated, to discuss the results of the
study and the reform of the sector.
4.     The study found the analytical basis for the lending program weak, and notes that the Bank
did not insist forcefully enough upon the policies and conditions needed to make the sector
profitable. The sector's development was still hampered by the same basic problems as 20 years
ago. Its claims on fiscal resources and its external debt had become so large that these problems
needed urgent resolution. In particular, decisions were needed on how the sector was to be
financed in future. This report made recommendations on sector regulation, management, resource
mobilization, investment strategy, and financing.
5.     Why did the Bank lend so much for power in Colombia? The goals mainly related to
sector policy, and the rationalization of the sector's development. But the policy goals seem at
times to have been given a smaller priority than the implementation of an ambitious lending program
Extract from OED Report, Colombia - The Power Sector and the World Bank. 197(G-1987. No. 8893



- 23 -                              ANNEX I
since the power sector required large investments with the growing demand, providing a natural
area where Bank lending was requested. Economic and sector work for power in Colombia did not
match the volume of lending. This Bank experience emphasizes the crucial need for thorough
power sector work and strategic thinking. At important points in the review period, lack of analysis
negatively affected lending, and so did the lack of a shared vision by the Bank, Government and
sector representatives.
6.     Bank lending supported the following endeavors with generally limited success: (a)
nationwide master plan for energy/power development - plan preparation was drastically curtailed,
to accommodate regional interests early in the process; (b) least-cost planning for generation and
transmission systems - outcome was much influenced by non-economic factors, but too little
attention to risk factors and sensitivity analysis tilted the investment selection in favor of inflexible
projects with long lead times and high front-end capital expenditures, and with the recession of the
early 1980s, resulted in over-capacity by the mid-1980s; (c) reduction of system losses - overall
system losses grew rapidly from 1978 onwards; by 1987 they were about 25 percent of net power
generated; (d) marginal cost pricing - ultimately borrowers accepted the principle, but average tariff
levels stayed very low and tariff distortions worsened; (e) better self-financing - after 1977 sector
revenues never contributed more than about 5 percent of investment (a recommended range would
be 30 - 50 percent; (f) reduced dependence on official borrowing - not achieved. The World Bank
and IDB provided 80 percent of external borrowing for power in 1980-87; (g) balanced investment
program - investments stayed skewed toward hydro as opposed to thermal power generation, and
toward generation and transmission, at the expense of distribution; and (h) presentation of unified
sector data - unified data presentation, compatible financial accounting, across utilities, not
achieved; arriving at an overall view of sector finances was still very difficult at the end of this
period.
7.     To sum up, Colombia's power entities over the years achieved a high level of technical
expertise. At issue was a more enabling framework in areas of policy formulation and organization.
Though the Bank helped the sector to achieve substantial expansion of coverage, most of the
problems noted in those areas by OED evaluation studies of 20 years ago were not resolved during
1970-1987:
(a)   Grossly inadequate local resource mobilization;
(b)   Poor financial performance;
(c)   Unbalanced investment program;
(d)   Investment selection procedures that may lead to sub-optimal projects;
(e)   Cumbersome institutional structure and weak regulatory framework.



- 24 -                               ANNEX I
Main Issues and Ways to Tackle them
8.     The Colombian power sector has urgently needed to solve certain fundamental long-term
issues which have been at the root of most others. It has also needed to solve critical short-term
sector financial problems. The following actions provide the basics for solving the long term issues:
(a)  Defining a sector strategy based on a set of specific sector objectives in line with
wider energy sector objectives, which, in turn, should be properly embedded in
Government's macroeconomic policies; defining a corresponding regulatory and
institutional framework, with clear principles and 'rules of the game'.
(b)  Establishing a strong regulatory body. This will always be required independently of
whether the specific sector objectives imply development toward overall
centralization (highly unlikely in the Colombian context) or toward a set of central
and regional utilities with substantial autonomy, or even toward various degrees of
privatization.
(c)  Supporting a thorough rethinking of the functions ISA has to fulfill and of a proper
framework in which these functions should be discharged. While ISA's setup, as
conceived in 1968 on the basis of a compromise, and as subsequently adjusted,
provided for a long time a reasonable framework, it ran its course in the next 20
years.
(d) Defining a new sector structure based on a consensual process among all the
partners. The Bank's role would be to induce the partners to discuss candidly sector
issues, in particular, the politically sensitive sector structure, the role of Government
in the sector, as well as the array of possible solutions. The Bank could also be of
help to the Government and the entities involved in the sector arrive at the positions
from which decisions would be made. It should then be willing to accompany them
on the arduous and long path of implementation. Based on its review, OED
recommends that Bank lending should: (i) consistently take the sector approach; (ii)
avoid the pervasive, at times utterly unrealistic optimism, that has characterized
several of the OED-reviewed operations; and (iii) insist on action by Government
and the sector each time before it submits an operation for Board presentation.
9.     The Bank has also needed to come to grips with the requirement to reconcile the expected
centralized responsibilities of regulatory authorities with the essentially decentralized structure of
the utility companies, and to the need to restructure and redefine the role of ISA. An open
approach was seen by OED as of help to the Bank in its dealings with the Colombian power sector.
It would also help mobilize the strengths of strong Colombian regionalism to the advantage of
sector development.



- 25 -                                 ANNEX I
Sector Specific Recommendations
10.     OED suggested a series of more specific recommendations set forth below:
(a)  Institutional Framework. Once the specific sector objectives are defined,
Government would have to: define and implement the strategy according to which
the sector decides to meet demand; set the ground rules for using national resources
in the power sector; clarify the basic rules of commercial operation of the utilities;
define, in general terms, the type of operations that Government would subsidize;
spell out the principles of setting electricity bulk and retail tariffs, and their relation
to economic costs, as well as the measure of cross-subsidies between consumer
categories that would be tolerated; there should be no cross subsidies across
markets; and to the extent that the Government needs to provide tariff subsidies on
equity ground or market structure (poor rural areas) the subsidies should be explicit
and the onus should be on the Government to directly compensate the affected
utility.
(b)  Regulatory Framework. The responsible entity should, in general, translate
Government objectives and policies into sector rules, and monitor sector compliance
with them.
(c) Re-alignment and Concentration of Utilities. This action would represent a
substantial step towards increased efficiency in the sector and the Bank should
induce the sector to define as soon as possible its feasibility.
(d)  ISA's Structure and role. The Bank, as ISA's main sponsor, should assist
Government and the sector in re-examining ISA's structure and role, taking into
account that ISA should preserve its practical approach to planning, and shield
planning from political influence before the start of the decision making process
proper.
(e)  Tariffs. Beyond the suggestions above, the Bank should: continue to support a
strong tariff regulatory body and further improvements to the present tariff rules;
insist on substantial tariff action toward economic pricing of electricity, both at the
retail and bulk levels, each time before it submits a new operation for Board
approval; systematically assess the economic and financial suitability of tariff levels;
and emphasize the role of the bulk tariff as a key factor in the pricing of electricity.
(f) Finances. Utilities and sector finances need to be turned around on the basis of the
new institutional setup. Once basic principles are agreed, their application will
include a financial component that, in several steps, will allow the utilities to re-
establish their cash generation capacity, strengthen their capitalization, bring
receivables to acceptable levels, and thus allow the companies to operate in an
accountable environment. To support this development, the sector should achieve
reasonable uniformity in sector accounts and statistics to enable preparation of



- 26 -                               ANNEX I
meaningful consolidation of utilities' finances, and monitor their regulatory
commitments.
(g) Investment Program. The sector would need a more balanced investment program
with a proper share for sub-transmission and distribution. It would have to address
the shortcomings of planning and decision making through a more realistic time and
cost scheduling of projects and a bolder approach to sensitivity and risk analysis.



- 27 -                              ANNEX 2
OPERATIONAL GUIDELINES FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
1.     Preparation of Terms of Reference The implementing agencies (i.e., DNP entities and
autonomous agencies, as appropriate) prepare final TORs (based on draft TORs already prepared
for this project ), with assistance of the Bank when requested. Final TORs are submitted to the
project Coordinating Unit Manager for approval and to the Bank for no-objection prior to issuing
to consultants.
2.     Creation of Short List for Recruitment of a Firm. The implementing agencies prepare
an initial list for review/approval by the Executing Unit manager. The short list will be submitted to
the Bank for no-objection.
3.     Selection of Individual Consultants The implementing agencies make an initial selection,
but send the curriculum vitae (with a brief justification of the fee) to the Executing Unit manager for
approval and to the Bank for no-objection.
4.     Evaluation of Proposals. The implementing agencies evaluate proposals and select the
winning firm. Before notifying the firms, the selection committees will send the evaluation report
and winning proposal to the Executing Unit manager for approval and to the Bank for no-objection.
5.     Supervision of Consultants. Supervision is the responsibility of the implementing
agencies. Program reports on technical assistance will be submitted to the Executing Unit manager,
UNDP, and the Bank.
6.     Disbursement. Payments corresponding to consultant services and purchase goods will
be made through UNDP.
7.     Audit. An annual audit of the Project accounts will be undertaken by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank, and submitted to the Bank.



- 28 -                           ANNEX 3
LOAN ADMINISTRATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN
THE GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA AND UNDP
I      The agency in charge of the execution of the project will be an unit attached to the Planning
Policy Unit of the Ministry of Mines and Energy. UNDP will be in charge of the project
administration as agreed between DNP and UNDP in a letter of agreement.
2.     For recruiting and managing consultants to be financed by the proceeds of the Loan, the
division of responsibilities between DNP and UNDP will be as follows:
DNP
Repayment of principal amount, interest and other loan related charges
Granting approval to the Loan Administration Agreement
Compliance with Loan Conditionalities as specified in the Loan Agreement between the Bank and
the Government of Colombia
Project Coordinating Unit (DNP)
Identification of consultants and preparation of short lists
Drafting of terms of reference
Preparation of letters of invitation for proposals
Evaluation of proposals and selection
Negotiation and signing of contracts
Supervision of performance and review and acceptance of reports; preparation and filing of
withdrawal applications
Approve UNDP's selection of external auditors for accounts, certification and financial statements
Supervision of funds allocation
Submitting quarterly financial status reports to EXECUTING UNIT Obtaining the Bank's no-
objection for consultant's short lists, terms of reference and contracts
Compliance with budget norms outlined in the current budget law
Establishment of a Budget Section to which DNP will assign disbursements of the World Bank loan
Submitting disbursement information inmmediately after it becomes available.
UNDP
Administration of consultant's contracts including verification of payments, requests and payment to
consultants
Opening and maintaining separate accounts for receipt of projects and effectuating payments
Preparation of financial statements
Selection of outside auditors of UNDP's Project accounts and related records and statements
Submission to EXECUTING UNIT of all information and supporting documentation necessary to
enable EXECUTING UNIT to prepare appropriate withdrawal applications



-29-                            ANNEX3
Provision of EXECUTING UNIT with such other services incidental to the above as EXECUTING
UNIT may reasonably request.
In discharging the responsibilities set forth above, UNDP should act as agent and on behalf of DNP.
3.     It is understood that UNDP, will make all payments required under contracts administered
by it. It is further understood that, for this purpose, DNP should submit withdrawal applications to
the World Bank on a monthly basis, except as the World Bank may otherwise require in accordance
with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
4.     In payment of its services and expenses, UNDP will charge, and the Government will pay,
an all-inclusive fee of 3.0% of the amount of payments made by UNDP. DNP should request the
World Bank to make all disbursements from the Loan Account to the order of UNDP into the
UNDP Contributions Account No.----------.
5.     UNDP agrees to cooperate with DNP and the Government at large to enable them to
comply with all requirements of the Loan Agreement, including the General Conditions. Without
limitation upon the generality of the foregoing, UNDP should keep records and separate accounts
and provide for the audit thereof in such manner as to enable the Goverrnment to comply with its
obligations under the correspondent Section of the Loan Agreement and with the provisions of the
disbursement letter.



-30                            ANNEX 4
COLOMBIA
ENERGY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
Action Plan
(Including Timetable and Implementation Indicators)



COLOMBIA
ENERGY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
Action Plan
(Including Timetable and Implementation Indicators)
Activity and Government Objectives 1              Activity Components                             Expected Results/Impacts              Timing/     Responsible
l__________________________________________  _ iTargets    J  Agency(ies)
MODULE 1 - REGULATION, PRICING, AND ENERGY POLICY
Regulatory Commission Assistance
Overall objective: Strengthen the  Hands-on training in application of regulatory principles;  Competent team of regulatory experts   Continuous
Energy Regulatory Commission to    assistance in initial regulatory implementation; ad-hoc                                            activity
assure competent regulation       ("hot-line") assistance on debatable/complex decisions
Equip the Regulatory Commnission   Development of information systems for regulation   Software developed and tested; system          DEC 1997
with adequate analytical tools for                                                     implemented
decision making; and avoid authority-
undermining mistakes in initial    Pricing studies (development models for cost estimation    Electricity pricing formulae gazetted   DEC 1995    Energy
decisions                          and financial impact assessment)                    Gas pricing formulae gazetted                  DEC 1996    Regulatory
Conmmssion
Equip the Regulatory Commission    Regulatory reviews (establish audit principles and  First utility reviewed                         JAN 1997
with monitoring capability         procedures)
Adjust regulated energy prices to  Development of transmission and distribution rules to  Promulgation of power codes                 DEC 1995
economic levels                    ensure open access to the grid                      Promulgation of gas codes                      DEC 1996
Promote comnpetition               Developnent of service standards and customer liaison  Ancillary power regulatory procedures       OCT 1996
procedures                                          gazetted/disseminated



Activity and Government Objectives                Activity Components                            Expected Results/Impacts             Timing/  J Responsible
l________________________________________   _ |Targets     J  Agency(ies)
MODULE I - REGULATION, PRICING, AND ENERGY POLICY (continued)
Set quality of service standards for                                                  Ancillary gas regulatory procedures            OCT 1997
regulated activities                                                                  gazetted/disseminated
Energy Policy/Planning Unit
Assistance
Develop capability to formulate   Assessment of Unit's role and requirements
energy strategy and policy in a                                                       Work program ready                             DEC 1995
mixed public/private sector context
Training of Unit staff in strategy and policy analysis  Skilled team to address coordination of   Continuous
power/strategies and policy in support of MME  activity
Ministry of    k
Development of an overall Energy Strategy          Comprehensive energy strategy published        DEC 1995    Mines and
Energy
Development of energy information systems          Software developed and tested; system          DEC 1997
implemented; energy statistics published
Coordination of energy subsector indicative plans  Indicative plans published                     Annually
MODULE 2 - POWER SECTOR ASSISTANCE'
Assistance In Generation and      Analysis of power utilities status and divestment options;   Sale of assets and shares (utilities)  JUN 1998    Ministry of
Distribution Divestment           sales promotion; tender documents preparation and bid                                                           Finance
evaluation; assistance in contract negotiation
Reduce Government's ownership                                                                                                                     Ministry of
In power plants and distribution                                                                                                                  Mines and
companies                                                                                                                                         Energy
See Module I for technical assistance on power regulation, pricing and energy policy.



Activity and Government Objectives                Activity Components                             Expected Results/Impacts           |  Timing/  | Responsible
________________________l_____________________________________  _________________________________J          Targets  Agency(ies)
MODULV 2 - POWER SECTOR ASSISTANCE2
Encourage private sector                                                                                                                            Power
investment & management                                                                                                                             Utilities
Assistance In Attracting Private
Sector Investment In Future Plants
Incorporate private sector interests in  Prefeasibility/ feasibility studies, preparation of tender  Award of contracts for new private plants  JUN 1998  Ministry of
new power plant, release           documents and bid evaluation, assistance in negotiation    (Total 400 MW)                                        Finance
Government from having to commit    with private sector enterprise regarding Power Purchase
resources to power sector          and Fuel Purchase Agreements                                                                                     Ministry of
Mines and
Energy
Power
_____________________________________________________________________________________  _______ UtilUtiitie
Assistance to Grid Operator
Foster competition in the generation    Separation of generation and transmission: design of new    Creation of ISA-transmission       DEC 1995    ISA
market by creating an independent    transmission company business structure; preparation of
clearing house/ transmission network  business plans                                                                                                Vertically
.nanagement organization                                                                                                                            integrated
Improving operating models according to competitive  Satisfactory operation of dispatch and clearing  DEC 1996    utilities
generation procedures set out by the Energy Regulatory  house functions under new operational rules
Commission
Assistance to vertically integrated utilities in setting  Separate accounting systems implemented  JUN 1996
separate accounts for electricity and transmission
2See Module I for technical assistance on power regulation, pricing and energy policy.



Activity and Governmuent Objectives                    Activity Components                   [             Expected Results/Impacts                 Timiing      Responsible
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _TT a getss J A gge cyy iies
MODULE 3 - GAS SECTOR ASSISTANCE
Assistance in Organizing Natural Gas  Develop plan for the implementation of a new gas         Plan ready                                         DEC 1996
Industry                              industry structure with private sector participation
Ministry of
[Module I covers requirements for technical assistance on                                                                 Mines and
gas regulation, pricing, and energy policy.]                                                                              Energy
Promote the economic development    Advise the Government on negotiation with the private      Company (ies) established                          DEC 1997
of the gas industry with private sector  sector to set up new mixed gas company (ies)
participation under a new
institutional framework implemented
with support firom Module I
3See Module I for technical assistance on gas regulation, pricing and energy policy, and Module 5 for promotion of efficient and safe gas use.
X~



Activity and Govermment Objectives 1              Activity Components               I            Expected Results/Impacts          |  Timing/     Responsible
I  ___________________________________________________   I               [   Targets     A gency(ies)
MODULE 4 - ENVIRONMENT
Sectoral Environmental
Assessment (SEA)
Consolidate energy-related        Development of energy sector environmental policy and    Publication of an appropriate energy sector  DEC 1996
environmental regulations, develop    an enviromnental action plan                    enviromnental policy and of an environmental
standards and incorporate into sector                                                 action plan
regulation and planning                                                                                                                           Ministry of
Support the implementation of the environmental action    Strengthen utility environmental units  Continuous   Mines and
Develop consensus on reasonable   plan                                                                                              activity      Energy
standards for energy projects
Development/review/enactment of natural gas and    Publication of legislation and codes           DEC 1997
electricity environmental enabling legislation and codes
Development of energy sector operating guidelines for  Publication of guidelines                  DEC 1997    Utilities
solid waste disposal, liquid effluent control, air emissions
control, and post-closure remediation
Awareness workshops                                Upgrading of MME staff skills and improved local   Continuous
capabilities in enviromnental management and  activity
environmental planning
Project Environmental
Assessments                                                                                                                         Annually
Ministry of
Update information on specific    Review environmental impact of projects in expansion  Inputs to indicative energy expansion plans               Mines and
projects, analyze new ones        plans                                                                                             DEC 1997    Energy
Update assessments according to standards developed as   Updated project environment assessment   Continuous    Utilities
part of sector assessment                                                                         activity
Awareness workshops



Activity and Government Objectives                Activity Components                            Expected Results/Impacts              Timing/  1 Responsible
Targets _JAgency(ies)
MODULE 4 - ENVIRONMENT
Development and publication of an energy sector    Upgrading of utility staff skills and improved local   JUL 1998
environmental policy and an environmental action plan  capabilities in environmental management and
environmental planning
S - ENERGY DEMAND MANAGEMENT AND SAFETY ENHANCEMENT4
Demand-side Management
Strstegy
Energy conservation               Assist in the development of and energy demand-side  A coherent strategy for energy demand-side    Annually     Ministry of
management strategy:                                management and a prioritized action plan                    Mines and
Rational utilization of energy sources                                                                                                            Energy
[This activity presupposes the implementation of an
Efficient resource and investment  efficient energy pricing policy. It will identify the causes
allocation                        for market failure ( such as lack of consumer information)
that are an obstacle to the efficient use of energy and
develop a strategy to address these obstacles]
Promotion of safe and efficient gas
use
Enhance consumer safedy           Develop: standards for gas quality supply, standards for    Gas quality supply standards published  DEC 1997
materials and equipment; design parameters, installation                                                        Ministry of
and operational procedures                                                                                     Mines and
Support gas market development                                                        Materials and equipment standards published    DEC 1998    Energy
Reduce costs
4See Module I for technical assistance on energy pricing policy.



