Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TRUST FUND NO. 22917
Japanese Grant Agreement
(Private Sector Energy Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by JAPAN
Dated May 6, 1994
TRUST FUND NO. 22917
Page  2
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 6, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
(the Recipient) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as Administrator (the Administrator) of 
grant funds provided by JAPAN (Japan).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a letter agreement dated July 30, 1990 between 
Japan and the Bank and International Development Association (the 
Association), Japan has requested the Bank and the Association, and the Bank 
and the Association have agreed, to administer grant funds to be made available 
by Japan for the financing of certain programs and projects supported by the 
Bank and the Association, as the case may be, in accordance with the provisions 
of such letter agreement;
WHEREAS (B) Japan has agreed to make available to the Recipient a grant 
out of said grant funds (the Grant) to finance the cost of carrying out the 
technical assistance described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Technical 
Assistance) on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions 
Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 
1985, with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the 
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (18) and 
(20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 
Page  3
and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; and
(x)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Bank," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
other than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last 
use of such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
acting as Administrator of the Grant pursuant to the letter 
agreement between Japan and the Bank and the Association 
referred to in Recital (A) of this Agreement, except that in 
Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
acting in its own capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower," wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Loan Agreement," wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Loan," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Grant;
(v)
the term "Loan Account," wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Grant Account, an account opened by 
the Administrator on its books in the name of the Recipient 
to which the amount of the Grant is credited;
(vi)
the term "Project," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the technical assistance described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; and
(vii)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
Page  4
"Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made 
in yen; provided, however, that if the expenditures to be 
financed out of the Grant have been paid or are payable in 
another currency, the Administrator shall, at the request of 
the Recipient, purchase such currency with the proceeds of 
such withdrawal."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context 
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in 
the Recitals to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth; 
and the following terms have the following meanings:
(i) 
"yen" and "¥" mean the currency of Japan;
(ii)
"Electricity Law" means the Recipient's Decree No. 700 
(April 24, 1992), issued by the Recipient's Executive Branch 
under Article 215 of the Recipient's Constitution and 
pursuant to the Recipient's Decree No. 680 of 1992, in as 
much as said Decree No. 700 stipulates the adoption of the 
instruments required to involve promptly the private sector 
in power generation and sale, and the term includes any 
subsequent legal provision issued or enacted, respectively, 
by the Recipient's Executive or Legislative Branches 
supplementing the aforesaid Decree No. 700;
(iii)
 "Consultants" includes individual consultants as well as any 
consulting firm that provides any of the experts referred to 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(iv) 
"DNP" means the Recipient's Departamento
Nacional
de
Planeación
 (National Planning Department); and
(v) 
"FONADE" means Fondo
Nacional
de
Proyectos
de
Desarrollo
(National Fund for Development Projects) a legal 
entity established in the Recipient's territory, operating 
therein under the laws of the Recipient, and owned and 
controlled by the Recipient.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, 
Page  5
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant 
in an amount of seventy-four million one hundred thousand yen (¥74,100,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as 
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the 
Recipient and the Administrator, for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator 
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of carrying out the 
Project and to be financed out of the Grant.
(b)
The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in yen a special deposit account in Banco de la República on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Administrator. Deposits into, and payments out of, 
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or such later 
date as the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly 
notify the Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Recipient shall carry out the Project through DNP and 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. For purposes of this Section, the Recipient may enter into contractual 
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank with FONADE, under which 
arrangements FONADE shall, on behalf of DNP and following instructions 
therefrom, execute and deliver all necessary contracts for the provision of 
services under the Project and make the payments required thereunder.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of 
the departments or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the 
Page  6
Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such 
year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Administrator shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof 
as the Administrator shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by 
said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
Page  7
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by 
the parties hereto.
Section 4.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has 
been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their 
obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE V
Representation
Section 5.01. The Director of DNP is designated as representative of the 
Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Director
Departamento Nacional de Planeación
Calle 26 No. 13-19
Santa Fe de Bogotá
Colombia
Telex:
  45634 DNPBO CO
For the Administrator:
Director
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Page  8
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
  197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
  248423 (RCA),
   64145 (WUI)or
   82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /s/ Armando Montenegro
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
  AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of the Grant
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Category of items to be financed out of the 
Grant, the allocation of the amount of the Grant to such Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed:
Page  9
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
% of
(Expressed
Expenditures
Category
in Yen)
to be Financed
Consultants’
74,100,000
100%
services
TOTAL
74,100,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of 
this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Technical Assistance
A
technical assistance program to assist in the preparation of the proposed 
Private Sector Energy Development Project through the execution of studies 
which are aimed at supporting the drafting of the detailed legal provisions 
required for supplementing, regulating and enforcing all aspects of the 
Electricity Law. More specifically these studies will support:
1.
Development of rules for the behavior of legal entities and individuals 
involved in activities directly related to power generation, transmission and 
distribution.
2.
Establishment of rules and procedures for electricity pricing at wholesale 
and retail level, and economically efficient principles and criteria for setting forth 
the respective prices.
3.
Setting forth mechanisms to provide operational efficiency of the power 
sector.
4.
Setting forth mechanisms, rules and procedures for the review and 
approval of new investments in the power sector.
5.
Definition and development of the role of the Recipient’s power sector 
regulatory agency.
Without limitation or restriction on, and for purposes of, the above tasks, 
they shall include:
Page  10
(a)
Preparing draft statutes for generation, transmission and 
distribution companies.
(b)
Establishing rules for the prevention of monopolistic behavior.
(c)
Defining the organization and operation of the central dispatching 
of electricity, including pooling and settlement agreements. Establishing rules for 
special cages, such as plants that are required to generate to maintain the 
electrical equilibrium of the system or to maintain frequency stability.
(d)
Establishing economically efficient pricing rules for the interfaces 
generation/transmission, transmission/distribution and distribution/end 
customer, including the determination of the convenience of introducing a 
component in the generation/ transmission tariff, function of the probability of 
power deficit and its cost, to provide incentive to the expansion of capacity.
(e)
Preparing draft power purchase model agreements.
(f)
Defining the obligation of legal entities (and/or individuals) 
involved in power generation activities in relation to: type of information to be 
supplied to allow determination of merit order dispatch and computation of 
standard costs for regulation purposes; provision of active and reactive power as 
necessary; schedule of planned outages of maintenance; availability of standby 
capacity and fuel supply; compliance with technical, installation and generating 
codes; and financial contributions to the regulatory agency.
(g)
Defining the obligations of the legal entities (and/or individuals) 
involved in power transmission activities in relation to: operation of the national 
dispatch; purchase and sale of electricity; maintenance of a technical code to 
govern connections to and operation of the high voltage system; expansion of the 
transmission network; international electricity trade; and financial contributions 
to the regulatory agency.
(h)
Defining the obligations of legal entities (and/or individuals) 
involved in power distribution activities in relation to: requirements to furnish 
operational and financial details to the regulatory agency; requirements to 
provide forecast of demand on the high voltage grid, including load profile and 
seasonality break- downs; purchase of bulk supply from the most economic 
sources of supply; security and adequacy of supply to end customers through 
contracting of sufficient capacity and energy to specified quality and reliability 
standards; maintenance of technical codes governing connections to and 
operation of the company’s distribution network; connection and supply of 
Page  11
customers upon request; draft forms of contract, service standards, debt 
collection and disconnection procedures, and rights of appeal; requirement to 
disseminate information about efficient use of energy; information that should 
appear on the consumer bills; and financial contributions to the regulatory 
agency;
(i)
Defining the role of the public sector in investment planning, in 
respect of the Government’s responsibility for preparing an indicative expansion 
plan for the power system with the aim of providing information to prospective 
investors, and, more specifically, defining the elements, criteria and issuance 
frequency of the indicative plans.
(j)
Establishing the mechanism of ownership transfer for public and 
private power utilities, particularly, in the event they become insolvent or 
otherwise incapable of guaranteeing continuity of service.
(k)
Such other aspects related to 1 to 5 above as shall be agreed from 
time to time between the Recipient and the Administrator. 
SCHEDULE 3
Consultants’ Services
1.
In order to assist the Recipient in carrying out the Project, the Recipient 
shall employ consultants with expertise in the areas related to the activities set 
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement including, but not limited to finance, law, 
economics, power engineering, power tariff, and power sector regulations and 
institutions. Such consultants’ qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Administrator. Such 
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Administrator on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
2.
For complex, time-based assignments, the Recipient shall employ such 
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants’ 
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed 
by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued 
by the Bank, the Recipient shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the 
provisions of the Consultants Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or 
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, 
Page  12
proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated 
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank 
review shall not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the 
employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to assignments of 
a
critical nature as reasonably determined by the Bank and to amendments of 
contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Category" means the Category set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of 
the reasonable cost of services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the amount of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
¥7,410,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be 
made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which 
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis 
of such request or requests, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit in the Special Account such 
amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Administrator shall 
Page  13
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient 
shall furnish to the Administrator the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to para-graph 4 of this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Administrator from the Grant Account 
under the respective eligible Category, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that 
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions 
and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the 
eligible Category less the amount of any outstanding special commitment 
entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the 
eligible Category shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify 
by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and 
to the extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
Page  14
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an 
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Administrator: (A) provide such additional 
evidence as the Administrator may request; or (B) deposit into the Special 
Account (or, if the Administrator shall so request, refund to the Administrator) 
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), 
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
