LOAN NUMBER 3827-CO
Loan Agreement
(Enegy Seeor Technical Assistance Project)
befiw~e
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated       7    , 1995


﻿LOAN NUMBER 3827-CO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated 3 4d- /9           , 1995, between REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Baik).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)    The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)    In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as s'bparagraph (1) and a
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any further
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)    "Coordinating Group" means a group to be charged with providing overall
orientation to the Project and guidance to the Executing Unit (as the term is defined
below), and established pursuant to the provisions of Section 5.01 (a) of this Loan
Agreement with one representative of each of the Borrower's DNP, MME and the Energy
Regulatory Commission, as the 3 terms are defined below;


﻿-2-
(b)    "DNP" means the Borrower's Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n
(National Department of Planning);
(c)    "Energy Regulatory Commission" means Comisi6n de Regulaci6n de
Ener.Jay Gas, the Commission established, as an Administrative Special Unit (nidad
Administrativa Esyecial), within MME, by the relevant provisions (particularly Title III,
Chapter III) of the Borrower's Decree No. 2119 dated December 29, 1992, issued
pursuant to the provisions of Transitory Article 20 of the Borrower's Constitution and of
the Borrower's Law No. 143 of 1994, July 11, (particularly Chapter IV), as said Law was
published in the July 12, 1994 issue of the Borrower's Official Gazette;
(d)    "Executing Unit" means an ad-hoc unit to be attached to the Planning Unit
(as defined below), and established and staffed for purposes of the daily administration
of the Project, all pursuant to the provisions of Section 5.01 (c) of this Loan Agreement;
(e)    "Grid Operator" means the separate legal entity resulting from the
restructuring of ISA (as the term is defined below) to be effected under Part B.3 of the
Project, that, while transmitting electricity, will also handle the dispatch of the
transmission system currently being operated by ISA;
(f)    "Implementation Program" means the program provided for in Schedule
5 to this Loan Agreement pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of Section -.01 of
this Loan Agreement;
(g)    "INEA" means Instituto de Ciencias Nucleares y Enerias Alternativas
an entity controlled by the Borrower through MME and established by the Borrower's
Decree No. 2119 dated December 29, 1992 issued by the Borrower's Executive Branch
pursuant to the provisions of Transitory Article 20 of the Borrower's Constitution;
(h)    "ISA" means Interconexi6n Eldctrica S.A. a corporation controlled by the
Borrower and owned partly by the Borrower and partly by third parties, and currently
operating in electricity generation and transmission activities under the Borrower's laws,
particularly Law No. 143 referred to in paragraph (c) above;
(i)    "MME" means the Borrower's Ministry of Mines and Energy, with the
functions, powers and responsibilities vested upon it by virtue of the Borrower's Decree
No. 2119 and Law No. 143, both referred to in paragraph (c) above;
(j)    "Planning Unit" means Unidad de Planeaci6n Minero Energ6tica (Mining
and Energy Planning Unit), the entity with legal personality and autonomous patrimony
and own budgetary resources, established, as an Administrative Special Unit (Unidad


﻿-3-
Administrativa Especial) under the control of MME, by the relevant provisions
(particularly Title III, Chapter IV) of the Borrower's Decree No. 2119 and Law No. 143
(particularly Chapter III), both referred to in paragraph (c) above; and
(k)    "Project Administration Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.03 (a) of this Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE I
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that shall
have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of eleven million dollars ($11,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or such later date as
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable
during such Interest Period.


﻿-4-
(b)    As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Semester.
(c)    For the purposes of this Section:
(i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, beginning
with the Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or
portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
loans which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second six months
of a calendar year.
(d)    On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to read
as follows:
"(a)   The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at
the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of such Quarter."
"(c)   (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on
January l,'April 1, July I or October I in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall he payable semiannually on
February 15 and August 15 in each year.


﻿-5-
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE m
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project, through the Executing Unit and under the overall orientation and guidance of the
Coordinating Group, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, environmental, financial, engineering and public utility practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
(b)    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
(c)    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section,
the Borrower shall maintain the Executing Unit, the Coordinating Group, the Energy
Regulatory Commission, and the Planning Unit, except for changes thereto which, in the
opinion of the Borrower and the Bank shall not adversely affect the carrying out of the
Project, until all activities under the Project shall have been completed; and the Borrower
shall provide the Executing Unit and the Coordinating Group, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services, staff and other resources required for the discharge of their
respective powers and responsibilities. For purposes of this paragraph, it shall be deemed
that the activities of the Executing Unit under the Projeci shall continue being required
until the Bank has received to its satisfaction all reports and information to be furnished
to the Bank under this Loan Agreement, particularly those provided for under paragraph
(b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement and under paragraphs (aXiii) and (c) of Section
9.07 of the General Conditions.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods,
works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) For purposes of assisting the Executing Unit in the recruitment,
hiring and supervision of the consultant services to be procured under the Project, the


﻿-6-
Borrower shall, through MME, enter, with an entity acceptable to the Bank, into an
agreement on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (the Project Administration
Agreement).
(b)    The Borrower shall comply, and cause the aforesaid entity to comply,
with all their respective obligations under the Project Administration Agreement, and
unless otherwise agreed with the Bank shall not assign (or agree to the assignment of),
amend, abrogate or fail to enforce the Project Administration Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provision of Section 9.07 of the General
Condition, the Borrower shall, through the Executing Unit:
(a)    furnish to the Bank not later than: (i) August 31 in each year, until the
Loan Account has been closed, a forecast of the sources and uses of funds during the next
following calendar year; and (ii) a date 30 days after the end of each calendar semester,
a report on the results of the Project and on the meeting of the targets set forth in the
Implementation Program;
(b)    at the time of submitting to the Bank each report to be submitted pursuant
to the provisions of paragraph (a) (ii) above, review jointly with the Bank the time-table
for the Implementation Program, and revise such time-table if so agreed with the Bank;
(c)    submit to the Bank for comments, promptly upon receipt, all reports and
recommendations received by consultants whose services are expected to be financed
under the Project, in a manner that shall ensure affording to the Bank an opportunity to
seek reasonable clarification or expansion on any aspect of said rtsports or
recommendations before the services of the consultants are terminated or the applicable
recommendations are put into effect, whichever is earlier; and
(d)    review jointly with the Bank and the Coordinating Group not later than
October 31, 1997 or whenever 50% of the Loan proceeds have been committed,
whichever is earlier, all aspects of the Project, with a view to reallocate Project resources
in response to the evolving needs of the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall ensure at all times for purposes of the carrying out of Part
E.2 of the Project, the participation of the gas industry in Colombia, including
manufacturers, merchants and service providers, through adequate mechanisms for seeking
the widest range of views thereof, including adhesion contracts and/or other contractual


﻿-7-
arrangements, if and as warranted, to be entered into through the Executing Unit on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)    Unless otherwise agreed with the Bank, the Borrower shall not, and shall
cause the contracting parties not to, assign, amend, abrogate, waive or terminate such
contractual arrangements or any provisions thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)    The Borrower shall:
(i)    have or cause to be had the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)   furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after the end of each
such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
and
(iii)  furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank such other
information concerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
this Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   retain or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the Bank has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal


﻿-8-
from the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)   ensure or cause to be ensured that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that
the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
(a)    the Coordinating Group shall have been established and a procedure for
the activities thereof shall have been put into effect, all in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank.
(b)    the Project Administration Agreement has been entered into and become
effective; and
(c)    the Executing Unit shall have been established in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, including the entering into contractual arrangements for the
purpose between the Borrower, through MME, and the Planning Unit, and the head and
key staff thereof, all with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, have been
appointed and have commenced to discharge their respective functions.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Administration Agreement
has been duly executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower and is legally binding
on the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date of eem6e-,r 19 , 1995 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda y Cr6dito Pu'blico
Carrera 7A, No. 6-45
SantaF6 de Bogoti
Colombia
Cable address:             Telex:
MINHACIENDA         44473
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:             Telex:
INTBAFRAD           197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.    248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By     5/( <5/oa/    '/ Jatl a 9ar<1
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated               % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                        Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Computing,                       500,000                100%
communications
and ancillary
equipment for
the implementa-
tion of
information systems
under Parts A.1
and A.2 of the
Project, the
strengthening of
the dispatch center
under Part B.3 of
the Project, the
strengthening of
the Executing and
Planning Units,
and other goods
for the Project
agreed from time to
time between the
Borrower and the Bank
(2) Consultants'                     9,500,000              100%
services


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Categorv                 Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(3) Training, work-                  600,000                100%
shops and services
(other than
consultants') under
Parts A.1, A.2 B.3,
D.1,D.3 and D.4
of the Project
(4) Fees of the entity               400,000                100%
referred to in
Section 3.03 (a)
of this Loan
Agreement payable
under the Project
Administration
Agreement
TOTAL                           11,000,000


﻿- 13 -
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $1,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after July 31, 1994;
(b)    expenditures under Categories (1) and (2) of the table set forth in
paragraph 1 above incurred in respect of third parties whose assistance under contractual
arrangements is to be secured for purposes of the carrying out of Part E.2 of the Project,
if and when it has been determined that the contractual arrangements stipulated to be
entered into pursuant to Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement are warranted, unless said
arrangements have been entered into in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c)    expenditures under Category (3) of the aforesaid table unless the
expenditures in question have been included in a training plan submitted by the head of
the Executing Unit and approved by the Bank.
3.     The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for such expenditures for goods and services under
contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent and which are not subject to the Bank's prior
review according to the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Loan Agreement, under such
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to implement regulatory reforms by
strengthening the newly created Borrower's entities in charge of regulation and energy
policy formulation and implementation for the power and gas sub-sectors in order to help
them build experience and thereby increase their chances of performing efficiently; (b)
to implement strategies specifically designed for the energy sector, respecting
environmental concerns and constraints and attracting private investment in the sector; and
(c) to develop a demand-side management strategy and assist in its implementation;
additionally, the specific objectives of the Project in respect of the power and gas sub-
sectors, environmental care and demand-side management are: (d) for the power sub-
sector: (i) to achieve the divestment of state-owned assets and/or enterprises; (ii) to attract
new private investments for system expansion; and (iii) to execute the institutional reforms
required for putting in place a fully competitive market at the generation level; (e) for the
gas sub-sector: (i) to assist in developing the industry's structure and regulations for
building up a gas market; and (ii) to assist the Borrower in organizing the required
institutions; (f) for the environmental care, to develop a consistent set of environmental
guidelines for energy sector development; and (g) for demand-side management, to
develop standards and guidelines for efficient energy use and to disseminate them among
consumers and industries.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Pg A:         Regulation, Pricing and Energy Policy, aimed at fostering competition,
consumer protection, and increased private sector participation in the sub-sector and at
coping with market failures stemming from monopoly characteristics.
1.     Assisting the Energy Regulatory Commission, including training and development
and implementation of information systems, in the following areas: (a) in respect of the
power sub-sector: (i) price regulation; (ii) consumer protection; (iii) technical matters such
as value of lost load, cost analyses, financial analyses, codes and norms for distribution
concessionaires, network charges and operation of the interconnected system; (b) in
respect of the gas sub-sector: (i) comprehensive models for trading licenses and contracts
for purchase, sale and transportation of gas; (ii) establishment of price levels for regulated
gas consumers and setting use-of-system charges; and (iii) identifying principles which
will govern the terms and conditions to be observed by users of the gas transportation
system, and accounting arrangements for gas utilities; (c) establishment of decision


﻿- 15 -
making procedures to be observed by the Energy Regulatory Commission in matters such
as instituting regulatory proceedings and defining the legal instruments required to issue
binding regulatory decisions and to secure the enforcement thereof; and (d) such other
areas related to the sector, and topics and issues within the preceding areas, as the
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time.
2.     Assisting the Planning  Unit, including  training  and  development and
implementation of information systems, in the following areas: (a) organization of the said
Unit and of its staff, including: (i) assessment of its human resources, staff and
infrastructure requirements; (ii) defining the Unit's scope for involvement in specific
projects to support the plan referred to in (b) (ii) below and their budgetary requirements
and the Unit's analysis procedures for structuring such plan; (iii) defining the Unit's
analysis procedures for the structuring of the gas sub-sector development plan; (iv)
building environmental constraints, costs and trade-offs into the plans referred to in (b)
(ii) below and in (a) (iii) above; (v) assisting in the development of the strategy referred
to in (b) (ii) below; (vi) assessing alternative structures for the oil sub-sector; and (vii)
addressing other policy areas such as distribution and electrification plans; (b) tackling the
following issues: (i) defining the governmental role in assuring energy supplies,
particularly electricity, (ii) defining the procedures to be followed for structuring an
energy strategy for the Nation and a plan for the expansion of the electricity sub-sector;
(iii) defining the scope of governmental action regarding the response of electricity
utilities and private sector enterprises to generation plant installations so as to ensure that
the plan mentioned in 2 (a) (iii) above retains an indicative nature; (iv) addressing
development and social-related issues such as coverage extension policies, rural
electrification and electricity supplies to isolated communities; (v) addressing the question
.of market structure in the oil sub-sector and possible restructuring requirements; (vi)
developing expertise for the formulation of a gas sub-sector expansion plan; and (vii)
introducing the environmental dimension into sector planning; and (c) such other areas,
or topics or issues within the preceding areas, as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time.
Part B:       Electricity Sub-sector Assistance, aimed at implementing sub-sector
strategies and policies, completing the legal and regulatory reform of the energy sector,
and providing assistance in the process of attracting private sector capital for new
investments in the sub-sector.
1.     Assisting the Borrower's Ministry of Finance in the process of divestment of
selected government-owned assets in the sub-sector by providing said Ministry with
options for divestment of each power plant, advising in methods for marketing and
promoting the divestment according to the preferred option for the case in question, and
providing advisory services to the Borrower in connection with the competitive divestiture


﻿- 16 -
process, including bidding, if any, and in the negotiation with the successful bidders
and/or purchasers of the plant in question, in the preparation of all aspects, including
contracts, related to the divestiture.
2.     Assisting MME, and through it, any power company involved in promoting a
project for the expansion of generation capacity to be handled by the private sector, in
carrying out pre-feasibility or feasibility studies for any such project, or in procuring
advisory services to assist the company in question in the preparation of tenders soliciting
private sector participation in such project, or in bid evaluation or negotiation, or such
other tasks as agreed upon from time to time between the Borrower and the Bank.
3.     Assisting, including training, the Grid Operator by providing advisory services
that will also assist ISA and the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and MME in the process
of reorganizing ISA into separate corporations, one that will handle separately generation
activities and the other to fulfill the functions of a network operator that will handle
system dispatch under the new wholesale market rules, transactions clearing, system
security, transmission maintenance and, possibly, support for the Planning Unit.
Part C:       Gas Sub-sector Assistance, aimed at promoting substitution of gas for
electricity, maximization of private sector involvement in competitive terms and protecting
the interest of smaller consumers.
1.     Development of a plan for the implementation of a new gas industry structure
with private sector participation.
2.     Establishment of a mixed capital entity in charge of planning gas-related
investments, promoting the development of new gas pipelines, participating in the
investments and in the operation of critical portions of the gas network, and implementing
governmental policy for the gas sub-sector.
Part D:       Environment Protection Enhancement, aimed at developing a consistent
set of guidelines which will constitute an appropriate base for future sectoral
environmental regulations to be designed by the Borrower's Ministry of the Environment.
1.     Execution of sectoral environmental assessments for the purpose of establishing
environmental guidelines to develop a sectoral environmental plan, and development of
said plan and of regulatory and/or institutional measures, particularly taking into account
the role of the private sector, including, but not limited to, reviewing and consolidating
existing regulations into a consistent framework, identifying the main environmental
problems caused by energy projects, developing environmental operating guidelines for
planning purposes, developing standard relocation procedures and guidelines and


﻿- 17 -
methodologies for costing environmental and socioeconomic consequences of energy
projects, and integrating them with project appraisal and analysis.
2.     Execution of environmental assessments related to specific projects at their
feasibility and pre-feasibility level to be selected by the head of the Executing Unit and
carried out under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank.
3.     Training of personnel for the development of key environmental management
skills such as environmental impact assessment and environmental auditing, data base
development and management, development of environmental information systems and
library services and environmental education and awareness programs.
4.     Organization of workshops and seminaries to disseminate the relevant policies and
regulatory information to the concerned industries and government officers.
Part E:       Energy Demand Management and Safety Enhancement, aimed at
providing information to energy consumers so that they may make more and better
informed decisions on its use.
1.     Designing, in cooperation with INEA, an energy demand side management
strategy with the purpose of using it as a tool to achieve energy conservation, rational
utilization of energy resources and efficient resource and investment allocation. The
design in question, which presupposes the implementation of an efficient energy pricing
policy, shall include the updating of the information on consumer characteristics and
behavior as well as on consumer equipment, the evaluation of potential savings and the
prioritization of areas for action, and the identification of causes of market failure which
are an obstacle to the efficient use of energy.
2.     Reviewing and, if warranted, revising or formulating, as the case may be and for
the gas sub-sector, standards for material and equipment, design parameters, and
installation and operational procedures and standards for gas quality and supply, all in
cooperation with the gas industry and using international gas standards and codes as the
basis.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                (expressed in dollars)*
August 15, 1999                                       265,000
February 15, 2000                                     275,000
August 15, 2000                                       285,000
February 15, 2001                                     295,000
August 15, 2001                                       305,000
February 15, 2002                                     315,000
August 15, 2002                                       325,000
February 15, 2003                                     340,000
August 15, 2003                                       350,000
February 15, 2004                                     360,000
August 15, 2004                                       375,000
February 15, 2005                                     390,000
August 15, 2005                                       400,000
February 15, 2006                                     415,000
August 15, 2006                                       430,000
February 15, 2007                                     445,000
August 15, 2007                                       460,000
February 15, 2008                                     480,000
August 15, 2008                                       495,000
February 15, 2009                                     515,000
August 15, 2009                                       530,000
February 15, 2010                                     550,000
August 15, 2010                                       570,000
February 15, 2011                                     590,000
August 15, 2011                                       610,000
February 15, 2012                                     630,000
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.


﻿- 19 -
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable
to the Loan on the day of
prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                                 0.18
before maturity
More than thiee years but                                 0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                                   0.65
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                            0.88
more than fifteen years
before maturity
More than fifteen years before                            1.00
maturity


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section 1.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:      International CoMpetitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and
II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in accordance with the following additional
procedures:
(a)    When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period,
such period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract. The bid
validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the
request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid price to reflect
changes in the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. Such an
increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With respect
to each contract made subject to the Bank's prior review in accordance with the
provisions of Part E.1 (a) of this Section, the Bank's prior approval will be required for:
(i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the period of extension exceeds sixty (60)
days; and (ii) any subsequent extension of the bid validity period.
(b)    In the procurement of goods in accordance with Parts A and C of this
Section, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for
the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
Part B:      Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
F. the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part
A hereof, goods manufactured in Colombia may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.


﻿- 21 -
Part C:       Other Procurement Procedures
Goods to be financed under Category (1) of the table set forth in paragraph I of
Schedule 1 to this Loan Agreement which cannot be grouped in packages estimated to
cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more, may be procured under contracts awarded
through limited international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and
comparison of bids invited from a list of qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines
whose number shall have been agreed with the Bank and in accordance with the
procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (ekcluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9,
2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
Part D:       Other Procurement Provisions
Without limitation upon the provision of the Guidelines, in respect of procurement
of goods under Part A of this Schedule and, only in respect of (f) below, under Parts A
and C thereof:
(a)    no requirements shall be made of local agents for foreign bidders, or for
certification by Colombian consular authorities of translations into Spanish of support
documentation in cases where the bidder assumes the responsibility for errors of the
translation in question;
(b)    no prior registration of foreign bidders shall be required;
(c)    no provision regarding minimum number of bidders shall be applied;
(d)    bids shall be evaluated on a cost, insurance, freight (c.i.f.) basis;
(e)    freight costs quoted by each bidder shall be used for purposes of bid
evaluation; and
(f)    awards shall be made to the lowest evaluated bidders, and no bidder shall
be disqualified because the price of the corresponding bid falls above or below a
predetermined given value, unless otherwise agreed with the Bank, or out of a post-bid-
presentation-determined price band.
2.     Unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, and notwithstanding
the provisions of Part A (b) of Section I and of paragraph I of Section II, both of this
Schedule, the Borrower shall invite bids in regard to the procurement of goods for the
Project under Part C of this Schedule exclusively on the basis of standard documents


﻿- 22 -
agreed with the Bank from time to time and shall inform the Bank on any proposed
departure from said documents before any such tender is made public.
Part E:       Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
(a)    With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)    With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph,
if any, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply.
(c)    The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure.
2.     The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Emloyment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
Vor complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank,
with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other
standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I of this Section, the provisions of
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budigets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall
not apply to contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than
$100,000 equivalent each. However said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply


﻿- 23 -
to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting
firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; or (d)
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value
to $100,000 equivalent or above.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 5
Implem ntation Program
Activities under the Project and dates for expected completion of each activity:
Part A.1 of the Project
1.   Development and testing of                           December 31, 1997
software for information
systems to be used for
regulatory purposes, and
putting the systems into
effect
2.   Development of models for
cost estimation and
financial impact assess-
ment, including:
(a) official publication                             December 31, 1995
of electricity pricing formulae;
and
(b) official publication                             July 31, 1996
of gas pricing formulae
3.   Establishment and putting                            January 31, 1997
into effect of audit prin-
ciples and procedures for
regulatory reviews of
utilities, including
completion of review
of at least one utility


﻿-25 -
Part A.1 of the Project
4.   Development of norms
governing transmission
and distribution acti-
vities to ensure open
access to grids, includ-
ing:
(a) promulgation of                                 December 31, 1995
norms for power
sub-sector (power
codes); and
(b) promulgation of                                 December 31, 1996
norms for gas
sub-sector (gas
codes)
5.   Development of service
standards and customer
liaison procedures, in-
cluding official publi-
cation and dissemination
thereof:
(a) for power sub-sector;                           October 31, 1996
and
(b) for gas sub-sector                              October 31, 1997
Part A.2 of the Project
6.   Completion of a work program                        December 31, 1995
for the assessment of
Planning Unit's role and
requirements
7.   Publication of a compre-                            December 31, 1995
hensive energy strategy


﻿- 26 -
Part A.2 of the Project
8.   Development, testing                                December 31, 1997
and operation of
energy information
systems, and publica-
tion of first set of
statistics processed
through said systems
9.   Publication of indicative                           December 31 of
plans for power and gas                             each year, com-
subsectors                                          mencing in 1995
for power and
1996 for gas
Part B.3 of the Project
10. Creation of Grid                                     December 31, 1995
Operator, satisfactory
operation of dispatch
and clearing house func-
tions thereof, and
implementation of separate
accounting systems for
Grid Operator and genera-
tion company
Part C.1 of the Project
11. Completion                                           December 31, 1996
PRt C.2 of the Project
12. Completion                                           December 31, 1997


﻿- 27 -
Parts D.1 and D.2 of the Project
13. Development and publication                           July 31, 1998
of an energy sector environ-
mental policy and an environ-
mental action plan
14. Putting into effect of                                December 31, 1998
environmental enabling
norms concerning all acti-
vities related to the pro-
duction or generation of
electricity and natural gas
and to the transmission,
distribution or transporta-
tion thereof and their
supply to ultimate consumers
15. Publication of operating                              December 31, 1998
guidelines for the energy
sector in respect of solid
waste disposal, liquid
effluent and air emission
control, and post-closure
remediation
Part E.1 of the Project
16. Completion                                            December 31, 1997
Part E.2 of the Project
17. Publication of gas quality                            December 31, 1997
supply standards
18. Publication of standards                              December 31, 1998
for materials and equip-
ment


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY
SOO


