RESTRICTED
FILE  COPY                           Report No. P-830
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
SECOND IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
May Z7, 1970



INTERNATICNAL DEVEL0PMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMiENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVEIOP-
MENT CREMIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA FOR A
SECOND IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of Indonesia in an amount in various
currencies equivalent to $18.5 million for a second irrigation rehabilitation
project in Indonesia.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.       The Government of Indonesia asked for a credit to help
finance the rehabilitation and improvement of the Djatiluhur irrigation
system, as well as studies relating to extension of the system and optimum
use of the existing reservoir, and detailed engineering services for a
proposed third irrigation rehabilitation project. The project was appraised
in July 1969.
3.       Negotiations for the proposed credit took place from March 30 to
April 9, 1970. The Berrower was represented by: Dr. Emil Salim, Deputy
Chairman, National Planning Agency (Bappenas); Gen. Dandi Kadarsan,
Secretary-General, Department of Public TWorks and Electric Power;
Mr. Soemarman, Secretary-General, Department of Home Affairs; Mr. Saleh
Afiff, Head of Bureau of Analysis and Legal Affairs, Cabinet Secretariat;
Mr. Soesanto Soedibjo, Department of Public Works and Power;  Mr. I.W.
Siregar, Cabinet Secretariat; iMr. Sadu Sundaru, Chief, International
Relations, Department of Finance; and Mr. Atmono Surjo, MNinister-
Counsellor (Economic), Embassy of Indonesia.
4.       If approved this would be the eighth credit to Indonesia and the
fourth for agriculture in that country. The following is a summary
statement of IDA credits to Indonesia as of April 30, 1970: 1/
uS. $ millions
Credit No.    Year     Borrower       Purpose        Amount     Undisbursed
127         1968     Indonesia    Irrigation
Rehabilitation   5.0           2.8
135         1968     Indonesia    Technical
Assistance       2.0           1.8
154         1969     Indonesia    Highways         28.0          28.0
155-        1969     Indonesia    Agricultural
Estates         16.0          15.8
165         1969     Indonesia    Electricity
Distribution    15.0          15.0  2/
Total           66.0          63.4
1/ Development Credita of $30 million and $17 million for the PUSRI
fertilizer expansion project and the second agricultural estates project
were approved by the Exocutive Directors on May 12 & 26 respectively.
' Not yet effTctivre



5.      My Report and Recommendation on the PUSRI project (P-803 dated
April 30, 1970) commented on the reasons for delays in disbursement and
project execution on some of the credits and outlined the corrective
action being taken.
6.      I expect to present shortly to the Executive Directors proposed
credits for telecommunications and fisheries projects.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
7.      Borrower:      Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiary:   Otorita Djatiluhur (The Djatiluhur Authority)
Amount:        Various currencies equivalent to $18.5 million
Purpose:       Rehabilitation and improvement of the Djatiluhur
irrigation system, as well as studies relating
to extension of the system and optimum use of the
reservoir, and detailed engineering for a third
irrigation rehabilitation project.
Amortization: In 50 years with a 10-year period of grace through
semi-annual installments commencing November 1,
1980, and ending May 1, 2020. Each installment
up to and including the payment due May 1, 1990,
to be ½ of 1 percent and each installment there-
after to be 1½ percent.
Service Charge: 3/4 of 1 percent per annum.
Estimated
Economic Rate
of Return :   29 percent per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
8.      A detailed description of the project is given in the attached
appraisal report entitled "Second Irrigation Rehabilitation Project "
(PA-37a) dated May 26, 1970.
9.      The project would consist of two separate parts: (a) the
rehabilitation and completion of one major system, Djatiluhur; and
(b) detailed engineering services for three other areas the rehabilitation
of which is expected to form the basis for a future third irrigation
rehabilitation project. This latter project was appraised in April and
an appraisal report is being prepared.
10.     The Djatiluhur system, situated in a major rice producing area
in the province of West Java, has a gross area of 300,000 ha, of which



- 3 -
about 253,000 ha are potentially irrigable. It is a combination of old
river diversion schemes linked together, extended and complemented by
recent works which were designed to provide storage water for use in the
dry season and thus allow the whole area to grow two crops of rice each
year. However some of the new works have run into serious construction
problems, remain incomplete or are already in need of rehabilitation due
to inadequate maintenance or to premature operation. Because of lack of
maintenance, the old canal systems cannot distribute the water now
available and they must be completely rehabilitated if the benefits of
the new works are to be realized.
11.     The Credit would provide $18.0 million for the rehabilitation and
repair of the Djatiluhur system, including the improvement of drainage,
flood protection, roads and communication on a priority area of 186,000 ha;
and for consultant services to investigate the merits of constructing
new irrigation facilities to serve about 67,000 ha in a subsequent stage,
and to prepare studies for the optimum use of the Djatiluhur reservoir.
12.     A firm of consulting engineers, NEDECO-Grontmij-ILACO of
Holland was engaged (using funds from the IDA Technical Assistance
Credit No. 135-IND) for a one-year period from October 1969 to assist
in planning and design and initial implementation of the rehabilitation
program for the entire Djatiluhur system. The proposed credit would
finance substantial additional consulting services to prepare detailed
designs and supervise all construction works, which would be executed
over a six-year period, and also to carry out the investigation and
studies mentioned in the preceding paragraph.
13.     The Government has established a new project authority in the
form of a public corporation, known as Otorita Djatiluhur (the Djatiluhur
Authority) and has enacted legislation setting up the authority in a
form and with powers agreed during negotiations. The authority will be
responsible for the operation and maintenance of the multi-purpose
Djatiluhur project including the hydro-power installations and the
irrigation system. The general policy direction of the authority, and
supervision over its affairs will be the responsibility of the Ylinister
of State for Economy, Finance and Industry, assisted in policy matters
by a Ministerial Council (Ministers of Agriculture, Public Works, Home
Affairs, and Finance) and by the Governor of the Province of West Java in
supervising the work of the authority.
14.     The authority will be managed by a Board of Directors consisting
of a president-director who will be the project manager and at least
three directors who will be the deputy managers responsible for power, for
irrigation, and for finance and administration. The qualifications
and experience of the nominees to these positions are satisfactory and
they would be appointed before the signing of the proposed credit.
Assurances have been received during negotiations that the Association
will be afforded a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the
Government before any changes are made in the appointments to these
positions. Assurances have also been obtained that the Government,



- 4 -
besides ensuring that the authority will have sufficient budgeted funds
in hand for project expenditures, will arrange for the levying of charges
on all types of water use to provide the authority with sufficient
revenues to cover operation and maintenance costs and to recover a
reasonable portion of capital expenditures.
15.     In addition to consultant services for the Djatiluhur project,
described in paras. 11 and 12 above, the proposed Credit would include
$500,000 for consultant services relating to the planning, design and
supervision of rehabilitation works on three other irrigation systems,
Tjiudjung and Pomali Tjomal in Java and Sadang in Sulawesi which would
form the third irrigation rehabilitation project mentioned in para. 9
above. The terms and conditions of the consultants' contract would be
subject to approval by IDA.
16.     The total estimated cost of the project is $37 million equivalent.
The proposed credit of $18.5 million would cover 50 percent of the total
cost of the project, including the estimated foreign exchange cost of
$13.2 million. It would also cover $5.3 million of local currency
expenditures on the project, amounting to about 21 percent of local costs,
with the Government financing the balance of local costs through its
annual development budget, At this stage of Indonesia's economic
recovery, it is not feasible for external lenders to cover Indonesia's
large resource gap only by financing the import component of development
projects, and some of those lenders are supporting Indonesia with a substantial
volume of program assistance. In these exceptional circumstances and
in view of the relatively low foreign exchange component of the proposed
project, I consider it justifiable for the Association to cover some
part of the project's local costs.
17.     All goods and services financed by the proposed credit would be
procured in accordance with the Association's guidelines. However, it
is doubtful that any foreign bidders would be interested in the contracts
for civil works in view of the large number of small, geographically
scattered works and the difficulty of competing against domestic contractors.
Therefore, project estimates of local costs are based on the assumption
that local contractors would win the civil works contracts. In the unlikely
event that foreign bidders should win civil works contracts, a greater
proportion of the proceeds of the proposed Credit would go to meet foreign
exchange expenditures.
18.     Me Djatiluhur area has a population of 3 million.  As a result
of the proposed project, the marketable rice surplus of the area is
expected to increase by about 390,000 tons per annum over its present
level, enabling net foreign exchange savings of at least $30 million
annually at present world prices. The additional rice production would
help increase annual family incomes in the project area from $126 to
about $163, and, if other inputs are used, to about $218.  The rate of
return to the economy from rehabilitation of the irrigation system
would be about 29 percent. If other inputs such as fertilizer were used
on the whole rehabilitated area, the rate of return from rehabilitation
and inputs combined would be about 45 percent.



- 5 -
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUEENTS AND AUTHORITY
19.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Indonesia and the Association, the Report of the Committee provided for
in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
and the text of a Resolution approving the proposed credit are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
20.      The draft Development Credit Agreement foll&ws the usual
pattern for irrigation and engineering projects. The transfer to the
Djatiluhur Authority of the assets of the various government agencies
presently involved in the Djatiluhur project and the availability of
selected staff from government agencies and departments would be
conditions of effectiveness of the Agreement (Section 6.01(a) and (c)).
PART V - THE ECONOMY
21.      The last full report on the economic position and prospects of
Indonesia (EAP-10a) was issued on November 11, 1969 and a special report,
"Current Investment Activity in Indonesia" (EAP-l1a) was issued on
March 27, 1970. An assessment of the present economic situation was
given in my Report and Recommendation on the PUSRI Fertilizer Expansion
Project (P-803) dated April 30, 1970.
22.      As stated in that report, the Five-Year Plan (1969-74) of the
Government gives highest priority to agriculture, both for domestic
food production and export crops, with secondary emphasis on the rehab-
ilitation of infrastructure and industry. The main target is a large
increase in rice production. The performance of the economy continues
to depend to a considerable extent on policies and administrative
arrangements relating to this one major commodity. Thus an effective
rice price policy that will encourage domestic production and distribution,
and the establishment and support of effective programs to increase
output, could have a substantial bearing on the success of the development
program.
23.      The 1970/71 development program will be larger than last year's
and more of it will be financed from Indonesia's own resources. An
increase of 36% in domestic revenues is planned, following a similar
expansion in 1969/70. If achieved, this will raise revenues to close
to 10% of estimated GNP, or more than double the percentage of 1966.
The 1970/71 budget also provides for a larger surplus of revenues
over current expenditures, increasing from Rp 27 to Rp 37 billion the
amount available for the development program. Even so, large claims
on the budget for deferred maintenance, basic adjustments in salaries
and foreign debt service compete with the rising requirements for
development finance. So far, program aid has generated a substantial
amount of counterpart funds, but as it cannot be expected to increase
significantly there will be an increasing pressure on rupiah resources
as the development program expands.



- 6 -
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WJITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
24.      I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
23.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
Washington D.C.
May 27, 1970



