RESTRICTED
Report No. PA-37a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
SECOND IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
INDONESIA
May 26, 1970
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1               Rupiahs (Rp) 378
Rp 1                US$ 0.00307
Rp 1 million        US$ 3,067.48
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 hectare (ha)               =           2.47 acres
1 kilometer (kmq)            =           0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)     =           0.3886 square miles
1 meter (m)      2                       39.37 inches
1 square meter (m2)                      10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (i3)           =           35.31 cubic feet
1 million cubic meter (Mm3)  =           810.7 acre feet
1 millimeter (mm)                        0 0.039 inches
1 kilogram (kg)              =           2.2 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
BITAS        -         A farm input package program.
BUD-         -         The government rice buying agency.
YIR ?        -         Ministry of Public Works and Power.
PUT          -         The state-owned electric power company.
P'w'-   -  State-owned corporations.
PF:D         -         Provincial Public Works Department.



INDONESIA
SECOND IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .................................                  i
1.  INTRODUCTION ............................................                   1
II. BACKcROUND ................                                                  2
General .............................................                 2
Agriculture and the Food Situation ....             ..............    2
Efforts to Intensify Production .....................                 3
Irrigation, Drainage and Flood Control ....             ..........    4
III.  THE PROJECT AREA ....... .................                                  5
A.   The Diatiluhur Irrigation System ....             ...........    5
Climate  ........................................               6
Soils and Drainage .............................                6
Farm Size ..............                 ...........            6
Cropping Patterns and Yields .......7..           .......
Plarketing, Credit, and Transportation ....          ......     7
Existing Irrigation Facilities ....            .............    7
Water Supply and Requirements ....            ..............    9
Existing Organization ..........................               10
B.   Other Systems ..................................                11
IV.  THE PROJECT             .............................................      12
A.   The Diatiluhur Irrigation Svstem ....             ...........   12
Project Works ..................................               12
Studies and Investigations  .....           ................   13
Statuts of Engineering ..........................              14
B. Other Systems ....... 14
This report is based upon the reports of missions which visited Indonesia
in July 1969, Jannary 1970 and April 1970. Messrs. Haynes and Rashid con-
tributed to the revision of their reports.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
_aget No.
C.   Cost Estimates and Financly ....................           15
Financing ..........      ............................    16
Procurement and Contracts .....        .................  17
Disbursement .............                                18
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .............................            19
A.   The Djatiluhur Authority .......................           19
Operation and Maintenance .....         .................  21
Operation and Maintenance Cost ....        .............  22
Recovery of Project Costs .....        .................  22
Supporting Services ............................          23
B.   Other SysVtems ..................................          23
VI.  PRODUCTION  PRICE PROSPECTSJ AND FARM INCOME IN THE
DJATILUHUR IRRIGATION SYSTEM ..........................           24
Production   .....................................        24
Price Prospects ................................          25
Incremental Farm Incomes .......................          25
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .....         .........................   26
A.   TheDiatiluhur System ...........................           26
Food Production, Imports and Foreign Exchange
Savings   ......................................        26
Economic Benefits and Rate of Return ....       .......    27
B.   Other Systems ..................................           28
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS .........................................            29
ANNEXES
1. Agrlculture
2. Second Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
3. Existing Irrigation Works: Djatiluhur Irrigation System
4. Water Supply and Requirements: Djatiluhur Irrigation System
5. Projects Works in the Djatiluhur Irrigation System
6. Consultants' Services
7. List of Equipment and Transport
8. Consulting Services for Tjiudung, Pemali-Tjomal and Sadang Areas
9. Unofficial Translation of Draft Regulation to Establish the Project
Authority
10. Economic Costs and Benefits of the Djatiluhur Irrigation System



ORGANIZATION CHART
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
MAPS
General Map
Map 1 (Tjipunegara)
Map 2 (East Tarum)
Map 3 (North Tarum)
Map 4 (Wes t Tarum)






INDONESIA
SECOND IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Until recently, food production in Indonesia has barely kept pace
with the rapid growth of the population. Recent efforts to intensify food
production through increased use of fertilizers and pesticides have helped,
but they are seriously hampered by falling rice yields due to the dilapidat-
ed state of the irrigation systems.
ii.       The proposed project would help to rehabilitate some of the more
important irrigation systems located on the island of Java. It would cost
about US$37 million and would consist of two separate parts:
-    rehabilitation and completion of the Djatiluhur
irrigation system serving 186,000 ha;
-    consultants' services for the planning, design
and supervision of rehabilitation works on three
other irrigation systems, serving 200,000 ha.
lil.      Rehabilitation of the Dlatiluhur irrigation system would be carried
out bv an authority established for the purpose and would take about six years
to complete. It would allow for a substantial increase in the area which can
be irrigated to produce a second rice crop in the dry season. Furthermore,
with a better regulated crop water supply, the project would make more econo-
mic use of otlher inputs, especially fertilizers, enabling additional yield in-
creases to be achieved. As a result, rice production in the area would more
than double within seven years. The increase in the area's marketable surplus
would permit annual foreign exchange savings of about US$35 million.
iv.       Family incomes would increase from about US$125 to about US$165 as
a result of the project, or, if other inputs were also used, to US$220. Water
charges would cover the full cost of operation and maintenance and recover a
reasonable proportion of capital cost over the lifetime of the project. The
project's rate of return to the economy would be 29% or 45% if other inputs
such as fertilizer were used.
v.        With the assurances obtained during negotiations, the project is
suitable for a US$18.5 million IDA credit, which would cover 50% of the to-
tal cost, including the estimated US$13 million foreign component and about
21% of the local cost. The remainder of the funds would be provided by the
government. All contracting and procurement would be in accordance with
standard Bank/IDA procedures.






INDONESIA
SECOND IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Indonesia has requested an IDA credit of US$18.5
million to assist in financing:
(a) rehabilitation and completion of the Djatiluhur irrigation
system, an important rice producing area located on the
north coast of West Java (US$18.0 million), and
(b) consultant services, during the period June 1970-March 1971,
for the detailed planning, design and supervision of irriga-
tion rehabilitation works in Tjiudung, West Java; Pemali-
Tjomal, Central Java; and Sadang, South Sulawesi (US$0.5
million).
1.02      The Djatiluhur irrigation system is a combination of old river
diversion schemes linked together, extended and complemented by more recent
works, including Djatiluhur dam and power station, TJurug Pumping Station
and the Tarum East and West Main Canals. These recent works were intended
to provide both wet and dry season irrigation to an area of about 253,000
ha commanded by Djatiluhur reservoir, enabling the area to produce two
crops of rice each year. However, the old canal systems are badly in need
of rehabilitation and cannot distribute water effectively; moreover, some
parts of the command area have not yet been equipped for irrigation or
drainage and some of the new works have run into serious construction pro-
blems, remain incomplete or are already in need of rehabilitation due to
lack of maintenance and/or premature operation.
1.03      In early 1969 government, with assistance from the Bank's Resident
Staff, prepared a request for IDA assistance in financing a first stage, in-
cluding rehabilitation works in a high priority area of 186,000 ha together
with studies required for planning future stages and the optimum use of the
water resources of the catchment. Consultants, NEDECO-Grontmij-ILACO
(Netherlands) have been retained to assist in detailed engineering and super-
vision until October, 1970 (para 3.21): the foreign costs of their services
(US$0.4 million) are being financed from IDA's Technical Assistance Credit,
135-IND.
1.04      This would be the second IDA credit to the Indonesian program to
restore and expand irrigation systems. The first (Credit 127-IND, US$5 mil-
lion; August 1968) was to assist in the rehabilitation of three areas in
West Java and completion of a fourth in Sumatra (see General Map). Consul-
tants, Harza (USA), were retained not only for detailed engineering and
supervision of works in these areas but also to prepare feasibility studies
for two further rehabilitation projects. The first of these, comprising the
three areas listed in para 1.01 b above, has been appraised in the field by



- 2 -
IDA (April 1970) and a detailed review of the proposal is now being made.
Subject to the outcome of this review and to the resolution of managerial
and administrative problems, it is expected that a Third Rehabilitation Pro-
ject can be presented to the Board in the course of FY 1971. However, there
is an urgent need for consulting services to assist in detailed engineering
and in the supervision of works which have already been started. Government,
with the support of the Resident Staff, requested during negotiations that
provision should be made in the present credit for the foreign exchange costs
of these services, estimated at US$0.5 million.
1.05      The Djatiluhur irrigation system was appraised in July 1969 by a
mission consisting of Messrs. G. F. Darnell, S. S. Kirmani and J. M. Malone
(of IDA) and Mr. P. W. Terrell (Consultant to IDA). This report is based
upon the appraisal report prepared by that mission and on preliminary find-
ings of the Third Irrigation Rehabilitation appraisal mission (April 1970)
led by Mr. D. J. Parsons (IDA). It incorporates additional material supplied
by the Bank's Resident Staff in Indonesia. Mr. D. W. M. Haynes, who briefly
visited the Djatiluhur area in January 1970, was principally responsible for
the completion of this report.
II. BACKGROUND
General
2.01      Comprising more than 3,000 islands, totalling about 1.9 million sq
km in area, and stretching along the equator for some 5,000 km, Indonesia
possesses a wide variety of climates and soils. Its population of 115 million
is growing at a rate of about 2.5% a year. The island of Java, consisting
of only 7% of the total land area, supports almost 70% of the total popula-
tion and has an average population density of more than 560 per sq km com-
pared to a national average of 160 per sq km.
Agriculture and the Food Situation
2.02      Agriculture accounts for more than half of Indonesia's national
income and provides the livelihood of about 75% of the population but per
capita agricultural production has been virtually stagnant during the last
30 years. About 75% of the cultivated area of Java is devoted to food pro-
duction but, in spite of this, the island is not self-sufficient in food,
particularly rice, the staple food of the people. Imports from the outer
islands are unable to fill the deficit and in spite of a chronic shortage
of foreign exchange government continues to import large quantities of
rice from abroad. The Five-Year Plan (1969-74) aims at self-sufficiency
in rice by 1975 but the present level of imports - approaching 900,000 tons
in 1969/70 - is expected to be maintained in 1970/71.



- 3 -
2.03      Government has announced a price support program for the 1969/70
wet season rice crop. The price for mill dry stalk paddy 1/ at the mill will
be Rp 16 per kg, equivalent to slightly less than current prices for imported
Burmese rice (see para 6.02). BUL, the government procurement agency, will
purchase stalk paddy or threshed rough rice at prices derived from the mill
price. The corresponding price for stalk paddy as harvested would be Rp 12.32
per kg but most farmers will dry their paddy, at least partially, and trans-
port it to the village for sale. The price used in this report is Rp 14.5
per kg, which is an average for farm dry paddy at the roadside in the village
(i.e. the "farm gate price").
2.04      A basic requirement of rice production is an adequate water supply.
Because of the lack of maintenance over the the years, the existing irriga-
tion systems can no longer supply the water requirements of the areas they
were designed to serve. As a result, yields are decreasing. To arrest this
deterioration, it is urgently necessary to rehabilitate the irrigation sys-
tems. Once this is done and previous yield levels are regained, considerable
further benefits could be obtained from the use of inputs such as fertilizer
and improved varieties, which are not presently economic. Further details
are given in Annex 1.
2.05      The farmers of Java are responsive to improved techniques, inputs
and incentives and have demonstrated their ability to maximize yields, given
the means at their disposal. Aside from the inadequate irrigation water
supply, four basic problems have beset the government's efforts to increase
food production:
(a)  lack of foreign exchange to import fertilizer and
other farm inputs and the physical means for their
efficient distribution;
(b)  lack of an assured market at remunerative and
stable prices for the farmers' produce;
(c)  inadequacy of supporting government services,
particularly the provision of agricultural ex-
tension and maintenance of the irrigation sys-
tems; and
(d) absence of a sound credit system for farmers who
are unable to purchase inputs for cash.
Efforts to Intensify Production
2.06      Since 1963 the government has been trying to intensify production
of rice by providing farm inputs, credit and a higher level of extension
I/   Stalk paddy consists of the head of rice, cut off by hand, with about
15 cm of the stalk left attached. It contains about 50% milled rice
by weight.



- 4 -
services to farmers in areas with adequate, assured and controlled water
supplies. These package programs, referred to as BIMAS 1/, cost about US$30
per ha. They were initially quite successful, eventually covering an area
which reached almost 500,000 ha in the 1967/68 wet season, and accounted for
additional rice production of some 300,000 tons.
2.07      In 1968, government launched a new program, known as BIMAS Gotong
Rojong 2/ which has progressively displaced the original BIMAS programs.
Under BIMAS Gotong Rojong, foreign suppliers contract to supply and distribute
their own brands of fertilizers and pesticides and to provide back-up services
for extension workers. The components of the package, and therefore costs,
vary in the different contracts but have averaged:
Season              Cost per ha             Area Contracted. ha
(approx.)
1967/68 wet season        about $40                    300,000
dry season       $50 to $60                    550,000
1969/70 wet season        $30 to $45 3/              1,000,000
Under BIMAS Nasional the farmers received a loan for inputs and repayment
was made in cash. In most of the new programs, however, the farmer is ex-
pected to repay with a one-sixth share of his total crop. BUL has had dif-
ficulty in collecting this share.
Irrigation, Drainage and Flood Control
2.08      Since the various intensification programs can only operate with
optimum efficiency in areas which receive adequate irrigation and are not
subject to flooding, a serious constraint on their extension is imposed by
the present run-down condition of most of Indonesia's irrigation, drainage
and flood protection systems. In Java, where the irrigated area of 2.9 mil-
lion ha comprises one-third of the total cropped area, it is estimated that
1.9 million ha require rehabilitation.
2.09      The Ministry of Public Works and Power (MPWP) is directly
responsible for the construction and rehabilitation of large-scale works
of national importance ("Special Projects"). The provincial Public Works
1/   Abbreviation for "Bimingan Massal Swa Sembada Bahan Makanan," literally
"mass guidance for self-sufficiency in foodstuffs."  Since the intro-
duction of BIMAS Gotong Rojong, these programs have been called "BIMAS
Nasional."
2/   Literally "BIMAS self-help."
3/ Reduction largely due to use of government stocks of equipment and in-
puts for this season.



-5-
Departments (PWD's) are responsible for the construction, operation and
maintenance of all other irrigation systems from the source of water down
to the end of the secondary canal. The responsibility for the construction,
operation and maintenance of the tertiary canals and turnouts falls upon
village officials, responsible through the district and provincial govern-
ments to the Ministry of Internal Affairs.
2.10      Due to the high degree of regional autonomy inherent in the
Indonesian constitutional framework, the Central Government, aside from
"Special Projects", does little more than the overall planning, coordination
and budgeting. Most of the decision-making and initiative in the day-to-day
management of irrigation is retained by the provincial and local governments,
whose budgets pay a share of the expenses of the irrigation staff in the
field.
2.11      Water management is extremely poor in most irrigation systems,
partly because of the need for rehabilitation, but also because of the
shortage of funds and trained staff and the division of responsibility
between different agencies, with little overall coordination. Moreover,
there is widespread corruption in the distribution of irrigation water,
beginning at the village level.
2.12      Apart from extra-legal payments to grossly underpaid irrigation
officials, farmers make no payment for irrigation water, although they are
expected to contribute their labor voluntarily for the construction, re-
labilitation and maintenance of the tertiary canals. Also, farmers pay a
land tax averaging about 5% of the harvest, so that irrigated land pays a
higher tax than non-irrigated land: however, there is no systematic use of
revenues generated by this tax for irrigation purposes. A presidential de-
cree enables the provinces to collect water charges to be used for irriga-
tion operation and maintenance in areas which have been rehabilitated. No
provincial government has yet enacted the necessary regulations, however,
due partly to the fact that rehabilitation efforts still remain negligible
in most areas.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A. The Djatiluhur Irrigation System
3.01      The Djatiluhur area is part of the famous fertile "plain of Bata-
via" the most important rice producing area of West Java Province. It ex-
tends for 140 km, from Djakarta in the west to the Tjilalanang in the east
(see General Map). The total area between the main canals and the coastal
swamps is about 300,000 ha, of which about 253,000 ha could be irrigated
from the Djatiluhur reservoir. The present irrigation system, which would
be rehabilitated under the project, serves about 186,000 ha: most of the
remaining 67,000 ha of potentially irrigable land are in West Tarum (Map 4).



- 6 -
3.02      The population of the Djatiluhur area is about 3 million.  The
national capital, Djakarta (population 4 million), is located at its north-
west corner. Purwakarta, the project headquarters, is Just outside the
southern irrigation boundary, a few kilometers from Djatiluhur Dan. There
are a number of other urban centors with populations of more than 20,000 i.e.
Bekani, Tjikarang, Krawang, Tiilamaja, Pamanukan and Andjatan. The internal
network of highways, and rail and road connections between the area and near-
by cities, provide mobility to the population and access to service centers.
Climate
3.03      The climate is tropical and is characterized by a distinct wet
season from November to April and a comparatively dry season from May to
October. Differences in day length and temperature throughout the vear
atre small.  Daily average temperatures range between 250 and 270C.  The
major climatic constraint on agricultural production is the rainfall pat-
tern. As in the rest of Java, paddy is planted to grow during the wet
season throughout the area. There is insufficient rainfall to support a
crop in the dry season and a second paddy crop is grown only in areas whiere
irrigation water can be provided.
3.04      The mean annual rainfall at Krawang is 1,718 mm of which approx-
imately 75% falls in the wet season. January is usually the wettest month
and there are occasional months in the dry season without any precipitation.
The driest period is trom Jume to September with only about 12% of the
annual rainfall.
Soils and Drainage
3.05      The soils are alluvial river deposits and "lahars" (mud flows)
from the volcanoes in the complex belt of hills and motntains in the
central part of West Java. They are very suitable for wet rice cultiva-
tion the year round but their productivity can be significantlv improved
by moderate applications of nitrogenous and phosphatic fertillzers. The
general land slope is towards the north and the numerous rivers and streams
flowing south to north serve as natural drains. In their lower reaches,
near the coast, the rivers become extremely flat and frequentlv flood ad-
Jacent lands during the wet season. The surface drainage in these coastal
areas needs improvement to remove excess rainfall and spllls from river
channels.
Farm Size
3.06      The average farm size in the area is about 0.8 ha, of which irri-
gated paddy accounts for about 0.5 ha. Farm sizes in Krawang district,
which is fairlv representative of the whole Diatiluhur area, are less than
0.5, 1.0 and 1.5 ha in 34%, 63% and 80% of the area respectively. Most
farmers in the area own their land and farm it with family labor hiring
labor only at peak periods such as planting and harvesting.



-7-
Cropping Patterns and Yields
3.07      The irrigated part of the Djatiluhur area is under rice cultivation.
Presently, about 186,000 ha are irrigated in the wet season and 108,000 ha
in the dry season. Yields are estimated to average 3 tons of stalk paddy
per ha in the wet season and 2 tons per ha in the dry season. The varieties
of rice commonly grown are short or medium grain, medium to long season types
that mature in about 130 to 160 days after seedling emergence.
Marketing,Cre dit  and Transportation
3.08      Farmers sell their marketable surpluses either threshed or on the
stalk to village middlemen. Transport from the farms to the market place
or to rice mills is by carry poles, bicycle or buffalo cart. Road and rail
communications from the villages to the market centers for transporting the
present production are adequate. However, when full irrigation facilities
are available and improved varieties of rice are grown the existing trans-
port, storage and processing facilities at the market and mill centers would
be inadequate. Negotiations are well advanced for a comprehensive study of
marketing and processing (US) and for a large scale pilot rice mill which is
expected to be located in the area (UK).
3.09      Credit facilities available to peasant farmers are limited.  In
areas selected for a BIMAS program, farmers get seven months' credit for
BIMAS inputs and subsequently can obtain inputs from the INMAS program (a
follow-up program having all the facilities of BIMAS except government
credit and extension advice). No other sources of credit are available,
aside from moneylenders who charge exorbitant rates of interest.
Existing Irrigation Facilities
3.10      Prior to the completion of Djatiluhur reservoir and the East and
West Tarum Canals in 1967, the area was served by three types of irriga-
tion systems. The most advanced type was the so-called "technical irriga-
tion" system, fully equipped with diversion barrages, canals and regulat-
ing structures, and operated and maintained by the West Java PWD. The Sys-
tems of Tjipunegara (Map 1) and North Tarum (Map 3), constructed in 1905
and 1925 respectively, fall under this category. Other minor systems to-
talled about 8,000 ha in East Tarum (Map 2) and about 7,000 ha in West
Tarum (Map 4). Dry season irrigation was dependent on diversions from
rivers and seldom exceeded 33,500 ha.
3.11      In addition, there were small "semi-technical" systems where some
parts of the water works were constructed as permanent structures while
other parts, especially the channels, were temporary and were maintained by
the farmers in the respective villages. In a third type of irrigation,
called "swampy sawa", the rice-fields received their water supply from swamps
which were filled from drainage and overflow from rivers during the wet
season. Both of these systems suffered from uncertain water supplies and
the extent of paddy grown in the dry season varied considerably every year
depending on the state of maintenance of the irrigation works and the
amount of water impounded by the swamps.



- 8 -
3.12      In order to improve the water supply to the existing irrigated
area and to extend irrigation facilities to new lands in the area, a
storage dam on the Tjitarum near the village of Djatiluhur, about 12 km
west of Purwakarta, was completed in 1965 (see General Map). The Tjurug
Barrage and the East and West Tarum Main Canals were built at the same time
to integrate the Tjitarum with the other rivers and to regulate and distrib-
ute the water resources of the entire system.
3.13      The Djatiluhur dam is an earth and rockfill structure, 105 n high
and 1,200 m long at the crest. The reservoir has a gross capacity of 3
billion m3 of which 2 billion m3 is effective storage, adequate to provide
dependable water supply round the year for cultivation of two paddy crops
in about 253,000 ha of the project area. Siltation of the reservoir is a
minor problem, due to the high quality of Tjitarum waters. Besides irriga-
tion the dam provides hydro-power and flood control. Power from the 125 MW
Djatiluhur power plant (5 x 25 MW) is transmitted to Djakarta and Bandung
through 150 kV transmission lines. The total cost of the dam and power
plant, which was financed by medium-term suppliers' credlts obtained by
the Sukarno Government, was about US$ 300 million equivalent.
'J. 14    The Tjurug Barrage is about 10 km downstream of Djatiluhur dam.
It is a low-gated concrete dam with a storage capacity of 60 million m3
and can re-regulate flows from Djatiluhur when the power plant is operated
as a peaking station. There are two pumping plants at the barrage, one on
each bank, to supply the East and West Tarum Canals which have higher water
levels than the pond level at the barrage. The East Tarum pumping plant has
6 electric-driven pumps of a total capacity of 91 m3/sec operating under a
maximum lift of 4 m. The West Tarum pumping plant has 17 hydraulic-driven
pumps l/ with a total capacity of 93 m3/sec operating under a maximum lift
Af 2 m.
3.15      The East Tarum Canal is 68 km long, with a designed capacity
varying from 84 m3/sec at head to 31 m3/sec at tail, serves a total area
of about 86,000 ha of the East Tarum and Tjipunegara irrigation systems.
The West Tarum Canal is 70 km long, with a designed capacity of 85 m3/sec
at head and 14 m3/sec at tail, serves an area of about 87,000 ha in West
Tarum while providing up to 14 m3/sec for augmenting the water supply to
Djakarta. Both canals tap other rivers to supplement supplies from the
reservoir.
1/   Water for North Tarum is released through turbines with a 5-m head,
connected by drive shafts to the 2-m lift pumps supplying West Tarum.
The Walahar Barrage (see General Map) diverts this water from the river,
through the Walahar Canal, into the North Tarum distribution system.



- 9 -
3.16      The system requires extensive rehabilitation and renovation before
it could be efficiently operated to use the available water and meet the full
irrigation demand of the area in both seasons. Frequent interruption of
power supply to the pumping plant, neglect of maintenance of civil works, in-
adequate workshop facilities, lack of housing for the maintenance staff and
insufficient funds for maintenance and operation have resulted in deterior-
ation of the works at Tjurug Barrage. In addition, major bank slippage and
siltation have occurred on both main canals reducing the effective capacity
of East Tarum Canal from 83.0 to 35 m3/sec in the head reach and from 31 m3/
sec to zero at the tail, and of the West Tarum canal from 85 to 53 m3/sec
at km 9 of the canal.
3.17      The distribution systems also require extensive rehabilitation
and renovation. Most of the secondary and tertiary channels have silted up
and cannot carry the designed flows. Rain-wash and erosion have reduced the
size of the canal banks. Canal roads require regrading and improvements.
Conmunication and housing facllities are inadequate for effective maintenance
and operation of the system. Extensive repairs and improvements have to be
carried out before the svstems can be operated at full capacity. The exist-
ing irrigation facilities in the project area are further described in Annex
3.
Water Spply And_ Requ rements
3.18      The irrigation system derives its main water supply from the
'ljitarum whlclh is regulated by the Djatiluhur reservoir.  Discharge data
of the Tjitarum are available for 18 years, 1922/23 to 1939/40. Data for
the post-war period, except for 1968/69, are incomplete as no systematic
observations were made after 1940 on account of wide-spread political unrest
in the counitrv. Observed discharge data of other rivers in the area are
also discontinuous. Hlowever, a sufficient number of rain gauge stations
exist in the area with observation records extending over a long enough
period for preparing a fairly reliable estimate of the water supply in these
rivers. The water supply available for the project was estimated on the
basis of observed discharge data for the Tjitarum and computed from rainfall
data for the other rivers. The average annual supply available for the
system amounts to about 10,000 Mm3t of which the Tjitarum contributes about
6,400 Mm3. The dependable dry year supply v/ is 8,680 Mm  of which about
5,000 Mm3 can be obtained from the Tjitarum.
1/   i.e. the supply available in three out of four years.



- 10 -
3.19      The water requirements computed for the system (Annex 4) are based
on two crops of rice each year over the full area of about 253,000 ha, in-
cluding the new area of 67,000 ha in West Tarum system which could be de-
veloped in a subsequent stage. Estimates of consumptive use are based on co-
efficients developed by the consultants on the Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project for the adjoining Tjisedane area.  The estimated water requirement
for the area (consumptive use minus effective rainfall, calculated on a
monthly basis) amounts to about 5,660 Mm3 of which about 3,740 Mm3 are re-
quired in the dry season from May to October.
3.20      In the course of appraisal, a system's operation study (Annex 4)
was carried out on a monthly basis using Djatiluhur reservoir as the key
regulation facility in the system. The study assumed that water require-
ments of individual systems would be met from unregulated flow supplies of
the other rivers to the maximum extent possible and that the reservoir
would be operated to meet the residual irrigation requirements including
conveyance losses in the East and West Tarum Canals. The study showed
that the full irrigation demand would be met even in a dry year with a
nominal shortage of less than 5% in the dry season and that there would
be no difficulty in filling the reservoir in the wet season. Studies for
an average year showed that about half of the live storage of 2,000 Mm3
in the Djatiluhur reservoir would remain unutilized even after meeting
the full irrigation demand.
3.21      However, the large irrigation demand in the dry seaso6  (June-
October) and the very low water requirements in the wet season (November-May)
necessitate a reservoir release pattern for irrigation which conflicts with
the power aspects of Djatiluhur Power Plan, especially in the wet season.
The preliminary study demonstrates that power production in the wet season
could be maintained at a minimum of 50 MW by releasing additional water
for power while still ensuring the filling of the reservoir and that, if
the re-regulating reservoir at Tjurug were used for peaking, a firm minimum
of 85 MW could be met, ensuring adequate 85% utilization of four-fifths of
the power plant while permitting one generator to be left on stand-by. A
definitive study to review these preliminary findings would be included in
the project.
Existing Organization
3.22      The Djatiluhur dam and power station are operated by a semi-auto-
nomous public corporation, P. N. Djatiluhur. The Djatiluhur Irrigation
Board approves the annual operation plan for the reservoir and authorizes
necessary deviations from the plan. At the time of appraisal, Tjurug Pump-
ing Station and the Tarum Main Canals were designated as "Special Projects."
In July 1969, however, the "Projek Irrigasi Djatiluhur" (PROSIDJAT) was es-
tablished by the Minister of Public Works and Power and made responsible
for rehabilitation, operation and maintenance of the irrigation system. A
separate "projek", under the Ministry of the Interior, was made responsible
for tertiary canals and outlets.



- 11 -
3.23      PROSIDJAT has started a program of rehabilitation in the project
area. Expenditures in fiscal 1969/70 are expected to be about Rp 730 mil-
lion (US$1.9 million equivalent) and the budget for 1970/71 may be about
Rp 1,200 million (US$3.2 million equivalent) of which about 60% would be
for field works. At the end of September 1969, MPWP appointed NEDECO-
Grontmij-ILACO (Netherlands) as consulting engineers to assist in detailed
planning, design and implementation of the ongoing program of rehabilita-
tion in the command area of Djatiluhur reservoir. The contract (financed
from IDA Technical Assistance Credit 135-IND) is for one year and the con-
sultants will submit a report summarizing their findings in October 1970.
In their inception report (December 1969), the consultants suggest that it
may be possible to complete some works more rapidly than recommended in
the construction schedule. Provided that costs were not increased, the
project organization would obviously adopt an accelerated schedule if it
proves feasible.
B. Other Svstems
3.24      The project would include provision for consulting services, up to
March 1971, for the proposed Third Irrigation Rehabilitation project area,
which includes three separate systems (see General Map):
-    Pemali-Tjomal (123,000 ha) in Central Java Province;
-    Tjiudjung (24,300 ha) in West Java Province; and
-    Sadang (54,000 ha) in South Sulawesi Province.
3.25      The Pemali-Tjomal and Tjiudjung areas are very similar to both the
first Irrigation Rehabilitatlon area 1/ and to the Djatiluhur area described
above. They lie on the coastal plain between the mountains and the north
coast of Java and the climate and soils are essentially the same as those de-
scribed in paras 3.03-3.05.
3.26      The Sadang area on Sulawesi (formerly Celebes) Island is an area
of high potential where population densities are not as high as in the Java
sub-project areas, and the productive capacity of the soil is greater. It
is situated on the western coastal plain of South Sulawesi where drainage
problems are somewhat more serious than in the other sub-project areas.
3.27      Irrigation in all three areas is dependent on diversion of river
flows. The diversion weirs are dilapidated but, once they are rehabilitated,
there would be adequate water in all three areas for supplementary irrigation
during the rainy season over the whole commanded area. The area which can
be irrigated during the dry season, however, would be limited by the low
flows in the rivers. In the case of Pemali-Tjomal and Tjiudjung, only about
35% and 25% respectively of the system would be irrigated in the dry season,
1/   See appraisal report TO-658a, Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, Indo-
nesia; August 14, 1968 (Credit 127-IND).



- 12 -
i.e., the cropping intensity would be about 135% and 125%. Sadang has a
larger catchment and the unregulated flow of the rivers would support a
cropping intensity of almost 200% in th, existing system.
3.28      The efficiency of all of the three irrigation systems is seriously
impaired by lack of maintenance, and because the weirs and stilling basins
have been improperly operated and excessive amounts of silt have entered the
canals. Experience suggests that, in some places, the original canal banks
were too steep and that they must be rebuilt to new criteria.
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01      The project consists of two separate parts:
Part A    Rehabilitation and completion of the Djatiluhur irriga-
tion system, including improvement of drainage and flood
protection works, to provide year-round rice cultivation
on about 186,000 ha; and studies to determine the opti-
mum use of the water resources of the catchment area.
This part of the project would be carried out by a newly
formed authoritv.
Part B    Consultant services for the detailed planning, design
and supervision of rehabilitation works in the Tjiudjung,
Pemali-Tjomal and Sadang systems. This part of the pro-
ject, which would be completed in Februerv/March 1971,
would be carried out by PROSIDA, a constructior unit of
MPWP.
A.  The Djatiluhur Irrigation System
Project Works
4.02      The works to be carried out under this part of the project are de-
scribed in detail in Annex 5. They include:
-    renovation and improvements of Tjurug Barrage and pumping
plants;
-    rehabilitation of East and West Tarum Main Canals;
-    rehabilitation and improvements of existing irrigation
systems of North Tarum (80,000 ha), Tjipunegara (37,000
ha), East Tarum (49,000 ha) and West Tarum (20,000 ha);



- 13 -
construction of drains, flood protection works, roads and
telecommunication facilities in the existing irrigation
systems;
procurement of equipment, materials and supplies for oper-
ation and maintenance;
a study for optimum utilization of DJatiluhur reservoir
and the unregulated water supplies in other rivers for
irrigation and power; and
detailed investigations for extension of irrigation facil-
ities in the Djatiluhur catchment.
A consulting firm would be engaged to carry out the investigations and
studies, prepare detailed designs and supervise all construction works
on the project. The works would be completed by 1975.
4.03      Works to be carried out at Tjurug Barrage include repairs and re-
novation of the civil works and electrical and mechanical installations,
construction of a new 6 km 30 kV transmission line from Djatiluhur power
plant to TJurug, and construction of workshop and housing facilities. A
telephone exchange would also be installed with connections to Djatiluhur
dam and regulating stations on East and West Tarum Canal to facilitate co-
ordination of the network.
4.04      Rehabilitation of the East and West Tarum Main Canals would in-
clude correction of deficiencies in the original designs, completion of the
unfinished works, and repairing the damage to the canals and structures to
make them safe and capable of delivering full irrigation supplies under all
operating conditions. Rehabilitation of the existing North Tarum, Tjipune-
gara, East Tarum and West Tarum irrigation systems, including their tertiary
networks, would involve repairs and reconstruction of damaged works, correc-
tion of deficiencies in the original designs, and completion of unfinished
works. In addition, new facilities would be constructed to improve the
efficiency of the system; these include additional housing for operation
and maintenance staff and all-weather gravel roads on selected reaches of
canal banks for operation and maintenance.
Studies and Investigations
4.05      The consultants engaged for detailed planning and supervision of
this part of the project would also be responsible for further studies in
the DJatiluhur catchment (Annex 6), including:
(a) investigations into the optimum use of water from the
Tjitarum and other rivers including agronomic and farm
management studies to explore the possibilites for crop
diversification. This would include preparation of a



- 14 -
detailed reservoir operation plan which would optimize
power generation and non-agricultural use of water with-
out adversely affecting irrigation; and
(b) if these studies show that water is available for an
expansion of the irrigation system, feasibility
studies and detailed engineering for appropriate proj-
ects.
Status of Enpineering
4.06      The Directorate General of Water Resource Development, MPWP, car-
ried out surveys of the main canals and prepared an inventory of damage to-
gether with preliminary design drawings and quantity estimates to determine
the scope of the proposed works. Surveys of the irrigation and drainage sys-
tems to be rehabilitated, including the tertiary networks, were carried out
by PWD of West Java Province. The MPWP has recently appointed consulting
engineers (see para 3.20) to assist in detailed planning, design and imple-
mentation of the on-going programs of irrigation rehabilitation works. Un-
der the project, the Authority would employ consultants to provide further
assistance, including the supervision of the project works (Annex 6). As-
surances were obtained during negotiations that consultants acceptable to
the Association would be employed on satisfactory terms and conditions.
B.  Other Systems
4.07      The consultants' studies under the first Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project have shown clearly that rigid adherence to the original designs,
which are available from archives in Indonesia or the Netherlands, may in-
crease unnecessarily the cost of rehabilitation. The feasibility studies
for the Third Irrigation Rehabilitation Project outline a step-by-step pro-
cedure which would help to ensure that individual sections of the system
were restored to their original design, rebuilt on the basis of new crite-
ria, or left untouched, as appropriate. Details of this procedure are
given in Annex 6. The project includes provision for consultants to as-
sist PROSIDA, until March 1971, in determining priorities for works on the
basis of this procedure and in preparing tender documents for contracts to
be awarded in 1971. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
MPWP would employ consultants acceptable to the Association, on terms and
conditions approved by the Association. The consultants would assist
PROSIDA's on-going program of works in the area but no provision is made
in this project for the cost of materials, equipment or staff required by
PROSIDA for these works.



- 15 -
C. Cost Estimates and Financing
4.08      The total cost of the project would be Rp 1l billion (US$ 37 million
equivalent) made up as follows: (For details see Annexes 7 and 8)
Rupiah millions      _   US$ millions
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
-   -   -   -  figures rounded -   -   -   -
A.  Djatiluhur System
Land Acquisition                 110       -       110    0.29        -    0.29
Offices, Buildings and
Camps                           275      35      310    0.70    0.09    0.79
Rehabilita-tion of:
Barrage and pump station       15      45       60    0.05    0.12    0.17
Main canals                1,185      505    1,690    3.13    1.34    4.47
Secondary canals           1,435      675    2,110    3.80    1.78    5.58
Tertiary canals               970     150    1,120    2.57    0.39    2.96
Roads                         805     290    1,095    2.13    0.77    2.90
Drains                       525      100      625    1.38    0.27    1.65
Flood protection             230       30       260    0.61    0.08    0.69
Telephone system               70     17        245    0.19    0.46    2.6
Sub-total,
civil works             5,620   2,005    7,625   14.85    5.30   20.15
Maintenance Equipmaent            85     680       765    0.22    1.80    2.02
Consultants' Services and
Investigations                  250     685       935    0.66    1.81    2.47
Adininistration and
Overheads                       650     190       840    1.72    0.50    2.22
Sub-total,
D,jati,luhursystem      6,605   3,560   10,165   17.45    9.41   26.86
B. Other Systems
Consultants' Services             70     185       255    0.24    0.50    0.74
C.  Contingencies                  2.310   1,245    3.555    6.11    3.29    9.40
Total, Project Cost    8,985    , 990   13.975   23.80   13.20   37.00



- 16 -
4.09      The project cost estimates have been reviewed and adjusted, keep-
ing in mind the difficulties mentioned above and the experience with the
first rehabilitation project (Credit 127-IND). The estimates include a pro-
vision of 15% of the total construction cost for engineering, supervision,
administration and overheads. In view of the difficulty of estimating reha-
bilitation costs and past experience in Indonesia, a 20% contingency for un-
foreseen expenditures and a 15% provision for price escalation were applied
to the cost estimates 1/ for the Djatiluhur system (Annex 7). The estimated
cost of consultants' services for "Other Systems" is based on recent quota-
tions and no provision has been made for escalation (Annex 8).
Financing
4.10      Financing for the project would be provided from the proposed IDA
credit and from the annual development budget of the Government of Indonesia:
Rp Tillion            US$ million
(equiv)               (equiv)
IDA Credit
Foreign exchange                       4,990                  13.2
Local costs,
approximately 21%                      1,890                   5.3
6,880                  18.5
Government of Indonesia
Local costs,
approximately 79%
of requirements                        7,095                  18.5
Total                                      13 975                  37.0
The IDA credit would contribute US$18.5 million equivalent towards meeting
the presently estimated cost of the project of US$37 million. It would be
equivalent to 50% of the expenditures needed to complete the project, in-
cluding foreign exchange costs and about 21% of estimated local costs.
About 29% of the proposed credit would finance local costs. The Associa-
tion's share of the total financing would be large enough to bring about
necessary organizational changes and improvements in design and implementa-
tion of the project.
1/   Cost estimates have been adjusted in accordance with the exchange re-
forms announced in April 17, 1970.



- 17 -
Procurement and Contracts
4.11      The civil works would be grouped into contracts sufficiently large
to attract interest from experienced contractors. A single contract is ex-
pected to be awarded for the Tarum Main Canals and separate contracts for
each of the irrigation systems. Bids would be advertised according to normal
Bank/IDA procedures and would be open to international competition. However,
in view of the large number of small, geographically scattered works, it is
doubtful whether any foreign contractor would bid. The project cost esti-
mates assume that local contractors would win all contracts but that im-
ported equipment and materials would be required.
4.12      In addition to six large government-owned contractors, 1/ a few
local contractors have the resources to take up contracts of the sizes pro-
posed under the project. The governmlent-owned contractors were formerly
private contractors who were nationalized and established as semi-autonomous
state enterprises by the government in 1960. They have relatively large or-
ganizations with experienced administrative and technical staff, plant and
equipment, workshop facilities and other assets. It would be necessary to
augment their existing plant and equipment in order to complete the project
according to schedule. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
provision would be made in the contracts for foreign currency plant advances,
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, to enable contractors
to import additional plant and equipment, including spare parts. These ad-
vances wotild be limited to a maximum of 15% of the contract price. They
would be recovered in suitable installments from the monthly progress pay-
ments due to the contractors under the contract but ownership of the plant
would remain vested in the government until advances were fully repaid and
work under the contract were completed. The consultants would certify that
the equipment purchased was both suitable and necessary for the project.
4.13      The government-owned contractors had been enjoying government
patronage on all public construction activity in the country and it is com-
mon practice to allocate government construction jobs to them without in-
viting competitive bidding. Such practices have not only retarded the de-
velopment of private contractors in the country but led to corruption and
inefficiency. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Author-
ity would award all contracts to bona fide contractors and purchase all
imported electrical and mechanical equipment, materials and supplies on
the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association. Work on the rehabilitation of the tertiary
networks, costing about US$3 million, would be carried out on force account
using voluntary labor to the maximum possible extent.
1/   The Army Corps of Engineers also has the necessary resources but it is
not considered to be a suitable organization to undertake project works
because of the difficulty of enforcing proper supervision by consultants.



- 18 -
4.14      Communications, transport and maintenance equipment would be
procured by international competitive bidding. The maintenance equipment
would not be required until 1974 and the list given in Annex 7 would be
reviewed by the Authority and the Association before invitations to bid
were issued.
Disbursement
4.15      The total cost of civil works contracts is estimated at nearly
US$17 million equivalent; about US$9.7 million would be disbursed from
the credit account:
-    up to US$2.5 million to meet the full c.i.f. cost of approved
equipment and spares purchased from Bank Group member coun-
tries and Switzerland by contractors (see para 4.12);
-    the remainder as a percentage (50%) of certified monthly
progress payments.
The full c.i.f. cost (estimated at US$2.2 million) of communications and
maintenance equipment would be disbursed in accordance with IDA's normal
procedures. Disbursements for consultants' services would cover the full
cost of foreign exchange payments (US$2.3 million). An unallocated sum
(US$4.3 million) would be available to meet unforeseen contingencies or
price increases in any categorv; unspent balances would be cancelled.
4.16      Under the present construction schedule expenditures would be ap-
proximately as follows:
1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975   Total
U---------    Us  million -----------------
Government contribution        0.6    3.1    5.6    5.6    2.9    0.7    18.5
IDA credit                     0.8    3.3    5.3    5.3    3.2    0.6    18.5
Total                1.4    6.4   10.9   10.9    6.1    1.3    37.0



- 19 -
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. The Dlatiluhur Authority
5.01      Government has decided to entrust the development of the Djatiluhur
region to a multipurpose, semi-autonomous Authority. The Djatiluhur Author-
ity ("Otorita D1atiluhur") has been established by a Government Regulation,
which is reproduced in full in Annex 9. The objectives of the Authority are
defined in Article 5 as:
".a.    to operate, maintain and develop the reservoir, main
dam, hydroelectric power station and infrastructure
of water supply and irrigation systems;
b.    to utilize all assets of the Authority for the cre-
ation of funds to be used for the operation, main-
tenance and amortization of project costs and region-
al development...;
c.    to conduct activities in other fields within bound-
aries of what is technically feasible and socially
acceptable;..."
5.02      During its early years, the Authority would receive its funds from
the development budget. It would prepare annual, and if necessary supple-
mentary, budgets which would be approved by the Minister of State for Econo-
my, Finance and Industry. Actual allocations of the funds approved in the
development budget are made at the beginning of each quarter. However, ex-
perience has shown that these allocations are often delayed. Since this
could have serious consequences in a project involving contract work, the
Association obtained assurances during negotiations that sufficient liquid
funds to cover the budgeted expenditure for each quarter would be made
available to the Authority at least 30 days before the first day of the
quarter.
5.03      The Regulation (Article 8) states that the Authority will become
financially independent, relying for its revenues on charges for the use of
water for irrigation, sale of power, and sale of water for non-agricultural
purposes. The collection of irrigation charges would be the responsibility
of the established local or provincial institutions. It would be a condi-
tion of effectiveness that the provincial authorities had enacted satisfac-
tory regulations providing for the establishment and collection of charges
and for paying the proceeds to the Authority.
5.04      The Authority would have its own accounts, which would be subject
to annual audit, and would create its own reserves from profits on its oper-
ations. Net profits, after provision for depreciation, would be allocated
as follows (Article 20):



- 20 -
-    55% to the development fund
-    20% to the general reserve until the fund reached twice
the Authority's capital after which the amounts
available could be allocated to other uses by gov-
ernment regulation
-    25% to a pension fund, subsidies to personnel, social
affairs and education, and production incentives.
5.05      The Authority would be managed by a Board of Directors consisting
of a President Director (Project Manager) and at least three Directors, see
Organization Chart. The Directors would be appointed, for a term of five
years, by the Government upon the recommendation of the Minister;  the mem-
bers of the Board have been nominated and would be appointed immediately af-
ter signing of the proposed credit. Article 11 specifies the circumstances
under which members of the Board can be dismissed and assurances were ob-
tained during negotiations that the Association would be informed of the
name, qualifications and experience of any nominee for a vacancv, and would
be given a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with government on his
suitability for the post.
5.06      The general policies to be followedi by the Authority would be de-
termined by the Minister of State for Economy, Finance and Industry (Article
13) but the Explanation, which forms a part of the Regulation, states that
the Minister would be assisted by a Council comprising the Ministers of Pub-
lic Works and Power, Home Affairs, Finance, and Agriculture. The Governors
of West Java and the Special District of Djakarta would attend meetings of
the Ministerial Council.  The Governor of West Java would continuallv super-
vise the Authority to ensure that the general policies laid down bv the Min-
isterial Council are implemented.
5.07      The Authority would have the power to enter into contracts and to
sue or be sued. The Board would appoint and dismiss staff in accordance
with the demands of sound project administration. Subject to the consent
of the Minister, the Board can establish salarv scales and penision schemes
and staff could be transferred to the Authority from other institutions or
regional services.
5.08      The Authority's personnel would largely be recruited from among
the existing provincial staff of Ministries and PROSIDJAT. The staff now
organized into the sub-provincial offices at Purwakarta and in sections
working within the respective district organizations would be transferred.
This transfer, which would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
credit, will be carried out upon directive of the government.
5.09      The Regulation establishing the Authority provides for the liquida-
tion of PROSIDJAT and the Djatiluhur Tertiary Canal Board, whose assets would
be taken over, if appropriate, and constitute the capital of the Authority.



- 21 -
The function, as well as the existing organization and assets of P. N.
Djatiluhur 1/, also would be subsumed under the unified management of the
Authority, including the generation and sale of electric power from the
dam. This would constitute an exception to the requirement under the IDA-
assisted power project (Credit 165-IND) that PLN (the state-owned electric
power company currently buying bulk power from P. N. Djatiluhur) be given
sole responsibility for power in Indonesia by 1971. In the interests of
efficiently coordinated multipurpose operation of the reservoir, however,
it would be advisable to place the power station under the Authority's
unified management.
Operation and Maintenance
5.10      There would be three Directors of the Authority with separate re-
sponsibilities for irrigation, power and general administration; see Organi-
zation Chart. The Director (Irrigation) would be responsible for imple-
menting the rehabilitation program and for maintenance and operation of the
irrigation system. The Director (Power) would maintain and operate the
Djatiluhur dam and power plant while the Director (Administration) would be
responsible for administration, budgeting, finance, public relations and
other common activities.
5.11      During construction, the irrigation system would be divided into
five main units consisting of Tarum Main Canals including Tjurug Barrage,
North Tarum, Tjipunegara, East Tarum and West Tarum Irrigation Systems.
There would be a Sub-Project Director in charge of each unit who would be
responsible for implementing the rehabilitation program as well as for main-
tenance and operation of the existing irrigation works. The Sub-Project Di-
rectors would be responsible to the Director (Irrigation). The existing
maintenance and operation staff would be strengthened and would be further
augmented when the works were fully rehabilitated. The ultimate organiza-
tion for maintenance and operation would consist of three irrigation divi-
sions or districts, one each for North Tarum (80,000 ha), East Tarum - in-
cluding Tjipunegara System - (86,000 ha) and West Tarum (87,000 ha). The
East and West Tarum Divisions would also be responsible for maintenance of
the Main Tarum Canals in their respective areas. In addition to the three
irrigation divisions, there would be a fourth division for maintenance and
operation of TJurug Barrage and pumping plants and for overall coordination,
regulation and distribution of water supply to the irrigation divisions.
Each division would be headed by a senior engineer and would consist of
four sub-divisions each covering an area of about 20,000 ha. The engineer-
ing staff of the four divisions would ultimately consist of four senior en-
gineers, sixteen engineers, sixty-four junior engineers or experienced semi-
graduate supervisors and complementary technicians and administrative staff.
I/   Excluding functions and assets associated with P. N. Djatiluhur's
present activities in tourism and as a civil works contractor.



- 22 -
5.12      In view of the almost total lack of maintenance of the system in
the past few years and to avoid a recurrence of the present situation in
the future, assurances were obtained during negotiations that all necessary
maintenance of the works would be carried out promptly as needed, and not de-
ferred or postponed, and that government would provide adequate funds for
th:.s purpose in the event that the Authority's revenues were insufficient
for proper maintenance.
Operation and Maintenance Cost
5.13      Operation and maintenance work on the existing irrigation system
is inadequate due to shortage of funds as well as to lack of experienced
maintenance staff. Since the rehabilitation works on these systems would
incorporate deferred maintenance, no immediate attempt would be made to
lntensify maintenance of these works except to the extent necessary to
maintain the present irrigation supplies to the areas. Full operation and
maintenance activities in the systems would commence upon complete rehabili-
tation of each system.
5.14      Cost estimates for operation and maintenance of the svstems after
completion of the rehabilitation program have been based on experience on
similar types of projects in Asian countries, assuming that the present
salary structure of staff would be adjusted upwards and brought to a com-
parable level. Annual maintenance and operations costs on the project, ex-
cluding the costs on Djatiluhur dam and power plant, would amount to Rp 1,676
(US$4.45) per ha. Annual maintenance and operation cost, excluding depre-
ciation, interest and amortization costs, on Djatiluhur dam and power plant
as actually incurred during fiscal year 1968 amounted to Rp 371 million
(US$1 million). The allocation of costs of the dam to irrigation, power
and other purposes has not yet been determined by the Authority. In a re-
port on cost allocation of Djatiluhur dam submitted in May 1969 by a
Japanese study team to the Steering Committee for the Indonesia National
Power Study, it was proposed to allocate 51.5% of the cost of the dam to
irrigation. On this basis, which is considered reasonable, the proportionate
share of maintenance and operation cost allocable to irrigation would be
about Rp 191 million (US$0.5 million) or about Rp 750 (US$2) per ha. The
total annual cost of maintenance and operation of the irrigation system, in-
cluding the allocated maintenance and operation cost of the dam, would be
therefore approximately Rp 2,500 (US$6.40) per ha.
Recovery of Project Costs
5.15      A Presidential Instruction 1/ gives provincial authorities power
to levy charges to recover the cost of rehabilitating irrigation svstems
but, as yet, no authority has started collection of water charges. The
Regulation establishing the Authority (Article 8 and the Explanation) place
an obligation upon the Governors of West Java and the Special District of
Djakarta "...to bring into exlstence and implementation Provincial Regula-
tions which ensure:
1/   Presidential Instruction No. 1 of 1969.



- 23 -
(a)  that the water charges to be transferred to the Otorita
Djatiluhur will initially cover minimally the cost of
operation and maintenance of systems attributable to ir-
rigation and water supply;
(b)  that the above minimum level of water charges will be
used to determine the level at which they can contribute
to repayment of project cost and the cost of further de-
velopment..."
The Regulation does not prescribe specific timings for attaining the minimal
level. Assurances were therefore obtained during negotiations that collec-
tions would be sufficient to cover the full cost of operation and maintenance
of each section of the system within two years of completion of rehabilita-
tion of that section.  Further, assurances were obtained that collections
would be sufficient to recover a reasonable portion of the capital cost over
the useful lifetime of the project.
5.16      On the basis of representative farm budgets (para 6.07), farmers
could be reasonably expected, without impairing incentives, to pay annual
charges of Rp 5,000 (US$13.20) per ha on land suitable for double cropping
but onlv about Rp 1,500 (US$4) where it was technically impossible to pro-
vide water for the second crop. After deducting the cost of operation and
nmaintenance of the system and the dam (Rp 2,500, para 5.14) this level of
charges would provide Rp 446.4 million annually to the recovery of project
costs and thus permit full recovery - without interest - within the project's
economic life of 30 vears.
Supporting Services
5.17      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that, as each part of
the irrigation system is rehabilitated or completed, the government would
provide adequate supporting services, including appropriate farm inputs and
extension services. These would be made available for the first crop follow-
ing rehabilitation and would be made available thereafter for the duration
of the project. In areas where full irrigation is available during the sea-
son, the package would be made available for both wet and dry season crops.
Assurances were also obtained that a monitoring program under the supervision
of the Authority would be introduced to follow up on the benefits of the
project and to determine the appropriateness of the farm inputs recommended.
B. Other Systems
5.18      The Tjiudjung, Pemali-Tjomal and Sadang areas are widely scattered
and could not be effectively controlled by a semi-autonomous agency similar
to the Djatiluhur Authority; similarly, each area individually is too small
to justify its own agency. The organization and management of these areas



- 24 -
during and after rehabilitation, therefore, would follow the pattern estab-
lished in the first Irrigation Rehabilitation project. Planning and execu-
tion of rehabilitation works would be carried out by PROSIDA, a unit of the
MPWP established by ministerial decree for the specific purpose of executing
IDA-assisted rehabilitation projects. After rehabilitation, the operation
and maintenance of the systems would revert to the provincial authorities,
who are responsible to the Ministry of Home Affairs.
5.19      Under the Third Irrigation Rehabilitation Project recommendations
will be made for strengthening PROSIDA and for improving the operation and
maintenance of irrigation systems after rehabilitation. The consultants'
services provided under the present project would help to improve PROSIDA's
operational and administrative capability.
5.20      The MPWP in general, and PROSIDA in particular, have adequate re-
sources to make full use of the consultants' services to be provided, until
March 1971, under the proposed credit.
VI. PRODUCTION, PRICE PROSPECTS, AND FARM INCOME IN THE
DJATILUHUR IRRIGATION SYSTEM
Production
6.01      The rehabilitation of the Djatiluhur system would result in a bet-
ter regulated crop water supply to the whole area as well as an expansion of
the area which can be irrigated for a second crop during the dry season.
This improved crop water supply would, furthermore, considerably enhance the
yield response to other inputs which are presently uneconomic. Rice is the
only crop on irrigated land at the present time and the project has been
evaluated in terms of increased rice production. The projected annual in-
creases in area, yield and production are shown below:



- 25 -
Cropped Area            Yield            Production
Present   Future   Present   Future   Present   Future
'000 ha ---   ---- ton/ha ----   --- '000 ton ---
of stalk paddy      of milled rice
Without Other Inputs
Wet season           186      186        3.0       3.5       279       326
Dry season           108      186        2.0      2.5        108       232
Annual Total         294       372                           387       558
(Cropping
intensity)        (158%)   (200%)
With Other Inputs
Wet season            -        186        -        5.0        -        465
Dry season            -        186        -        4.0        -        372
Annual Total                   372                                     837
(Cropping
intensity)                 (200%)
Price Prospects
6.02      At the time of appraisal the farm-gate price for dry stalk paddy
was Rp 10 per kg, which was considerably below world market values. In No-
vember 1969, government announced a support price for the 1969/70 season
of Rp 16 per kg stalk paddy at the mill, equivalent to a farm-gate price of
about Rp 14.5 per kg when due allowance is made for weight changes during
drying and for transport costs. Thin is equivalent to about US$106 per ton
c.i.f. Djakarta, or somewhat less than current prices for imported Burmese
rice of equivalent grades (about $140 per ton) but above the Bank's projec-
tion for the mid-1970s of US$100 f.o.b. Rangoon. However, when a comparison
is made at the point at which flows of imported and domestic rice merge -
the inland warehouse - the farm-gate price of Rp 14.5 per kg stalk paddy is
approximately equivalent to projected future world rice prices; this price
has therefore been used in the economic evaluation of the project.
Incremental Farm Incomes
6.03      There are about 372,000 farm families, or about 2 million people,
in the project area. The average farm now grows about 0.5 ha of paddy dur-
ing the wet season, and about 0.3 ha in the dry season, or a total of 0.8
ha per year. Almost all families also grow some dry land crops, notably
fruit, and obtain some income from livestock, by working for other farmers,
or from non-farm activities.



- 26 -
6.04      As a result of rehabilitation all land in the Djatiluhur area
could be double cropped once the project is completed. The average area
of paddy would increase to 0.5 ha in dry season, or to 1.0 ha per year,
and yields would increase. There might be increased opportunity for earn-
ing wages at harvest time but, in general, the other sources of income
!qould not be greatly affected by the project. Therefore only increases in
income from rice are consldered here.
6.35      The average income from rice of a farm family of six persons is
now roughly US$126, including the value of farm produce consumed. The im-
provements brought about by the project would produce a net incremental in-
come of about US$37, raising the farm income to about US$163. With exist-
ing water supplies, the incremental benefit from additional inputs is now
very low in the project area, i.e. less than US$2 per family. With the im-
provements resulting from the project, benefits from similar inputs would
be .!uch greater and the net incremental income of a farm family using these
inputs properly would be US$92, raising the farm income to US$218.
6.06      The crop tax of 5% (para 2.12) has been deducted in calculating
the above incomes. However, they do not take account of the many, but un-
quantifiable, unofficial "taxes" and extra-legal payments extorted from
farmers by local military, police and civilian authorities. The actual
present incomes are undoubtedly much lower than the US$20-25 per capita
suggested by the above farm incomes. Even with the project, per capita
incomes are unlikely to rise much above US$25-30 because of increasing
population.
6.07      The increases in farmi income resulting from the project - US$37
without, and US$92 with, other inputs - are adequate to pay the water charges
proposed in para 5.16, i.e. Rp 5,000 per ha per annum or about US$6.6o per
farm. If the farmer did not use other inputs, the water charges would ab-
sorb less than 20% of his incremental income; in view of the greater effort
involved in expanding the area of crops from 0.8 to 1.0 ha annually and
the relatively low family incomes, this level of charges is reasonable and
would provide strong incentives to adopt more production measures. If the
farmer did use other inputs, his water charges would absorb only about b%
of his incremental income.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. The Diatiluhur Ssytem
Food Pduto   Itoe  a   For.igSn Exchange_ S a"I n1p
7.0l      At full produLCtion, assuming complete coverage with complementary
farm inputs, the project area would produce about 837,000 tons of milled rice
each year, more than double the present level of 387,000 tons.  Annual per
capita rice constmlption is presently about 80 kg. If, as a result of higher
incomes in the area, this were to increase to thie standard government rice



- 27 -
ration, 100 kg, the area's total population of about 3 million would consume
locallv about 300,000 tons a year, leaving more than half a million tons
available to supply neighboring cities and rice-deficit areas, particularly
Djakarta, where present rneeds are met by imports using scarce foreign ex-
change. As a result of the project, therefore, the area's exportable rice
surplus would increase by about 390,000 tons over its present level, en-
abling gross foreign exchange savings of about US$40 million a year.
7.02      Initially, the project would require imported inputs, including
about 38,000 m tons of nitrogenous, and 18,000 m tons of phosphatic fertil-
izer; pesticides; and sprayers. Under the existing BIMAS Gotong Rojong
program these Inputs, and associated expatriate advisers, would cost about
US$10 million, reducing the project's net annual foreign exchange savings
to about US$30 million. However, Indonesia expects to attain self-
sufficiency in nitrogenous fertilizer by 1975/76 1/ and the need for ex-
patriate assistance in the BIMAS programs should diminish. The cost of
imported inputs should therefore decrease to about US$5 million by the time
the project reaches full development in 1977, and net annual foreign ex-
change savings should reach US$35 million. The benefits of the project
would begin to accrue soon after work commences, because each sub-system
would produce incremental production as soon as rehabilitation was completed.
Production would begin to increase in 1971/72, when foreign exchange savings
would be about US$2 million.
7.03      As noted in para 2.02, the Five-Year Plan aims at self-sufficiency
in rice by 1974. If full use were made of complementary inputs, the in-
creased production from Djatiluhur would be about half of the present level
of imports. However, even if self-sufficiency were obtained in 1974/75,
the further annual increases in Indonesia's rice requirements, as a result
of increasing population and income growth, would call for additions to pro-
duction of which the Djatiluhur output would be part. The project is there-
fore unlikely to produce or contribute to a surplus.
Economic Benefits and Rate of Return
7.04      As noted in para 6.01, the direct benefits of the project have
been quantified in terms of increased rice production alone. The demonstra-
tion effect of improved methods on unirrigated crops; the benefits of in-
creased employment on project works and in related sectors of the economy;
1/   IDA has made a US$30 million credit for the expansion of the PUSRI
fertilizer plant: USAID, the Asian Development Bank, and Japan have
joined in financing, totalling about US$68 million. The expanded
plant would raise Indonesia's supply of urea to 578,000 tons, compared
with an estimated demand of 540,000 tons, by 1975/76.



- 28 -
and improvements in the efficiency of power generation and water supplies
for non-agricultural uses would be further significant benefits of the pro-
ject but cannot be quantified.
7.05      The rate of return to the economy from the rehabilitation of the
irrigation system would be about 29%. If inputs such as fertilizer, pest-
icides, etc. were used on the whole area after rehabilitation, the return
to rehabilitation and these inputs combined would be about 45%. The assump-
tions on which these calculations are based are fully described in Annex 10.
In particular, family labor has been included in full as a production cost;
the opportunity cost of this labor is probably much less than the full cost,
especially in those areas which are not now double cropped, and the rates of
return are therefore conservative.
7.06      The sensitivity of the economic rate of return of the project to
various factors is shown in Annex 10. If construction works are delayed,
go that full production is achieved two years later than estimated (i.e.,
in 1979), the rate of return would fall to 25% (37% if additional inputs
are used); an increase of 30% in project costs would have a similar ef-
fect.
7.07      The project is, however, very sensitive to world rice prices.  The
rates of return given in para 7.05, 29% (45% with other inputs), assume that
the price of equivalent grades of Burmese rice will fall from their present
level, about US$137 per m ton, to US$100 f.o.b. Rangoon by 1975. If the
price fell to only US$110, the rate of return would be 46% (76% with other
inputs). On the other hand, if the price fell as low as US$90, the rate of
return would be only 12%, or 21% if other inputs were used.
B. Other Systems
7.08      There would be no quantifiable benefits from the consultants' ser-
vices which would be provided in Tjiudjung, Pemali-Tjomal and Sadang. How-
ever, the use of consultants would substantially improve the quality of
planning and design work and accelerate implementation of rehabilitation
works. These factors would be reflected in increased benefits to the project
which would result from their work and would amplv justifv the cost of their
services.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained, amongst others, that:
(a)  consultants acceptable to the Association will be emploved,
on matisfsctorv terms and conditions hv the Djatlluhur Author-
lt "18et 1v b lyw';



- 29-
(b) tenders for civil works will be grouped in large blocks and
special plant advances will be made available to contractors;
(c) the Authority's revenue from water charges will cover fully
its estimated cost of operation and maintenance by the end
of the second year in each section and a reasonable portion
of capital costs will be recovered;
(d) the Association will be afforded an opportunity to exchange
views with government if it becomes necessary to make changes
in the appointments to the posts of President - Director and/
or Director; and
(e) the Authority will be provided funds for each quarter, 30 days
before the beginning of that quarter.
8.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit would be the
transfer of the necessary irrigation and other staff to the Authority.
8.03      With these assurances the project is suitable for an IDA Credit,
on standard terms, of US$18.5 million equivalent.  ThF,borrower would be
the Government of Indonesia.                            t






ANNEX 1
INDONESIA
SECOND IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
AGRICULTURE
Climate and Variety of Rice
1.        Indonesia is in an equatorial region and there are only Slight
differences in day length and temperature throughout the year. The daily
average temperature is somewhere between 25' and 27C. Rainfall in the
coastal areas of northwest Java averages about 1,600 mm annually.
2.        Local rice varieties are generally of the indica type.  Some of
the local varieties belong to the "bulu" group, an awned rice that is
intermediate in its characteristics between indica and laponica.
3.        The local unimproved varieties commonly grown are short or medium
grain, medium to long season types that mature in about 130 to 160 days
after seedling emergence. The local improved varieties, e.g. "Syntha" and
"Dara" are medium season varieties that mature in 140 to 150 days; another
improved variety, "Bengawan", is a long season type maturing In 160 days.
The improved varieties, PB-5 and PB-8 (see below) mature in about 125 to
135 days. Other varieties, maturing in 160 days, may be selected for the
dry season crop.
4.        PB-5 variety is the same as IRRI 5-47-2, a cross between "Peta,"
an Indonesian indica variety, and "Tangkai Rotan", a Malaysian indica va-
riety. PB-8 (or IRRI 8-288-3) is a cross between "Peta" and "Taichung
(Nl)," a Taiwan laponica variety. The breeding of these new varieties
was carried out at the International Rice Research Institute at Los Banos,
Philippines. The Indonesian identification, PB, stands for "Peta Baru"
or "new Peta." Yields of these varieties can range up to 5 to 8 tons/ha
rough rice ("gabah"), and in one research plot, a yield of 9.7 tons/ha rough
rice was obtained.
5.        Despite these high yields, large scale acceptance of these new
high-yielding, nitrogen responsive varieties by Javanese rice farmers has
not yet occurred. Even in those areas where increased rice production is
being encouraged under the Government's BIMAS Program (BIMAS is an abbre-
viation for "Bimbingan Masaal Swa Sembada Bahan Makanan", which means
literally "overall guidance for self-sufficiency in foodstuffs") the im-
proved varieties are grown on less than 10% of the rice land. The people
say that grain from PB-5 and PB-8 has a poor taste and smell and they pre-
fer a rice that is more sticky. In some cases grain from the old "bulu"
varieties is mixed with grain of the new varieties to enhance the flavor
and smell. Also, the short straw, upright leaves and numerous panicles
make harvesting more difficult in the traditional Javanese method using



ANNEX 1
Page 2
a rice knife "ani-ani" to cut each head one by one. Furthermore, the im-
proved varieties have a higher water requirement but cannot tolerate as
deep a water depth as the old varieties.
Cropping Seasons
6.        Java has distinct wet and dry seasons although the dry seasons
are not as pronounced as in many monsoonal regions. Differences in rain-
fall are sufficiently distinct, however, to cause recognition of wet sea-
son crops and dry season crops. The wet season crop is normally begun in
seed beds in late November through December with transplanting to the
paddies in December and January and harvesting beginning in middle April
and going on until middle June. There is obviously much variation from
this pattern, for in nearly any month of the year rice may be observed
in every growth stage from seedling up through maturity and harvest.
7.        Monthly production records expressed as percentages of total
harvest for West Java are given below. They indicate the peak harvest
months to be May and October, representing the wet and dry season crop
harvests, respectively. The wet season crop accounts for the largest
portion of the gross production.
Month                                Percent of Harvest
January                                        0
February                                      0.5
March                                         4.0
April                                        24.0
May                                          40.0
June                                         12.0
July                                          1.0
August                                        1.0
September                                     4.0
October                                       9.0
November                                      4.0
December                                      0.5
Total:            100.0



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Cultural Practices
8.        Seedbed (Nursery) Preparation - Seedling nurseries are 1/20
to 1/15 of the size of field to be planted. They are thoroughly hoed
and carefully leveled to assure a good uniform, fine mud seedbed. Some-
times seeds are pre-soaked for one to two days to germinate and then
broadcast uniformly in the nursery on the wet soil surface. After about
a week the nursery is flooded and when the plants are 25 to 35 days old
they are transplanted. Under the BIMAS program, an application of ten
grams of urea per square meter of seedbed is recommended.
9.        The recommended seeding rate, using seeds of improved varieties,
is 25 kg/ha. Local varieties are seeded at a rate of about 40 kg/ha be-
cause of poorer quality seed and thus lower expected germination and also
because the farmers transplant more densely and therefore require more
seedlings.
10.       Seeds are only rarely treated with a fungicide.  For early in-
sect control, seedlings may be sprayed with endrin, or the leaves of the
transplants are dipped in an endrin solution prior to being set out in the
paddy.
11.       Fertilization - The Bureau pour le Developpement de la Production
Agricole (BDPA), a French technical assistance group, carried out fertilizer
trials and demonstrations in the Djatiluhur area. During 1968/69, 220 plots
were laid down in the wet season and 248 in the dry season. The optimum
economic response was obtained from improved varieties (PB 5) by the follow-
ing regime:
Corresponding
Time of Application          Nutrient      Practical Application
(kg/ha)            (per ha)
Before transplanting           60 P          100 kg TSP -
45 N         100 kg urea
21 days after transplanting   22.5 N          50 kg urea
55 days after transplanting   22.5 N          50 kg urea
TOTAL:               60 P          100 kg TSP -/
90 N         200 kg urea
1/   TSP - Triple superphosphate.  Double superphosphate or fused magnesium
phosphate may be used, with appropriate adjustment in application
rate.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
12.       If applied to both wet and dry crops, the above regime would
require 200 kg TSP plus 400 kg urea per ha per year. Rates under the
BT'1MAS programs have varied up to 200 kg TSP equivalent plus 300 kg
urea. In estimating production costs and returns for the project, how-
ever, an overall annual application of 100 kg TSP plus 200 kg urea has
been assumed since the experimental results achieved have not yet been
fully proven.
13.       Experimental trials with potash fertilization of rice in Java
have shown that little, if any, response (yield increase) can be obtained.
Hence, potash fertilizers are not used.
14.       Pests and Disease Control - The most serious insect is the
rice stem borer. Control is attempted by spraying with solutions of endrin
(2 cc of endrin concentrate/liter of water) on the seedlings and two weeks
after transplanting, usually by means of a knapsack hand sprayer. Under
some contracts for the BIMAS program, the chemical "dimecron" is applied
aerially.. Light traps are placed in rice fields to catch moths whose
larvae are the stem borer. From counts of moths trapped, timing of spray
applications of insecticides are adjusted to correspond with peak infesta-
tions. Plant tops may be dipped in endrin solutions before transplanting
as mentioned above. Grasshoppers are also controlled with these chemicals.
15.       Rats are a very serious pest, causing losses amounting up to 15%
to 20% of total yields, and damaging dikes. Where control is attempted,
Warfarin, zinc phosphide, and endrin baits are used. Birds are frightened
away from maturing rice by means of various devices that flutter in the
wind or are moved by pulling on a string.
16.       Brown spot (Helminthosporium spp) is the most common disease.
There is usually no attempt to control this disease. Sometimes seeds are
treated with fungicides. Rice blast also occurs but it is considered
unimportant because it affects only leaves and stems and not the panicles.
17.       Land Preparation and Transplanting - While the seedlings are
developing in the nursery, farmers prepare the paddies for transplanting.
Straw from the previous crop is cut by hand. Cultivation typically consists
of hoeing twice and leveling. In West Java farmers with water buffalo plow
the land twice cross-ways and level with a harrow drawn by the water buffalo.
18.       Water Management - Enough water is applied to the paddy to
saturate the soil before plowing, hoeing and leveling. This makes plowing
easier and also results in a well-puddled soil, a condition favoring the
retention of water. After the paddy is cultivated the level of water is
brought to a depth of about 5 cm prior to transplanting. When the trans-
planted rice has re-established a root system and active growth, up to
10 to 14 davs, the water depth is increased to 10-15 cm, or full flood.
Water is drained from the paddy before the first weeding, or two to four
weeks after transplanting. After the weeding, the rice paddy is reflooded
to a depth of 10 to 15 cm. Similarly, the field is drained for the second
weeding and reflooded two or three days after weeding is finished. A full
flood is then maintained until about two weeks before harvesting.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
19.       This kind of management of water represents the ideal obtainable
only when an adequate water supply 18 assured and the design and condition
of the irrigation canal system permit. When the supply is uncertain, the
periodic drainage of the paddy is omitted because the inability to reflood
the field will endanger the growing crop. Because of poorly laid out sys-
tems of tertiary canals and drainage ditches, control of water is often
imperfect and drainage and reflooding is difficult to accomplish. Some
farmers do not drain their rice fields because they wish to conserve water
for the dry season crop, especially where the dry season irrigation water
supply cannot be depended upon. Also, owing to poor layout of tertiary
canals or lack of them, water is passed from one paddy to another without
regard to stage of rice growth. In some cases water is conveyed through
harvested paddies to paddies with immature rice resulting in unnecessary
losses of water. Improvements are badly needed in the layout and main-
tenance of lateral, or tertiary canals to provide for better management
and use of water.
20.       Weeding - The first weeding is done two to four weeks after
planting and the second weeding four to eight weeks later. Weeds are
mostly removed by hand. Where rice is planted in rows, hand-pushed rotary
cultivators are sometimes used. Herbicides are not presently used by
Indonesian rice farmers.
21.       Harvesting - Two weeks prior to harvesting the paddy is usually
drained. Ripened heads are cut singly with a rice knife. Rice crops are
harvested as stalk paddy. Harvesting is almost entirely done by the women
and children. The labor requirement for harvesting is about 40 man days
per ha, at the normal work day of 5 hours.
22.       The stalk paddy is cut about 10 to 30 cm long and tied into
hand-sized bundles. These are carried from the field by women, in cloth
strings over their backs, or by men using shoulder sticks. Sometimes, a
triangular wooden rack is placed at each end of the shoulder stick on
which the bundles are stacked. Transportation along roads is commonly
by bicycle and high-wheeled carts pulled by water buffalo or bullocks.
Generally, this mode of transportation is used only by buyers for trans-
port of rice between villages, to markets, and to mills.
23.       Rice consumed at home is threshed on a dirt, brick, concrete,
or wood floor, by beating the stalk paddy with a stick. Coarse straw is
picked out manually and the chaff separated by winnowing. The rough rice
"gabah" is spread out to dry on woven mats or on floors. This rice is
occasionally stirred with a rake or with the feet. After drying, hulling
is done by placing the "gabah" in a hollowed-out log "lumpang" and pound-
ing it with a heavy stick "alu".
24.       The loosened hulls are separated from the grain by winnowing
several times. It is then put into the "lumpang" and pounded with the
"alu" until the bran is removed, followed again by winnowing. The bran
is saved for feeding livestock and poultry; the hulls are discarded or



ANNEX 1
Page 6
sometimes burned as fuel, and the straw is either left on the field, used
for livestock bedding or in manv other ways such as making paper, baskets,
etc.
25.       Most of the rice in the home is stored as dry stalk paddy but
some is stored as rough rice in bags or bamboo containers. Rice sold
may be delivered as stalk paddy or rough rice and is usually hulled and
milled mechanically.
Wags and Labor Requirements
26.       Wages paid for farm work are usually in kind, on the basis of
a portion or percentage of the crop production. The equivalent values
for the portion paid in kind were computed at Rp 150 per day, without
food, for a mature man, Rp 75 per day for women, and Rp 50 per day for
children doing equivalent farm work.
27.       Estimates of labor requirements for crop production vary con-
siderably, depending upon differences in cultural practices, land and
soil conditions, equipment and farm power available, and many other fac-
tors. Data on typical farms obtained from field surveys in 1969 are sum-
marized in Table 1.
28.       About 300 man days per ha of family labor are required without
BIMAS and 325 man days with BIMAS inputs. This dlfference with BIMAS is
due to additional time required to fertilizer, spray and harvest the in-
creased production. The amount of rice paid for performing farming
operations that are frequently custom hired are as follows:
BIMAS Gotong Rojong Inputs
(fertilizers, insecticides, etc.)         1/6 of total yield
Harvesting                                   1/5 of total yield
Hulling and milling                          1/10 of dry stalk
paddy processed
Bird protection                              1/12 of total yield
Transport from village to rice mill         Rp 15 per 100 kg dry
stalk paddy per one
kilometer.
Farm Income in the Dlatiluhur Area
29.       The size of farms in the Djatiluhur area averages less than one
ha comprised of about 0.5 ha of lowland for rice production, and 0.3 ha of
upland for production of annual field crops, vegetables and fruits. In
monetary terms, the net value of production per ha from upland crops is
estimated to be equivalent to rice. Presently, a second crop of rice in
the dry season is obtained on about 58% of the irrigated area. Thus, on



ANNEX 1
Page 7
the average, each farmer would have the equivalent of 1.1 cropped ha,
assuming 0.3 ha of rice cropped in the dry season.
30.       Most farmers own a few livestock consisting of buffalo, goats,
ducks and chickens, from which some income is obtained, at least for
family subsistence. Also, many farmers work off-farm, except during
the harvest time, to supplement their income. Earnings from livestock
and off-farm work are estimated at Rp 4,500 annually, equivalent to 30
days' employment at Rp 150 per day.
31.       The project would affect only the income from rice.  Annex 2,
Table 1 shows the yields, production costs and returns from the wet and
dry season crops with and without BIMAS-type inputs. The family labor
is valued as the equivalent of 750 kg of stalk paddy - Rp 10,875 - or
about 485 kg rice per ha per crop: this is about 160 kg rice per capita
per annum where two crops are grown.
32.       Annex 2, Table 2 shows the income from rice for an average farm.
Under present conditions, the return to BIMAS-type inputs is very low,
increasing the income by only 5%. By contrast, the better yields and
larger area of dry season crops made possible by the project would increase
the income from rice by 54% or, if BIMAS-type inputs are also used, 90%.
t.l,-  1 Q ri0






SECOND IRRI 1ATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Lbor Heciuirements for -ice Production
(man dn.ys .er hectare)
Qper-tion                                       W7ithout BDlAS TInputs                   With BDhA-3 Inputs
Men     WTomen and                      Men    '.`omen and
Children                               Children
Preparation and Planting Nursery                  10                                       1C
Preparation of Paddy Seedbed                      LO                                       LO
Transplanting                                                 35                                     35
Weeding (2)                                                   60                                      60
Fertilizing:
Nursery                                                                                   1
?-addy                                                                                    5
Spraying (3)                                                                                5
Bird Protection                                               Lo                                      40
Irrigating                                        50                                       50
Harvesting                                                    40                                      50
Xulling                                           20                                       20
Transporting                                       5                                        9
Total                125        175                          l)l0       185
300                                    325                  _






ANNEX 2
Table 1
INDONESIA
SECOND IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Rice Crop Returns and Costs of Production
(Farm-gate Paddy Price = Rp 14.5/kg)
WITHOUT BIMAS
Wet Season              Dry Season
Present    Projected    Present   Pro ecte(
Gross yield (tons of stalk paddy/ha)               3.0          3.5         2.0         2.5
Gross Revenue: Rp per ha                        43,500       50,750        29,000    36,250
Production Costs:
-    - - - - - - - Rp/ha - - - - - - - - -
(a)  Fixed costs                                 10,875      10,875        10,875    10,875
(b)  Harvesting costs                            8,700       10,150         5,800      7,250
(c)  Tax                                         2,175        2537          1.450     1,812
Total production costs                     21,75o       23562         18,125    19.937
Net Return per ha                          21,750       27 188        10,875      1
WITH BIMAS
Wet Season                Dry Season
Present    Projected    Present   Pro.Jecte(
Gross Yield (tons of stalk paddy/ha)               4.0          5.0         3.0         4.0
Gross Revenue: Rp per ha                         58,ooo      72,500        43,500    58,ooo
Production Costs:
-  - - - - - - - - Rn/ha - -    - - - - - _
(a)  Fixed costs                                10,875       10,875        10,875    10,875
(b)  Harvesting costs                           11,600       1h,500         8,700    11,600
(c)  Tax                                          2,900       3,625         2,175      2,900
(d)  BIMAS package incl. interest                10,000      10,000        10,000    10,000
Total production costs                     35,375       39,000        31,750    35.375
Net Return per ha                          22625             0        11,750    22.625



ANNEX 2
Table 2
INDONESIA
SECOND IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
DJATILUHUR AREA
Average Annual Incremental Fann Income From Rice
(Farmgate Paddy Price - Rp 14.5/kg)
Present Situation      After Rehabilitation
Without      With       Without      With
Bimas      Bimas        Bimas      Bimas
Net Income From Crop Production
Wet Season
Rice area, ha                                 ------- 0.5 5_______          0  ---------
return, Rp                                10,875     11,312      13,594      16,750
Dry Season
Trrigated rice area, ha                       -------0.3_-----       --------0.5-------
return, Rp                      3,262      3.525       8,156       11,312
lotal Annual Family Income From Rice             14,137     14.837      21,750      28.062
Incremental Income from Rice-                                700       7.613      13925
1/
Percentage Increase-/                                          5          5           98.E
1/ Compared to present situation without Bimas.
May 1970



ANNEX 3
INDONESIA
SECOND IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
EXISTING IRRIGATION WORKS: DJATILUHUR IRRIGATION SYSTEM
Pre-Diatiluh     Iation S stem
1.        Prior to the construction of the Djatiluhur Dam and the East
and West Tarum Main Canals in 1967, the Project Area was served by two
major irrigation systems, the North Tarum (80,000 ha) and Tijipunegara
(37,000 ha) which were fed by Tjitarum and Tjipunegara respectively. In
addition there were minor irrigation systems receiving irrigation supplies
from Tjilamaja, Tjiherang and Tjidjengkol in the East Tarum (about 8,000
ha) and from Tjikarang and Bekasi in the West Tarum (about 7,000 ha).
These systems were defined as "Technical Irrigation Systems" where diver-
sion barrages, and irrigation channels were constructed and maintained by
the Department of Public Works. In addition to these, there were small
"Semi-Technical Systems" where some parts of the waterworks were con-
structed as permanent structures while the other parts, specially the
channels, were temporary which were maintained by the farmers in the
respective villages. A third system of irrigation called the "Swampy
Sawa" was also practiced, especially in the West Tarum area where the
rice fields were irrigated from swamps which were fed from drainage and
overflow from rivers during the wet season.
2.        The technical irrigation systems suffered from occasional short-
age of water in the months of November and April in the wet season while
the supplies in the dry season from May to October where wholly inadequate
to support a second rice crop over the full area. The area irrigated in
North Tarum was only 25,000 ha in the dry season while in Tjipunegara
and East Tarum, it seldom exceeded 6,000 and 2,500 ha respectively. The
systems suffered from flood damage during the wet season. The total area
affected annually by floods was estimated as 31,500 ha.
Dtatiluhur Dam
3.        A scheme for utilization of Tjitarum, the third largest river
in Java, for irrigation of the Project area was under consideration for
some time but concrete proposals to construct a storage dam on Tjitarum
near the village Djatiluhur, about 12 km west of Parwakarta town, were
first initiated by FAO experts in 1947. Site investigations and prelim-
inary works were started in 1954. Coyne et Bellier of France were ap-
pointed as consulting engineers and the construction contract was awarded
to a French Consortium of Contractors with Compagnie Francaise d'eutreprises
as the sponsor. Active construction was started in 1956 and the river was
successfully diverted in 1957. The main dam was completed in 1965 and



ANNEX 3
Page 2
the two auxiliary dams in 1966/67. By 1967 all the five power units were
commissioned and the power station was connected to the West Java Grid
at Djakarta and Bandung by 150 kV transmission lines. The main features
of the Djatiluhur system are as follows:
Main Dam:
Earth and Rock-fill type with a sloping impervious core,
1,200 m long at crest, maximum height 105 m above foundations,
crest level at El 114.5 m., total volume of fill 9.1 million
m3.
Auxiliary Dams:
Three Auxiliary Dams at low points along the reservoir
periphery, two on the left bank and one on the right, total
length 3 km, total fill 2.5 million m3.
Reservoir:
2
Catchment area 4,500 km , average annual flow of Tjitarum
5,661 million m3, maximum reservoir level at design flood of
8,000 m3/sec estimated at El 111.6 m, gross storage 3,000 m3
at normal reservoir level at El 107 m, live storage 2,000 m3
with reservoir drawn down to minimum level at El 75 m, area
of reservoir 83 sq km reservoir perimeter 150 km.
Spillways:
Circular tower spillway, 90 m in diameter, with 6 open bays,
crest level at El 107 m, capacity 3,000 m3/sec with maximum
water level at El 111.6 m, two concrete tunnels (trailrace)
each capable of discharging 1,500 m3/sec. Auxiliary open spill-
way at the Auxiliary Dam on the east side, maximum capacity 2,000
m3/sec, discharging into the Tjikao, a tributary of Tjitarum
joining the latter below Djatiluhur.
Irrigation Intakes:
Six power penstock along the circular tower spillway, maximum
capacity 45 m3/sec each with minimum reservoir level at El 75, 3.25
m in diameter.
Power Station:
Circular power station in the concrete tower spillway, in-
stalled capacity 5 units of 31,000 kVA each and with space for
a sixth unit for future installation. Power station remote-
controlled from a single control room located near the Switching
Station downstream of the Main Dam. Power transmitted through
two 150 kV transmission lines, one to Djakarta and the other to
Bandung. Average anuual energy output from Power Station estimated
at 700 million kWh.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Estimate Cost:
Total cost about US$300 million equivalent.
4.        The main purposes of the Djatiluhur dam are to provide depend-
able irrigation supplies to 240,000 ha in the Project area, to improve
water supply to the city of Djakarta, to control the floods in Tjitarum
which were causing damage to crops in the Krawang region, and to augment
the power supplies to the West Java Grid. Tourism and fish culture con-
stituted other incidental benefits.
5.        The Djatiluhur Dam is operated by a semi-autonomous state enter-
prise called P. N. Djatiluhur. The structures are in good condition and the
maintenance is adequate. The reservoir storage as well as the power fa-
cilities, however, have not been fully utilized yet. During the calendar
year 1968 the reservoir was drawn to El 91.4 m and only 1,300 of the 2,000
million m3 was utilized for irrigation. The annual production of energy
during the year was 370 million KWH compared to the plant's capability of
700 million KWH.
Tlurug Barrage and Pumping Plants
6.        At Tjurug, about 10 km downstream of Djatiluhur Dam, a new bar-
rage was constructed in 1967 on the Tjitarum to distribute the water sup-
plies from Djatiluhur Reservoir to the East and West Tarum Main Canals
and to the Walahar Barrage downstream. The Turug Barrage is a gated low
concrete dam with a gross storage of 60 million m3 (active storage 10
million m3) which can be utilized to even out the fluctuating releases
from the Djatiluhur Power Plant and provide steady supplies to the main
canals. It has two pumping plants, one on each bank, to feed the East
and West Tarum Main Canals which have higher water levels compared to the
maximum pond level of the barrage. The East Tarum Pumping Plant has 6
electric-driven pumps, 4 of 17.5 m3/sec each and the other 2 of 4 to 10.4
m3/sec capacity each. The maximum lift is 4 m. Power is supplied to the
units from Kosambi Sub-station which is located about 9 km north of Tjurug.
The operation of the plant is frequently interrupted due to breakdown of
power supply. The annual cost of energy to operate the pumping plant is
estimated at Rp 71 million. Although a more dependable source of power
is available at Djatiluhur which is only 10 km south of Turug, there is
no direct transmission line between the two stations. The West Tarum
Pumping Plant has 17 hydraulic-driven pumps, each of 5.5 m3/sec capacity.
The maximum lift is 2 m. The pumps are driven by the hydraulic energy
of the 6 m drop between the upstream and downstream water levels of the
Barrage. For every 2.5 m3/sec flow escaped downstream for use at the
Walaha Barrage, on pump unit of 5.5 m3/sec can be operated. Supplies to
West Tarum Canal, therefore, are dependent on the water escaped downstream
of Tjurug, a condltion which unnecessarily restricts its operation.
7.        Maintenance of the barrage and the pumping plants is poor.  Gates
have not been painted for more than 2 years and no workshop facilities
exist to repair the electrical and mechanical plant. The operating staff
consists of one graduate engineer, 5 technical assistants, 20 foremen and



ANNEX 3
Page 4
165 other staff including unskilled labor. Most of the staff lives in
villages 10 km away as adequate housing facilities do not exist at site.
Present annual budget for maintenance and operation is Rp 80 million of
which Rp 71 million is allocated for power supplies, Rp 10.8 million for
staff salaries and the balance, Rp 8.2 million, for lubricants, spare parts
and other supplies. The funds actually provided during 1968/69 amounted
to only Rp 12 million of which Rp 10.8 million was spent on staff salaries.
East Tarum Main Canal
8.        The East Tarum Main Canal takes off from the right bank pump-
ing plant at Tjurug and outfalls into the Tjipunegara upstream of
Salamdarma Barrage. It has a total length of 67.7 km and a designed
capacity of 83.9 m3/sec in the head reach and 31 m3/sec at the tail.
There are 132 structures on the canal consisting of 53 offtake regula-
tors of secondary and tertiary canals, 61 cross drainages and 18 bridges.
The canal supplies are integrated with river supplies from Tjidjenkol,
Tjilamaja/Tjiherang, Tjiasern, Tjigadung and Tjipunegara in order to
meet the full irrigation requirements of 49,039 ha of East Tarum and
37,000 ha of Tjipunegara system.
9.        Construction of the canal was started in 1960 in several reaches
in a hurry without adequate investigations and design studies. In April
1968, it was operated permaturelv to satisfy the ptessing demands for ir-
rigation water in the dry season. All these factors resulted in serious
damage to the canal and the structures and lack of maintenancce accelerated
the deterioration process. Within one year of operation, the canal ca-
pacity reduced from 83.9 to 35 m3/sec at Tumbeland (6-7 km of canal); from
52.3 to 17.5 m3/sec at Tjikadung (35-36 km of canal); and from 37 m3/sec
to zero at the tail. Besides general deterioration of the canal throughout
its length, the special problems mentioned above seriously affected the
operation of the canal. They are described briefly in the following
paragraphs.
10.       The East Tarum Canal at Tambelang passes through a 30 m deep
cut for a distance of about 300 m. The top 4-6 m of the cut consists of
permeable laterite soil derived from long weathering of clays. Below this
level, the soils are clays of varying characteristics with bedding layers
of nondular concretions. The canal cuts were made in a series of steps
to an overall side slope of 2:1. When water was introduced into the canal
the lower levels of clay were saturated and sloughed into the canal sec-
tion. The process was accelerated by the surface drainage on both sides
which seeped through the permeable laterite soil saturing the upper layers
which successively slid down into the canal section and attained a new
side slope of approximately 3:1.
11.       At Tjikedung, the canal passes through a broad and deep valley.
Below the ground surface of the valley, there was a continuous layer of
peat 2-3 m thick below the right canal bank and 3-6 m thick below the
left bank. Construction of the 15 m high canal banks was started vithout



ANNEX 3
Page 5
any site investigations. During construction it was noticed that the left
bank was sinking at the rate of 10 cm per day and when the bank was finished
to top level it subsided suddenly by 3 m which was made up by additional
fill. Subsequent investigations of the foundations revealed the existence
of the peat layer. Steps are now being taken to extend the Tjikedung cul-
vert in order to widen and strengthen the canal banks.
12.       At the tail of the canal, a gated outfall regulator was con-
structed to prevent backwater flow into the canal during floods in the
Tjipunegara. As the main river channel was about 500 m away from the
regulator, an outfall channel was also constructed to escape the canal
supplies into the river upstream of the Salamdarma Barrage. During the
1968 floods there was a backflow into the canal as the regulator gates
got jammed and could not be fully closed. The tail reach of the canal
as well as the outfall channel below the regulator were silted up. Ex-
cavation of the silted canal has been started but remedial works are
necessary to avoid recurrence of the same problem.
West Tarum Main Canal
13.       The West Tarum Main Canal takes off from the left bank pumping
plant at Tjurug and outfalls into the Tjiluwung river. It has a total
length of 69.8 km and a designed capacity of 85 m3/sec at Tjurug and 14
m3/sec at the tail. There are 160 structures on the canal of which, 53
are off-take regulators of secondary and tertiary canals, 81 drainage
crossings, and 26 bridges. The canal supplies are integrated with river
flows of Tjibeet, Tjikerang and Bekasi in order to meet the full irriga-
tion requirements of 87,131 ha of the West Tarum system.
14.       The canal was constructed without adequate investigation during
the same period as the East Tarum Canal. Premature operation and lack of
adequate maintenance resulted in a general deterioration of the canal
throughout its length and a major problem at Tjikirindjing between 8 km
and 10 km of the canal reduced the capacity to 5 m3/sec. Here the canal
was constructed in high filling across a deep valley with a drainage culvert
in the center. As the canal bed was 4 m above the ground surface, seepage
through the left bank, which was narrow, saturated the clay beds and a
slip occurred which ruptured the upstream end of the drainage culvert.
A steel flume was installed in the canal section to reduce saturation
and failure of the left bank and to partially restore the capacity to 20
m3/sec. The damaged portion of the culvert is now being removed and the
culvert extended to widen and strengthen the left bank.
Irrigation Systems
15.       North Tarum (80,000 ha) and Tjipunegar (37,000 ha) see (Maps 1
and 3) are the major existing irrigation systems in the Project area which
were constructed in 1925 and 1905 respectively. Lack of adequate mainte-
nance has resulted in considerable deterioration of the systems. Poor
drainage, especially near the coastal region, and frequent damage by
floods, are additional problems which are adversely affecting the crops.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
16.       In East Tarum (49,039 ha) (see Map 2) isolated small irriga-
tion systems fed by Pundong Barrage on the Tjikerang, Barugbug Barrage
on the Tjilamaja and Tjidjengkol Barrage on Tjidjengkol existed before
the construction of the East Tarum Canal. Two new barrages were con-
structed, the Tjiasem Barrage on Tjiasem and the Diatiredja Barrage on
Tjigadung, to integrate the supplies from the rivers into the system.
Inadequate maintenance, incomplete tertiary system, especially on the
secondary canals taking off directly from the East Tarum Canal and poor
drainage are the important drawbacks in the system.
17.       The West Tarum System (87,131 ha)(see Map 4) is mostly undeveloped.
A barrage was constructed on Bekasi in 1959 to integrate its supplies into
the system. As most of the secondary canals have not been constructed,
the system cau irrigate only about 20,000 ha. Several swamps exist in the
northern part of the area and detailed surveys and investigations would be
necessary for extending the irrigation and drainage facilities to the new
areas.
MIay 1970



ANNEX 4
INDONESIA
SECOND IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
WATER SUPPLY AND REQUIREMENTS OF DJATILUHUR IRRIGATION SYSTEM
Water Supply
1.        Rainfall in the Djatiluhur area is characterized by a wet west
monsoon season from November to April and a dry east monsoon season from
May to October. About 70% of the rainfall occurs in the wet season. The
driest period is from June to September with only about 12% of the annual
rainfall. Sufficient number of raingauge stations exist in the area with
records of observations since 1931. The average rainfall at three typical
stations representing the mountain catchments of the rivers, the present
irrigation area and the coastal region is given below:
Average Rainfall
Bandung               Krawang              _Dakarta
Period           Rainfall   No. of    Rainfall   No. of   Rainfall    No. of
rainy                 rainy                  rainy
_______      n.mm     days        mm        days        mm         days
Nov.                265       18.5         191       10.2        155       12.3
Dec.                245       18.6         189       10.3        198       14.1
Jan.                236       18.0         303       14.2        334       18.9
Feb.                196       17.0         234       11.3        241       17.4
March               227       19.7         207       11.3        201        15.6
April               189       18.4         159        8.8        141       11.3
Total Wet Season 1,358       110.2       1,283       66.1     1,270        89.6
May                 136       13.1         118        6.2        113         9.2
June                 81        9.2          73        4.9         97         7.2
July                 60        6.0          56        3.5         61        6.3
August               58        5.4          37        2.2         52         4.5
Sept.                76        6.5          45        2.6         78        5.5
Oct.                178       12.6         106        6.2         91         7.8
Tocal Dry Season   589        52.8         435       25.6        492       40.5
Annual            1,947      163.0       1,718       91.7     1,762       130.1
Altitude (m)              670                   14                     7
Period of record       1931-60                1931-60               1931-60



ANNEX 4
Page 2
2.        The annual rainfall in the area is quite high but its distribu-
tion through the year is not satisfactory to meet the full crop require-
ments. The project would derive its main water supply from several rivers
which originate from the mountainous region in the central part of West
Java and flow through the area before discharging into the Java Sea. The
largest river is the Tjitarum (Tarum River), "Tji", pronounced as "chi" in
the Indonesian language, means river or stream. Tjitarum is the third
largest river in Java and it is centrally located for irrigation of the
project area. Amongst the other rivers, Tjipunegera, Tjiasem, Tjidjengkol,
Tjilamaja, Tjiherang and Tjikao on the east side af Tjitarum and Bekasi,
Tjiherang and Tjibeet on the west side are imporraut, both in size as well
as in respect of their potential contribution to the system. All rivers
flow more or less in a south to north direction parallel to each other and
discharge independently into the Java Sea except Tjikao and Tjibeet which
are tributaries of Tjitarum.
3.        The rivers have steep slopes in the head reaches and as they
enter the project area they become relatively wide and flat, a feature
which is ideal for construction of low diversion barrages. In the lower
reaches, the rivers are extremely flat and are confined within low natural
banks which are frequently overtopped during floods damaging crops and
other improvements. In the coastal areas, the riveis meander through
wide belts, a feature typical of deltaic conditioan, and split into two
or more branches as their mouths become choked with silt creating large
marshes and swamps wlth poor drainage.
4.        Discharge data of the rivers is extremely limited.  No measure-
ments exist on several rivers. Examination of available data indicated
several arithmetical mistakes and in many cases the-monthly totals did
not agree with the annual figures. Discharge data of Tjitarum is avail-
able for a sufficiently long period before World War II. Available data
for the post-war period is sketchy, inconsistent and unreliable. Although
weirs were constructed in the past on Tjipunegara, Tjigadung, Tjidjenkol,
Tjilamaja and Tjiherang for irrigating local areas, systematic discharge
records have not been maintained. The following table gives the estimated
annual flow in the rivers:



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Catchment    Annual Flow (million m )            Period of
Area                                            record
Km2      Maximum   Minimum   Average          (years)
Main River
Tjitarum      4,500        7,820     4,071      5,661             19
Eastern Rivers
Tjipunegara    910                              1,523         Estimate
Tjigadung       280                               450         Estimate
Tjlasem         273          681       197        448              8
Tjidjenkol      200          392       107        199              9
Tjilamaja  )                 678       125        331             11
)
)   342
Tjiherang  )                 511       279        315             10
Tjikao          281                               410         Estimate
Western Rivers
Bekasi          388       1,306        908      1,106              3
Tjiherang       250                               489              1
Tjibeet         825       1,883      1,183      1,386              5
5.        In some reports the catchment area of TJipunegara, Tjiasem and
Bekasi was mentioned as 1,493, 691 and 1,452 km2 respectively. The figures
given in the above table refer to the catchment area of the rivers above
the main diversion works or at the sites where the rivers cross the main
East and West Tarum canals. The average annual flows of Tjipunegara,
Tjigadung and Tjikao are estimated from rainfall data as observed data
is fragmentary.
6.        The total average annual flow of all rivers excluding Tjitarum
is 6,657 million m3 compared to 5,661 million m3 for Tjitarum which indicates
the importance of integrating and utilizing their supplies for irrigation
in the project area. Their total catchment is 3,749 km2 compared to 4,500
km2 for Tjitarum. As the discharge data is limited, it would be difficult
to estimate the dependable supplies available for irrigation to any accept-
able degree of accuracy. Perhaps this was the reason why previous water-
balance studies for Djatiluhur Multipurpose Project carried out by Dr. van
Schravenduk in 1955 and Dr. Anguidi in 1960 were based on estimated flows
derived from rainfall data discounting the observed data of all rivers
except the Tjitarum. The position remains unchanged even today as little
additional data is available since that time.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
Dependable River Supplies
7.        The dependable supplies from the rivers in a dry year have been
estimated on the criteria that they should be available for 75% of time.
The estimates for Tjitarum are based on actual observed data for 19 years,
1922/23 to 1939/40 and 1968/69. On the basis of annual flows of Tjitarum
the year 1935/36 with an annual flow of 5,009 million m3 satisfies the
above criteria although the flow during June to October in this year has a
higher dependability of over 84%. The selection of this year for system
studies would provide a severe test of water availabilitv compared to the
criteria. The actual observed data of 1935/36 in this year was adopted
in preference to a synthetic dry year in order to maintain the natural
characteristics of the hydrograph. Water supplies in the other rivers
were estimated from rainfall data of the respective catchments. Dr. van
Schravenduk developed these estimates using rainfall data of a dry year.
The estimates are quite conservative and in some cases thev are even
lower than the minimum observed flows in a dry year. The following table
gives the dependable supplies in the rivers in a dry year.
Available Supplies in a Drv Year
Catchment            Total flow-million m
Area
River                          Km2         May-Oct       Nov-April       Annual
Tjitarum                     4,500           963           4,046         5,009
Tjipunegara                     910          234              772        1,006
Tjigadung                       280            34             133          167
Tjiasem                         273            80             229          309
Tjidjenkol                      200            34             133          167
Tjilanajo-Tjiherang             342            59            162           221
Tjikao                          281            72            180           252
Bekasi                          388          240             403           643
Tjiherang                       250          102             143           245
Tjibeet                         825          210             452           662
Total:       8,249         2,028           6,653         8,681
Areas to be Irrigated
8.        Information on the areas to be irrigated under the Djatiluhur
Irrigation system given in various reports is inconsistent. The pre-
project studies of 1955 and 1960 were based on a total areas of 240,000
ha. The latest report prepared in connection with the appointment of
consultants described the area as 240,000 to 260,000 ha. Examination of
longitudinal sections of East and West Tarum canals which give datails of



ANNEX 4
Page 5
areas to be irrigated under each secondary and tertiary canal in the sys-
tem showed that the total area to be irrigated under the project would be
253,170 ha as shown below:
Areas to be Irrigated
Distance from      Areas to be Irrigated (ha)
System                             Tjurug          Total        System Total
(Km)
Tjipunegara                          67.7           37,000         37,000
Tjigadung to Tjipunegara                             1,377
TJigadung                            60.1            9,622         10,999
Tjiasem to Tjigadung                                 2,404
Tjiasem                              52.8            6,236          8,640
Tjidjenkol to Tjiasem                                5,351
Tjidjenkol                           37.4            3,064          8,415
Tjurug to Tjidjenkol                                20,985         20,985
Total East Tarum Canal               67.7           86,039         86,039
TJ iluwung                           69.8
Bekasi to Tjiluwung                                    584
Bekasi                               57.7           20,012         20,596
Tjiherang to Bekasi                                  8,789
Tj iherang                           39.9           15,000         23,789
Tjibeet to Tjiherang                                12,536
Tjibeet                              26.5           25,000         37,536
Tjurug to Tjibeet                                    5,210          5,210
Total West Tarum Canal               69.8           87,131         87,131
Walahar (North Tarum)                               80,000         80,000
TOTAL:                             253,170        253,170
9.        On the south side of West Tarum Canal, there is an additional
area of 593 ha which is directly irrigated from the Tjibeet weir. As sup-
plies from Tjibeet would be fully integrated into the system, the total
area served directly by the system amounts to 253,763 ha. South of East
Tarum canal there is an additional area of about 8,000 ha which is irrigated
at present from the Tjilamaja and Tjiherang. As this area cannot be served



ANNEX 4
Page 6
directly from the system, the residual flows of Tjilamaja/Tjiherang have
only been considered for use on the East Tarum Canal system. The total
area served under the project, directly or indirectly, amounts to 261,763
ha.
Water Requirements
10.       Information on evapo-transpiration of rice crop at different
stages of its growth under the climatic conditions of Indonesia is ex-
tremely limited. According to studies carried out by the Dutch before
World War II, the water duty for rice crop in the dry season was esti-
mated as 0.8 1/sec per ha at the tertiary turnouts. Water losses in the
canal were assumed as 20% which gave a water duty of 1.0 1/sec per ha at
the head of the canal. The Report on "Exploration and Development and
Ground Water in Indonesia - July 1969" prepared by Mr. Sayyid Hamid,
special consultants to IBRD, gives a review of available information on
the subject and concludes that the water duty for rice crop would not
exceed 0.5 1/sec per ha at the tertiary head during the wet season and
0.75 1/sec for the dry season. Harza Engineering International, consul-
tants for Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Credit IND-127) analyzed
the future water requirements of the respective project areas using the
modified Blaney-Criddle method assuming, for simplicity and conservative
results, that all the irrigated area would be cropped in rice. The plant-
ing and harvesting periods for each crop season were assumed as six weeks
and the monthly crop coefficients for rice were determined by adjusting
factors that apply for individual fields to obtain values for large areas
in which planting and harvesting would each be underwav for six weeks
each season. The effective rainfall in a dry year was limited to a maxi-
mum of 150 mm in any month and monthly rainfall below this figure was
considered as effective, an assumption which is reasonable for rice fields
where irrigation is done by ponding.
11.       For purposes of the appraisal report the water requirements of
the project have been estimated using the method and assumptions adopted
by Harza which were more conservative. Rainfall data at Krawang for the
period 1931-60 was used for computing the effective rainfall in a dry
year. Two rice crops were assumed although in actual practice other crops
would be grown, particularly in the dry season, which would require less
water than rice. The water requirements of the various project areas
based on the above method are given below:
Water Requirements - million m3
Dry Season        Wet Season
Area (ha)                          May-Oct          Nov -April      Annual
North Tarum (80,000)                1,194               615          1,809
Tjipunegara (37,000)                  509               263            772
East Tarum (49,039)                   721               378          1,099
West Tarum (87,724)                 1,309               670          1,979
Total (253,763)                     3,733             1.926          5,659



ANNEX 4
Page 7
Adequacy of Water Supplies
12.       A broad comparison of the total supplies available from the
rivers in a dry year and the full water requirements of the project area
given below indicates that the deficiency of 1705 million m3 in the dry
season could be met from the 2000 million m3 live storage in the Djatiluhur
reservoir and there would be enough surplus water in the wet season to fill
the reservoir without any difficulty.
Dry Season    West Season
May-Oct.      Nov. - April    Annual
........... million m3...
Total river supplies        2,029          6,653           8,681
Water requirements          3,733          1,926           5,659
Surplus (+), Deficit (-)  -1,705          +4 727          +3,022
13.       In the absence of storage facilities on the other rivers, how-
ever, the run-of-the-river supplies could not be effectively used and the
resultant shortages would be more than indicated in the above table. A
detailed system operation study was therefore carried out on a monthly
basis with the Diatiluhur reservoir as the key regulation facility in the
system. In this study, the water requirements of the areas were first
met from the respective rivers to the maximum extent possible and the
reservoir was then operated to meet the residual requirements including
the additional conveyance losses in the East and West Tarum canals. The
results of the study are summarized below:
Dry Season    Wet Season
May-Oct.      Nov. - April    Annual
............ million m3.
Total Water Requirements   3,733             1,926         5,659
Net Water demand on
DJatiluhur             3,078              735         3,813
Dry Year
Tjitarum flow                 963            4,043/1       5,006
Storage release           + 2,000          - 2,000/-          -
Total releases              2,963            3,043         5,006/2
Surplus (+), Deficit (-) -   115           + 1,308      + 1,30&
Average Year
Tjitarum flow               2,114            4,308         6,422
Storage release           + 1,965          - 1,965            -
Total releases              4,079            3,343         6,422
Surplus (+), Deficit (-) + 1,001           + 1,608       + 2,609
/1   Reservoir filling
/2   5006 - (3813-115)



ANNEX 4
Page 8
14.       The operation studies led to the following conclusions:
(a) Water supply in the other rivers was adequate to meet 18%
of the water requirements in the dry season and 62% in the
wet season.
(b) Djatiluhur reservoir would be adequate to meet the full
irrigation demand in a dry year with a nominal shortage
of less than 5%. The requirements in the wet season
would be fully met and the reservoir would be filled to
capacity every year. In the average year, a part of the
live storage would remain unutilized.
(c) Extension of irrigation outside the present area would be
possible if storage reservoirs were constructed on the
other rivers such as Tjipunegara on the east side and
Bekasi and TJibeet on the west side which carry substan-
tial surplus flows in the wet season. Rtesrvoirs on these
rivers would be very effective for system operation, reduce
pumping requirements at Tjurug and provide greater flexi-
bility for operation of Djatiluhur reservoir to meet the
irrigation and power needs. The construction of a second
reservoir on Tjitarum upstream of Djatiluhur would be
another alternative.  None of these sch eis, however, is
essential for irrigation of the present ptoject area and
need consideration only in the context of further expansion
of the irrigated area.
Reservoir Operation for Irrisation and Power
15.       The large irrigation demand in the dry season would require
depletion of the reservoir to the minimum level ih dry years and thus ad-
versely affect the power production. Similarly the low irrigation demand
in the wet season would also conflict with the releases required for power
production. A detailed reservoir operation study was carried out to de-
termine the extent of conflict and the adjustments required in the release
pattern to satisfy the irrigation and power demands to the maximum extent.
The following table indicates the extent of additional water that could
be released for optimal power production without adversely affecting ir-
rigation.



ANNEX 4
Page 9
Dry Year                        Average Year
Irrigation Releases Mean Head Power Irrigation Releases Mean Head Power
releases    for                       releases    for
power                                 power
mm 3      Mm3         m      MW       Mm3        Mm3        M       MW
May       427         -         80.5    115    478          -        40.5      125
June      500         -         79.3    125    557          -        78.8      125
July      528         -         76.5    125    586          -        74.5      125
Aug.      670         -         69.5    125    743          -        68.5      125
Sept.     600         -         58.8    115    669          -        57.8      115
Oct.       45        255        51.5     51      45        311       51.5       60
Nov.      300         -         51.3     54    300         100       53.5       72
Dec.      250         50        55.8     54    250         150       57.0       76
Jan.       47        253        59.8     63      47         353      59.0       80
Feb.       62        238        63.8     66      62        290       62.0       80
March       73       227        71.5     72      73         280      70.5       84
April       2        298        78.5     84       2        348       78.5      100
16.       The annual energy output from DJatiluhur power plant according
to the above release pattern, would be about 767 and 853 million Kwh in a
dry and average year respectively. Power production during October to
February would be low but the re-regulating reservoir at Tjurug which has
a live storage capacity of 10 million m3 gross storage 60 million m3 could
be utilized for peaking to meet a firm power demand of 85 MW, ensuring suf-
ficiently high utilization of the total plant capacity of 125 MW. Power
production during May to September in the dry season would be high and
Djatiluhur would make a valuable contribution to the grid as the output
from other hydro-units in the system during this period would be normally
low due to inadequate water supply.
17.       The operation studies have led to the following conclusions:
(a)  The full irrigation demand of the present area would be
adequately met even in a dry year provided the run-of-river
supplies in the other rivers are effectively utilized and
the Djatiluhur reservoir is operated to meet the residual
requirements. This would require a detail study of the
available supplies in the rivers and the development of
regulation rules which are practical and can ensure effi-
cient utilization of the river supplies.



ANNEX 4
Page 10
(b) Power production during October to February would be rela-
tively low but can be considerably increased by proper op-
eration of the reservoir. This would require detail studies
to develop operating criteria to maximize power production
without adversely affecting irrigation.
(c) Further extension of irrigation outside the present area
would not be possible until additional storages are con-
structed. There are sufficient surplus flows in the
Tjitarum and other rivers for potential development in the
future.
May 1970



ANNEX 5
INDONESIA
SECOND IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT WORKS IN THE DJATILUHUR IRRIGATION SYSTEM
1.        The principal works in this part of the project are:
(a) improving the power, housing and maintenance facilities
at the Tjurug Barrage and Pumping Plants;
(b) rehabilitation of the East and West Tarum Main Canals;
(c) rehabilitation of the North Tarum Irrigation System to
serve 80,000 ha;
(d) rehabilitation of the Tjipunegara Irrigation System to
serve 37,000 ha;
(e) rehabilitation of the East Tarum Irrigation System in-
cluding completion of the unfinished works to serve
49,039 ha,
(f) rehabilitation of the existing part of the West Tarum
Irrigation System including completion of the unfinished
works to serve 20,000 ha;
(g) installation of telephone facilities for regulation and
operation of the Main canals and the distribution system;
(h) improvement of drains in the North Tarum, Tjipunegara and
East Tarum systems; flood protection works in Tjipunegara
and East Tarum systems; improvements to canal service
roads in certain portions of North Tarum, Tjipunegara and
East Tarum systems to facilitate transport of farm product
to market centers; and augmenting the housing facilities
for maintenance and operation staff in all the systems;
(i) provision of equipment and transport for effective main-
tenance of the system.
Improvements to Tjurug Barrage and Pumping Plant
2.        TJurug Barrage and Pumping Plants (see Annex 3) are the key struc-
tures in the system. The main problems at Tjurug are lack of dependable
power supplies for operation of the Pumping Plant, inadequate workshop fa-
cilities for maintenance of the electrical and mechanical installations and
inadequate housing facilities for maintenance and operation staff.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
3.        Power for the pumping plant is presently supplied from Kosambi
substation which is located 9 km south of Tjurug. Interruptions in power
supply are frequent due to the long transmission distances between Kosambi
and the generating stations at ojakarta.  Although Kosambi is closer to
Djatiluhur it is not connected by a direct transmission line. A new 6 km
long 30 kV transmission line would be constructed from Djatiluhur Power
Plant to Tjurug, to provide a direct and dependable source of power to the
Pumping Plants. Most of the maintenance and operation staff live in dis-
tant villages and are brought daily to the site by government transport.
This arrangement is inefficient and valuable working time is lost. The ex-
isting housing facilities would be augmented to accommodate all the per-
manent staff at the site. No workshop facilities exist at the site even
for normal maintenance of the electrical and mechanical installations. A
new workshop would be constructed for carrying out ordinary repairs and
maintenance while major repairs would be carried out at the main workshop
at Djatiluhur Dam which would be improved to serve the needs of the entire
system. Painting of Barrage gates and minor repairs to civil works and
the pumping plants would be carried out so that the works can be operated
to full capacity.
Rehabilitation of East and West Tarum Main Canals
4.        The works on the East and West Tarum Main Canals are described in
Annex 3.  The main drawbacks in the existing facilities are:
(a)  The canals have partially silted up due to premature and
faulty operation.  In some reaches the canal sections were
not constructed according to design. Canal side slopes are
too steep and therefore unstable, especially in reaches in
heavy cutting. No berms have been provided to prevent dam-
age to the banks and to allow adjustments in the canal sec-
tion to suit the hydraulic conditions. Inadequate provision
for drainage has caused bank slips, rain cuts and side ero-
sion which contributed to the silting problem. Canal roads
are not properly graded and in some reaches it is difficult
to travel even by jeep. The canal bank with the service
road is sufficiently wide and stable but the other bank is
too narrow and weak. Most of the failures have occurred on
this side.
(b)  Structures are badly damaged.  Most drainage culverts re-
quire additional protection and draining works to prevent
damage to the canal. Cross regulations have narrow flumes
and need larger side protections to avoid damage from
scour. Some secondary and tertiary off-take regulators
have no gates nor stop logs to control the supplies. Hand
railings on road bridges consist of reinforcement bars sup-
ported at intervals on concrete pillars. The unpainted
bars have rusted and some of the pillars have been damaged
by traffic.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
5.        In general, the rehabilitation works involve completion of the
unfinished works, repairing the damage to the canals and the structures
caused by the premature operation and inadequate maintenance, and correct-
ing the deficiency in the original designs to ensure a safe and depend-
able canal capable of delivering the irrigation supplies under all oper-
ating conditions. In terms of physical quantities, the works involve 2
million m3 of earth excavation and fill, grading and surfacing of 135 km
of canal roads including fixing distance marks, 3.4 million m2 of turfing,
26,000 m2 of wearing coat on bridges, rehabilitation of 64 structures, in-
stallation of 216 steel gates of all sizes and other miscellaneous works.
6.        In addition to the above remedial works, additional works would
be constructed to resolve the major problems at Tambelang, Tjikedung, and
Salamdarma on the East Tarum Canal and Tjikirindjing on the West Tarum
Canal which are severely restricting the canal capacity (see Annex 3).
The Mission considered two alternative solutions for restoring the canal
capacity at Tambelang. The first alternative consists of flattening the
side slopes and providing wide berms in the form of steps on both sides
providing drainage, both surface and filter drains, and removing part of
the overburden at the top to stabilize the slopes. It would involve
about 200,000 m3 of excavation, 5,400 m3 of gravel and filter drains,
5,700 m3 of stone protection and 680 m of drain pipes. A second alterna-
tive would be to construct a reinforced concrete culvert to pass the canal
discharge and to backfill the sides and top to stabilize the slopes. This
alternative would involve higher initial cost and its construction would
interfere with the operation of the canal. Its merit, however, would be
a relatively low cost of maintenance compared to the first alternative.
Both alternatives would be fully investigated before selecting one for
construction.
7.        At Tjikedung, the left bank of the canal settled down at various
stages of construction due to the presence of a peat layer in the founda-
tion. The total settlement was 6 m and was made up by additional compacted
fill. As further settlement has not been observed since the completion of
the bank the peat layer in the foundation has apparently been consolidated.
In order to avoid any probability of further settlement it would be neces-
sary to remove the high banks, excavate and remove the peat layer in the
foundations and reconstruct the canal banks. Such a solution would be
costly and unnecessary as major settlement has already occurred and further
settlement, if any, would be minor and could be repaired without difficulty.
The culvert would be extended on the upstream side and the right bank would
be strengthened to provide additional safety. Settlement observations how-
ever, should continue in order to take timely remedial measures in case they
became necessary.
8.        The silting problem in the tail reach of the East Tarum Canal
above Salamdarma Barrage caused by back-water flow into the canal during
floods in the Tjipunegara (see Annex 3) would be resolved by the construc-
tion of the following works:



ANNEX 5
Page 4
(a) Repairing the gates of the tail regulator and replacing
these which are too badly jammed so that the regulator
could be operated efficiently at all times.
(b) Excavation of the outfall channel in the river downstream
of the tail regulator and construction of a dyke on the
right bank with spurs and groyne protections to divert
the main current and prevent silting of the outfall chan-
nel. Hydraulic model studies would be carried out to
determine the most satisfactory arrangement of the protec-
tion works and the alignment of the outfall channel.
(c) Construction of a new channel upstream of the tail regula-
tor and outfalling it into the Tjipunegara downstream of
the Salamdarma Barrage in order to escape the canal flow
when the tail regulator is closed during floods.
9.        The Department of Public Works has already started remedial works
on the West Tarum Canal at Tjikirindjing. The works consist of extension
of the drainage culvert on the left side, widening and strengthening of the
left bank, construction of training and protection works and providing sur-
face drains to stabilize the bank slopes. These works which are scheduled
for completion before the next wet season would be adequate to ensure a
stable canal to carry the design discharge.
Rehabilitation of Irrigated Systems
10.       The old irrigation systems of North Tarum and Tjipunegara (see
Annex 3), have deteriorated over the years due to inadequate maintenance.
The main drawbacks in the existing facilities are described below:
Main and SecondaryCanals
(a) The main and secondary canals have silted up in most cases
and could not carry their designed full supply. Rain-wash
and erosion have reduced the size of the canal banks and
additional compacted fill is required to restore the full
section. Canal roads require regrading and improvement.
Drainage of the canal banks is inadequate and damage due
to rain cuts and sloughing is widespread. Extensive re-
pairs and improvements have to be carried out before the
system can be operated efficiently up to full capacity.
(b) A large number of structures are damaged, some of them have
to be replaced as the damage is beyond economic repairs.
(c) River channels in the irrigated area have silted up and have
to be excavated and improved in order to serve effectively
as drains.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
(d) In some reaches, the caal banks are used as public roads
by the farmers to transport the farm produce to the market
centers. They have to be repaired, widened and provided with
hard surfaces to allow vehicular traffic without causing damage.
(e) River training and flood protection works have to be
constructed to prevent damage to the irrigation channels
and the crops.
(f) Communication facilities are poor. A telephone network
has to be constructed for efficient regulation and opera-
tion of the system.
(g) Housing facilities for the maintenance and operation staff
at the job sites are inadequate and need to be augmented.
Tertiary Channels
(h) Of the total length of 5,600 km of tertiary channels in the
whole system, about 2,750 km require rehabilitation.  The
main defects are silted beds, weak banks, frequent breaches
in reaches with heavy filling due to uncompacted banks and
sloughing in the heavy cutting reaches due to too steep side
slopes. As the tertiaries were constructed and maintained
by the farmers the standard of design, construction and main-
tenance is poor. They would be rehabilitated and reconstructed
where necessary, to ensure an efficient distribution system.
(i) Structures on the tertiaries also require repairs. They were
designed by the Public Works Department but constructed by
the farmers. About 800 structures on the tertiaries in the
whole system would be repaired or reconstructed as necessary.
11.       The East Tarum and West Tarum irrigation systems were developed
recently by connecting the existing old minor irrigation systems to the
Tarum Main canal and constructing a new network of secondary and tertiary
channels in the new areas. The drawbacks mentioned in para 10 above also
apply to these systems.
Summary of Principal Works
12.       The nature and extent of works involved in the rehabilitation
of the irrigation systems is given below:



ANNEX 5
Page 6
Irrigation System
North                   East   West
Tarum  Tlipunegara    Tarum  1Tarum
1.   Area to be irrigated (ha)              80,000    37,000        49,039  20,000
2.   Rehabilitation of canals (Km)             413        186          230       74
3.   Rehabilitation of structures (No)         229        110          298       52
4.   Improvement of drains (km)                401         81          135       47
5.   Improving canal roads for public
traffic (km)                            129         68           88       --
6.   Constructing new roads                      30        --            11      --
7.   River training and flood
protection works (km)                    --         68           52       --
8.   Additional housing for
operating staff (m2)                  3,660      2,920        2,010   1,170
9.   Telephone lines (km)                       150        25           137      --
10. Rehabilitation of tertiaries
a.  Total length (km)             1,254         192          987     300
b.  Structures (No)                  149        187          442       28
May 1970



ANNEX 6
INDONESIA
SECOND IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
CONSULTANTS' SERVICES
A. apjtiluhur Irrigation System
1.        The Djatiluhur Authority would employ consultants to provide the
services required for this part of the project. The Association would ap-
prove the terms of reference before proposals. The procedure described in
the Bank's "Guidelines for Consultants under World Bank Loans and IDA Cred-
its" would be followed by the Authority and the Association would approve
the final choice, and the terms and conditions of employment.
Investigations and Studies
2.        Investigations and studies would include the following:
HydrologicalStudies
(a) collect available hydrological data of all rivers
flowing through the project area; review the meth-
ods followed for guage and discharge measurements
and recommend improvements; identify the rivers
which are not utilized at present but can make
significant contribution to the water resources
of the system and initiate proposals for discharge
measurements; estimate the known and potential wa-
ter supplies of the rivers which can be utilized
in the system and evaluate their adequacy to meet
the requirements of the project area on full de-
velopment including the possibilities for future
extension of irrigation:
(b) carry out water supply, water management and use
studies, including seepage and evaporation losses
and use of measuring devices;
Agronomic and Farm Management Studies
(c) establish optimum, cropping patterns and estimate
water requirements;
(d) study farm-to-market road requirements;



ANNEX 6
Page 2
(e) review the existing facilities for storage and
milling of rice and recommend the need, if any,
for their expansion;
(f) review and advise on expanded agricultural ex-
tension service requirements and siting and
layout of demonstration farms;
Improvements to the Existing Irrigation Facilities
(g) identify storage sites for regulation of the rivers
for effective use of their resources and make a pre-
liminary assessment of their potential for develop-
meat;
(h) examine the feasibility of feeding the East and West
Tarum Canal by gravity flow and evaluate its merits
in comparison to the existing arrangement of pumping
at Tjurug;
(i) prepare a preliminary reconnaissance report on the
potential area south of Main Tarum canals which can
be developed with the surplus waters of the river
system.
3.        The detailed investigations for extension of irrigation facilities
would involve the following:
(a) review existing data and reports;
(b) aerial photography at a scale of 1:10,000 to enable
production of rectified prints and mosaics;
(c) review the existing contour mapping;
(d)  establish an overall irrigation and drainage plan
including flood protection works;
(e) prepare land classification of the area at a scale
of 1:10,000;
(f)  estimate the requirements of telecommunication and
flood warning facilities for operation and main-
tenance of the irrigation network:
(g) prepare interim and final feasibility reports in-
cluding cost estimates and construction schedule.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
Engineering and Supervision of Works
4.        The scope of work on the engineering and supervision of work to be
executed under the project would include, but not be limited to, the follow-
ing:
(a) review the existing condition of works at Tjurug and
the East and West Tarum Main Canals, and the adequacy
of their designs; review the present proposals for
their rehabilitation and suggest improvement; prepare
detailed designs and construction drawings of the
works to be rehabilitated;
(b) investigate the special problems at Tambelang, Tjikadung
and Salamdarma and prepare detailed designs and plans
for their solution; review the design and quality of con-
struction of the remedial works executed at Tjikirindjing
and suggest improvements, if necessary; assist Government
in carrying out model studies for determining the most
suitable arrangement of additional works required at Sa-
lamdarma;
(c) review the existing conditions of main and secondary
canals, tertiaries, river channels and drains, and
flood protection works, in the North Tarum, Tjipunegara,
East Tarum and West Tarum Irrigation Systems; review the
adequacy of their original designs; review the present
proposals for rehabilitation and suggest improvements;
prepare detailed designs and construction drawings of
the works to be rehabilitated; and
(d) in respect of all the works mentioned in (a), (b) and
(c) above, prepare detailed cost estimates, construc-
tion schedule and bid documents; assist Government in
the prequalification of bidders; evaluate bids and re-
commend award of contracts; supervise the construction
of works and prepare progress and final completion re-
ports;
Maintenance and Operation
(e) assess the requirements for maintenance and operation
of the systems; prepare proposals for staffing, prepare
guidelines for discharge observations, hydraulic sur-
veys and the maintenance of their record; evaluate the
requirements of equipment for maintenance and operation,
including workshop facilities;



ANNEX 6
Page 4
Guidelines for Operation of the System
(f) carry out system operation studies for the integrated
use of the waters of the Djatiluhur Reservoir and of
the various rivers flowing through the area and pre-
pare rule curves for the operation of the reservoir
under different hydrological conditions, keeping in
view the power aspects of the Djatiluhur Power Plant;
prepare guidelines for the regulation and distribution
of the supplies in the various systems, canal closures
and rotation of supplies, and initiate proposals on
preparation of annual water budget and maintenance of
water accounts for the various systems.
B. Other Systems
5.        The Ministry of Public Works and Power would employ consultants to
assist PROSIDA during the period, up to about March 1971, when the Third Ir-
rigation Rehabilitation Project is under consideration by the Association.
If it is decided to make a credit available for this project, provision would
be made for consulting services throughout the construction phase.
6.        The need for consultants during this interim period arises mainly
because of the difficulty which PROSIDA has encountered in preparing tender
documents suitable for awarding contracts of a size, and in a manner accept-
able to the Association. In part, this is due to lack of experience of com-
petitive bidding procedures since, until recently, all contracts were nego-
tiated with a master contractor appointed for each project. However, diffi-
culties also arise because of the nature of rehabilitation works: it is
difficult to prepare adequate tender documents until flow conditions in the
system have been carefully determined and the major structures have been de-
watered for inspection. Special expertise is also needed to determine
whether a canal or structure should be restored to its original design, im-
proved, or perhaps left in the shape into which it has been moulded by nat-
ural forces over the years.
7.        The agreed terms of reference for the Consultants' Services are
as follows:
Objective of Consulting Engineer's Services
Consulting Engineer's Services are needed to review the
existing irrigation and drainage systems with a view to
establishing the canal capacities and their adequacy;
prepare detailed planning and design; and supervise, in
close collaboration with PROSIDA staff and with the
guidance of the Director General and the management of
PROSIDA, the implementation of the on-going rehabilita-
tion works in the Tjiudjung, Pemali-Tjomal and Sadang
sub-projects.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
Scope of Services
The work of the Consulting Engineer to be carried out during
the ten-month period from                  through
on each of these sub-projects will be as follows:
(a) as a top priority, the Consultant will review the
present design of the four major weirs in the Pemali-
Tjomal sub-project at Tjawitali, Kaliwadas, Danawarih
and Tjisadap, and will modify or redesign these weirs
as may be deemed necessary within the framework of the
P-T irrigation system;
(b) make detailed investigations of all headwork structures
and prepare designs, specifications, cost estimates and
work schedules for the earliest possible repair of these
structures;
(c) inspect and investigate all canals and structures in
the canals while they are under operation and identify
and estimate the cost of the works which are required
for their rehabilitation: and the immediate repairs
necessary to enable system testing;
(d) establish staff gauges in the rivers at all headworks
and in primary and secondary canals at various impor-
tant control structures and at other appropriate places,
having the gauges' datum based on mean sea level;
(e) review irrigation plans to establish the required ca-
pacities of primary and secondary canals;
(f) to the extent necessary, locate places where tertiary
canals are to be taken off from secondary canals, or
if necessary, from primary canals, and mark these in
project maps as well as laying them out in the field;
(g) by current meter measurements, identify places where
canal capacities are constrained;
(h) to the extent possible, inspect again in more detail
the canals and structures when dry in support of the
designs, specifications and cost estimates for their
rehabilitation obtained under (b) above;
(i) prepare drawings, specifications and cost estimates of
earthworks, including the disposal of wastes, necessary
to restore canal banks and the required capacity of
existing canals;



ANNEX 6
Page 6
(j) investigate and assess the drainage needs and prepare
plans and cost estimates of drainage systems in ac-
cordance with these needs (this is of particular im-
portance to Sadang Project where the major part of
project area needs drainage improvement);
(k) survey and investigate the existing road systems
in the project areas and prepare plans, designs,
specifications and cost estimates for the rehabilita-
tion of these roads and for constructing new service
roads in accordance with criteria to be agreed upon
with IDA and the Director General of Water Resources
Development;
(1) prepare construction schedules for all the rehabilita-
tion works with due regard to the requirements of sys-
tems operation during the construction period on the
one hand, and the needs of an efficient program of
rehabilitation of the systems on the other.
It is realized that the Consulting Engineer may not be able
to complete the above works within the assigned period of
ten months. He should attach first priorities to the design
work on the four weirs at Pemali-Tjomal and to the identifi-
cation and design of those works that will form the 1971/72
construction programs.
The Consultant will prepare draft tender documents for an
initial portion of the rehabilitation works scheduled for
implementation prior to April 1, 1972. These tender docu-
ments ubuld be prepared with the aim of asking tenders on
about March 1, 1971. The tender documents would include
final design drawings and construction contracts.
In collaboration with PROSIDA staff, the Consultant will
carry out the surveys, investigations, and data collection
programs considered necessary for the planning and desin
of the entire rehabilitation program in these three project
areas.
If appropriate during the currency of this contract, the
Consultant will assist PROSIDA in the pre-qualification of
tenders, and following receipt of tenders, on or about
April 1, 1971, the Consultant will assist in the analysis
and evaluation of these tenders.
In the event that during the ten-month period for which
these Consulting services are being sought, the Government
of Indonesia's request for IDA Project Aid for the rehabilita-
tion of Tjiudjung, Sadang and Pemali-Tjomal sub-projects
should result in project assistance, the Consultant will be



ANNEX 6
Page 7
required also to assist in the preparation of tender docu-
ments and the timely procurement and efficient deployment
of goods and services financed by such project aid.
In all aspects of this work the Consultant will make the
greatest possible effort to provide for on-the-job-training
of Indonesian counterpart personnel.
The Consultant will also assist in the spuervision of the
already ongoing rehabilitation in these three projects being
carried out by PROSIDA and their contractors.
Organization and Deployment of Consulting Services
The above objective and scope of services may require
the provision by the Consultant of the following pro-
fessional resident staff:
(a)  One senior Irrigation Engineer with experience in
the planning, design and construction of gravity
irrigation and drainage systems and with sufficient
seniority to function as team leader;
(b) One Irrigation Engineer with experience in the plan-
ning, design and operation and maintenance of gravity
irrigation and drainage systems designed for rice and
other crops.
(c) One Flood Control and Drainage Engineer with experience
in planning, design and construction of flood control
work and drainage systems.
(d) Three Design Engineers with experience in the design
of hydraulic structures for irrigation and drainage.
Two of these engineers will work on the design of the
four major weirs and all other structures in the Pemali-
Tjomal sub-project and on the rehabilitation of the
headworks of Tjiudjung and Sadang Project; the third
engineer will devote his attention to all other struc-
tures in the Tjiudjung and Sadang Sub-Projects.
(e)  One Hdrlogist to_implement and carry out the data
collection program. He should have extensive experience
of dealing with rainfall-runoff correlation, extension
of stream flow records, and maximum flood and minimum
flow studies.
(f)  Two    ographers with experience in surveying related
to irrigation works.



ANNEX 6
Page 8
(g) One Accountant experienced in the engineering field to
assist in the general office administration of PROSIDA
and to strengthen the organization's central accounting
system; this post will only be requied if such manage-
ment assistance is not obtained elsewhere during the
contract period.
The work of the resident team may or may not require the
backup of the following visiting specialists, depending on
the background and experience of members of the resident
team:
(a) One Agronomist (1-2 months) specialized in wet-rice
cultivation; and qualified to assist in the assess-
ment of field water requirements and in the solution of
water distribution and drainage problems in the tertiarv
unit.
(b)  One Soil Mechanics EnEineer (1-2 months) specialized in
foundation problems to study foundations especially of
the four major weirs in Pemali-Tjomal Project.
To the extent that the project planning and design are centered
both in Djakarta and in the sub-project areas it is envisaged
that the Consultant staff will be deployed as follows.
(a) Pemali-Tjomal: The size (123,000 ha) and complexity
of rehabilitation work require the residence of at
least one engineer and possibly two in the project area
to carry out and direct the works under these T.O.Rs.
(b) Sadang: The size of the project (54,000 ha) and the
logistical and communications problems posed by the
project's location in Sulawesi require the residence
of one engineer in the project area (in Pare-Pare or
Pinrang).
(c)  Tjiud ung:  The size of the project (25,000 ha) and its
relative closeness to Djakarta allows the assistance to
this project to be rendered through frequent scheduled
visits by member from the Djakarta nucleus team.
(d) Djakarta-PROSIDA Headquarters: A nucleus team consist-
ing of the remaining members will perform its work in
the Djakarta office of PROSIDA with visits to the project
areas as often as necessary. The two topographers will
spend most of their time in the project areas.
MIay 1970



UAllI 7
Fag 1
A. Diatilhu-r Srs_
21LkUNMVNuon RiwIal.                                                          us$ MIllion  qaivlengt
I    S  3   X                                                                                                  4j        r.2          Total           Loea.      Foreign      Total
1.    TJurar   >rr.m   & P0A.   rFlt
Repair and Rnomtionds6                                                                                                            M          17             0 02        0.03        0 05
Additrl  Pow     0ciliti                                                                                              6                      17             0.03        0.09        0.12
Buildinha   Omd                                                                                                       6_ _
8"b-.tal                                                                 78          53       131             0.21        0.14        0.36
2.    Pla Tarm Qanal
lannd and [d Rit                                                                                                      25           -         25             0.07                   1 3.07
R h.biliation of Csnaila                                                                                             885         317     1,142              2.18        0.84       3 02
Reahbilitation of Strot-r                                                                                            235  1      132        367             0.62        0.35       0 97
Works on SP.cial Problma                                                S                                                    5    1       -in               2.,U        0.15   0.48
sub-Sotal                                                            1,210         506      1,716             3.20        1.34        4.54
3     lNorth  ar=n Irrilption System
Land and Land Aights                                                                                                  32           -        32             0.08            -       0.08
Rhdabild [tion  oi O nalW 3                                                                                                      113       406             0.78         0.30       1.08
Rnh'bilitation of  atna-,                                                                                            307         178       485             0.81         0.47       1.28
.MoObilitstion of Tartiari.s                                                                                         377           4       381              1.00        0.01       1.01
l.ods                                                                                                                403        [514       557             1.07        0 41        1 .4
1opro..nt ot   ains                                                                                                  360         68        428             0.95        0.18        1.13
9u-idings ad  fk"                                                                                                     73         -i         81             0 19         0.02       0.21
aub-Total                                                            1,845         525      2,370             4.88        1.39        6.27
C r namgnra Irrigation System
0.d  nd ALnd Right.                                                                                                    4           -         4             0.01            -       0.01
ohlabilltation of Canals                                                                                             184          72       256             0.49         0.19       0.68
1.00b0 litation of Strooturls                                                                                        107         60        167             0 28         0.16       0.44
!abilitat ion or Trtoiri                                                                                             68         19         87             0.18         0 05       0.23
.rcactng Canal Road.                                                                                                 173          22       195            o046          o o6       0.52
:npro,,ant of  m  oins                                                                                                36          7         43             0.09        0.02       0.11
Flood Protectlon worm                                                                                                144         19        163             0.38         O.05       o.43
3uildinrs and COmps                                                                                                 4.          .2         _5              '3          0.02      O.1S
rib-Total                                                               764        205        969             2.02        0. 5       2.56
i.    boO  arrum Irrigation Ust4
[aJl l4d rAnd Rights                                                                                                  49          -         49             0 13            -      0.13
R.h.bilitation of O.nl.                                                                                              271        106        377             D.72         0.28      1.0.
R.habil tlat ion of Strutoures                                                                                      192        110        302             0.51         0.29      o.6O
RIhabilit lton or Tartiari.a                                                                                         341         68        409             0.90         0.18      1.08
Road.                                                                                                                228        113        347             0.60         0.3    0o. 
lopro.oinnO_    or n.n 10.                                                                                           107         23        130             0.28        0.06       0.3.
P10od Protwction llrks                                                                                                8O         11         99             0.23         0.03      C 26
auildongs  nd C nmo                                                                                                   62          8         70             0.16         0.02      0.18
sub-Total                                                            1,338         438     1,776              3.54         1.16      4.6C
6.   WI.t .rum Irrimtion -       tm
R.l1billt.tlon of Canals                                                                                              68         26         94             1.18         0.07      0.25
R,habilitation of Structurc.                                                                                          13          8         21             0 03          .0 2     o o0
Reh b 1 tt ton of Turtiarie                                                                                          184         57        241             0 49         O5 1S     o6h
Dvo o nt of Dains                                                                                                     22          4         26             0.06        0.01       o.07
13lidings snd Cmps                                                                                                    31        4.         _               o 0.08       o2L n     o
wb-Total                                                                318         98       116              0.84        0.26       1 .10
7.    _______ _tm                                                                                                           70         174       244             0.19         0.46       o.65
8.    Inyutition                                                                                                            150       231        381              0.40        0.61       1.01
9.    3joli, nt *nd Trmnmport                                                                                                83       680        763             0.22         1.80       2.02
Total iti_l 1 throouy  9,                                             5,856     2,910      8,766             15.50         7.70     23.20
10.    __n_1t_t_a_ ____ _-s                                                                                                   98       454        552             0.26         1.20       1.46
11.    Adlunistrat ion and O"rmb.d                                                                                          652        189        841             1.72         0.50       2.22
12.    Oontingnoies,
Onntgngo ita    L nfroasen 205                                                                      1,321        711     2,032              3.49         1.88       5.37
Onotiganoi. - moataion 15%                                                                           m        __3       12                 2.62         1.41      k20
sub-Total                                                            2,312      1,244      3,556             6.11         3.29       9.40
8.S10 4    7*  7    13,715             23.59           6      36. 28
Ms-,.mo- Am  &d  to rounding.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
INDONESIA
SECOND IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Djatiluhur Irrigation System
List of Equipment and Transport
Approximate
Number        cost c.i.f.
(US$ '000)
1.   Engineering and Supervision 1/
Utility Vehicles - 4 wheel drive                 25                75
Pick-ups - 4 wheel drive                         10                40
Station wagons - 4 wheel drive                   10               40
General Purpose Vehicles                          8               24
Hydrological Measurements, Survey and
Laboratory Equipment                            -              100
279
Spares 15%                          42
321
2.   Maintenance and Operation 2/
Motor graders - 100 HP                            4               120
Wheeled loader 2 cu yd                            4              175
Tractor with angle blade dozer (medium)           2               70
Tractor with angle blade dozer (large)            2              110
Trucks - 5 cu yd                                 15              150
Draglines 1 cu yd - 50 ft boom                    3              165
Mobile Workshop                                   1               30
Mobile Servicing Unit                             1                10
Improvements to Existing Workshop Facilities                     100
Utility Vehicles - 4 wheel drive                 20               60
Pick-ups - 4 wheel drive                         10               40
1,030
Spares - 15%                       155
1,185
Contingency - 25%                  295
1,480
Total Equipment and Transport                                  1,801
1/   Preliminary list for cost estimate to be reviewed by consultants before
procurement of equipment beginning in 1971.
2/   Preliminary list for cost estimate to be reviewed by consultants before
procurement of equipment beginning 1973.



ANNEX 8
INDONESIA
SECOND IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Consulting Service for Tjiudjung,
Pemali-Tjomal and Sadang Areas
Cost Estimate
Local      Foreign    Total
----US$'000 equivalent----
Staff
Resident 96 man months                       0         175        175
Visiting, 4 man months                       0          10         10
Local Staff                                 40           0         40
Staff Costs
Living allowances                           20          20         40
Transport of effects                         0          30         30
Air travel                                   0          20         20
Field transport and                         35           0         35
subsistence
Overhead and fee, 100% of staff                    0         185        185
Vehicles and equipment                            20          20         40
Reports, tests, miscellaneous                    125          40        165
240        500        740
May 1970






ANNEX 9
INDONESIA
SECOND IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION OF DRAFT REGULATION TO
ESTABLISH THE PROJECT AUTHORITY
GOVERNMENT REGULATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
No.             1970
On
The Establishment of Perusahaan Umum "Otorita Djatiluhur"
THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA,
Considering:    a.  That with the completion of most of the development of
the Djatiluhur multipurpose project, including reser-
voir, main dam, hydroelectric power operating station
and the infrastructure of the irrigation and the water
supply systems, the first results of this project have
been realized and utilized in production;
b.  that to realize the maximum utilization of the poten-
tialities mentioned above in the most efficient and
effective way, it is urgent to establish a body which
may be given the responsibility to manage and develop
the potential resources mentioned;
c.  that consistent with the field of activities the most
appropriate form for the body mentioned in sub (b) above
is the Perusahaan Umum as meant in Article 2, para (2)
Law No. 9/1969, the establishment of which shall be by
Government Regulation;
Recognizing:    1.  Article 5, para (2) of the 1945 Constitution;
2.  The Decree of the Provisional People's Consultative
Assembly No. XXIII/MPRS/1966;
3.  Law No. 14, 1950;
4.  Law No. 19/Prp/1960 (State Gazette 1960 No. 59, Addi-
tional State Gazette No. 1989).



ANNEX 9
Page 2
5. Law No. 18, 1965 (State Gazette 1965 No. 83 Additional
State Gazette No. 2778) and Law No. 6, 1969 (State
Gazette 1969 No. 37, Additional State Gazette No. 2901);
6. Law No. 9, 1969 (State Gazette 1969 No. 40, Additional
State Gazette No. 2904);
IAS DECIDED:
With revoked Government Regulation No. 8, 1967 (State
Gazette 1967 No. 14).
To enact:            Government Regulation of the Republic of Indonesia on
the Establishment of Perusahaan Umum "Otorita Djatiluhur".
Chapter I
Provisions for Establishment
Article I
(1) With the name "OTORITA DJATILUHUR", a Perusahaan Umum as mentioned in
Article 2, para (2) Law No. 9, 1965 (State Gazette 1969 No. 40) and
Article 3, para (1) Law No. 19/Prp/1960 (State Gazette 1960, No. 59)
shall be established.
(2) The Djatiluhur State Enterprise established on the basis of Government
Regulation No. 8, 1967 (State Gaztte 1967 No. 14) is liquidated through
this regulation.
(3) All matters relating to liquidation of the Diatiluhur State Enterprise
as meant in para (2) of this Article, shall be further regulated by
the Minister of Public Works and Electric Power on the basis of the
existing laws with the following directive that:
(a) all assets and liabilities will be transferred to the State;
(b) such assets as a result of the liquidation of the State Enterprise
Djatiluhur needed for the implementation of the operation and ac-
tivities of the Otorita Djatiluhur, will be transferred to the
Otorita Djatiluhur and shall constitute capital with the approval
of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Public Works and
Electric Power.
Chapter II
STATUTES
FIRST SECTION
General Provisions
Article 2
As referred to in this Government Regulation:



ANNEX 9
Page 3
a.   "Government" means the President of the Republic of Indonesia;
b.   "Minister" means the Minister of State for Economy, Finance and Industry;
c.   "Regional Government" means West Java Provincial Government;
d.   "Governor" means Governor/Head of West Java Provincial Government;
e.   "Authority" means Otorita Djatiluhur as described in para (1)
Article 1 of this Government Regulation;
f.   "Board" means Board of Directors of the Authority.
Article 3
(1)  The Authority shall be a legal body empowered to take actions on the
basis of this Government Regulation:
(2) Without weakening the provisions of this Government Regulation, the
Authoritv shall be subject to all Indonesian Laws.
lbjectives and Scope of Activities
Article 4
The objective of the Authority is to contribute to the development of
national economy consistent with policies of the Government with due con-
sideration to regional developments.
Article 5
Guided by economic principles and short as well as long run State in-
terests in guarantees and preservations of the State's Assets, the Authority
shall conduct productive operations which shall be regulated as follows:
a.   to operate, maintain and develop reservoir, main dam, hydro-
electric power station and infrastructure of water supply and
irrigation systems;
b.   to utilize all assets of the Authority for the creation of
funds to be used for the operation, maintenance and amortiza-
tion of project costs and regional development as indicated on
the map included in appendix to Government Regulation;
c.   to conduct activities in other fields within boundaries of
what is technically feasible and socially acceptable.
Location
Article 6
The Central Office of the Authority shall be located at
and when necessary, representative offices may be established at locations
approved by the Minister.



ANNEX 9
Page 4
SECOND SECTION
Capital
Article 7
(1) The capital of the Authority shall consist of the State's Assets set
aside from the State Budget for the amount as has been received from
the body mentioned in Article I para (3) of this Government Regulation,
with additional other State's Assets necessary for the effective opera-
tion of the Authority, shall be further determined by the Ministers of
Finance, Public Works and Electric Power and the Minister of Home Af-
fairs, subject to approval by the Minister.
(2)  Changes in the Capital of the Authority may be done by Government Reg-
ulation.
(3) The Authority shall have a general reserve fund created and replenished
on basis of Article 20 para (1) of this Government Regulation.
(4) There may not be silent or secret reserves.
THIRD SECTION
Source of Income
Article 8
(1) The source of income of the Authority shall be:
a.   charges received from the Regional Government for the use of
water in the area under the jurisdiction of the Authority;
b.   charges received from the State Enterprise of Electric Power
(P.L.N.) for the use of power produced by the hydro station;
c.   charges for other activities mentioned in Article 5 sub (c)
of this Government Regulation.
(2) The amount of the charges mentioned in para (1) sub (a) of this Article
will be further regulated by a Provincial Regulation subject to approval
by the Minister of Home Affairs prior to implementation.
FOURTH SECTION
General Policy Decision Making and General Supervision
Article 9
(1) The Minister shall determine the general policy concerning objective
and scope of activities of the Authority mentioned in Article 4 and 5
of this Government Regulation.
(2) To formulate and prepare the general policy as mentioned in para (1) of
this Article, the Minister shall be assisted by the Minister of Public
Works and Electric Power, the Ministers of Home Affairs, Agriculture
and Finance.



ANNEX 9
Page 5
(3) The Minister shall have the power of general supervision concerning the
whole activities of the Authority.
(4) The Governor shall be appointed by the Minister to give guidance and
supervision to the Board based on the general policy already decided
by the Minister.
FIFTH SECTION
Article 10
(1) The Authority shall be managed by a Board of Directors consisting of
one President Director and assisted by at least three (3) directors
who shall be accountable for their respective activities.
(2) The Board shall be accountable to the Minister.
(3) The salary and other income of the members of the Board shall be deter-
mined by the Minister with due consideration to current regulations.
Article 11
(1) The members of the Board shall be citizens of Indonesia and shall be
appointed and dismissed by the Government upon recommendation of the
Minister.
(2) The members of the Board shall be appointed for the duration of five
years. After the termination of their term at office the members may
be reappointed.
(3) On matters mentioned hereunder, upon recommendation of the Minister,
the Government may dismiss members of the Board, although the period
mentioned in para (2) of this Article has not yet expired:
a.  upon their own request;
b.  because of acts harmful to the Authority;
c.  because of acts or attitudes contrary to the interests of
of the state; and
d.  if deceased.
(4) Dismissals of Board members will constitute dishonorable discharge if
made according to the reasons mentioned in para (3) sub (b) and (c) of
this Article and constituting a violation of penal code provisions.
(5) Before dismissals according to the reasons mentioned in para (3) sub (b)
and (c) of this Article may be made, the Board member concerned shall
be given the opportunity to take place within the period of one month
after receipt of the written notice of proposed dismissal by the Min-
is ter.



ANNEX 9
Page 6
(6) Before the proposed dismissal mentioned in para (4) of this Article has
been decided upon the Minister may suspend the Board member concerned.
If within a period of two (2) months after the date of suspension, no
decision has been taken concerning the dismissal based on para (3)
sub (b) and (c) of this Article, the suspension shall be legally annulled
and the Board member concerned may immediately resume his office unless
the dismissal mentioned in para (4) of this Article required a court
sentence and the same has been advised to the Board member concerned.
Article 12
(1) Among the Board members there may not be family relationships less
than the third grade, in direct line as well as in collateral line, in-
cluding son/daughter and brother/sister-in-law, except as permitted by
the Government. If after this appointment they become family-in-law,
written permission from the Government is needed, for the continuation
of the function of the Board member concerned.
(2) The members of the Board may not hold another position except with the
consent of the Minister and for functions imposed on them by the Gov-
ernment.
(3)  The members of the Board shall not directly or indirectly have a per-
sonal interest in another profit making organization or enterprise.
Article 13
(1) The Board shall implement the general policies as determined by the
Minister.
(2) The Board shall manage and control all the assets of the Authority.
(3) The procedures and the execution of the duties of the Board shall be
regulated in rules to be determined by the Board with the consent of
the Minister.
Article 14
(1) The Board shall represent the Authority in and out of court.
(2) With the consent of the Minister, the Board may delegate its authority
referred to in para (1) of this Article, to one or more officials of
the Authority, either singly or together, or to another person or body.
SIXTH SECTION
Accountability and Indemnification of
Claims Against Employees
Article 15
(1)  All employees of the Authority, including the members of the Board in
their position as such, who are not in charge of keeping money, secur-
ities and stock-goods, and because of a violation of law or negligence



ANNEX 9
Page 7
of duties entrusted to them, directly or indirectly, have caused a loss
to the Authority, are obliged to pay indemnification.
(2) The provisions of law concerning indemnification claims against Govern-
ment officials are fully applicable to the employees of the Authority.
(3) All the employees of the Authority in charge of keeping, paying out or
transferring money and securities owned by the Authority and stock
goods owned by the Authority and kept in warehouses or special store-
houses solely used for such purposes, are obliged to account, on the
execution of their duties, to the Office of the Auditor General.
(4) The employees referred to in para (3) of this article are not required
to submit a report on the procedures of their management to the Office
of the Auditor General. The prosecution of the employees concerned
shall be carried out according to the rules applicable for treasuries,
and said employees shall be relieved of their responsibilities with
regard to their financial management by the Auditor General.
(5) All evidence and other documents of whatever character belonging to the
bookkeeping and administration of the Authority shall be kept at the
seat of the Authority or any other places decided upon by the Minister,
except when temporarily removed to the Office of Auditor General in
cases regarded necessary for investigatory purposes.
(6) For purposes of investigation of tax assessment and accountant's in-
vestigation in general, evidence and other documents referred to in
para (5) of this article may be removed to the Direktorat Akuntan Negara.
SEVENTH SECTION
Finance and Operation of the Authority
Accounting Year
Article 16
The accounting year of the Authority shall be the calendar year, except
otherwise determined by the Government.
Budget of the Authority
Article 17
1.   Within the time period determined by the Minister and no later than
three months before the commencement of the new accounting year, the
Board shall submit the budget of the Authority to the Minister for his
approval.
2.   Except when other decisions have been made by the Minister concerning
projects submitted in the Authority's budget before the commencement
of the new accounting year, the budget submitted shall have full effect.
3.   A supplementary budget or changes in the budget during the accounting
year shall require the approval of the Minister.



ANNEX 9
Page 8
Periodic Reports on the Result of
Operations and Activities of the Authority
Article 18
Periodic reports on the result of operations and activities of the
Authority shall be submitted by the Board to the Minister according to the
procedures and at the times fixed by the Minister.
Report on Annual Accounting
Article 19
1.   For every accounting year, the Board shall make up an annual account,
consisting of the balance sheet and the profit and loss account. The
said balance sheet and profit and loss account shall be sent to the
Minister and to the Office of the Auditor General according to the pro-
cedures and at the times fixed by the Minister.
2.   The method of valuations and posts in the annual account should be
explained.
3.   If within two (2) months after receipt of those accounts the Minister
does not forward his written objection, the account shall be regarded
as legalized.
4.   The annual account referred to in paragraph (1) of this article shall
only be legalized by the Minister. Said legalization relieves the
Board of all matters mentioned in those accounts.
Utilization of the Authority's Profit
Article 20
1.   From net profit approved according to Article 19 of this Government
Regulation an amount shall be set aside for:
a.  Development fund - 55/
b. General reserve fund - 20% until the reserve fund has reached
twice the Authority's capital; the remainder shall be set aside
for a pension fund, subsidies to personnel, social affairs and
education, and production incentives, the respective percen-
tages of each to be determined by the Minister.
2.   When the aims of the reserve fund and indemnity have been met, the net
profit may be reallocated for other purposes through a Government reg-
ulation.
3.   The arrangement and use of the depreciation funds and object reserves
as mentioned in Article 18 paragraph (2) Law Number 19 Prp. 1960 (State
Gazette 1960 Number 59, additional State Gazette Number 1989) shall be
determined by Ministerial decision.



ANNEX 9
Page 9
EIGHTH SECTION
Personnel
Article 21
1.   Within the limits contained in existing Laws and Regulations, concern-
ing personnel of public corporations provisions for personnel of the
Authority shall be regulated as follows:
a. Appointment and dismissal of personnel shall be carried out by
the Board in accordance with the needs of the Authority on the
basis of policies approved by the Minister;
b. Salaries, pensions and other compensation shall be determined
by the Board with consent of the Minister.
2.   If deemed necessary in order to meet the needs of the Au-thority for
personnel for the smooth operation of the Authority, the Board may,
with the consent of the Minister, employ employees from institutions
or regional services for the Authority.
SECTION 10
Liquidation of the Authority
Article 22
1.   The liquidation of the Authority and the appointment of the liquidator,
shall be determined by Government Regulation.
2.   All assets of the Authority, after liquidation, shall become Government
property.
3.   The liquidator shall forward his accounting to the Minister, who upon
approving said accounting, shall relieve the liquidator of his respon-
sibilities.
Chapter III
Transitional Provisions
Article 23
1.   Upon the effectiveness of this Government Regulation, the Djatiluhur
Irrigation Project as established by the Decree of the Minister of
Public Works and Electric Power Number 132/KPTS/1969, the Djatiluhur
Irrigation Operation Board as established by the Decree of the Minis-
ter of Public Works and Electric Power Number 180/KPTS/1969, the Djat-
iluhur Tertiary Water Works as established by the Decree of the Minister
of lHome Affairs Number               are discontinued.
2.   All matters related to the implementation of the provision mentioned
in para (1) of this article, shall be further regulated by the respec-
tive Ministers.



ANNEX 9
Page 10
Chapter IV
Closing Provisions
Article 24
All matters not yet sufficiently provided for in this Government regu-
lation shall be determined by the Minister.
Article 25
The Government ReRulation shall be effective on the date of issue. For
this Regulation to be of general cognizance, the enactment of this Government
Regulation is ordered to be published in the State Gazette of the Republic
of Indonesia.
Resolved in Djakarta
on ..................
Enacted in Djakarta
on .................
Explanation Regarding
The Government Regulation of the Republic of Indonesia
No.          1970
on
The establishment of Perusahaan Umum "Otorita Djatiluhur"
a.   General Explanation
1.   As it is generally known the construction of the Djatiluhur multi-
purpose national project, which includes the reservoirs, main dam, hydro-
electric operating station and the infrastructure of the irrigation and
water supply system, has been largely completed.
In this connection, it has been thought to be necessary that a
body shall be established to manage and develop the potential resources of
the development of the multi-purpose national project as stated above in
order for those potentials to be able to be utilized for the prosperity of
the nation and society of Indonesia.
It is appropriate that the utilization of this potential be done
in a manner which is effective and efficient, which accordingly means that
the exploitation and management would be based on sound economic principles
accountable to the society.



ANNEX 9
Page 11
In conformity to the character of the project as a multi-purpose
project, the scope of activities is an extensive one, such that these func-
tions could not be surrendered to the "Perusahaan Negara Djatiluhur" as es-
tablished by the Government Regulation No. 8, 1967.
These factors have been the basis of consideration for the estab-
lishment of "Otorita Djatiluhur", whose activities are regulated as an enter-
prise as mentioned in Article 2, para (2) Law No. 9, 1969 and Article 3,
para (1) Law No. 19 Prp. 1960.
With the establishment of this "Otorita Djatiluhur", these insti-
tutions and projects which are presently still in existence and located under
the jurisdiction of the development of Djatiluhur and whose functions include
the scope of activities of the "Otorita Djatiluhur", shall be liquidated.
2.   In conformity to the provisions as stipulated in Law No. 19 Prp.
1960, this Government regulation consists of rules for the establishment of
the "Otorita Djatiluhur" and its statutes.
In connection with the statute concerning "Otorita Djatiluhur",
which needs to be clarified here refers particularly to Articles 8, 9, and
10.
Article 8 regulates the source of income of "Otorita Djatiluhur",
and specifies that one of its sources of income shall be the charges col-
lected from the Regional Government for the use of water in the area under
the jurisdiction of "Otorita Djatiluhur".
Consistent with the policy outlined by the Government and in the
framework of raising funds to meet the cost of regulating water, mainten-
ance and concerned are empowered to impose charges on those who are directly
benefitted from the use of factor of production mentioned. In accordance
with the objective of raising funds mentioned, i.e. to make funds available
for the maintenance and conservation of irrigation network including reser-
voirs, buildings, etc., the Governor/HIead of West Java Province and the Gov-
ernor/tHead of Special District Djakarta, on basis of power and provisions in
the existing legislation, has the obligation to bring into existence and im-
plementation Provincial Regulations which ensure:
(a) that the [water] charges to be transferred to the "Otorita
Djatiluhur" will initially cover minimally the cost of
operation and maintenance of systems attributable to irri-
gation and water supply;
(b) that the above minimum level of [water] charges will be
used to determine the level at which they can contri-
bute to repayment of project cost and the cost of fur-
ther development.



ANNEX 9
Page 12
3.   In order to properly conduct the activities of the "Otorita" and
based on sound principles of economic rationality, it would be necessary to
formulate a general policy determined by the Minister of State for Economy,
Finance and Industry.
In the implementation of that duty, the Minister of State for Econ-
omy, Finance and Industry should be assisted by the Minister of Public Works
and Electric Power, the Minister of Home Affairs, the Minister of Finance and
the Minister of Agriculture.
In the execution of that duty, the Ministers will act as a Council
chaired by the Minister of State for Economy, Finance and Industry and, based
on Article 27, para (2) of Law Number 19 Prp. 1960, whenever necessary, the
Governor/Head of West Java Province and the Governor/Head of Special Dis-
trict Djakarta, will attend meetings of the above-mentioned Council.
The general policy mentioned above includes the authorization of
permits for the tuses of water, electric power and other facilities tmder the
scope of activities of the "Otorita", and the provisions concerning water
charges and electric power, etc.
4.   The activities which are to be undertaken by the "Otorita" concern-
ing the State's assets must be managed productively. The sources of income
of the "Otorita" will also be attained at the maximum level to be able to be
used for further rehabilitation and the development of new irrivation networks.
In order to ensure intensive supervision on the whole activities
of the "Otorita", the Minister of State for Economy, Finance and Industry
shall have the power of general supervision concerning the whole activities
of the "Otorita". In order to supervise continually the general policy al-
ready decided by the Minister, it is deemed wise to appoint the Governor/
Head of West Java Province to give guidance and supervision to the Board of
Directors.
The duties of the Governor as mentioned are in conformity with the
provisions mentioned in Article 27, para (2) Law Number 19 Prp. 1960, where
the Regional Province may actively participate in the management and devel-
opment of certain State Enterprises in their area concerned.
5.   In accordance with Article 7, para (1) Law Number 19 Prp. 1960,
the "Otorita Djatiluhur" shall be managed by a Board of Directors. As pre-
viously mentioned, the scope of activities of the "Otorita Djatiluhur" is
so broad that its activities would involve matters within the general juris-
dictions of the Department of Public Works and Electric Power, Department of
Agriculture, Department of Home Affairs, Department of Finance and the Pro-
vincial Government of West Java.



ANNEX 9
Page 13
In order to coordinate the above-mentioned activities in a proper
manner and to create a continuous lifetime basis of the "Otorita DJatiluhur"
to attain the aims of their activities, it is planned to appoint officials
of the Department of Public Works and Electric Power, Department of Home Af-
fairs, Department of Finance, Department of Agriculture and the Regional Pro-
vince of West Java, as the Board of Directors.
b.   Explanations Article by Article.
Sufficiently clear.
May 1970






ANNEX 10
INDONESIA
SECOND IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS OF THE DJATILUHUR PROJECT
1.        The economic rate of return for the project, on the basis of the
assumptions made in the report is 29%. If, after rehabilitation, other in-
puts such as fertilizer are used, the return to rehabilitation and these
inputs is 45%.
Economic Costs and Benefits
(Rp billions)
Project             Project Benefits       Net Benefits
Cost             Without       With    Without      With
(incl. contingencies)    Other        Other    Other       Other
Inputs     Inputs    Inputs    Inputs
Year
1                   0.5                 -           -      (0.5)      (0.5)
2                   2.2                0.6         0.8     (1.6)      (1.4)
3                   3.9                1.1         1.7     (2.8)      (2.2)
4                    3.9               1.9         2.8     (2.0)      (1.1)
5                   2.3                3.0         3.9      0.7        1.6
6                    0.6               3.4         5.0      2.8        4.4
7-30                0.6                4.0         6.0      3.4        5.4
Internal Rate of Return                                     28.80      45.47
2.        The basic assumptions used in this calculation, and the effect of
varying these assumptions, are described below and summarized in Tables 1
and 2.
Project Costs
3.        The technical basis of the cost estimates is described in para
4.10. The estimates were prepared at the time of appraisal but were recal-
culated to take account of the exchange reforms announced in April 1970.
The cost stream in the calculation above assumes that the full amount of
contingencies included in the project estimates (202 for quantities and 15%
for price escalation) are required. If the quantity contingency is not need-
ed, the cost stream would be correspondingly smaller and the rate of return



ANNEX 10
Page 2
would be 39% (Table 1, Column 1), or to 61% if other inputs were also used
(Table 2, Column 1). If, on the other hand, project costs exceed the esti-
mates by 20%, the rate of return would be reduced to 26% (Table 1, Column 3)
or to 40% with other inputs (Table 2, Column 3).
4.        Delays in construction of the project would alter the cost stream
and also delay the achievement of benefits; a two year delay would reduce
the rate of return to 25% or to 37% if other inputs were used.
Production Costs
5.        Throughout Indonesia, wages and salaries are still paid in whole
or in part in rice. In rural areas, there are well established standards
for estimating the cost of farming operations as a fixed amount of rice or
as a proportion of yield, i.e.:
Cost dependent on area, kg stalk paddy    per ha
Establishment of nursery                      35
Preparation of Soil                          360
Transplanting                                 80
Weeding                                      140
Irrigation                                    80
Spraying                                      15
Bird Scaring                                  40
750
Costs dependent on yield
Harvesting                        20% of the crop.
6.        For the calculation shown in para 1, this labor cost has been con-
verted to rupiahs at the current farmgate price, Rp 14.5 per kg stalk paddy.
If the price of labor should increase, the rate of return of the project
would be reduced, see Tables 1 and 2: for example, if labor was paid with
rice valued at world prices (corresponding to a 16% increase over the pre-
sent farmgate price) the rate of return would fall to 21%, or to 41% if
other inputs were used. It must be emphasized, however, that the family
labor, as well as labor hired at peak seasons, has been included in full.
In fact, the opportunity cost of labor in the Djatiluhur area is probably
very low.
7.        The "package" of inputs used in estimating production costs is
described in Annex 1. The following prices have been used in all calcula-
tions in this Annex.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
Urea                                 Rp 35 per kg
TSP                                  Rp 38 per kg
Insecticide, pesticide and
sprayer                            Rp 4,500 per ha
Services                             Rp 1,700 per ha
Benefits
8.        Because of the nature of the project, benefits in the form of in-
creased yields in the wet and dry season begin to accrue in the second year
as the first sub-systems are rehabilitated. These benefits, and additional
ones from the increase in area under irrigation in the dry season, increase
rapidly, reaching full development in Year 7. As has been noted in para 4,
delays in construction would delay the build-up of benefits and reduce the
rate of return.
9.        The increased production of rice is the only benefit which has
been quantified. In the calculation in para 1, rice production has been val-
ued at the projected world price, in 1975, for equivalent grades of Burmese
rice, i.e. US$100 per m ton f.o.b. Rangoon. This is considerably below pre-
sent price levels. Tables 1 and 2 show that the project is extremely sensi-
tive to changes in rice prices: the rate of return would be 46% if the world
price fell less than expected, to US$100 but would be only 12% if the price
fell as low as US$90 (the corresponding rates of return would be 74% and 21%
if other inputs were used). As noted in para 7.03, this latter figure, US$90,
is about the price, c.i.f. Djakarta, that Indonesian rice would be on export
markets when self-sufficiency is achieved.
May 1970






ANNEX 10
Table 1
INDONESIA
SECOND IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
1. Without Other Inputs
Revised Project Cost
(1)        (2)         (3)          (4)
Estimated      As      Estimated   Estimated
- 20%     Estimated   + 20%         + 30%
A. Basic Cost Assumptions
World Rice Price ($ per m ton)
in 1975:
(i)   $ 90                                  12
(ii)    100 (IBRD assumption)   39           29          26           24
(iii)    110                                  46
B. Cost of Labor Changes
Otherwise as A(ii)
Mi) Labor cost as estimated    39          29           26           24
(ii) Labor cost increases 8%    34          26           22           19
(Mii) Labor cost increases 16%   26          21           17           15
C. Construction and Production
Delayed 2 years
Otherwise as A(ii)                           25



ANNEX 10
Table 2
INDONESIA
SECOND IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
2. With Other Inputs
Revised Project Cost
(1)        (2)         (3)         (4)
Estimated      As      Estimated  Estimated
- 20%     Estimated   + 20%        + 30%
A. Basic Cost Assu ptiona
World Rice Price ($ per m ton)
in 1975:
(i)  $ 90                                   21
(ii)   100 (IBRD assumption)       61       45           40         34
(iii)   110                                   74
B. Cost of Labor ChanRes
Otherwise as A(ii)
vi) Labor cost as estimated       61       45           40         34
(ii) Labor cost increases 8%       58       43            39        33
(iii) Labor cost increases 16%    53          41           33        30
C. Construction and Production
Delayed 2 years
Otherwise as A(ii)                            37



INDONESIA
SECOND IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
OTORITA DJATILUHUR
(DJATI LUHUR AUTHORITY)
PRESIDENT DIRECTOR
PROJECT MANAGER                      PROJECT CONSULTANTS
DIRECTOR                                 DIRECTOR                                 DIRECTOR
(POWER)                               (IRRIGATION)                           (ADMINISTRATION)
Operation and                           Supervision of                             Administration,
maintenance of                          project implementation                     personnel, finance
dam and power plant                     and subsequent 0 & M                       budget and public
relations
SUB-PROJECT           SUB-PROJECT             SUB-PROJECT           SUB-PROJECT            SUB-PROJECT
Barrage and              West                   North                   East **            Tjipunegara
main canals               Tarum                 Tarum                   Tarum
NOTE:
** To be combined after project implementation.                                               IBRD - 4655(R)






INIDONESIA: SECONO IRRIGAT101>N REHABILITATION PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
- 1970                             1971                            1972                             1973                             1974                             1975
WET  i  DRY      I   W~~~ET    I       DRY        i   WET    I         DRY         I   WET    I         DRY              WET    j        DRY         r    WET    j        DRY         IE
1. TJURUG BARRAGE AND PUMPING PLANT:/// ,, zs 1/Z /.. ...  ;. /iv/ //' '
Repairs and Reno.vations                                                 1 '//31I                                                                                                                                                            I
Additional Power FacEiiites                   'z/}2    oz/                                                                                 /    ,,,o/   ,,>,,/                                                                               /
2. MIN    TARUM  CANALS!/'                                                     //   s'v                          /,   z/zgz///                                                    /'   /'tt                             ''v                         z
Rehabilitation of Canals''                                              |      zz,!, ,,                                                     , ,,,!,                              ,, j
Works on Speciol Problems                      ,''L!,',,,,                                                  ,   ,''1                       /////11A/                                  /g                           ,.i/
3. NORTH TARUM  IRRIGATION SYSTEM: //  ///// / //'i, /,, ,, /,  .. /  I,
Rehabilitation of Tertiaries                  ''M1S                                                                                     V                         
Surfacing Canal Roads , I'''/,''  . ./ , ..,  . X ,, ,. ,.i'
improvement of Dn]ins                         ,//                        ''   /Z                          S/  //                           /            ,,                        /,/z,w     
4. TJIPUNEGARA IRRIGATION SYSTEM: ,X v/1v//////11/zzqi/t 
RehabilitaJtion of Canals                     /,/1//.'/;j/                                                               ,/                             ,        's               w ,                        /s  /''  
Rehabilitation of Tertiaries                    //1 /  Xz1,'   //;                                                                         ,,        '                      z   w                             z''''t
Surfazcing Canal Roads                        //                          ,/   //storoX'                                                   /,/                              //      ''l''./,11,
Improvement of Drains                          ,1Av/vv'11''o-z                                                                            (o /                               ''         v<                  i       sswZ
Flood Protection Works                        ///l/////j[,///x                                                                              /                                                                 /    /X s[X
S. EAST TARUM  IRRIGATION  SYSTEMA                                                                                      /&''o'zIt ///!// '/jl; ...,'..;l ki
R.k.bilitc,flon of C.nnas.k1                                              / /,   l/ /v>                                                    >,          lI///j,t,,s,,                                                                          ,j
Rel,.6ilit.flon of Terti.ri-f zz                          /      /             i             l i , Z r p                                       izi                  '       qv,z j
Surfacing Canal Roads                          j>>                        >jj;j                                                                                            l                                             lf 
Improvement of Drains                                                                                                                                                             ///Aii  >>>>i   #t> >|ii ;         
Flood Protection Works.,,                                                      /,,                        /,i '                           f'.        ,I,,ii'jtj   jj,
Rehabilitation of Canals                          j                      jj j         II.. ,.!tijji!                                                                          jjj                                        1f  i
Reh.l,ilit.tior, of Te,ti.ri.s                  /'.                        ',,./j                          , *-                           r           /1.       /                                            /            It
Irmprovement of Drains                          A/                        '.,,'Wj    ,.                                                     ,.   i,f0,                                                      gj,,'il 
[BR D-4638(R)






0                 R~~~~~ALIANA
~1f~t4P1tIO RtIAff           t HRIIAT[ON MOO1IT   m 
GULF CzF FUAXARTA                                                                                                                                                                      000*0~~~~~~~~~~~~7
(5ULP  OT  PtA KA R T A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ AA                   t
WEST  rARUM  sys rErofL    T0V                                                    TAUI                YSEM          ~      T.IPNEAA              YSE
80, 000   HA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~?~00HAR00nAr
BARRAGE                                                                                           IPUNEGA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARA
A. ~~~~ C                         TA   U         AWRAST
--b.~~~~~~~Treudu                      KIdV 49,0La83
TJIp00ATJBETooAioRNDIN
BE UANA   BRA    RRAGES IARRAG                                                            0
07'                        07   0                             1o 0010000~~~~~JURG  eLA
BOGOR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRA                                                                
MATJAN  Tjip..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BR-71R
APRIL 1970                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BD21R






UVA
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
INDOlNESIA
lTlptUHEGARA S-fSTEM
(37,OoO HA)
WI'~Tarum Canall
D....  rclins
RiVers
j,, river dykal
---proposd river dy~el
Rail waYs
--r~Swamps
4 
0~~~me
M~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~M
FE 1AR  970






.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ II* 
at   EArr  4                           z      >
FW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~18 -S           X 0  
8  a
s~~~~~~~~~~~o i,                    2        
0
MZ                 m~~~~~~~~3
,O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
>C)~~~~~~~~~~
,Om~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
Mc~~~~~~~~~~~






MAP 3
+S;C;.i: i: _iE_S:U < [ u' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  V  A  E/
W                     z           ,        ,           S E;r;e 5 T   T A R U M
\ Q  g  8 > 1  i   5    5 jA re =  S ,@    )  r    g        7 1 5     u    n                                             ST             T   AIR   U  
N.11T.   iSe  ,?ai -Xr   FF
_6~\s  i* S'':}nS{.WT,;.1 
% <  <  ' ' '       =         j 2         *    s t        H      ,: 5 ~~~~~~BAR AG






MAP 4
4414              F4A
A~~~~~~
'  r      x A{                                                           4 A
>^_                                                M~~~~~~~~~~~ 0 R T H    T A R U M
U E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
BAR -A
_RR--ER  v   ;s   (  <'  {  ..  \BARRAE
o    2 131 HA)t1 
E:                                                                                               4\) 
eters )4 TdU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WRU HA
F L.P UA. Y | .70                                                                                                             1 BR D_271 dR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A



