CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 195 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Irrigation Rehabilitation Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 15, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 195 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Irrigation Rehabilitation Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 15, 1970


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 15, 1970, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of a rehabilitation project for the Djatiluhur irrigation system and of
engineering and supervision for other irrigation rehabilitation works, described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
WHEREAS the Borrower will carry out the said engineering and supervision
through consultants and has established the public corporation (PERUM) Otorita
Djatiluhur for the execution of the rehabilitation and for the operation of the
Djatiluhur irrigation system;
WHEREAS the Borrower will make available to the Otorita Djatiluhur all
funds required to carry out the said irrigation rehaoilitation project, including
proceeds of the development credit provided for herein; and
WHEREAS the Association has, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing, agreed
to make a development credit available to the Borrower on the terms and conditions
set forth herein;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable
to Development Credit Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions


﻿4
have the respective meanings therein set forth and the term "Authority" means
Otorita Djatiluhur, a pubilc corporation (PERUM) established by, and operating
under, Government Regulation No. 20/1970 of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighteen million five hundred
thousand dollars ($18,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit Account on its books
in the name of the Borrower and shall credit to such Account the amount of
the Credit.
(b)   The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account
as provided in, and subject to the rights of cancellation and suspension set forth
in, this Development Credit Agreement and in accordance with the allocation of
the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule I to this Agreement, as such
allocation shall be modified from time to time pursuant to the provisions of such
Schedule or by further agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from the Credit
Account in respect of the reasonable cost of goods or services required for the
Project and to be financed under this Development Credit Agreement:
(i)        such amounts as shall have been paid (., if the Association
shall so agree, shall be required to meet payments to be made)
for goods or services included in Categories I, II, Ill and V of
the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section
2.02 of this Agreement; and
(ii)       the equivalent of fifty per cent (50%) of such amounts as shall
have been paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, shall be
required to meet payments to be made) for goods or services
included in Category IV of the allocation of the proceeds of
the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
provided, however, that if there shall be an increase in the estimate of such
payments for goods or services included in Category IV, the Association may by


﻿5
notice to the Borrower adjust the stated percentage applicable to such Category
as required in order that withdrawals of the amount of the Credit then allocated
to such Category and not withdrawn may continue pro rata with the payments
remaining to be made for goods or services included in such Category.
Section 2.04. No withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made under
Categories I, II, III or V of the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit referred
to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement on account of payments in the currency
of the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower.
Section 2.05. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 1 and
November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
May 1    and   November 1    commencing    November 1, 1980    and   ending
May 1, 2020, each installment to and including the installment payable on
May 1, 1990 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount,
and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds of the Credit allocated
to Part B of the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, to expenditures
on such Part B and shall make the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Part A
of the Project available to the Authority and cause the Authority to apply such
proceeds to expenditures on such Part A of the Project, in accordance with the
provisions of this Development Credit Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as provided in Schedule 3 to this Agreement or as
the Association shall otherwise agree, (i) the goods and services to be financed


﻿6
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in August 1969, and in
a,.cordance with such other procedures supplementary thereto as are set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement or as shall be agreed between the Borrower and
the Association, and (ii) contracts for the procurement of such goods and services
shall be subject to the prior approval of the Association.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to
be used exclusively in carrying out the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part B of the Project and
cause the Authority to carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with sound agricultural, engineering, economic and
financial policies and practices and shall make available, or causo to be made
available, promptly as needed the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b)   Without limitation on the obligations of the Borrower under paragraph
(a) hereof, the Borrower shall ensure that sufficient liquid funds to cover the
budgeted expenditures estimated by the Authority to be made for Part A of the
Project during each quarter shall be available to the Authority not later than 30
days prior to the first day of such quarter.
(c)   In carrying out Part A of the Project the Borrower shall cause the
Authority to employ consultants acceptable to the Association on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association (i) to assist the Authority in the design
and supervision of the works included in Part A of the Project; (ii) to assess
maintenance and operation requirements for Part A of the Project and to prepare
guidelines for its operation; and (iii) to carry out the studies described in Part
A-IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(d)   For the purpose of carrying out Part B of the Project the Borrower
shall employ consultants acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.


﻿0                                                7
(e)   Except as otherwise agreed between the Association and the Borrower,
the Borrower shall cause the Authority to employ contractors on terms .And
conditions satisfactory to the Association, to carry out the works included in Part
A-I of the Project.
(f)   The Borrower shall promptly furnish and cause the Authority promptly
to furnish to the Association the plans, specifications and work schedules for Parts
B and A of the Project, respectively, and any material modifications subsequently
made therein, in such detail as the Association shall request.
(g)   The Borrower shall, in respect of Part B of the Project, maintain and,
in respect of Part A of the Project, cause the Authority to maintain records adequate
to identify the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, to disclose the
use thereof in the Project, to record the progress of the Project (including the
cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the revenues, expenditures and financial condition of the
Authority and shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect the Project,
the operation of the works and facilities included therein, the goods and any
relevant records and documents.
(h)   The accounts of the Authority shall be audited annually by an
independent auditor acceptable to the Association, and copies of the reports of
*        such auditor shall be furnished to the Association not later than four months after
the end of the fiscal year to which they relate.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Authority to operate and
maintain all its works, plants, equipment and other facilities, including those which
are part of the Project, and to make from time to time all necessary renewals,
in accordance with sound agricultural, engineering, financial and public utility
policies and practices and to take such action as shall be reasonably required to
ensure the economic use of the water made available by such works for agricultural
development.
(b)   To the extent that the funds available to the Authority from its own
revenues are insufficient to cover the expenditures estimated to be required for
operation and maintenance in accordance with paragraph (a) hereof, the Borrower
shall make available, or cause to be made available, to the Authority, promptly
as needed, the funds required for the purpose.
(c)   The Borrower shall ensure that the positions of President Director and
Director of the Authority shall at all times be filled by qualified and experienced
persons and, before an appointment is made to any such position, shall inform


﻿8
the Association of the name, qualifications and experience of the persons considered
for appointment to such position and afford the Association a reasonable
opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on the qualifications and
experience of such persons.
Section 4.03. The Borrower, through the Province of West Java and the
Special District of Djakarta, shall, in accordance with the legislation now in force,
establish as each part of the irrigation system under the jurisdiction of the Authority
is rehabilitated, and thereafter maintain and collect charges on irrigable agricultural
land served by such part of the irrigation system, or on the users of such land,
at such levels as shall be required to provide the Authority with revenues sufficient
(i) to cover the operating and maintenance costs of the Authority attributable
to said part of the irrigation system not later than 2 years after completion of
such part, and (ii) to recover over the useful life of the irrigation system a reasonable
portion of the capital expenditures of the Authority attributable to such system,
and shall cause all such charges to be paid to the Authority for use in its operation.
To that end, operating and maintenance costs and capital expenditures incurred
for facilities and services which are common also to other water uses shall be
apportioned among the various users in an equitable manner.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully
to ensure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views through their representatives with regard to the performance
by the Borrower of its obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, and
to the administration, operations and financial condition of the Authority and any
other agency of the Borrower responsible for the carrying out of the Project or
any part thereof, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Credit and the maintenance of the service thereof, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit, the goods financed out of such proceeds, the Project, and the
administration, operations and financial condition of the Authority and any other
agency of the Borrower responsible for the carrying out of the Project or any
part thereof. Such information shall include information with respect to financial
and economic conditions in the territories of the Borrower and the international
balance of payments position of the Borrower.
(c)   The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof or the performance
by the Borrower of its obligations under the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿9
Section 4.05. The principal of, and service charge on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 4.06. This Agreement shall be free from any taxes that shall be
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on
or in connection with the execution, issue, delivery or registration thereof.
Section 4.07. Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower undertakes to insure the imported goods to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit against marine, transit and other hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
Section 4.08. TP. Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
Section 4.09. (a) The Borrower shall take such action as shall be necessary
to provide adequate agricultural supporting services in each area benefiting from
any part of the irrigation system rehabilitated as part of Part A of the Project,
*         as soon as each part of such system is completed, including provision of agricultural
extension services and agricultural inputs (improved seed, fertilizers, pesticides and
agricultural credit) in order to encourage the optimum use of irrigation water for
agricultural production.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Authority to establish and maintain an
adequate program for monitoring the economic benefits of the Project and
determining the effectiveness of the supporting services provided pursuant to
paragraph (a) hereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such


﻿10
principal, together with such charges, shall become due and payable immediately,
anything in this Development Credit Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the folowing additional event is specified:
Government Regulation No. 20/1970 of the Borrower or any provision
thereof shall have been repealed or amended.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of this Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   Such assets of the Djatiluhur State Enterprise, the Djatiluhur Irrigation
Project, the Djatiluhur Irrigation Board and the Djatiluhur Tertiary
Canals Project in the area under the jurisdiction of the Authority as
shall be required for the initial operations of the Authority have been
transferred to the Authority.
(b)   The Minister of State for Economy, Finance and Industry of the
Borrower has issued all necessary general directives to the Authority
in accordance with Government Regulation No. 20/1970 of the
Borrower, and the Governor of West Java has, in accordance with such
directives, issued to the Authority all necessary guidance to carry out
the Project in accordance with the Development Credit Agreement and
to comply with the provisions of the said Agreement relating to the
Authority.
(c)   The Authority has been empowered by the competent governmental
authorities to obtain the transfer to its own staff of such members
of the existing staff presently employed by the government
departments or agencies for services related to the Project as the
President Director shall request from time to time.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:


﻿11
(a)   the directives and guidance referred to in Section 6.01 (b) have been
duly issued to, and are bindinf on, the Authority.
(b)   The Province of West Java and the Special District of Djarkarta have
the power and duty to enact regulations providing for the establishment
and collection of charges in accordance with Section 4.03.
Section 6.03. The date of September 30, 1970 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01 (f) and
(g), 4.02, 4.03 and 4.09 of this Agreement shall terminate on the date on which
this Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-five years
after the date of this Development Credit Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
Section 7.01. The Closing Date shall be November 30, 1976 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 7.02. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.03. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 21
Djakarta, Indonesia
Alternative a Idress for cables:
Ministry of Finance
Djakarta, Indonesia
0


﻿12
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Development Credit
Agreement to be signed in their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s / Soedjatmoko
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Simon Aldewereld
Vice President


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of Proceeds of Credit
Amounts Expressed in
Category                                        Dollar Equivalent
I.    Communication and maintenance
equipment                                             2,200,000
II.   Construction equipment for civil
works contractors (up to 15% of
value of each contract)                               2,500,000
III.  Consultant's services for Part A
of the Project                                         1,800,000
IV.   Civil works (except advances to
contractors for construction
equipment)                                            7,200,000
V.    Consultant's services for Part B
of the Project                                          500,000
VI,   Unallocated                                           4,300,000
TOTAL              18,500,000
Reallocation Upon Change in Cost Estimates
1.   If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any of the Categories
I to V shall decrease, the amount of the Credit then allocated to, and no
longer required for, such Category will be reallocated by the Association
to Category VI.
2.    If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any of the Categories
I to V shall increase, an amount equal to the portion, if any, of such increase
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit (or, in the case of Category
IV, an amount equal to 50% of such increase) will be allocated by the
Association, at the request of the Borrower, to such Category from Category
VI, subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined
by the Association, in respect of the cost of the items in the other Categories.
0


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists in:
Part A.     (Djatiluhur rehabilitation project)
Studies by the Authority of the Djatiluhur catchment area in the Province
of West Java and rehabilitation and improvement by the Authority of irrigation,
drainage and flood protection in the existing irrigation system of about 180,000
ha situated between the East and the West Tarum Canals and the sea in the province
of West Java to permit year-round irrigation of rice. Part A of the Project includes:
I.    (i)         Renovation and improvements to Tjurug Barrage and
pumping plants;
(ii)        Rehabilitation of the East and West Tarum Main Canals
and associated structures;
(iii)       Rehabilitation  and   improvement    of  the   irrigation
distribution systems in the North, West and East Tarum
and Tjipunegara command areas; and
(iv)        Construction of drains, flood protection works, roads, and
telecommunication facilities in the command areas.
II.   Rehabilitation and improvement of the tertiary canals in the command
areas.
III. Procurement of equipment, housing and supplies for operation and
maintenance of the irrigation system.
IV.   (i)         A study of the optimum      utilization of the Djatiluhur
reservoir and the unregulated water supplies in other rivers
for irrigation, power and water supply; and
(ii)        Depending on water availability, feasibility studies and
detailed engineering for extension of the irrigation systems
within the Authority's area.


﻿15
Part B.     (Engineering and Supervision in other areas)
Detailed planning, design and supervision of irrigation rehabilitation works
in the following areas: Tjiudung, West Java; Pemali-Tjomal, Central Java; and
Sadang, South Sulawesi.
The Project is scheduled to be completed by November 1975.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    Items of communication and maintenance equipment (Category I of
the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of this
Agreement) shall be grouped in amounts sufficient to attract international
competitive bidding. The specific items to be procured as well as the groupings
of items and the schedule for procurement shall be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association.
2.    With respect to contracts or letters of intent to award a contract for
such communication and maintenance equipment, the following procedure shall
be followed:
(i)         invitations to bid, specifications and other terms and conditions
of contract, together with a description of the advertising
procedures to be followed, will be submitted to the Association
for review and approval before advertising or issuing invitations
to bid;
(ii)        after bids have been received and analyzed, the analyses of bids
and recommendations thereon by the Authority's proposal for
award, will be furnished to the Association and an award shall
be made or a letter of intent issued only after approval by the
Association.
3.    Civil works for Part A of the Project (Category IV of said allocation)
shall be grouped in sufficiently large sized contracts to attract interest from
experienced prequalified contractors and shall provide for advances in foreign
exchange to be contracted, up to 15% of the value of his contract, for the purchase
of such imported construction equipment, spare parts and materials as the
Authority, on the advice of its consultants, shall determine to be required and
suitable for the execution of the contract and not otherwise available to the
contractor (Category II of the said allocation); such advances shall be repaid by
the contractor by means of deductions from his earnings under the contract.
4.    With respect to contracts or letters of intent to award contracts for
civil works, the following procedure will be followed:
(i)         only experienced civilian contractors will be prequalified;


﻿17
(ii)        invitations to   prequalify, prequalification standards and    a
description  of   the  advertising  procedures   for   soliciting
prequalification will be submitted to the Association for review
and approval before prequalification is invited;
(iii)       the Authority's recommendations for prequalification, together
with invitations to bid, specifications and other proposed terms
and conditions of contract will be submitted to the Association
for review and approval before the prequalified contractors are
invited to submit bids;
(iv)         after bids have been received and analyzed, the analyses of bids
and recommendations thereon by the Authority's consultants,
as well as the Authority's proposal for award, will be furnished
to the Association and an award shall be made or a letter of
intent issued only after approval by the Association.
5.    With respect to all contracts:
(i)         if the final contract or letter of intent is to differ substantially
from the terms and conditions contained in the respective
documents approved by the Association under paragraphs 2 or
4 above, the text of the proposed changes will be submitted
to the Association for review and approval prior to the execution
of such contract or issuance of such letter of intent;
(ii)        two conformed copies of any letter of intent issued and of any
contract executed shall be sent to the Association promptly upon
their issuance or execution.


