Document of                  FIL XO
The World Bank                     FILE Copy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2817-ZR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR A
SMALLHOLDER MAIZE PROJECT
May 16, 1980
''is doeument hs s reddcted disrbutlon and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oNcial dudes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank autorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                  - Zaire (a) - 100 Makuta (K)
s 1.00                         -  SDR 0.2625
US$1.00                        - s 2.9
B 1.00                         -  US$0.34
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
PMKO          -  Projet Mais Kasai Oriental
(Kasai Oriental Maize Project)
AfDB          - African Development Bank
CIMMYT        - Centro Internacional por el Mejoramiento de Mais y Trigo
(International Wheat and Maize Improvement Center)
DOA           - Department of Agriculture and Rural Development (Department
de l'Agriculture et du Developpement Rural)
FAO           -  United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization
FED           - Fonds Europeen de Developpement (European Development Fund)
INERA         -  Institut National des Etudes et des Recherches Agronomiques
(National Institute of Agronomic Research and Studies)
IFAD          -  International Fund for Agricultural Development
ONACER        -  Office National des Cereales (National Cereals Office)
ONAFITEX      -  Office National des Fibres Textiles (National Textile
Fibres Office)
OR            -  Office des Routes (Bureau of Roads)
PNM           -  Program  National Mais (National Maize Program)
SH            -  Service Hydrologique (Hydrological Service)
SOFIDE        -  Societe Financiere pour le Developpement Economique
(Development Finance Company)
UNDP          -  United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
(Government)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAIRE
SMALLHOLDER MAIZE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Republic of Zaire
Beneficiary:          Projet Mais Kasai Oriental (PMKO), an agency of the
Department of Agriculture and Rural Development
Amount:               US$11.0 million equivalent
Terms:                Standard
Co-lenders:           International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD);
African Development Bank (AfDB)
Relending Terms:      Grant from the Government to PMKO
Project Description:  The proposed project would include: (a)  provision of
inputs including fertilizer and improved maize seeds,
transport, distribution and sales services and storage
facilities for inputs; (b) development of the private
marketing sector; (c) development of improved extension
training and research facilities; (d) development of
road and drinking water infrastructure; and (e) technical
assistance in support of the above activities. The
major risks of the Project are related to: (i) adminis-
tration and organization, (ii) provision of funds by
Government and (iii) transport and distribution of
inputs.
This document has a restricted distribution and mo y be used by recipients only in the performance.
Lof their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.|



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                              Local         Foreign          Total
(net of taxes and duties) 1/                      (US$ million equivalent) ---
Fertilizer                                                  1.9            1.9
Seeds                                       0.7            0.7             1.4
Input Distri-
bution and Sales                          2.8            2.2             5.0
Maize Marketing                             0.8             2.0            2.8
Extension                                   1.8            0.7             2.5
Training                                    0.6            0.5             1.1
Research                                    0.4             0.3            0.7
Roads                                       4.1             3.3            7.4
Water Supply                                0.2             0.6            0.8
Project Management Unit                     1.6            1.5             3.1
Base Cost                              13.0           13.7           26.7
Physical Contingencies                      1.9            2.1             4.0
Price Contingencies                         3.9            3.9             7.8
Total Contingencies                     5.8            6.0            11.8
Total Cost                             18.8           19.7           38.5
Financing Plan:                              Local         Foreign          Total
---- (US$ million equivalent) ---
IDA                                         5.4            5.6            11.0
IFAD                                        7.3            7.7            15.0
ADB                                          -              6.4            6.4
Government                                  6.1             -              6.1
Total                                 18.8             19.7          38.5
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year               1981     1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
-------------- (US$ million equivalent) -------------
Annual Disbursements           0.6       2.1      1.7      1.6     1.7      1.7      1.6
Cumulative Disbursements    0.6          2.7     4.4      6.0      7.7      9.4    11.0
1/   The implementing agency is exempt from import duties; other taxes are
negligible.



- iii -
Rate of Return:         About 45 percent (over 94 percent of total cost)
Appraisal Report:       Report No. 2194-ZR dated May 2, 1980
Map:                     IBRD 13636R






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE FOR A SMALLHOLDER MAIZE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Zaire for the equivalent of US$11.0
million on standard IDA terms to finance a Smallholder Maize Project in the
Eastern Kasai Region of Zaire. The Project would also be financed by a
loan of UA5 million (US$6.4 million) from the African Development Bank (AfDB)
bearing a 7 percent interest rate per year, with a term of 20 years including
6 years of grace and by a loan of SDR 12.150 million (US$15.0 million) from
the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) with a term of 50
years including 10 years of grace with a 1 percent per year administrative
charge. The proceeds of the Credit will be transferred by the Government to
the implementing agency(PMKO) on a grant basis.
PART I - THE ECONOMY *
2.        An economic mission visited Zaire in July-August 1978 and again in
August 1979. Its report (No. 2518-ZR) was distributed on October 19, 1979.
The last few months have witnessed a number of important international actions
on Zaire such as the approval by the IMF of a Stand-by Arrangement in support
of an 18-month stabilization program, an ad hoc conference of donors on
Zaire's short-term assistance needs, and a meeting of the Paris Club on ex-
ternal debt rescheduling. The findings of the last economic report as well
as the results of the above actions are incorporated below. Country data are
attached as Annex I.
3.        Zaire is the third largest country in Africa in terms of area and
the fifth largest in terms of population, but its GNP per capita, estimated
at about US$210 in 1978, ranks among the lowest in the continent. Approxi-
mately one-fourth of its population of about 26 million live in urban areas,
and the population density is 11 persons per sq. km. Urbanization has been
proceeding at a rate of more than 5 percent per annum, or about twice as fast as
the growth of population. Although agriculture (commercialized and subsistence)
normally accounts for 18 percent of GDP, it provides employment and income for
more than three-quarters of the population. The mining and mineral processing
industry normally accounts for about 20 percent of GDP; it has been tradition-
ally the largest source of public revenue and provides more than two-thirds of
the country's export earnings.
4.        When Zaire gained independence in 1960, it was ill-prepared for
the change, both technically and institutionally. The first 6-7 years were
Except for minor updating, this part is identical to that in the Grey
cover President's Report for the Fifth SOFIDE Project dated February 29,
1980.



marked by violent political strife and a severe disruption of the economy;
but after the restoration of political order and stability in 1967, the gross
domestic product grew by about 7 percent in real terms annually until 1974.
Since then, however, Zaire has been experiencing serious economic difficulties,
which have brought about a continuous decline in aggregate output.
5.        Although the downswing of the Zairian economy started in 1975, the
current difficulties of Zaire are in many respects the result of developments
which took place in earlier years.  Among these are:  the progressive accen-
tuation of the country's dependence on the mining sector, accompanied by the
relative neglect of agricultural production; the failure to follow an anti-
cyclical reserve policy from the beginning of the last copper cycle or at
least to invest the windfall earnings properly; heavy external borrowing
during 1973-74, mostly from private banks, at average terms inconsistent with
Zaire's level of development and for projects with long gestation periods and
uncertain economic benefits; and the attempt to drastically change the owner-
ship structure of the economy through the zairianization and "radicalization"
(nationalization) measures of 1973-74. Though since rescinded, the zairiani-
zation and nationalization measures had particularly adverse and lasting
effects on the economy: they seriously damaged private sector confidence both
at home and abroad, severely disrupted the transport and marketing links
between urban centers and the interior, and resulted in the neglect--and in
some cases destruction--of the country's productive capacity and infrastruc-
ture. In view of the appearance of these trends before 1975, it is difficult
to attribute the current economic crisis of Zaire to a single factor, either
external or internal. Yet one event stands out as a major contributor to both
the severity and the duration of the crisis: the deterioration of Zaire's
terms of trade in 1975, which was brought about principally by the fall in
the international price of copper. The change in the terms of trade was
drastic, abrupt and sustained; moreover, it occurred at a time when production
was being severely disrupted by the delayed effects of zairianization/
nationalization, when institutional performance was weakening, and when
external debt service obligations were on the rise.
6.        During the 1975-77 period, the first three years of the crisis,
Zaire's commercialized GDP declined by about 13 percent in real terms; the
Government ran large budgetary deficits; domestic prices quadrupled; the
overall balance of payments deficit averaged more than US$450 million per
year; and Zaire accumulated about US$800 million of arrears on external debt,
including commercial credits and invisibles. Zaire adopted two stabilization
programs, with IMF support, during this period (in March 1976 and April 1977),
but these could not be fully implemented and failed to improve the situation.
7.        In 1978, domestic and external financial imbalances persisted and
economic activity continued to decline. GDP in real terms contracted by
2.7 percent due to adverse weather conditions, the acute shortage of inputs
in the agriculture, industry and transportation sectors, and the fall in
Gecamines' output resulting partly from the events which took place in the
Shaba province in May and partly from the unattended rehabilitation needs of
the company. Owing to a 40 percent increase in current expenditures, the
overall budgetary deficit attained a record level of about 9 590 million,



equivalent to 9 percent of commercialized GDP. Deficit financing, together
with the worsening shortages of basic consumer goods, fuel and intermediate
products, pushed the annual inflation rate to about 100 percent. Between
November 1, 1978 and January 2, 1979, the Government devalued the zaire in
four stages by a cumulative amount of 50 percent, or from a 1.0 = SDR 1.0
to 9 1.0 = SDR 0.5. Thanks to a 31 percent increase in exports and an
11 percent decrease in imports (both in nominal terms), the overall balance
of payments deficit was reduced to about $360 million. The deficit was
financed primarily by a further accumulation of arrears. Total arrears
increased from about US$800 million at the end of 1977 to more than US$1.0
billion at the end of 1978.
8.        According to partial and preliminary information, the economic and
financial situation of Zaire remained difficult in 1979. In particular, the
decline in aggregate production which has beset the economy since 1975 could
not be arrested. At the end of the first semester, the budgetary deficit
amounted to about M 280 million and was financed entirely by recourse to the
banking system. This plus the acceleration of credit to the rest of the
economy continued to exert pressure on prices, which rose by about 90 percent
in the capital city during the first ten months of the year. The balance of
payments also remained under strong pressure, as evidenced by a further
accumulation of external payment arrears. On June 30, 1979, arrears (includ-
ing those on short-term commercial debt and invisibles) amounted to about
US$1.5 billion. (On that date, Zaire had an additional US$200 million of
arrears on private debt, i.e., debt by a private entity carrying a guarantee
of foreign exchange av liability by the Central Bank.) The zaire was devalued
by another 25 percent against the SDR, on August 24, 1979, and by another
30 percent on February 22, 1980 modifying the rate to 9 1.00 = SDR 0.2625 =
US$0.34 and bringing the cumulative devaluation since November 1, 1978 to
74.75 percent.
9.        The year 1979 saw four concrete attempts to arrest the above trends
and to prepare the conditions for a resumption of economic growth: (a) the
adoption of a new stabilization program, supported by a Stand-by Arrangement
with the IMF; (2) an attempt to mobilize the short-term external assistance
needed for the successful implementation of the stabilization program; (3)
renegotiation of external debt, both with the private banks and with the Paris
Club; and (4) completion of a three-year public investment program.
10.       The new stabilization program covers the 18-month period from July 1,
1979 to December 31, 1980 and has been designed essentially to contain the
overall balance of payments deficit, curb the rate of inflation, and reactivate
the economy. To these ends, the program calls for: (1) a marked reduction
in the budgetary deficit requiring bank financing to 9 350 million; (2) a
substantial deceleration of domestic credit expansion ; (3) the implementation
of prudent incomes policies; (4) the continuation of a flexible exchange
rate policy; (5) the improvement of foreign exchange management; (6) the
commencement of an orderly process of reducing outstanding external payments
arrears; and (7) the limitation of new external borrowing by the Government



-4-
or against government guarantee with maturities of 1-12 years. In support of
this program, on August 27, 1979 the IMF approved a Stand-by Arrangement in
the upper credit tranches of SDR 118 million for a period of 18 months. The
IMF also approved a Trust Fund loan presently estimated at SDR 50 million.
As of January 1980, Zaire has purchased SDR 20 million under the Stand-by
Arrangement and has received Trust Fund disbursements of SDR 34.2 million.
11.       The implementation of the stabilization program has not been without
difficulties. The program had assumed that the foreign exchange resources
available for imports would rise by about 30 percent in nominal terms in 1979,
bringing some relief to the economy. However, for various reasons, including
delays in aid disbursements and debt rescheduling, imports have fallen short
of the projected level and consequently the supply situation has remained
tight. Provisional data also indicate that performance in the areas of the
budget, domestic credit and external arrears has been below expectations.
An IMF mission visited Zaire in the second half of January in order to review
performance under the program in 1979 and set performance criteria for 1980.
12.       The short-term needs of the Zairian economy, comprising both ins-
titutional/policy measures by Zaire and external assistance, have been the
focus of three ad hoc conferences of donors organized by Belgium, with the
support and participation of Za.ire, since 1978. At the first one, in June
1978, the major donors announced some emergency commodity assistance to
alleviate the impact of the Shaba invasion of May of that year. The second
conference, which took place in November 1978, underscored the indispensability
of substantial external assistance (additional to that already in the pipe-
line) to the success of a stabilization program and resulted in promises from
donors of about US$225 million in such assistance, of which (according to
donors) US$155 million were disbursed in 1979. The third conference was
announced shortly after the adoption of the new stabilization program and
convened on November 28-29, 1979. At that conference, Zaire requested US$300
million of commodity assistance for 1980. The donors indicated their inten-
tion to provide US$180-200 million in such assistance during the year.
13.       To alleviate the growing debt repayment difficulties, Zaire began
debt rescheduling negotiations in late 1975. Although a Memorandum of Under-
standing was signed in November 1976 with representatives of 13 private banks,
the understanding could not be fully implemented due to the failure of a US$250
million loan from the private banks--which formed part of the understanding--to
materialize. Furthermore, the rescheduling agreements reached with the Paris
Club on three separate occasions (June 1976, July 1977 and November 1977) were
not accompanied by an improvement in the economic situation and, therefore,
by mid-1979, Zaire accumulated arrears of approximately US$60 million on the
rescheduled debt. On June 30, 1979, Zaire's external public debt (disbursed
and outstanding), including arrears, amounted to about US$3.9 billion. On
that date Zaire owed, in addition, US$300 million in private debt and US$700
million in short-term (under one year) commercial debt, either public or
private, and invisibles. (Undisbursed commitments amounted to US$680 million).
Roughly 10 percent of the public debt was owed to private banks and nearly
two-thirds to members of the Paris Club. About half of the debt was contracted
between 1973-1975, much of it from private source and with relatively short



-5-
grace periods. Consequently, as of June 30, 1979, the average contractual
debt service due (assuming no rescheduling and excluding arrears) during
1979-81 was projected at 26 percent of exports.
14.       Rescheduling negotiations were reactivated during the second half of
1979 with considerable success. On November 8, 1979, Zaire reached a tentative
agreement with the agent banks of syndicated credits on the rescheduling of
the entire uninsured debt (including principal and interest in arrears) owqed
to the private banks. The tentative agreement calls for a substantial down-
payment in 1980, small annual payments during 1981-84, and liquidation of the
rest during 1985-90. The agreement has now been finalized. On December 11,
1979, the Paris Club provided for the rescheduling of US$1.3 billion of
Zaire's debt, comprising arrears (including those on already rescheduled debt
and insured short-term commercial credits) and maturities coming due during
the period July 1, 1979-December 31, 1980. The downpayment varies between
10 and 30 percent, depending on the category of the debt, and most of the
remainder is to be repaid in 10 years, with a grace period of 4 years. (The
terms for the repayment of arrears on previously rescheduled maturities are
harder than those for new maturities.) The implementation of the agreement as
well as the eventual rescheduling of 1981 maturities -- which has been agreed
upon in principle -- are conditional on Zaire's satisfactory performance under
the Stand-by Arrangement with the IMF.
15.       During the last two years, Zaire has taken a number of important
steps under the Mobutu Plan, which the government views as a broad-based and
multipronged effort to achieve recovery in dialogue with and with the parti-
cipation of major donors. These include the installation of an expatriate
deputy governor as well as five technical advisers, all proposed by the IMF,
at the Bank of Zaire. This has been accompanied by some concrete measures to
halt the privileges enjoyed by certain firms with respect to access to foreign
exchange and credit. Zaire also appointed an expatriate controller general,
proposed by the UNDP, to the Ministry of Finance. The controller general will
be assisted by a team of technical experts. In addition, as part of an effort
to reform its customs operations, Zaire has passed a law transforming the
Customs Division of the Ministry of Finance into a public organization known
as the Office of Customs and Duties (OFIDA). This new undertaking is expected
to receive substantial technical and administrative support from Belgium.
Also noteworthy is the creation of a Central Pay Directorate which has started
functioning with the assistance of French experts. Moreover, the Government
has reaffirmed through various actions its commitment to expand the role of
and reliance on the private sector. Seven inefficient "commodity offices"
have been dissolved; some agricultural producer prices have been raised;
under a scheme of "development agreements", an effort is under way to involve
private industry in the rehabilitation of agriculture and related infrastruc-
ture; a new investment code has been promulgated; and a number of reforms
have been initiated in the management of state enterprises. In the latter
part of 1979, mindful of the difficulties encountered in implementing the new
stabilization program, the authorities announced a freeze on administrative
expenditures and the creation of an Economic and Financial Coordination
Committee to monitor progress under the new program. At the end of 1979



the Government decided to exchange F 5 and 10 notes for new bank rates. This
measure was taken as a reaction to the tendency to hoard notes which developed
during the year. It aimed therefore to reduce liquidity while inducing the
return of bank notes to the banking system. The measure which initially
encountered some problems of implementation is expected to generate defla-
tionary pressures.
16.       International and domestic attention to the problem of economic
recovery has been directed for more than a year to the preparation of a
three year public investment program. The need was underlined at the first
Brussels Conference in June 1978, where the Bank was asked to assist Zaire in
this endeavor. In August 1979, the Government completed such a program,
focusing largely on rehabilitation needs in priority sectors such as trans-
portation and agriculture. The completion of this work and the approval
of a Standby Arrangement by the IMF in support of a Stabilization program led
to the convening of the Consultative Group, which took place in Paris on May
28 and 29, 1980.
17.       The most urgent issues facing Zaire concern:  the need to stabilize
the economy, in particular to reverse the decline in production and slow down
the rate of inflation; the need to begin an orderly and determined effort to
clear external debt arrears and meet debt service obligations; and the need to
improve overall economic management. The resource constraints remain severe,
despite the improvement in copper and particularly cobalt prices experienced
in the last 12-18 months, because of the cumulative effect of insufficient
rehabilitaticn and maiitenance on productive capacity and infrastructure
since the beginning of the crisis. Under the terms of the tentative agree-
ment with the private banks and the recent Paris Club agreement, Zaire's debt
service obligations in 1980 will be close to US$450 million and represent a
projected debt service ratio of about 23 percent, or roughly twice the ratio
of actual debt service in recent years.
18.       Zaire retains a significant potential in mineral resources, energy
and agriculture. Its difficulties of the last few years have been aggravated
considerably by exogenous factors such as the protracted weakness of copper
prices. Economic developments in Zaire will continue to depend on the vagaries
of world commodity prices. For the next two years, however, under the best
circumstances, Zaire cannot hope to achieve an import level much higher than
60 percent of that of 1974. Moreover, important domestic problems remain.
Adjusting to the resource constraints and other difficulties brought on by
the crisis has been seriously hampered by the overall weakness of institutions,
the inadequacy of administrative controls, especially with regard to the
repatriation and allocation of foreign exchange earnings and the monitoring
of budgetary expenditures, and the deficiencies of economic decision-making.
The authorities are aware of these shortcomings and the need to correct them.,
They recognize, in particular, the importance of continuously strengthening
the ongoing institutional reforms in order to both improve the management of
the economy and encourage the flow -- as well as facilitate the absorption --
of the substantial external assistance, financial and technical, needed to
fulfill the country's potential.



- 7 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
19.       From 1969 to date, Zaire has received 19 IDA credits totaling
US$266 million for transport, agriculture, development finance company
operations, water supply and education projects. In March 1980, the Executive
Directors approved a fifth Credit to the Societe Financiere de Developpement
(SOFIDE) in an amount of US$18.5 million. The Bank has also extended
grants totaling US$400,000 as contributions toward the cost of two planning
assistance projects in Zaire. In 1975, the Bank made a loan of US$100
million for the GECAMINES Mining Expansion Project, which was cofinanced by
the European Investment Bank and by the Libyan Arab Foreign Bank, and which
provided for special repayment arrangements linked to the project's export
earnings. The IFC, which has a US$760,000 equity participation in SOFIDE,
approved a US$4.1 million loan for an offshore oil production project in
September 1978. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA
credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1980 and notes on the status of
ongoing projects.
20.       As of June 30, 1979 the Bank Group's share of Zaire's disbursed
public debt outstanding was about 5.2 percent and its present share of public
debt service is estimated at 3.7 percent during 1980.
21.       A main objective of Bank Group operations in Zaire has been insti-
tution building. The development finance company (SOFIDE) was established in
1970 with assistance from IFC and IDA. The major transport agencies, Office
National des Transports (ONATRA), Regie des Voies Fluviales (RVF), Regie des
Voies Maritimes (RVM), Bureau of Roads (OR), received technical and financial
assistance from the Association which also helped establish the National
Livestock Development Authority. In the case of Gecamines, the Bank loan
originated a fruitful dialogue which lead to the strengthening of management
and planning of the Company.
22.       While SOFIDE and the National Water Authority (REGIDESO) are execut-
ing projects in a satisfactory manner, implementation of other projects has
been difficult due to the country's inadequate manpower and management
capacity and, in recent years, because of the economic crisis. The first
Education Project (1972) was delayed because of the management weakness of
the Project Unit. While there has been a marked improvement in the manage-
ment of OR and ONATRA, the financial management of RVF and RVM remains
unsatisfactory. In the last two or three years, release of the required
budgetary funds has been increasingly difficult. Lack of foreign exchange
to finance spare parts and fuel, deterioration of the transport network and
marketing system have resulted in supply problems for most projects.
Recruiting and retaining adequate staff has become increasingly difficult.
These constraints have had a severe impact on ongoing agricultural
projects which have also sufferred from inadequate pricing policies and
financial controls as well as insufficiently structured institutions.
The present weakness of the construction sector in Zaire has also been a
major factor contributing to both delays and cost overruns in projects such
as water supply and education which include large civil works components.



- 8 -
Finally, inflation has compounded the above problems. Several projects had
to be revised to reduce their scope. An amendment agreement on the GECAMINES
project which allows completion of essential rehabilitation works while
postponing some of the expansion investments was signed in November 1979.
In January 1980, the Bank undertook with the Zairian authorities an overall
review of ongoing Bank projects which for the first term provided an integrated
view of implementation problems and should result in an acceleration and
improvement in the utilization of Bank's assistance.
23.       In the past two years the Bank Group's main efforts have been
directed towards assisting in the rehabilitation and development of the
agriculture and transport sectors, in part through the design and imple-
mentation of appropriate new policies. Investments in industry are
also included in our program through assistance to SOFIDE. Support of the
transport sector, and in particular of the Voie Nationale, will continue to be
a top priority area for IDA investments. Another major thrust of future
assistance is expected to be on agriculture to reverse the declining trend of
agricultural output, decrease reliance on agricultural imports and promote the
export of selected agricultural commodities. A project consisting of the
rehabilitation of sugar processing facilities and a technical assistance
project to develop institutions for agricultural development have been
appraised and are expected to be presented to the Executive Directors in the
ensuing months.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
24.       The agricultural potential of Zaire is considerable.  The country's
geographical location astride the Equator and the differences in elevation
within the country result in climates which make possible a variety of agri-
cultural activities. Over three quarters of Zaire's population derives its
livelihood from agriculture and many of the remainder are indirectly dependent
on it for employment. Nevertheless, agriculture's contribution to GDP is only
about 18 percent, of which nearly 60 percent comes from between three and four
million family farms growing foodcrops, mainly for their own use, and small
amounts of cash crops, usually coffee or cotton. The rest of agricultural
production comes from plantations which produce coffee, rubber, cocoa and tea
for export and sugar, palm oil and cattle for the domestic market.
25.       The deterioration of general economic conditions, unfavorable
farm prices, overevaluation of the zaire and zairianization and nationaliza-
tion policies (para 5), have resulted in a decline in agricultural production
and in the deterioration of agroindustrial processing facilities. Zairianiza-
tion of small transport enterprises and small traders, in particular,
disrupted marketing of agricultural produces as many owners dissolved their
enterprises and were not replaced. As a result, small farmers lost some of
the incentive to produce other than for subsistence needs. Agriculture has
also suffered from the low level of public expenditures for the sector. Since
1970, the volume of all export crops but coffee has decreased, while imports
of foodstuffs have increased rapidly to meet the food requirements of the



-9-
fast-growing population; a quarter of the maize consumed in Zaire is now
imported (about 175,000 tons per year) although about 25 percent of the land
under food crops is devoted to maize cultivation. Food shortages caused by
the decline of per capita production of foodcrops and by insufficient food
imports have contributed substantially to the recent high inflation rates.
There is evidence in many areas that the population is suffering from
malnutrition.
26.       Historically, the role of Government institutions in promoting
and regulating agricultural development in Zaire was relatively minor.
The private sector has until recently dominated the development of modern
agricultural activities. The Government's role in modern, commercial
agriculture was traditionally limited to a modest regulatory function.
Government support to traditional agriculture has also been particularly
weak as compared with other African countries.
27.       As a result of this legacy of limited and often counterproductive
Government role, the institutions responsible for agricultural and rural
development are at present poorly organized, and the respective roles of
various agencies are not clearly defined. Difficulties are compounded by
frequent changes in institutions and in senior officials and by problems of
coordination among agencies. The Department of Agriculture and Rural Develop-
ment is responsible for formulating agricultural policy, providing extension
services and supervising the parastatal bodies under its control such as the
National Institute for Agricultural Studies and Research (INERA) and the
National Livestock Development Office (ONDE). For about a year, in 1978, the
Department of Agriculture and the Department of Rural Devalopment existed
separately but they were merged into one Department with two State Secretaries,
one for Agriculture, and one for Rural Development, in January 1979.  To date
the responsibilities of each State Secretariat are still ill-defined and
coordination between them remains poor.
28.       Since 1971, the Government has set up a number of specialized
development organizations (offices) responsible for various crops, including
sugar, livestock, edible oils, cereals, coffee, cotton, cocoa, fishing, wood
and ivory. Their functions vary, and may include applied research, marketing,
distribution of imported commodities, provision of technical assistance and
extension services to farmers, and, in some cases, participation in the
administration of companies retroceded to their former owners. Because of
lack of funds and limited managerial and technical capacity, these offices
have played so far a minor role. An additional problem is caused by
unrealistic pricing policies; for instance, the National Food Crop Office
(ONPV), which is responsible for facilitating the marketing of food crops, has
to compete with private tradesmen offering producers two to three times the
official minimum price. As a result, its operations on the market are minimal.
29.       Credit for commercial agriculture comes from commercial banks and
from SOFIDE, which charges a 15 percent per annum interest rate, plus commit-
ment fee, on a par with commercial bank rates. There is no institutional
credit for small farmers. A number of agencies implementing agricultural
projects financed by external aid agencies extend credit to small farmers in
the framework of these projects at ad hoc terms and conditions.



- 10 -
Mobutu Plan
30.       The Government has recently reaffirmed its intention to give prio-
rity to agriculture and, within the framework of the Mobutu Plan, has identi-
fied a number of priority areas for action. These include: (i) restoring trans-
portation links in the rural areas; (ii) raising productivity of small farms;
(iii) applying simple and low cost agricultural technologies; (iv) reviewing
pricing and marketing policies; (v) involving the private sector in the
recovery program through Development Agreements with industrial and commercial
enterprises, whereby funds from the collection of special charges are earmarked
for priority development projects; and (vi) strengthening agricultural training
and extension.
The Maize Subsector
31.       Maize together with manioc is one of Zaire's major staple food.
Total annual production is estimated between 400,000 and 500,000 t. The
main producing zone is the savannah belt, south of the Equator, which includes
the Kasai where the proposed project is located, and Shaba. Maize is generally
produced on small family farms, by hand methods under a bush-fallow system.
Because of this and of the limited access to adequate fertilizers, yields are
low ranging from 0.35 to 1.0 ton per hectare. Production is not keeping up
with demand which is estimated to grow at 3 to 7 percent per annum. Imports
reached about 175,000 tons in 1978 and currently amount to some 25 percent of
total consumption; they are projected to continue to rise.
32.       The Governmevlt has sought to increase maize production through a
number of projects in the Kasai and Shaba provinces, with foreign technical
assistance. These projects have had varying degrees of success and have
often experienced severe supply and maintenance problems. In addition, mining
companies are required to operate maize farms to supply their workers, but
these farms are not commercially viable and their output is insufficient.
Another Government initiative has been the National Maize Program (PNM),
focusing on breeding and testing new varieties suitable for local conditions;
despite good research results, PNM's impact has been limited because of lack
of funds, inadequate seed multiplication and unavailability of fertilizers.
However, the major obstacle to an increase in maize production has been
the Government's pricing policy. The minimum farm gate price decreed by the
Central Government is often interpreted as a maximum price by regional
authorities, thereby discouraging production other than for family consumption.
Mill prices are also insufficient and hamper the activities of large mills.
IDA Lending to Agriculture
33.       Since 1973, IDA has financed three agricultural projects in Zaire.
The First Livestock Development Project (Credit 398-ZR of US$8.0 million)
was approved in 1973, the First Cotton Rehabilitation Project (Credit 660-ZR
of US$8.0 million) in 1976 and the Ituri Livestock Development Project (Credit
697-ZR of US$8.5 million) in 1977. These three projects have had serious
implementation difficulties, due mostly to the country's weak institutional
capacity and the lack of counterpart funds. A fourth project, the First Palm
Oil Project (Credit 796-ZR of US$9.0 million) was approved in 1978, but is not



- 11 -
yet effective due to delays in finalizing administrative arrangements among
the Government, participating companies and cofinanciers. The proposed small-
holders maize project has been designed to minimize the impact of existing
institutional and financial constraints to the development of the agricultural
sector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.       The Project was identified in December 1976 by an FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Program mission and appraised by an IDA mission in November-
December 1977. The necessary discussions with Government were delayed by
events in Shaba in 1978 and a first round of negotiations in 1979 did not
reach conclusion because of difficulties in reaching agreement on commitments
required from Government concerning the financing of the Project. Two post-
appraisal missions took place in July and November 1979. In April 1979, IDA
approved an advance of US$616,000 from the Project Preparation Facility, which
would be refinanced by the proposed Credit, to help finance the initial stock
of fertilizer for the project, hire experts and establish the initial balance
sheet of the Project agency. Negotiations were held in Washington cn April 7
to 15, 1980; the Zairian delegation was led by Mr. Djogo Basome, Secretary of
State for Agriculture. A report entitled Staff Appraisal Report of the Zaire
Smallholder Maize Projeat (No. 2194-ZR) dated May 2, 1980, is being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors. A project and credit summary is given
at the beginning of this report. Special conditions of the credit are sum-
marized in Annex III. A map (No. 13636) of the proposed Project area is
attached.
Background
35.       The project area covers about 26,000 km  around Mbuji Mayi, an
administrative and mining center which is also a major market for maize,
in the Kasai Oriental region, once considered the granary of Zaire. The
region's transport infrastructure, in particular roads is poor. Total
population is estimated at about 1 million, 900,000 of which are farmers.
Income levels are low, around US$70 per capita per annum for about 65 percent
of the agricultural population and US$100 to 125 per capita per annum for the
remainder which receive aid from government schemes or otherwise supplement
their farm income. Farms are typically small (around 2 ha). About two thirds
of the farmers market small quantities of maize. Total production is far
below the area's demand and has to be supplemented by imports from Zimbabwe.
Agricultural infrastructure in the area, in particular extension services, is
insufficient, despite the efforts of local maize promotion agencies. Several
development projects have been recently implemented in the area to improve
maize and other agricultural productions. The most important was the CAKO
(Kasai Oriental Agricultural Commission) project established in 1968 with FED
financing and French technical assistance. Originally conceived to promote
cotton, CAKO progressively shifted to maize which offered better price
prospects and offered farmers a measure of extension services. However,



- 12 -
since the end of FED financial support in 1976, CAKO has experienced severe
budgetary shortages which practically brought its operations to a halt. The
FAO fertilizer program, started in 1972 and still being implemented, has
demonstrated the profitability of fertilizer use through field trials and
sales to farmers. Finally, the Tshilenge rural development project initiated
by Government in 1976 to increase maize cultivation has been hindered by
budgetary constraints. In early 1980, CAKO and the Tshilenge project were
merged into PMKO (Projet Mais Kasai Oriental) which will be the implementing
agency for the proposed project.
Objectives and Description of the Project
36.       The Project aims to improve existing farming systems in the area,
increase maize production from about 80,000 tons to about 120,000 tons per
annum, and increase participating farmer's income. The expected increase in
maize production substituting for imports would be achieved through the
development of inputs supply, marketing channels and extension services for
about 53,000 farmers' families. The Project would also help reinforce agri-
cultural development institutions and remove some of the logistic difficulties
impeding the supply of goods and services in the area. Another objective
would be to foster research on ways to improve current agricultural and
storage techniques and develop more profitable and ecologically sound cropping
systems.
37.       The Project's components would be as follows:
- Provision of inputs including fertilizer and improved
maize seed; and transport distribution, storage facilities
and sales services for inputs;
- Development of the private marketing sector for maize;
- Development of improved extension, training and research
facilities;
- Development of roads and drinking water infrastructure;
- Technical assistance to the Project implementation agency
in support of the above activities.
The Project would be implemented over 6 years, the time necessary to develop an
adequate coverage of farmers by extension services and ensure the adoption of
the seed/fertilizer package by a sufficient number of farmers.
Supply, Distribution and Sales of Inputs
38.       Total fertilizer purchases under the project would amount to 27,200
tons, including 2,000 tons for building up stocks. From an estimated 1,000
tons per year now, the amount of fertilizer used on maize in the project area
is expected to rise to 6,700 tons by the end of Project implementation. Only
the annual incremental amount of fertilizer used in the Project area would be
financed by the Project; each year, the Government would finance the purchase



- 13 -
by PMKO of quantities of fertilizer at least equal to those used by PMKO the
previous year (para. 53). PMKO would purchase improved maize seed from
local sources or may choose to produce seed itself. The project would also
finance new storage and drying facilities and pesticides, sacks and transport
costs.
39.       Both fertilizer and seed would be delivered by transit firms to
railheads in the project area where two warehouses would be built. From there
on, they would be delivered to villages either by private trucks or by trucks
belonging to La Cotonniere, a mixed cotton cultivation promotion company
which has traditionally cooperated in the distribution of inputs to maize
projects in order to optimize the utilization of its transport capacity.
The Project would finance the construction of two intermediate warehouses
between railhead and villages and the repair and rehabilitation of storage
capacity in 370 villages; it would also finance the purchase of ten 6-ton
trucks for PMKO to carry the additional quantitites of seeds and fertilizer.
40.       Inputs would be sold to farmers by PMKO.  Prices would be set at
levels at least covering total costs and would be reviewed annually and
adjusted as appropriate (Section 3.05 of the Joint Project Agreement). While
cash sales are expected to be the rule once the package fertilizer/seed has
been adopted by farmers, credit sales will be important at the start. Seasonal
credit managed by PMKO will be extended only to groups of farmers, for a
maximum of 3 years and under the condition that such group have no incurred
default on previous loans (Section 3.04 (i) and (ii) of the Joint Project
Agreement). The terms would be principal plus a 33 percent interest to be
paid at harvest in order to cover full cost of PMKO. The nominal annualized
interest rate of about 60 percent compares with an average inflation rate of
70 percent in 1977-1979 and a projected inflation rate of about 40 percent
over the next three years.
Marketing of Maize Output
41.       The current marketing system through private transporters works
satisfactorily. It would however have to be substantially strengthened to be
able to accommodate the expected increase in marketed maize from 20,000 tons
at present to 60,000 tons at project completion. To this end, the Project
would finance the import of 45 6-ton trucks to be sold on credit by SOFIDE to
local carriers (para. 48).
Extension, Training and Research
42.       The consolidation of existing crop extension services in the area
under PMKO's authority is well underway. Extension workers from Agricultural
Services, and the CAKO and Tshilenge projects have already been transferred
to PMKO, and those of the local FAO fertilizer project are expected to be
transferred at the time of its completion in 1981. The staff increase under
the project would allow to reach a ratio of 300 to 320 farmers per extension
agent which is considered satisfactory. The effectiveness of extension
personnel would be increased through (i) training, in cooperation with the
National Agricultural Research Institution (INERA); (ii) the payment of



- 14 -
bonuses; (iii) the provision of offices, housing and transportation facilities
and (iv) the disengagement of PMKO's extension personnel from the enforcement
of imposed cultivation starting January 1, 1981 (Section 3.07 of the Joint
Project Agreement) to avoid adverse reactions among farmers. Research under
the Project would be based on PMKO's findings in the field and focus on crop
rotation and farm management, promotion of small agricultural implements and
storage techniques, and on soil fertility testing; it would be carried out at
INERA's research facilities.
Roads
43.       Feeder roads inside the Project area are essential for the provision
of inputs and the hauling out of the crop.  The Project would, therefore,
finance upgrading and maintenance of 1,150 kms. of tertiary roads, the
reconstruction of small bridges and the rehabilitation of small ferries all of
which have been identified. However, since Office des Routes (OR), an autono-
mous agency of the Ministry of Public Works responsible for roads maintenance,
is not normally in charge of tertiary roads, an understanding was reached at
negotiations (para. 48) on a mechanism ensuring that the necessary works
would be given adequate priority.
Water Supply
44.       About 192 manual village water pumps and a small number of motor
operated ones in farmer communities would be rehabilitated under the Project
which would also finance the capital cost of setting up a mobile repair unit
to service them. Village water supply systems would be rehabilitated in
accordance with a program to be approved by the Association (Schedule 1, Part
G of the draft Joint Project Agreement).
Technical Assistance
45.       In order to assist PMKO's management for specific tasks for which
the necessary expertise is not available in Zaire, the Project would finance
the recruitment of five expatriate specialists in administration and finance,
logistics, training, research and road works (para. 47 below). These experts
would work with Zairian staff and provide them with on-the-job training in
order to promote local staff to replace them at the time of their departure.
Project Management and Implementation
46.       PMKO would be responsible for overall project implementation and
administration, under the supervision of the Department of Agriculture of
which it is a unit, and will be organized to adjust to its expanding respon-
sibilities. General policy guidance will be provided to it by a Regional
coordination committee chaired by the Regional Commissioner and including the
Director of PMKO and his four service chiefs, the Regional Director of Agricul-
ture, the sectoral Director of INERA, the Divisional Chief of rural development,
the chief of the neighboring Gandajika hydrological project, the regional
directors of OR and UNICEF and a representative of La Cotonniere. Day-to-day



- 15 -
management would be the sole responsibility of PMKO's director whose qualifi-
cations and employment conditions would have to be satisfactory to the Associa-
tion (Section 3.02 of the Joint Project Agreement); a Director has already
been appointed with the Association's agreement. PMKO would be organized in
four units as follows:
(i) Administrative and Financial Service, responsible
for administration, personnel, accounting, budgeting
and planning as well as the disbursements to and
financial monitoring of other agencies carrying out
project works for PMKO;
(ii) Logistics Service, in charge of procurement, transport,
storage, distribution and sale of inputs to farmers;
(iii) Extension service, carrying out extension and extension
training, and research, and
(iv) Infrastructure service, handling primarily the super-
vision of tertiary road works, the drinking system rehabilitation
mechanized farming operations as well as PMKO's fleet of vehicles
and buildings.
47.       The terms of reference of the chiefs of the Administration and
Financial Service and the Chief of Logistics Service and their deputies, of
the Chief of the Extension Service and the Training and Research officers, and
of the roads technician of the Infrastructure Service have been agreed with
the Association; their qualifications and terms of employment would have to be
satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.02 of the Joint Project Agreement).
The chiefs of the Administration and Financial Service and the Logistics
Service, the training and research officers and road technician would be
recruited internationally and financed under the Project.
48.       Credit sales of trucks (para. 41)would be made by SOFIDE among
carriers of the Project area pre-selected by PMKO. The Credit contracts
would be at SOFIDE's standard terms and would also provide for the availability
of the trucks at harvest time. In order to avoid local monopoly situations,
no more than three trucks would be sold to any single carrier. Also in
certain cases actual works would be carried out by other agencies in the
framework of special arrangements (roads and water supply) or in cooperation
with them (extension training and research). With respect to roads, the roads
brigade which PMKO inherited from its predecessor organization CAKO (para. 35)
would revert to OR (Section 3.06 of the Joint Project Agreement). An under-
standing was reached at negotiations on the mechanism to ensure an adequate
control of the utilization of equipments, carrying out of works and budgetary
allocations.  PMKO would retain the ownership of roads equipments financed
under the Project and enter into an arrangement for the implementation of
works with OR which would utilize these equipments and affect a road brigade
to work on tertiary roads in the Project area; these works would be planned
and supervised by PMKO's roads technician and the necessary funds in the
budget of the Department of Agriculture allocated to OR. Water supply
works would similarly be executed by the Hydrological Service under the



- 16 -
supervision of PMKO and according to a program and financing arrangements
satisfactory to the Association. Training and research would be carried out
by PMKO at INERA'a facilities and in cooperation with its staff. In all cases
PMKO would retain full technical and financial control over works carried out
under the Project.
49.       To ensure an adequate incentive to producers, it was agreed (Section
4.04 of the Joint Project Agreement) that the Government would not regulate
maize prices except by fixing a minimum price. Also to protect PMKO's finances
it was agreed that the sale price of fertilizer and seed would cover at least
the full cost (Section 3.05 of the Joint Project Agreement); the same would
apply to mechanized farming services or any other exchange of goods and
services between PMKO and La Cotoniere (Section 4.03 of the Joint Project
Agreement). In addition, it is provided (Section 3.04 (iii) of the Joint
Project Agreement) that no funds would be transferred from PMKO's general
budget to credit operations after two years following their inception; interest
rates would therefore have to be sufficient to cover costs, include a super-
vision for doubtful accounts and forecast inflation.
50.       Project implementation would be carried out on the basis of detailed
annual work programs agreed with the Association (Section 3.09 of the Joint
Project Agreement). Annual work plans would take into account the results of
the previous year operation and allow the necessary flexibility to adjust
implemention to unforeseen constraints. They would cover all aspects of PMKO's
activities, in particular its ftnanctaL  re,Iuirements in foreign exchange and
local currency. Annual work plans woulJs l1,e completed before the end of June
of each year to fit in the timetable of preparation of Government's budget. A
detailed mid-term implementation review would be carried out after 30 months
following the Credit signature by the Government, IDA and the cofinanciers.
The review would focus mainly on the adequacy of Project organization and
administration and the necessary adjustments in this field; it is not expected
to generate major changes in proposed investments. The object of the review
would be to define a plan for further steps to be taken in project implementa-
tion (Section 3.11 of the Joint Project Agreement).
Accounts and Audit
51.       The accounting system of CAKO and the Tshilenge projects was
defective; it would therefore be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
Credit that the Association receive a full audit report on the 1979 accounts
of these two projects, including a statement of their assets and liabilities
and a certification that there exists no outstanding claim on PMKO that could
affect the Project (Section 5.01 (d) of the Development Credit Agreement).
The chief financial officer of PMKO would establish an appropriate system of
accounts which would be submitted for IDA's approval no later than December 31,
1980. This plan would make specific provisions for mechanized farming and
credit operations to have separate accounts in view of the financial risk of
these operations, the possible deficit of which would not be financed under
the proceeds of the Credit (para. 49). The Office des Routes, SOFIDE and the
Hydrological Service would also keep separate accounts adequate to justify all
Project related activities (Section 4.01 (a) of the Joint Project Agreement).



- 17 -
PMKO's accounts would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association and their report provided to the Association within six months of
the end of each fiscal year (Section 4.01 (c) of the Joint Project Agreement).
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
52.       Total Project cost is estimated at US$38.5 million (excluding taxes
which are negligible), of which US$19.7 million in foreign exchange. Project
costs were estimated in July 1980 prices. The proposed US$11.0 million Credit
from the Association would cover about 29 percent of total Project costs. The
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) would help finance the
Project through a loan of SDR 12.150 million (equivalent to about US$15.0 mil-
lion), covering about 39 percent of Project costs. The African Development
Bank (AfDB) has extended a loan of UA 5.0 million (equivalent to about US$6.4
million covering about 17 percent of Project costs total external financing
would amount to 84 percent of total Project costs. The AfDB financing would
be provided on a parallel basis. The Association would be the Administrator
of the IFAD loan. The Government would contribute the equivalent of US$6.1
million which would finance about 16 percent of total Projects costs. The
financing plan would be as follows:
IDA     IFAD    AfDB    GOVT   TOTAL
- (US$ equivalent) -------
Fertilizer, seeds and their
distribution                          4.5       6.2     0.7      0.4    11.9
Maize marketing                       1.7       2.3       -       -       4.0
Extension, training and research   2.2          4.0     0.2      0.8      6.2
Roads                                 0.6       0.8      4.8     4.5    10.7
Water supply                          0.5       0.7       -       -       1.2
Project Management Unit               1.4       2.0     0.7      0.4      4.5
TOTAL                          11.0      15.0      6.4      6.1    38.5
The AfDB and the IFAD loans would be linked to the IDA Credit through cross
effectiveness provisions (Section 5.01(c) of the Development Credit agreement
and para. 61).
53.       PMKO not being a revenue earning agency, external financing under
the Project would be passed on to it by Government on a grant basis.  The
Government would also provide to PMKO and the other agencies participating
in Project implementation, budgetary resources sufficient to maintain their
activities at the pre-project level (Section 4.05 (a)(i) of the Joint Project
Agreement), the incremental requirements being financed jointly by IDA and
IFAD, except for local salaries which would be financed by the Government. In
addition, it would be a condition of effectiveness that the Government pro-
vide PMKO with a budgetary allocation of at least Z 2 million to finance its



- 18 -
operation during 1980 (Section 5.01(b) of the Development Credit Agreement).
Finally, in addition to Project cost, the Government would finance each year
the cost of the purchase, sale and distribution of quantities of fertilizer
equal to those used by PMKO during the previous year (Section 4.05 of the
Joint Project Agreement). This requirement would ensure the progressive
inclusion of the fertilizer financing in the budget and avoid a possible
interruption after Project completion. Over the Project implementation period,
the necessary outlays would amount to about US$14.0 million.
Procurement
54.       Contracts of US$50,000 or more for fertilizer, vehicles, construction
work and warehouses, tools, and materials for the road component would be
awarded on the basis of International competitive bidding in accordance with
the Bank-IDA guidelines. Fertilizer financed by the Project will be procured
by the implementing agency, PMKO, through international competitive bidding
with tendering and offers analysis being handled by the FAO Fertilizer Program
on the basis of PMKO annual requirement forecasts. All fertilizer procurement,
regardless of financing, would be grouped. Civil works for houses and offices,
which involve many small buildings in remote areas, would be procured through
local competitive bidding with local advertising. Pumps and spare parts for
the water system would be bought from suppliers of the existing pumps to avoid
the need for different types of spare parts. Road works, including the
reconstruction of bridges, would be carried out by the Office des Routes, an
entity under the Ministry of Public Works, which has already received several
IDA credits and is wel'. managed. Contracts for equipment costing less than
US$50,000 equivalent w)uld be awarded by following local procurement procedures
which were reviewed during appraisal and are satisfactory. The same procedures
would apply to the IFAD loan. AfDB procurement procedures are broadly similar
to those of the Bank Group.
Disbursements
55.       AfDB would disburse against the total foreign exchange cost of the
roads component and the buildings and offices. The Government would finance
salaries except those of expatriate experts. Disbursements against remaining
costs would be financed jointly by IDA and IFAD, with IDA disbursing 41
percent of each item and IDA 59 percent. Disbursement percentages would be as
follows: (i) vehicles and equipment: 100 percent of expenditures in local
currency or 100 percent of total expenditure, and 100 percent of SOFIDE's
disbursements; (ii) fertilizer and seeds: 100 percent of total cost; (iii)
buildings, roads and bridges: 60 percent and 25 percent of total cost
respectively; (iv) expert's salaries and training 100 percent except for the
roads component 50 percent; (v) incremental operating costs: 100 percent of
expenditures in local currency, and (vi) studies and audit: 100 percent of
local costs. In addition, IDA would finance 100 percent of the advance made
under the PPF.
56.       Disbursements against all categories would be fully documented,
except those for incremental operating costs which would be made against
statements of expenditures certified by PMKO's Director and the Chief of its
Administrative and Financial Service.



- 19 -
Project Justification and Risks
57.       It is estimated that the Project would increase maize production by
50 percent over the six year implementation period and 110 percent after 15
years. The increase in production over 15 years would double farmer's incomes
and save the country more than US$400.0 million in foreign exchange through
import substitution. It is estimated that the internal rate of return to
Zaire's economy from the Project would be about 45 percent, an increase of 20
percent in costs would only reduce the rate of return to 32 percent; if
benefits were to lag one year as compared to costs, the rate of return would
still be 27 percent. Foreign exchange savings would exceed foreign exchange
costs starting in the third Project year. Cumulative benefits to the economy
would repay cumulative costs by the fifth year. These high returns stem from
the fact that the Project (a) proposes very minor changes in existing farms,
(b) benefits from an agronomic package devised and tested by INERA, PNM and
FAO, which gives quick returns, and (c) would be building on past extension
projects (CAR0 and Tshilenge projects). The 53,000 farmers adopting the
Project's technical package would between double and triple their output over
the Project's period. The benefit-cost ratio of the Project to participating
farmers would be between 4 and 8 on a cash basis and the average participant
family's annual income would increase from about US$450 to US$750 over the
six year implementation period. In its early years, the Project would mostly
reach farmers who have participated in existing projects; although better off
than the average, these are still below the absolute   poverty level.  The
Project's credit, extension and training components have been designed to
reach the poorer farmers as rapidly as possible. By the Project's sixth year,
all farmers are expected to be covered by the extension system and 20 percent
are expected to be buying fertilizer and seed; after 15 years, that figure is
expected to rise to 75 percent. The Project's principal employment effect
would be to reduce underemployment on participating farms. The Project would
generate very few permanent wage jobs, but would however, create a sizeable
amount of temporary construction work, principally in road upgrading. After
it has been demonstrated in the Project area, the technical package could
serve as a basis for similar projects in the whole maize producing savannah
belt of Zaire.
58.       The major risks of the Project are of administrative and organiza-
tional nature. PMKO's responsibilities under the Project would include a
whole range of activities from provision of inputs to extension to channelling
funds for the Project to other Government agencies; it would have in particular
to organize a unified extension service by taking over and expanding the staff
and facilities of three existing institutions. A substantial element of
technical assistance has been incoporated in the Project to strengthen PMKO's
administrative capability; five expatriate experts would be recruited to
assist PMKO's director. PMKO's performance in implementing the Project would
be reviewed annually to identify quickly its possible weaknesses and require-
ments. Finally, the mid-term implementation review would enable the Government
and the Association to determine whether adjustments in the administrative
organization of the Project have to be effected. Another significant risk
would be the lack of Government support in providing the financing necessary
to the Project. Again in this case, the Government's compliance with its
commitments would be monitored annually and it is expected that the financing



- 20 -
of fertilizer would be maintained as a permanent feature of the Department of
Agriculture budget after Project completion. A third risk is that of a
breakdown in the transport network which would stop the delivery of inputs to
the Project area. To prevent such an occurrence, the Project transport and
distribution system has been organized independently from the general transport
network in the Project area and would rely on transport channels from Matadi
to the Project area already proven under previous projects.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Zaire
and the Association, the Joint Project Agreement between the Republic of
Zaire, IFAD and the Association, the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association, and the text of the draft Resolution approving the proposed
Credit are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
60.       Special conditions of the projects are listed in Section III of
Annex III of this Report.
61.       Additional conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Credit
(Section 5.01 of the Development Credit Agreement) would be:
(a) the completion of all conditions precedent to initial
disbursement under the IFAD and AfDB loans, except for
the effectiveness of the IDA Credit Agreement;
(b)  the provision of a minimum of s 2.0 million from the
Government to CAKO for its operations in 1980;
(c) the appointment of the Project Director, the Chief
of the Administrative and Financial Service and his
deputy, the chief of the Logistics Service and his deputy,
and the chief of the Extension Service; and
(d) communication to the Association of the full report
of the auditors of CAKO and the Tshilenge project in
respect of their accounts in 1979.
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 21 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 16, 1980



- 22   -                                           ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
ZAIRE - SoC`AL tNDICATORS 3AA SHEE,
REFERENCE GROUPS tADJUStW  A:ERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ.   . )ZARE                                                - MOST RECENT ESTMAE )-
OrTAL            z345.4                                                     SAltE        SAMIE     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      309.5                                 MIOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    UJCOnE        SNCOKE
L960   b    1970  b ESTIMAT! a         REGION 7C   GROUP 'd    .ROUP
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    90.0        350.0      210.0            306.3       209.6       .67.5
ENERGY CONSULWTION PER CAPITA
EILOGRADIS OF COAL EOQUIVALENT)       97.0        8d.0       62.0             80.6        33.9        ZS2.1
POPlLATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, 9ID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      17.5          21.3      25.7
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OP TOTAL) 19.7           21.7       26.1             17.1        i6.2        24.6
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         46.0
STATIONARY POPLLATION (MIuLIONS)                          122.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2160
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM-                          7.0          9.0       11.0            18.4        49.4         .5.3
PER SQ. XM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       58.0         69.0      83.0             50.8       252.0        :49.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           43.7        44.4       43.0             44.3        43.1         45.2
15-64 YRS.                           52.3         52.8      54.0             52.9        53.2         51.9
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.8          2.8       3.0              2.8         3.0          2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.3          2.0        2.7              2.7        2.4          2.7
UR3BAN                                            5.1       5.4               5.7        4.6          4.3
CRUDE 3aRT- RATE (PER THOUSAND)       48.0         46.8       46.0             46.3       42.4         39.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       24.0         2L.0       19.0             L7.2        15.9        11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 ..          2.8        3.0              3.1         2.9         2. 7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (ThOUSANDS)         ..           ..        ..
UJSERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..        ..               ..        32.2         13.2
FOOD AND NUTR:TION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           101.8        101.0      95.0             94.3        98.2         99.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS7                     92.0         92.0      835.0            89.5        93.3         94.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            33.0         33.0      32.1             55.8        52.1         54.3
OF WHICa ANIMAL AND PULSE           ..         16.0 f    12.5             17.9        33.6         17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       37.0         31.0       27.0             22.3       18.5         11.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT aIRTh (YEARS)    39.5           43.0      46.0             47.0        49.3         54.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..           .1 .                        ..      105.4         68.1
ACCESS TO WAPE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPO LATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         11.0      16.0             20.3        26.3         34.4
URBAN                                 ,,         33.0      43.0             53.9        58.5         57.9
RURAL                                 ..          6.0       5.0             10.1        13.8         21.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
oF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          5.0      22.0             22. 5       16.0         40.8
URBAN                                             5.0      67.0             62.5        65.1         71.3
RURAL                                 .           5.0       6.0             13.9         3.5         27. 7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           63000.0      30040.0         ..         37424.7    11396.4        6799.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           ..     13230.0         ..           2506.6      5552.4      1522.1
POPULATION PER ROSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                 ..        320.0     330. Oa          502.3      1417.1        726.5
URBAN                                 ..         90.0     11O.0           201.4       197. 3       272.7
RURAL                                1. 070.0    lOOO.Ojj                 1403.6      2445.9      3404.4
AINIISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..         ..            23..        24.8         27.5
HoJSING
AVEiAGE SIZ CF RGUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..          ,.         ..              4.9         5. 3         5.4
URBAN                                 ..          6.1        ..              4. 9        4.9          5. 1
RURAL                                 0. ..                 6.0              5.5         5.4          5.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..          ..         ..
URSAN                                 ..          ..         ..
RRAL                                  ..          ..         ..L
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF 0WELLNCGS)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..        ..               ..        22.5         26.1
URBAN                                 ..          ..         .1 .                       37.8         45.1
RURAL                                 ..          ..         .                ..          ..          9.9



- 23  -                                             ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
ZAIRE - SOCIAL INDICATORS 9ATA HSEH_
7AIR'                      tEFERENCE GROUPS  ADJUSTEO iAEtiCES
- MOS. RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAME        SAME    N4EXT  IIGHER
MOST RECENT      GE0GRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  60.0         90.0      86.0              59.0       63.3         82.7
MALE                  82.0        114.0         ..             64.2        79.1        87.3
FEMALE                38.0         66.0         .,             44.2       48.4         75.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   3.0          9.0       13.0              9.D        16.7        21.4
MALE                   4.0         14.0         ..             12.0        22.1        33.3
FEMALE                 1.0          4.0         ..              4.4        10.2        15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (7 OF SECONDARY)  27.0           10.0       14.O/            7.0         5.6          9.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             40.0         43.0      42.0              42.2       41.0         34.1
SECONDARY                           20.0         20.0      27.0              22.9       21.7         23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         31.0/h       13.0       !5.0             20.8        31.2         54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.0          3.0        3.5              4.0         2.8         9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.0          3.0      101.0             44.3       27.2         76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          0.3       0.3               2.9         2.4         13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    1.0          9.0         ..              5.6         5.3         18.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.1            0.1        0.1              0.4         1.1          2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       8340.0      10460.0   10600.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    43.8         42.8      42.3              31.9       24.8         29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               83.4         79.3       76.0             77.6       69.4         62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   8.8         10.8      13.0               7.9       10.0         11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 47.7         44.9       43.6             40.8        36.9         37.1
MALE                                  54.4         52.1       50.9             53.9        52.4        48.3
FEMALE                                41.2         37.9       36.5             25.6        18.0        20.4
ECONOHIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0          1.0        1.1              1.2         1.2          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST S PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..         ..               ..          ..        15.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..             ..        ..                ..         ..         48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..         ..               ..          ..         6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..         ..               ..          ..        16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIXATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..             187.6       99.2        241.3
RURAL                                 ..           ..      80.0             96.8        78.9        136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      76.0             138.4       91.9        179.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..      43.0              71.0       54.8        103.7
ESTIMPATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (?ERCENT)
LURBAN                                ..           ..        ..              34.5       44.1         24.8
RL'RAL                                ..           ..      30.0             48.7        53.9         37.5
No c available
Not applicable.
NOTES
"a    The adjusced group averages for each indicator are pop.lation-weighted geometric eans, excluding the exzreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among t.e
indicators depends on availabilicy of data and is not uniform.
lb    Unless otherwise noced, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 197u, becteen 1909
and 1971; and for Hosc Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Lo. Income (S280 or less per capica, 1976);   /e  Lower Middle income
(S281-550 per capica, 1976);  /f  1965;   /g  1973;  lh  1962.
Most Recent Estimte of GNP per capita is for 1979.



-  -                                              ~~~~~~ANNEX I
DE_____TI___OF  ___I_L  __I_ATOR                                                     Page   3   of   5
Notes;  AlIthough the data a-  dra-  fro   sre  generliy judged the  -t  utiorittice  and reliable, it should  Is. be noted tint they asy not be intero-
tionalIlycmprble b os  of the Inch of standardized definitions and concpts used by differet ocostriesi inool11eoting  the data. The dnta s-, nontheles,
use f.l to descibe order  of msitude, indicate trend, and chasnterine cetain  asJr diff-ereacee hetne- otis
To adjusted gruss  arnae   for earn indicator are :pop tinio-eighted geomtric men,  nciuding tie entrem   oaiuee of tie indictor- and the  -ot popolated
co_try  in earn group.  be to bank of dtat, grou  srges of all indictors for Capital  urpius Oil PEpoetns and of indicators of Access no Wntr and tEcrta
Dispona, Hooing, Iecom   Dintribotion  and Psoerty for other country groups   e poplatiun-sighted geomtric men  sithout esebuio  of the eotre-   -ane  and
the sct pojsslatedIcountry       ieetecevaeo  onestris  sa  the indicator  dpends en. acailablli-fty of data and In not uniform- caution Must be  seried
ia  elain   acsgs  f oe idiato  toanther   Th... avrgsae styoeu   s  eromton   f"seted" values  hien  ompring tbie  suno n
indicator at a tise a-9n the coutry ad refernc  grop..
LAND AREk (th-unad sq.i.)                                                                    Acoes  to tecres  Dig,npas  pecn   fp           ltie)-  tots uban  and rura   -
Ttl- Total surfac   .re  cmprisiog med are  and inland naters                              oseropoi  (totl, uran  anfurl    re   y  ertsdnonla
hgsituitu-l -  Mo. rcet.         sIsaeo grioulturnl ares usd temporaily                      percetsg- of thetrepcir    ouaioslort  d' ..;lna   sbd
or pernanvtly forcrp, tl pasoe,  sahe-kt_ad kitchen gardens or to                          thie colletion  and disp ..nl,  ith or sithout treatment, of h-aa  es-cte
liefalo.-                                                                                  and nntv-eter by sabe-b ...I systems or the us  of pit pricies and so  lar
GNP  PP CAITAro    i)   GNSP Per capita  -otiatea It ose           aket prcs'osaIa n    hscin-Ppulation dicidedtbpon-ber of pr-ticiog  physicis-s
donluse   byI e-   ccerice method  oWo-i Bach Atas1976-78 bais);                             qulfe    rmam cisho..  It uIcersI ty  ece.1
i960, 19701, ned 1978 dnta.                                                                Poplation prr Hssisg Pers.s .Popoltico dictidd by  -ub-r of practiciog ..I,
ENSEPGY10NOOIMPTIPN PtO CAPITA - doodad oosnto   fowca-oryad fee1i  grad Onte                                            sn  p-sticai ..rses, sed  -ci-otanorro
(col nd lgote,pctolenostrsigasan  byro-  nuler ad gd-Population   rioH-pita1 Bed - total. one, sadrua - Popuatioc  (toto.1  urLno,
tieen Ici  tioc by) ic kilogr-c  of coa  vqui-alet pc onpita; 1960,                          and rura) diubded by thivi rr-peti-e number of hospital bedo  -s'iisbl, i
1970, ned l97P  iota.                                                                        puit  and prionte ges-ni and epeciali-d h-otPital an  e-bsbilitatiotIrrtero.
Hoopit.e ar  estbhliuihvots persanvtly staffed by at besotI coo  byoio  -o
PCOPUJLATION ON: VITdkL STATISTICS                                                             Estsblikh-eto  prociding principally  -utodisi care are  o   zisodud  Rural 
oTni Pousis          i-er (illi..o   A.d of Ju1y 1; l9od, 1970, and                         bhopitale, honroer, inelude haitb sod svdionie-terooo.t pere-etiy otalt,c
1977 dt.by a physician  (but bps Iadio-I  nsistant,t os,ondievc(oio ofe
d,ron   pbcuitio  (prcn  oftta)-  aio of sein  to ttai popolntion;                           0I-patient  -oosdation and pro-ide a bieded rneomdiaeai liie.-
differet Ideiciti       ofubn oes  na  affet comparability of dsta                      Addisni-s  per Hospit.1 Bed - Total nunber of adsi-i... to or di-obarpr   fros
snogocuo;trcco; il6i, 1970, ned 0971 data.                                                 honpitalo dicided by the osaber of beds.
Populut_co  PrjIti-s
Pop.Itiabo  io yea OOO   fret  popubtiot projectioes ar  b-oed                        HdOUSING
19)71 total poplatio  b_y C= and ovo ad their motality and fertility                  Aerg-    ho   of -doehoid (prosp er -honorblo) - total_ n'n, ned ru-l 
esoco  Projosiocparniccerefoe oertaity  eove cmpris  of tree    Ahoushol  coosisto   fagop of indiridu  oso.tre.olo                         srtr  and
I  ico     soucrglifo    p ecctney ot birth Increasing t  ocuotry                        hi   noaa.ihadro  ogrsyo   c   o   e  siodi  h
pcrc_pitIjocos  le_ci, and female life  -opvct-y otbilioiog at                          to..seboid for utatiotical purposes
ff    ce.The p  rat.r. for ferility rt   boho   he   ees                       ienrsme   fprosprrd   tota, urso  an   url-dccg  sse
souigoclcId fetility  -cocuon  to illa   mciad past                            opvssperosInalo ,adrulocpedccotc.idsrflIic c,
fal  o1iaoig. pvrfo.rsoo. teohb  duty in tbcn  -sigsvd  -oc  f these                    r-upchicciy.  Dvilisgo  voclude on-perenet st-uture  and .oo.cupi ed pr
oIovcbicstios   of' scetotysd  ot41ity treode for proecicti                         Access tc Electicity (percet of dseli-cg) -otiura,sdcsi-
P.,P._..                                                          1-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~vti-oi d-elliogo   i th electriity in liciog  s-t-r Ino percstao 
"t-lco-y p,puIstoos  - In Iotst'ioaary  ~Poputlsoc  there iooo.gr-tb                      total, urin, ned rura  dellcogo repecti,eiy.
dioc  tbc hirth -I, icouat              thctet Icn,Iad  -is  the, ng
olcoctu.c eros* cccoctart. Tis, j- hi-cd ooy after fertility rates                  EDlJCATION
,xfecivothe rclsovsr-t icon  of -it t_t reproducio raeAsedjucted Onroilset Ratio-
at'nice  -n  cooicood do tbc baois of the projected chroeitc                           eto   l   gea  h    rmr   ena                   otn geeo   epcto           rnr
oftc popuitiosd in the pet  2000, nod the cute of deoIIe of fertility                  -hbol-uge populaticos; oocslly includes  bildro-s grd .-i             Ser  bit
rstrtorcplaceseoticoei.                                             a~~~~~~~d justed for differct lIvgtoof primnry  _dcaic;  c
fear ottaio...ry ~ptputiot i   -reshbd - Thc yea  shec sttioo...y population                 uniceEnI1 cdocatco  coo-,e esc  oce  100 peceo.1 iino  sta  roucpic
01cc bas bees reahed.                                                                     nrcbeosccabc-ot  offo    lhsobol age.
0  lhislen  Iyicoaysoo.    oa, _sic and fenl ._                                                                                           nae   oni  cccrIccc
0c0.i.-Mid-y-sr popel tico  PIr squ-c  kilo-st-r (100 hectaen) of                    education reuv   at lcaot fou  yearn of' pproocd priesy  ioeruotico.;
I-ce os  In.:Tog,icultural land --oepustdo  Itoc  for agrIcultural med                       usualy if 10 to 17 yvar-  ~f age   crop-cdct-cdrc-  r,onroi
only.                                                                                      -uclddco
PopulatiooAg  itrctur  (ipercoot)-hids(-l  years), soring   eVoostioos  orl.cset                                      Leren  ofocnar)-dosihlicoi   o                          cPo
(1-I. er)  ndrhrd(hyerndoc) noJ peretne   f aid-yea                                          tehia, lodshiip, hr otherp_             em   ohiobovrtrcccpoo            ly "rIa
popultico; i960, 197O, ned 1977 data.                                                        deaoet   fsocn5   otitotios
Oopultioirowth Patv (perceot) - totu1 - Ad.sui erotl rstvs cf total aid-                     Pupil-1tesohert1 raftio -riar,tsod  -voodary -rTtal otd-sto  c-orl cic
yapp0ltonfor 1950-hO, 1i60-70c  un  1970-_77.                                      Priesy and --cd-ry level  dicided by sunber  If t-aher   col-coe, 
poplsio  irot  cte  ovc-t) - urha   - Ado...a  g-uth r-t- of urban                      opcdg  Jlvlo.
popeolatio-  for 1900-00, 1960-70, ned 1970-75.                                            idlIieayrt   nret                     trt   dulto   o)io to rind c,cdone)n
Crde dieth ishe (pertto- ) - Ascul lice bi Otto per tbousn  of nid-                          I Fcoroeohugc of total oduit population sped I) y--r 00 cd         r
year  opliutioo; 10  1970, ned 1977 dots.
Crude Bentb Poh  (per thousad) - Mond datbo, per thou-n  oc  ico-year                   CO fBlPhfIbd
poplaio;   6c, 1970,ad 170 os.Paseger C-r  (per th-Innd populatiohi - P-oceger oar  oh-pro- cc.. ru-
Cros ,eprdutio-  Rste -doeA-g  ocnhrr of dsughtcrc I -cact eil four-                       ct iog leco thr cight pvrso-; ee-1ldocablaoo  h-arce   -1 sultan1
c_nhecoor....Ieproductirc  porood ifs~bcr-p-ri...e- preocca-hie-
cpcfi   et ih iy ratcs;       11sY fioc-pne  crrg-o coding ic 1960,                   Padio  vnc R- -    (pcr tbhuoso cocuthtilon   - All syp-so  errr
1970, ned 1971.                                                                           broado-ts to genra  pbli  pertho _un  of popccioi-; ee-1ld-o ccli-o-c
Funily Planniog - Aoeptors. Ai-ousI Itho,scessu) - Aoosn1 o-ber of                           reeiceiscounorto i nd on posre shec reiostu                  f r-di.. o-to 000 
acepor  ofiictb-otr-l droi-c  roder  -upLic  of natoons  f.nily                           offeot; usna fcrpcect pearo cay coo bEl co-p-ra   ieoiscen t -oc          oic-
pineniopprogrec.                                                   a~~~~~~~~~~bolisbed licesaing.
Onciy Pnaneg -does  prcet of-ere           en       ecotg    feoIe                 TV  ic icocer  (pe  thouuand popu,lation) - TVrcicr   foe broud-t t,  ole-os
nones o  ohig1d-healogse(i  I         pec   nc rbih--otro1 denios                           public per thousand popultioo; escloden s-lice-oe   Ticcv
to all  -aried cosco Ic caoes   grou.P.                                                     di   er5sr  rglotrtlc  ofi    set  ios  ceffect.
BeosPp-pe firoultOio  (Poe thousandcrioo)-hsotrcrsc rulio
POol dcl 55iPfOITtdN   -                                              of "~~~~~daily geeeral ictervItneune       lefods          niodcc-1 publir-ti-o
lTdM    of Fcod ProducitIon pee fapits (19ic9-71 i91 ,-tlodee of per -pit.                  decoted priocoi Iyt   ec ig genera                  Ttn.I  ic  -onid-ed to be- "doily'
sonuI prod-tirto   f alfoo;oacc.iteo   rdc hio  cooI lue   -rd ned                        if It hopea-o lenot-  fourtiaeurc
feed nd ico    iososor -oa  booi.  fC-sditicocce  piecsr  g-odn                         Cicean Acouni Attetd-=         Per Caito'~ n   ds  -isod Lcc: th, ocbc-p 0t' tickc-to
egoUgne..eteicco-ed of -gur) ohiob are ediblr sod  notain  -thilootc                  cold during nbc year, i-clodfoi      daoloch  c,i-icc  cisc-na  o-d -ot
...cofer. o Ie  urn co -licdd).  ogrga....  .rod.otionc- osbcore                       "it, 
1~baed Icnasionl  -cra,e pndiner pricesiis
Fe   sooopIpf osFoi 00 fercnt of r....irecsv,s  - Computd f-o                IABOR PFOfCE
_onry cuolalco InI- f ne  food suPplirs  -niloble  in couctry percpt                  Total labor Forc  (thiusnd,o   - F-nsolpcirprsn,oooing trec
per day.   icolisblc suPpLpli  rp-ic  dome-tic   rdnt ,imprt 2ln                        force  and uoployed bu,t IocIudiog  ouruonc   eodst,  et.             "sitcs-
n;porto, and  lIsog-  in ontck.  Not -uppii es  eol,de nIndfed,  -evu,                  icoari-ou     ...ctri-o ar  cot  -op-rbic.
unItIccod ic fod pro-oeiog, and Ws-c  in ootibutico, Pequir-                       fn         eet -        ei   no   oc  s   ecnaeo   ;tadlsbc   fnIroo.
-eass icno tcmte_by Fd0 b"eIo py  i               Iogr lls-dt fo  corsal        dgppy4_y~3~oet (- Labor  orce ic f-iog  fo-try, tooting  sod
uctcoityIdhaltOolco(pcrr  eeoit-nporatore                              - oy ighto,      fiohogI  pvrc-tng  of tnool inbor force
agesodst- ojtriutico  f popuieno -n, and sllosiog to p-ret for                 ln.tdutgy(percent) -1labor foroc icn iaig, --ot-u fioc,  -ef-t-rinp  hod
nt   t Icorod1 ieo-l-teo-city, satyr nd Rae asp-roneofttl  aoI                                                                                  fre
Io oltuspl   .fpo.. gaeors)-Poticcct       e                                     ati iptio_ Bate (percoet) -  oa,ml,  n    sl.ariinioo
cnp its oen ouppl  of food per day.ONIt supply of food is detierd as                    acticitprance  ar  coputed so total, ae, sod fcen1c dolrfrc  no Per
boc.-  Oequi-csc-  foral  onno_trono rehtbliehed by dIiprcdefr                            one  oftotl, mule and female populationof eli ngeo r-peti-eiy;
ini-c  s11--c to 60 gr-os  of  .tot1 proteic pee ds   ndPd" grain   of                   bt, 1970,ad17   ao              heeaelO    atcpfieaerfvts
Neis.  and pu'lsepr-tvio,ofbicl IIgr -eshud be animal protein.                          ngeoe               I rc f the  P pouIti   and longtImeOvd        v   cise
Ths tan-daIoaclse  than three of 75 gAle of totn1 protein and                       are-in  ostina .      our. o
2~gr-c  of  einni prheio su ac  --erg, for the s-ed, proposd by PAdO                  concdIpead-scy Rntic -  Patioof ppulatioc ucd- 11 ned t5 nd ocrto
in tbe fbhid Anr1d Focd S.e-cry.        -tie labor forc  Ic age group of1-61 years.
Pcr capita p-ohlo cupoly fro.atisal andlpc- - Proteis oupply of food
mlild  ngo  -s    Rotlt   Pte  pee thouo_d                -1o d-atbe pee thousand          Pe-oetage nf PrI-ate Inae (hoth bic cah and biod) - Beceiced by  ich-st
on ag  grop 1-  pese, tochilren  i  hi   age gro;frautdrb                      percet, riohvst 2d perovot, po...vot 20 percet, and pooret 40 percen
opia   ouheire date deric-  fer  life hablec                                               of hos..eholds.
Life Eopectacy at hlirt  )ycars) - icerago number of pro of life                           Estimated Absolute P-certy Income becel (d) per caPita) - urban and rura
resiig o  bith   1*0, 1970, ned 1977. data.                                          Ah-eolut  pocerty inooa  mo 1      oI tha   nuc  broe  helooshich o alisal
lInfat Mortalt  dae(e.h.nc7-doa  doh   fifnoudroe                                           ctritio..aily adequate diet pluc e               -esl    c-food requir--nt  is cot
pe   o        .ae .e  Obousnd  -I lc irtho.                                                affodab1le.
hesto  aehtrIeooto.ouait-tt1ubn   n   ua  -                                            OsF.timated Relatlce Povety ocMe  ee   ospr  apt)-uba   o   ua 
Puhe   f  epl   tti,uba,  e  rrl  5 iorassal  ncsetoIiclenatc   pcrt  icmelce  i   netir  o   cene  ercpih
psnteso of tha t ho.. I   rurl anensceaonI te rcsnoId  biml
tsthe ooss feormebroofte  ouboi  d   otbaetospn  aIcoeic  n docial fo dta d....Isi                                                                                     -1
di-noporio- t   at-ft-      hedyIe  echn   th              il'  nae  needs~                 OtcocomigIrI.tfiing nayis an-                              roetonbearmn
-H  InitZI-111)I. pl-It.9-   f  hlil 1--ti- ppl.ti... In   Esi_t=~It.. 13.1Ety                                       gwHtkoguat 1979-



ANNEX I
-25-                                  Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977                                         ANNUAL RATE OF GROWrH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.       %                         1970-74            1975-76            1977
GNP at Market Prices           5,o44.6      100.0                          5.3              -5.8             _2.3
Gross Domestic Investment      1,035.6       20.5                         10.3              -21,0             -5.1
Gross National Saving            382.6        7.6                         16.3               21.5             7.3
Current Account Balance         -650.7     -12.9
Exports of Goods, NFS          1,290.0       25.6                         10.0               -1.6            -O.1
Imports of Goods, NFS          1,7BO.2      35.3                          8.0               -7.5            -16.4
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1977
Value Added
US$ _Hln.    %_
Agriculture                   I,400.2       26.5
Industry                      1,056.6       20.0
Services                      2,826.0       53.4
Unallocated
Total/Average          5,282.8 1/  100.0
GOVERUNENT FINANCE
-0VER~MKNT FINANCE     General Government 2/                            Central Oovernment -3/
( 3Mln.)          ~% Of CGDP                          M g Mln.)     % Of CGDP
~~~~197T             1975-76               -1-9798       1978 1T-7
Current Receipts                     81o.5        24.8          26.7                  731.0        11.4         21.0
Gurrent Expenditure                 964.6         2lA5 32.0                         1tha 4         18.4         25.7
Ourrent Surplus                    -154.1         -4.7          -5.3                 _444 4        -7.o         -4.7
Capital Expenditures                275.5          8,4          11.0                  128.6         2.0          5.2
External Assistance (net)           158.1          4.8           4.7
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                    9            197         1975         1976        1977         1978    1979
|Million  ;  outstanding end periodT             J        l y)
Money and Quasi Money                      231.3         490.4        534.2       738.1      1,153.9     1,854.5  2,400.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector                99.7         393.0       507.5        831.6     1,054.8      1,578.3   2,095.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector               42.9         233.8       319.4        385.7        537.0       644.9     709.2
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of CGDP          24.3          31.6        34.6         29.3         28.9        29.0
General Price Index (1970 - 100) 4/        100.0        196.3        278.9        476.7        T47.5     1,439.4   2,401.1 5/
Annual percentage changes in
General Price Index  4/                      .           96.3         42.1         70.9        56.8         92.6       99.0 5!
Bank Credit to Public Sector               13.4         294.1         29.1         63.9        26.9         49.6       62.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector               53.8         69.8         36.6         20.8        39.2         20.1       4o.9
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ GDP at factor cost.
2/ Consolidated cash and non-cash Central Government transactions (mostly foreign grants and loans to
finance technical assistance and investment projects).
Cash operations only; excludes foreign grants and expenditures financed by foreign sources.
4/ Retail price index (weighted average of market and shop indices), monthly average for last month of period.
5/ As of September 1979.
not available
not applicable



ANNEX I
-  26  -                                         Page S of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FWWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                  MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976-78)
1976     1977     1978                                                US $ Min    %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS        1,135.7  1,290.0 1,672.9                Copper                             557.3   42.3
Imports of Goods, NFS        1,980.4  1,780.a 1,550.6                Cobalt                            152.7   11.6
Resource Gap (deficit   = -)'      7   -490.2 1-                     Zinc                                38.7    2.9
Diamonds                           84.8    6.4
Interest Payments (net) 2/   -149.0    -152.9  -184.8                Coffee                            166.3   12.6
Workers' Remittances          -105.1    -190.9 -156.7                Rubber                              23.3    1.8
Other Factor Payments (net)   _49.7    -36.0  -35.2
Net Transfers                  156.2     219.3   191.3               All other commodities              2-95.0   22.4
Balance on Current Account  -992.2    -650.7   -63.1                      Total                       1,318.1  100.0
Direct Foreign Investment       -          -       -               EXTERNAL DEBT. June 30, 1979
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements              585.1     448.8    264.7                                                        US $ MIan
Amortization 2/           -191.0    -293.0   -316.0
Subtotal                   394.1     155.8    -51.3               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed           3,856.o
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt               304. 0 6/
Other Capital (net)           169.8       8.6   -147.7               Total outstanding & Disbursed           4,160.0 7/
Other itets n.e.i 2/          3 1.Ei     554.       359.7                                      1/
Increase in Reserves (+)      -66.5      68.5      98.4            DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977-
Gross Reserves (end year)24/  174.3     294.2    528.3
Net Reserves   (end year)5/ -102.9      -34.4      64.o              Public Debt. incl. guaranteed               9.1
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                           Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                      75.4     121.6    125.7
of which:  Petrolewu      (75.4)   (121.6)  (125.7)
Exports
of which:  Petroleum        *-         -                 IBRD/IDA LENDING, December 31, 1979, US$million
RATE OF EXCHANGE From March 12. 1976 to November 1, 1978 8/                                            IBRD         IDA
Zaire 1.00 = SDR 1.00                        Outstanding & Disbursed               76.34       138.04
From January 2, 1979 to August 23, 1979  Since August 24,1979  Undisbursed                              23.66      109.46
US $1.00 = r 1.56                         Z 1 =SDR 0.375 =        Outstanding incl. Undisbursed        100.90      247.50
1.00 = SDR 0.5 = us$o.64                     us$o.49
/ Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services.  aepresents actual paYments,
2/ Scheduled payments on public debt.
3/  Includes net errors and omissions and exceptional financing and reserve movements (debt rescheduling,
net accumulation of arrears, IMF Trust Fund and valuation gain on gold sales).
4/  Foreign assets of the banking system (Bank of Zaire and commercial banks).  As of end-July 1979, gross
reserves stood at US$355.6 million.
5/ Net foreign assets (narrow) of the banking system. Does not include arrears.
6/  Estimated amounts incurred prior to 1978.
7/  Estimated.
8/  The zaire was devalued in four stages between November 1, 1978 and January 2, 1979.
not available
not applicable
February 19, 1980



_ 7 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of March 31, 1980)
Loan or
Credit     Fiscal                                            Amount in US$ million
Number      Year       Borrower    Purpose             Bank         IDA 1/  Undisbursed
Prior to     Congo &      Transport
June 1960    Otraco       Infrastructure    91.58 2/
Two Credits Fully Disbursed                                          40.00
255        1971       ZAIRE        River Transport                   7.00       0.51
272        1972       ZAIRE        Education                         6.50       1.92
398        1974       ZAIRE        Livestock                         8.50       2.05
463        1974       ZAIRE        DFC III                          10.00       0.01
1090        1975       ZAIRE        GECAMINES         100.00                    19.72
536        1975       ZAIRE        Highway III                      26.00       0.79
571        1975       ZAIRE        Rail-River II                    26.00       5.33
625        1976       ZAIRE        Water Supply                     21.50       3.77
624        1976       ZAIRE        Education II                     21.00      19.71
660        1977       ZAIRE        Cotton Reha-
bilitation                       8.00       6.16
697        1978       ZAIRE        Ituri Livestock
Development                      8.00      6.31
710        1978       ZAIRE        Fourth DFC                       10.00       2.22
796 3/     1978       ZAIRE        Oil Palm                          9.00       9.00
902 3/     1979       ZAIRE        Railways                         20.00      20.00
916 3/     1979       ZAIRE        Highway IV                       26.00      26.00
998 3/     1980       ZAIRE        Fifth Dev. Finance               18.50      18.50
Total (less cancellations):                       191.58        266.00    141.99
- of which has been repaid                         91.58           0      _
Total now outstanding:                            100.00        266.00    141.99
Amount sold:                     54.47
- of which has been repaid       54.47
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                 100.00        266.00
Total Undisbursed:                                 19.72        122.27    141.99
1/   Prior to Exchange adjustments.
2/   Guaranteed by the Kingdom of Belgium.
3/   Not yet effective.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT
Fiscal                                 Type of           Amount in US  Millions
Year          Obligor                 Business          Loan   Equity    Total
1970        Societe Financiere de
Development (SOFIDE)       DFC               -       0.76      0.76
1979        Zaire Gulf Oil Company   Oil Company          2.50     -        2.50
1979        Zaire Petroleum Company  Oil Company          1.61     -        1.61
Total gross commitments
less cancellations,
terminations, repayments
and sales                                    4.11   0.76       4.87
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 1090      Mining Expansion Project; US$100 million Loan of March 8.
1975; Effective Date: December 2, 1975; Original Closing
Date: December 31, 1978; Present Closing Date: June 30. 1981
The project, which was cofinanced with the Libyan Arab Foreign Bank
and EIB, consists of expanding the production facilities of the state-owned
Generale des Carrieres et des Mines (GECAMINES) to produce an additional
120,000 tons per year of refined copper and 4,000 tons per year of cobalt in
the form of copper-cobalt alloy. Following the invasion of Kolwezi in May
1978, project implementation was stopped. An Amendment Agreement was signed
in November 1979. It allows for the carrying out of a rehabilitation plan and
partial completion of the expansion program while postponing the construction
of the remaining plant units of the original expansion program. The rehabili-
tation of Kolwezi has now been completed but major delays are encountered in
the replacement of equipment and in the rehabilitation of the processing
plants and workshops. The partial completion of the expansion project has
been completed and the start-up of the concentrator and supporting facilities
has been commissioned in March 1980.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
Credit 710        Fourth DFC; U$$10 million Credit of August 2, 1977; Effec-
tive Date: December 3, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
SOFIDE was established in January 1970 and the Bank Group provided
a substantial share of its initial resources through an IFC equity investment
of US$750,000 and a First IDA Credit of US$5 million. Three other credits of
US$10 million each were granted in 1971, 1973 and 1976. SOFIDE started
operating on July 1st, 1970, with a General Manager seconded by the Bank.
In May 1973, a Zairian General Manager, assisted by an expatriate Senior
Advisor, replaced the Bank-seconded General-Manager. The institution has
developed into a well run and capable development bank, despite the policies
of zairianization/retrocession which have disrupted the industrial and finan-
cial sectors. SOFIDE has recently diversified its activities by increasing
its operations in key economic sectors, especially agriculture and transport-
ation. SOFIDE has also decentralized its operation and has recently opened
three regional offices. In 1976, the Bank's Operation Evaluation Department
conducted a project performance audit of the First Credit to SOFIDE and found
that SOFIDE had been generally successful in fulfilling its objectives and had
developed into a competent organization. The Fourth Credit is nearly totally
committed.
Credit 398        Livestock Development; US$8.5 Million Credit of June 21, 1973;
Effective Date: February 14, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project was designed to increase beef production in the Shaba
region and to help establish a National Livestock Development Authority
(ONDE) through the provision of technical support and funds for training
agriculturalists. Implementation is proceeding slowly and unevenly.
Initially, a major constraint was the poor performance of the consulting
firm selected to implement the project, which led to the termination of its
contract in 1976. The project was revised in January 1978 in particular to
develop a training program in animal production and range management and to
finance the foreign exchange element of current expenditures on the three
ranches. The management of ONDE has tried to improve performance but limited
managerial capacity and inadequate performance of local and expatriate staff
and lack of supervision capability still constitute major problems. The
financial situation of the project remains weak. There are however some signs
of progress: the Lubumbashi liaison office is now functioning satisfactorily;
recruitment of new directors for the ranches and of a financial director for
headquarters is underway; producer beef prices were increased in December 29,
1979, and budgetary funds for 1979 have been partly released.



- 30
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Credit 697        Ituri Livestock Development; US$8 Million Credit of
August 2, 1977; Effective Date: December 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982; Cofinanced by the
French Ministry of Cooperation, the Federal Republic of
Germany and the Canadian International Agency
The project aims at improving livestock production in the Ituri
subregion through the provision of improved animal health and production
services, the training of staff and pastoralists, development of three
ranches to finish range cattle and rehabilitation of marketing and slaughter
facilities.  Project start up suffered from delays in the provision of
counterpart funds, supply shortages due to deterioration of the Kisangani-
Bunia road and lack of foreign exchange to import the necessary commodities,
insufficient support from central services in Kinshasa, and delays in
setting up of the training program financed by German aid. Implementa-
tion is now in progress. Constraints remain the very high costs in the
project area, high rates of inflation, the low prices for beef and the
need to ensure the project's financial autonomy through the setting up of a
revolving fund. Beef prices were increased in December 1979, and budgetary
funds for 1979 were released in early January 1980. The ranch component has
not yet started and it is envisaged to delete it. The slaughterhouse component
and the training program are expected to start shortly.
Credit 660        Cottci Rehabilitation Project - US$8 million Credit of
Decen1er 28, 1976; Effective Date: May 31, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981, Cofinanced by Belgium
Project implementation has been very slow from the beginning due
to inefficiency of ONAFITEX management, disagreement between the Belgian
Cooperation and Government on responsibilities of the Technical Assistance
Team, uncertain legal status of the Project after the dissolution of ONAFITEX,
chronical lack of funds and substantial administrative obstacles to efficient
handling of procurement and disbursement. Despite these difficulties the
technical assistance team has made commendable efforts and encouraging progress
has been achieved, notably in organization of services and cotton marketing.
However, the exchange of Z5 and Z10 banknotes in December 1979, which created
a countrywide shortage of notes, resulted in a later start of cotton buying
(February 1980) and a temporary halt of purchases on March 10, 1980 after only
about 50 percent of the expected seed cotton harvest had been purchased.
Mainly because of direct sales of seed cotton by farmers to the neighboring
countries, the estimated seed cotton collection for this campaign will be less
than expected and prospects for the next campaign are not very favorable
because of the technical and psychological effect of the shortage of bank
notes. If part of the harvest were not bought at all many farmers could be
expected to abandon cotton cultivation and expectations for any successful
cotton operation in the north of Zaire would be considerably reduced in the
near future.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Credit 796-ZR    Oil Palm Project - US$9 Million Credit of June 8, 1978;
Terminal date for effectiveness: October 30, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983; Cofinanced by AfDB, BADEA, CCCE
The project consists of a five-year program to support the rehab-
ilitation of existing oil palm plantations through investments for replanting
and new plantings, renewal of oil mill and transport equipment, improvement
and expansion of social infrastructure, the employment of additional staff,
and training of staff. Effectiveness has been delayed by the difficulties
which arose between the companies and the Government to accept the terms of
the formers' participation in the Project and by administrative bottlenecks in
particular in the Ministry of Agriculture. Also, legal difficulties arose
between the Government and CCCE with respect to the Government's guarantee
applied to the CCCE loan. Several conditions of effectiveness remain to be
fulfilled: signature by the Government of the subsidiary loan agreement
with one of the oil palm companies; signature by the CCCE of the credit
agreement with SOFIDE and the administration agreement with the Government,
SOFIDE and IDA; and notification by cofinanciers that all conditions precedent
to their first disbursement other than the effectiveness of the IDA Credit
Agreement have been met. One of the companies which were to participate in
the project has withdrawn and the financing plan is being revised. In the
meantime, substantial progress has been achieved in the agricultural program
of the plantations.
Credit 536        Third Highway Project; US$26 million Loan of March 19, 1975;
Effective Date: July 31. 1975; Closing Date: December 31. 1980;
Cofinanced by UNDP, Belgium and France
The project was designed to strengthen the Office des Routes (OR),
by continuing to develop local expertise in highway administration and main-
tenance and to provide for the rehabilitation of a key road. Shortage of
local funds and foreign currency for capital and recurrent expenditures has
considerably hindered project implementation. The project was revised in
1978 to reduce the Government's financial contribution to the project by
curtailing road rehabilitation and feasibility studies and reallocating funds
to finance the most essential road improvements, fuel and spare parts. At the
request of the Government, a ferry maintenance program was later added to the
project. Technical assistance to OR is operating satisfactorily but the
Government continues to have difficulties in appointing suitable counterparts.
OR's overall maintenance operations in 1978 reached about 70 percent of the
objectives, despite inadequate budgetary allocations, which can be considered
satisfactory. The Department responsible for equipment maintenance and repair
is severely restricted by the shortage of spare parts and equipment utilization
rate is very low. Rehabilitation by contractor of the Kabinda-Lomami road has
been completed and the rehabilitation on force account of the Lomami-Kindu
section is progressing well. The remaining funds are expected to be committed
by June 30, 1980.



_ 32-
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
Credit 255        River Transport; US$7 million Credit of June 21, 1971;
Effective Date: January 17, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project, based on UNDP-financed studies, consists of: (a) rehab-
ilitation of navigational aids, dredging facilities and equipment for the
Zaire River estuary; (b) improvements of navigation on the Kinshasa-Ilebo
waterway; (c) rehabilitation of the ONATRA river fleet; (d) provision of
experts to fill key positions in ONATRA, RVM AND RVF; and (e) feasibility
study for the Voie Nationale, the combination of rail-river links between the
mining areas of Shaba and Zairian seaports. The river agencies have been set
up as autonomous public entities, and almost all contracts for goods and
service under the Credit have been awarded. Physical implementation however
is slowed down by delays in completing: a) a buoy tender for RFV, due to the
Government's failure to meet required local currency costs; and b) rehabilita-
tion of navigation aids on the Kasai River for which a contract was terminated
and which is now to be implemented by RVF. Although ONATRA's management and
financial situation has improved markedly, financial constraints and manage-
ment shortcomings in RVM and RVF still delay implementation. The project,
however, is nearing completion and the undisbursed balance of the credit is
fully committed.
Credit 571        Railway and River Transport Project; US$26 million Credit
of July 11, 1975; Effective Date: November 18, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project includes: (a) technical assistance to ONATRA including
a comprehensive training program; (b) financing of a major part of ONATRA's
1975-77 investment requirements for river transport equipment, railway
improvements and track renewal; (c) additional river markings for the Regie
des Voies Fluviales; (d) port studies; and (e) a preliminary engineering study
for the Ilebo-Kinshasa rail link. Project implementation was initially slow
due to a combination of management shortcomings and financial constraints.
Since March 1977 ONATRA has been increasingly under the direction and
control of a team of expatriates, now numbering 75, including the Delegue
General. All procurement is now completed or underway. ONATRA's financial
performance has improved significantly as a result of tight controls.
Operations have improved in the ports, in river transport, and in the
shipyards; the railway (CFMK) still suffers from parts shortages, however
improvement is anticipated in the near future. Overall project execution is
satisfactory.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Credit 625        Water Supply Project; US$21.5 million Credit of
June 18, 1976; Effective Date:  August 4, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980; Cofinanced by
ADB and BADEA
The project comprises construction and expansion of production and
distribution facilities in six major cities, the rehabilitation of existing
facilities, provision of engineering consultant services for the six cities,
a comprehensive training program, and feasibility studies for additional
water supply projects.  REGIDESO, the state corporation responsible for
water supply and electricity in Zaire, is the executing agency. Construction
works are progressing satisfactorily but slowly mainly because of shortage of
fuel and building materials and transportation means. Rehabilitation works
were expected to be completed by December 1979.
Credit 272        First Education; US$6.5 Million Credit of December 17, 1971;
Effective Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project consists of (a) the construction or rehabilitation,
equipping and furnishing of educational institutions and facilities in order
to train teachers, inspectors, and directors for primary education, teachers
for secondary-level general and technical education, and middle-level indus-
trial technicians; (b) the carrying out of a management study of the Ministry
of National Education to improve the effectiveness of its administration; and
(c) the carrying out of a survey of manpower needs. Due to considerable and
unforeseen price increases after appraisal, the Government and IDA curtailed
the scope of the project in 1976. Physical implementation of two institutions
is near completion; at the other two institutions, project implementation was
interrupted by the recent events in Shaba but arrangements have been made to
make up for the lost time construction works are about 50 percent completed.
Project completion is now expected by early 1981.
Credit 624        Second Education Proiect; US$21 million Credit of
December 28, 1976; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
The project consists of building and equipping five new rural
primary teacher training schools, the rehabilitation and re-equipment
of six agricultural technician training schools and one higher agricultural
institute, technical assistance and fellowships for these institutions,
and evaluation of the new programs promoted in the project and the carrying
out of preinvestment studies in preparation for further education projects.
The credit was not declared effective until late 1977, because of the Govern-
ment's request that a local autonomous architectural group be established
within the National Education to implement the project. The group s per-
formance to date has not been satisfactory but some progress is expected
following recent changes in staff. The preparation of architectural working
drawings, specifications, and bills of quantities for the first group of



_ 34 4
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
institutions to be financed under the project is well advanced, and the
preparation of wurking drawings for the remaining institutions is underway.
The provision of counterpart funds remains a problem. Substantial progress
has been made in the achievement of educational objectives. Because of
implementation delays and an unexpectedly high rate of inflation, however,
the total cost of the project substantially exceeds available funds and the
Government has requested that the project content be reduced in line with
Government priorities. Emphasis would be given to those components of the
project designed to assist agricultural development, namely, the Agricultural
Technical Institutes and the Higher Institute of Agricultural Studies. We
are waiting for a proposal from the Government.
Credit 902        Railway Project:  US$20.0 million Credit of June 14, 1979;
Terminal date for effectiveness: June 30, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983; Cofinanced by the Saudi
Fund for Development; Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau;
the OPEC Special Fund; and the African Development Bank
The Project finances the 1979-1982 investment program of the
Societe Nationale des Chemins de fer Zairois (SNCZ) and includes track
rehabilitation, equipment and operational investments to increase SNCZ's
effective capacity. The project finances: (a) renewing and upgrading 210
km of track and ballasting another 285 km; (b) 100 ore wagons, 9 shunting
locomotives and 12 passenger coaches; (c) spare parts for locomotives and
wagons; (d) telecommunications, workshops, data processing and service
equipment; (e) extension of Ilebo port facilities; (f) social infrastructure:
and (g) middle/senior technical and management staff training and consultant
services. Effectiveness of this credit which has been delayed in particular
by slow progress in completing cofinancing arrangements, is expected in the
near future.
Credit 916        Fourth Highway Project:  US$26 million Credit of June 14,
1979; Terminal date of effectiveness: October 30, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982; Cofinanced by the EEC Special
Action Fund and the Saudi Fund for Development
The Project finances 2.5 years out of the three year road mainten-
ance and rehabilitation program of the Bureau of Roads (BR) (1979-81). It
comprises the maintenance and rehabilitation of about 40,000 km of roads,
including 800 km of paved roads; strengthening and replacement of bridges;
construction of workshops and warehouses; procurement of motor and cable
ferries and replacement motors, and of highway maintenance equipment, spare
parts and fuel; improvement of the National Public Works Laboratory, and
technical assistance and training. The project would help meet minimum road
transport requirements for the agricultural sector-and would result in sub-
stantial reductions in vehicle operating costs. Effectiveness of this credit
is being delayed in particular by slow progress in completing cofinancing
arrangements.



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ZAIRE
SMALLHOLDER MAIZE PROJECT
SUPPLEMFENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project Identification:                   November-December 1976
(FAO-World Bank Cooperative
Program Mission)
(b)  Appraisal Mission:                        November-December
(c)  Negotiations:                             April 1980
(d) Planned date of
Credit effectiveness:                     November 1980
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
PMKO's annual work programs would be reviewed by the Association.
Implementation results and further schedule would be reviewed
30 months after signing.
III. Special Conditions
(a) The Government would finance the purchase of fertilizers by
PMKO for the maize project in an amount at leastr equivalent
to the total expenditures made by PMKO for such fertilizers
in the previous year (para. 53).
(b) The Government would ensure that prices charged for inputs
would be sufficient to cover the full cost. Prices would be
reviewed with IDA at least once a year and adjusted as
appropriate (paras.40 and 49).
(c)  PMKO would make credit only to farmer groups (para. 40).
(d) After the second year of credit operations, no funds would
be transferred from the general budget of PMKO to credit
operations (para. 49).
(e) The Government would continue its present policy of not
regulating the price of maize in the Project area except
by fixing a minimum producer price (para. 49).
(f)  Extension agents of PMK0 would take no part in enforcing
the system of imposed cultivation (para. 42).



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(g) PMKO would continue to provide mechanized services only on
the basis of full recovery of cost (para. 49).
(h) The Government would transfer OMKO's existing road brigade
to the office des Routes (para. 48).
(i) Annual work and procurement programs would be furnished by
PMKO to the Association for its review by the end of June
in each year (para. 50).
(j)  PMKO dealings with the cotton company would not involve any
subsidies (para. 49).
(k) No later than thirty months after the signing of the Joint
Project Agreement, PMKO furnish to the Association and the Fund
a full report on the progress of the project and a revised
schedule of implementation for discussion and adjustment, if
necessary (para. 50).
(1) Additional conditions of effectiveness include:
(i) recruitment of expatriate experts (para. 61).
(ii) The Government has made available to PMKO a minimum of
D. 2 million equivalent as funds for its operations through
1980 (para. 61).
(iii) All conditions precedent to initial disbursement of the
respective loans of the cofinanciers for the Project have
been fulfilled (para. 61).
(iv) The Association has received the full report of the
auditors of CAKO and the Tshilenge projects in respect
of their accounts for 1979 (para. 61).



IBRD 13636R
23                                                            I                                                              I242   MAY  1980
230                                                             4                                                             250
Thin map ha- been prepared by the                                                                         ZAIRE
World Bank's staff e-l-sioely for
the co enec of the reader of
th, .P.,f Inve c oft  atte,hed       0                         PSMALLHOLDER   MAIZE   PROJECT
The denom,natons used and the
b.-da,e~~ ~~ho - O' 'h's '7' ~Project Roads
boundaries shown on this mapJ                                                                          r|tRod
do not imply, on the part of theI             
World Bask and its affiliates. any
judgment on the legal statou of
any tentory or any endorsement                                                                            Project Roads
or acceptance of suckh husndanes  n
_, -et-e-h, (                                                               Asphalt Roads (Maintained by OR)
*                                                               - .  ----   Main Earth Roads (Maintained by OR)
MulC0                                                                                         Agricultural  Roads Maintained by
`Mukarnba~'                  -                                                                       OR-La Cotonniere Agreement
*                  \                                     .-i-.----i-- - I  I Railway
I       OBadibanga
60   ..    Kabess           7Badib a               5                                     _Zones Bouncaries
-6'K Kannuango               *         Mbu)i       /             %...i                              Sub-region  Boundaries
tXupompa  --sX'|'-,B,Bo  Rvr
I _                                                                       -   Kobinda\                     F  FERRIES
Kci o                                                                                   I   OOMB
.Merode   ?M.iBibanga,INDMB
Tshintshan(kuo        0 o                                    nge 0 \  bo                                          2  KAPONJI
Dibungi\                                                                               3  KASANSA
:  Kwadil .atanda7                             1               5 KALAMBAYI
Pt                                     1               6  KASA Dl MUOKO
OTshijiba    17 Lukalaba          *' Lui!u <    Bena  \.          j        J u              7  KINSALELE
OTshile  OKabola             *0                      8  MULUNDA
F3 )         F5                                               9  MPATA
Kamijli                          0 Kakona                             I*--.            \   10  KANUTSHINA
Kofamb       sonoO       \ \             ***                              -.
so r - Ka~~~~~~nif &^_ ,Gndaiika  
Ms   2  Kapangu ),i. _  Konj(kNERAV    OMpOyi
t    JD            KL~~~~~~~ulambaF45    "Z O              Ff  *0j 
Kabwele  Kanda        OKambaye                                F*
/      W '              y  ~~~~~~~~~KandOa  r/K,            \      <      *        -s 
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0/    -                           _ MNatamba Ov>*-\
7 ~       ~        $      wn    Kandolo           Kbl                                               -                                       7-
Di Chtu           -Q5Tshiamvi /         Tshifun               *         ., J0
0          20         40          60
KILOMETERS
20                40
MILES                              25
I               '. F8 )               H    s 8
:          ~~~Mulunduo                         \ 
.  CENTRAL AfRICAN RFPUOLiC   SUDAN
CAmEROON
( fi I , ', 4GU ~                           -              Zer
* MusengeD          * O                                                                     (                          UGANDA
a                                          ~~~~~~~~~GAS(N~ 
RWAND4~
10."'~ beya
Kanutshina                                                                                         r- t.
ANGOLA
213 I                                                                                                               AMr'B-4.tg;4AN7C -AMBIA
23 0                                                          240             /        OC$aNv - -                         A      JZA UEA> 17
JUNE 1978



