Document of
The World Bank                     FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2194-ZR
ZAIRE
SMALLHOLDER MAIZE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
May 2, 1980
Eastern African Region
Central Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of   |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
As of November 1977                                As of January 2 ~1979
Z 1.00    -   US$ 1.16                             g 1.00    =   IJS$ 0.65
US$ 1.00  =   S 0.859                              US$ 1.00  =   X 1.535
As of November 1978                                As of Januar- 27, 1979
g 1.00    =   US$ 0.993                             ; 1.00    =   IJS$ 0.49
US$ 1.00  =   S 1.01                               US$ 1.00  =   A 2.05
Since February 22,1980
; 1.00    =   US$ 0.34
US$ 1.00  =      2.9
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB              -  African Development Bank
ARD              -  Department of Agriculture and Rural Development (Department
de l'Agriculture et du Developpement Rural)
CAKO             -  Commission Agricole du Kasai Oriental
(Kasai Oriental Agricultural Commission)
CIMMYT           -  Centro Internacional por el Mejoramiento de Mais y Trigo
(International Wheat and Maize Improvement Center)
FAO              -  United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization
FED              -  Fonds Europeen de Developpement (European Development Fund)
IFAD             -  International Fund for Agricultural Development
INERA            -  Institut National des Etudes et des Recherches Agronomiques
(National Institute of Agronomic Research and Studies)
MIBA             -  La Miniere de Bakwanga (diamond mining company)
ONACER           -  Office National des Cereales (National Cereals Office)
ONAFITEX         -  Office National des Fibres Textiles (National Textile
Fibres Office)
ONPV             -  National Food Staple Products' Office (Office National
des Produits Vivriers)
OR               -  Office des Routes (Roads' Office)
PF               -  Pattern Farm
PMKO             -  Kasai Oriental Maize Project (Project Mais Kasai Oriental)
PNM              -  Programme National du Mais (National Maize Program)
SH               -  Service Hydrologique (Hydrological Service)
SOFIDE           -  Societe Financiere pour le Developpement Economique
UNDP             -  United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
(Government)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAIRE
SMALLHOLDER MAIZE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Chapter No                                                                            Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND           ................................................          1
A.    Project History  ...... .............. ..................               1
B.    Zaire's Agricultural Sector  ...............          ...1........ 
C.    The Maize Subsector ..............             ....................     3
II.    THE PROJECT AREA .......        ..............................                5
Au-   Location .............................................                  5
B.    Physical Resources  ......         .......................              6
C.    Farm Population and Farming                ..........................   6
D.    Infrastructure                .......................................   9
III.    THE PROJECT ...............................................    12
A.   Description ..........................................    12
B.    Project Costs ........................................    20
C.    Financing ....             ........................................    22
D.    Procurement ..........................................    23
E.    Disbursement .........................................    24
F.    Accounts  .............................................    26
G.    Audit            .................................................    26
H.   Environmental Impact ..........   ................ .         ......    27
IV.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ............               ...     ...     ..   27
A.    Organization and Staffing ............. ..        ..............   27
B.    Monitoring and Evaluation ............................    31
V.   AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION ................           .... . ..   .........   32
A.    Production Patterns and Yields .......................   32
B.    Labor,  Equipment and Storage .........................    35
This report is based on the findings of an IDA mission which visited Zaire
in November-December 1977, composed of W.I. Jones, P.K. Pohland, L.H. Pham
and S. Capoluongo (IDA) and G. Orsini and M. van Lierop (Consultants).
It has been updated based on the findings of subsequent missions to Zaire,
one in July 1979 composed of W.I. Jones, B. Rambocus and A. Levi, the
other in November 1979 composed of W.I. Jones and B. Rambocus.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Chapter No                                                            Page No.
VI.   MARKETS, PRICES, FINANCIAL AND FISCAL ANALYSIS ............  36
A.   Markets and Prices ............. . .. ..................... .... .  36
B.   Farm  Incomes   . .................       ........ o...   37
C.   PMKO Financial Projections .........................   38
D.   Cost Recovery and Fiscal Analysis ....................  39
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .....................a*.........  42
A.   Project Benefits ..........................................  42
B.  Economic Justification ........ **  ...    .... * * * . *    44
C.   Risk ...................... .......................***    46
D.   Employment and Income Distribution ....... ..............  47
VIII.   RECOMMENDATIONS ................. ..............................  48
SUPPORTING TABLES, CHARTS AND MAPS
Table 1.   Budget:  Pattern Farm
Table 2.   Project Costs:  Summary
Table 3:   Disbursements:  Estimated Schedule
Table 4:    Economic Analysis:  Cost of Maize
Table 5:    Economic Analysis:  Road Benefits
Table 6:    Project Implementation Schedule
Chart 1.   Project Organization Chart
Map IBRD 13636R Project Roads
Map IBRD 13637R Project Area: Administrative Divisions
RELATED DOCUMENTS AND TABLES AVAILABLE IN IMPLEMENTATION VOLUME



ZAIRE
SMALLHOLDER MAIZE PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project History
1.01      In November/December 1976, at the request of the Zairian Government,
a FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program mission visited Zaire to identify a
project suitable for international financing which would help replace maize
imports with local production. The southern part of Kasai Oriental province
was identified as the most favorable area for reasons of location, resources
and population and also because earlier projects there had convinced farmers
that changes in maize growing can be beneficial. These projects had developed
and tested improved varieties of maize and had demonstrated the effects of
fertilizer on maize and other crops.
1.02      In May/June a Cooperative Program preparation mission followed the
identification mission to Zaire and submitted its recommendations to the
Government in August. In November/December 1977, an IDA mission composed
of W.I. Jones, P.K. Pohland, L.H. Pham, and S. Capoluongo (IDA) and G. Orsini
and M. van Lierop (consultants), visited Zaire to appraise the Project. A
post-appraisal mission visited the Project area in July 1979 and another
held discussions on the Project in Zaire in November 1979.
B. Zaire's Agricultural Sector
1.03      About 4% of Zaire's total area is cultivated; 45% is covered by
equatorial forests and the balance comprises savannah, mountains, lakes,
rivers and marshes. About 75% of Zaire's population derives its livelihood
from agriculture and much of the remainder is indirectly dependent on it for
employment. It is not possible to get a reliable figure on agriculture's
contribution to the GDP, but it is low. 60% of that contribution comes from
between three and four million small family farms growing food crops such as
manioc, maize, plantains and rice mainly for their own consumption, and small
amounts of coffee or cotton as cash crops. The rest comes from the larger
holdings, the plantations growing exportable crops such as palm oil, coffee,
rubber, cacao and tea. The turmoil of the 1960s, the disruption of trans-
portation and commerce, the deterioration of Government services, unfavorable
farm prices, and nationalization policies, the deterioration of the rest of
Zaire's economy - all of these have adversely affected agricultural produc-
tion. Output from both family farms and plantations has dropped.
1.04      The results have not only been a reduction in the volume of crop
exports, but also an increase in imports of foodstuffs to meet the needs of
the fast-growing urban population. Agricultural exports, principally coffee,



-2-
still account for 14-21% of all exports, depending on price fluctuations for
coffee and copper.   Agricultural imports are growing and now account for
12-17% of total imports.  Per capita demand for maize has risen, further
aggravating a situation where increases in maize production already lagged
behind population increase. The gap is filled by imports which were 175,000
tons in 1978, (25% of total consumption). Foreign exchange allocated to
importing agricultural inputs, however, has fallen; these now constitute
less than one percent of total imports. Normally, taxes on agriculture
contribute less than 5% of Government revenues (a windfall tax on coffee was
instituted with recent high prices).
Government Services
1.05      Despite Government declarations of its intention to give priority
to agricultural development, agriculture's share of the recurrent budget from
1970-76 was about 1.5%, while its share of the investment budget fluctuated
between 2% and 8%.
1.06      The Department of Agriculture and Rural Development (ARD), formed
in 1979 by merger of its two components, is responsible for establishing
general agricultural production policy, implementing price and marketing
policies for agricultural crops, carrying out agricultural research and
providing extension and village drinking-water services. The ARD is headed
by a State Commissioner, with two State Secretaries under him, one for
Agriculture and one for Rural Development.
1.07      ARD is currently able to provide little effective extension service
to the country's farmers. Extension is effective only for the small minority
who benefit from the roughly 30 rural development projects (almost all foreign
assisted). Its operations are hampered by lack of research and of improved
seeds and other inputs, poor transport and communications, and weak organiza-
tion in general.
1.08      The National Institute of Agronomic Research and Studies (INERA),
under ARD, is in charge of agricultural research in Zaire. Its activities
cover plantation and field crops as well as livestock. INERA has 22 research
stations, not all of them active due to inadequate budget allocations. Most
research on maize is carried out by the National Maize Program (PNM) (para
1.18). PNM is now part of INERA but was originally an autonomous agency
established with technical assistance from the International Maize and Wheat
Improvement Center in Mexico (CIMMYT).
1.09      In 1971, Government started to set up specialized development
organizations ("Offices") for each major agricultural product. ONAFITEX,
the first established, dealt with cotton; ONACER, the National Cereals'
Office, with maize and other grains. The principal responsibility of the
Offices was to provide technical assistance to farmers, to buy produce at
fixed Government prices and to process and sell it either on the domestic
market or for export. In May 1978, most Offices, including ONACER and
ONAFITEX, were abolished. At present, ONACER's successer, the National



Staple Food Products Office (Office National des Produits Vivriers (ONPV) has
been set up and has entered the business of buying staple foods from farmers,
transporting it to consumption centers and storing it. ONPV has no activities
4- '^.s.  Oriental and there is no expectation that it will.  For cotton,
Government is setting up regional companies in joint venture with cotton
promotion companies and textile firms. The regional companies would work under
contract with a national Cotton Stabilization Fund (Caisse de Stabilisation du
Coton) which has been established to take over many of ONAFITEX's respon-
sibilities at the national level.
1.10      The commercial agricultural sector is served by commercial banks
and by a development bank (SOFIDE) established in 1970 with IFC equity parti-
cipation and IDA support. SOFIDE is Zaire's principal source of long-term
finance and the only non-government source of term foreign-exchange financing.
An IDA credit of US$18.5 million for lending through SOFIDE was approved
earlier this year; earlier IDA credits to SOFIDE total $35 million. A 1976
Operations Evaluation Department project performance audit of the first SOFIDE
credit (190-CK) found that it had successfully achieved its objectives, but
that there was room for progress in appraisal and supervision. Since then,
such progress has been made. Of the $18.5 million credit, at least $7.5
million will be on-lent for agricultural projects at interest rates of 15% per
year or more. Borrowers assumed exchange-rate risks unless they have assets
of less than Z 200,000. SOFIDE's agricultural borrowers from other sources of
funds pay 7.5 to 15% interest and are large, commercial farmers. There is no
institutional credit for small farmers, except for that minority that benefits
from special agricultural projects.
1.11      IDA has ongoing projects as follows:  two in livestock development
(Shaba & Ituri Regions), smallhoLder cotton development (Equateur Region), and
an oil-palm project (Haut Zaire and Equateur Regions). All projects have
encountered severe start-up problems and problems obtaining promised local
contributions. The latter problem was exacerbated by a disorderly demonetiza-
tion of Zaire notes in December 1979. The Shaba project has experienced
severe financial and administrative difficulties which have now been largely
overcome. Moreover, the cotton project has been set back, among other
things, by abolition of ONAFITEX, while the oil palm credit is not yet
effective.
C. THE MAIZE SUBSECTOR
1.12      Consumption.  As national food, maize is second in importance to
manioc, but in the Kasais and Shaba it is the staple. Apparent national
consumption of 20-25 kg per person per year masks this regional difference.
In Shaba, consumption per person per year is 144 kg; in Kinshasa, a manioc
eating region, it is 6 kg. Most maize, in the form of a meal porridge is
consumed directly by the families that produce it and by the populations of
the mining towns of Shaba and the Kasais, but some is made into beer.
Estimates of the rate at which consumption is growing vary from 3% to 7% per
year.
1.13      Production.  Maize occupies two-thirds of the country's cereal
growing area and one quarter of the total food-growing area. With very minor
exceptions, it is produced on small, family farms by hand methods using hoe



- 4 -
cultivation. Bush-fallow systems predominate; maize rotates or is inter-
cropped with other savannah crops: beans, groundnuts or voandzu, manioc and
cotton, followed by several years of uncontrolled fallow. Land is plentiful;
plant density is low. All available organic fertilizer is used on the field
immediately arcund the house. Only a few farmers associated with specific
development projects have access to chemical fertilizer and improved seed.
Consequently, yields per hectare are low, ranging from 0.35 to 1.0 tons.
1.14      The savannah belt south of the Equator is Zaire's principal maize-
producing zone. The regions of Bandundu, Kasai Oriental, Shaba, and Kasai
Occidental account for two-thirds of production; Kasai Oriental's share is
about one-sixth.
1.15      The amount of Zairian maize production is not known with precision.
High and low estimates vary by 15-20%. For instance, the Statistical Service
of the ARD estimated 1975 production at 495,000 tons, while a study by a
foreign research organization put the figure at 410,000. Thus, there can
be no precision about trends, except that production is not keeping up with
demand.
1.16      Once a modest maize exporter, Zaire was reduced roughly to self-
sufficiency by independence in 1960. Imports have grown inexorably since
then, exceedi.ng 100,000 tons for the first time in 1975 and reaching 175,000
tons in 1978., Most crmes from southern Africa. Maize demand is likely to
continue to grow, witl imports rising from a quarter of the total consumed
now to as high as 45% by 1985 (para 6.01). Thus, maize imports are already
costing significant amounts of Zaire's extremely scarce foreign exchange,
and seem likely to cost much more if nothing is done.
Maize Policy _
1.17      Central Government decrees a minimum, farm-gate, maize price, which
regional governments then interpret as a maximum. That price is now about
US$120 per ton. Mill prices are also prescribed, without allowances for
transport and storage. They are enforced only at large mills, which conse-
quently cannot procure from a large area; some have been forced to close.
Small, family, hammermills are not regulated and prices are substantially
higher than minimum price levels.
1.18      The PNM (National Maize Program) represents a major Government
initiative to increase maize production. Although now part of INERA, its
staff reports to the national PNM Director rather than to the local INERA
Director. Efforts have focused on breeding and field-testing new varieties
from promising local and foreign genetic material and developing technologies
suitable for Zairian farmers.
1.19      PNM's research results have been impressive.  Selected Central
American material, sometimes crossed with local varieties, performs very well
on trial plots and in demonstrations on farmers' fields. As yet, these
results have not been widely diffused among farmers. PNM's staff includes
a number of Zairian geneticists trained in Mexico and the United States and



two senior CIMMYT staff now with the program in Shaba. PNM funds are inade-
quate to cover the costs of extension activities including communication and
transport. In addition, seed multiplication has been inadequate, and ferti-
lizers have been generally unavailable.
1.20      Government has intervened to increase maize production through
projects in a number of areas, including two projects in Shaba province
(Kaniama Kasese and North Shaba, with Belgian and American technical assistance
respectively) and one in Kasai Occidental (Mweka, with French and now European
Development Fund (FED) technical assistance). Kaniama Kasese and Mweka rely
on large-scale, mechanized production with concommitant high foreign-exchange
costs and severe supply and maintenance problems. North Shaba works with
small farmers through extension and local organization. Initially it renounced
use of imported inputs in its remote location but recently the project
authority has turned to fertilizer imports and sale of trucks to local
transporters. In addition, mining companies have been required to operate
maize farms in an attempt to provide maize to their workers. These farms are
not commercially viable and do not supply the demand of the miners. The
mechanized farm of GECAMINES, the principal mining company, has longer
experience than the others and now produces about 10,000 T/year. It imports
tractors, and other inputs through GECAMINES at the official exchange rate,
but still loses money because it must sell maize at the official price.
In Kasai Oriental, the FAO Fertilizer Programme has conducted fertilizer field
trials on maize with Belgian assistance since 1972. Moreover, the PMKO
(Kasai Oriental Maize Project Organization) was formed in 1980 to consolidate
the CAKO (Comission Agricole du Kasai Oriental), financed by FED from 1968 to
1976, which concentrated on cotton but later broadened to include maize and
the Tshilenge Integrated Rural Development Project, started with Government
financing in 1976 (paras 2.22 thru 2.29).
II. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Location
2.01      The Project area is in Kasai Oriental Province in mid-southern Zaire,
900 km from Lubumbashi and 1,500 km from Kinshasa. Roads linking it to the
outside (and most roads within the area) are very poor. However, the area is
directly linked to the Shaba mining centers by rail and to Kinshasa by rail
and river boat. Mbuji Mayi, the regional capital, has scheduled air service.
2.02      The Project area comprises the sub-region of Tshilenge and the three
of zones Gandajika, Mweae Ditu, and Kamiji (see Map IBRD 13637R). Their com-
bined area is 26,300 km . Their population at the 1970 census was 875,000,
which probably translates to about one million in 1980, of which about 900,000
are elsentially agricultural. The Project area surrounds Mbuji Mayi. This
64 km administrative and diamond-mining center with a population of more than
300,000 is a major market for maize.



- 6 -
B. Physical Resources
2.03      Topography.  The area is a peneplain dissected by several afflu-
ents of the Zaire River. The valleys, particularly in the east and center
of the area, are rather flat, with low intervening hills. In the northwest
particularly, terrain is hillier. Villages tend to be clustered on hills,
and the roads or trails that link them follow ridges wherever possible.
Elevations range from 600 to 800 meters.
2.04      Soils.  The predominant soil is deep sandy clay derived from the
underlying pre-Cambrian rocks, generally acidic and poor in organic matter.
Soils vary greatly, however, in their suitability for agriculture and for
road-building. For agriculture, soils tend to be best in the southeast and
worst in the northwest, with many local variations. Soils on the sides
of river valleys tend to be best, having considerably more clay than sand
and more organic matter than other soils, hence being water-retentive enough
for crops like maize, groundnuts and cotton, but also permitting sufficient
drainage. An agricultural classification of the area's soils in 1950 by
INERA's predecessor organization listed 9% as very good, 8% as good, 11% as
medium, 41% as poor and 31% as very poor.
2.05      Although soil fertility in a fairly large portion of the project
area is mediocre and soils are low in organic matter, they support the pres-
ent, extensive, bush-fallow cropping system rather well. Moreover, extensive
recent trials by the FAO Fertilizer Programme and the PNM indicate that
response to fertilizer is high even on poorer soils.
2.06      Rainfall varies between 1,200 and 1,700 mm per year and falls
between September and April. There are two peaks, in December and in March,
with a brief break in January or February. The first rains are a bit
heavier, surer, and more likely to give a good maize crop. Relative mean
monthly sunlight varies from 70% in June to 35% in December. Temperatures
average 24 0C, with minor seasonal variations -- from 150C to 323 -- since
the area is only 60 to 80 south of the Equator.
2.07      Vegetation reflects the fact that population densities, in large
parts of the area, are approaching the upper limit at which bush-fallow
agriculture can be sustained. Forest is confined to narrow bands along stream
beds. Otherwise, the "bush" is mainly grassland, dominated by undesirable
species with trees being few and small. Villages, on high ground, have oil
palm, banana, papaya and other useful trees around the houses. In hillier
portions, there is rainy-season erosion.
C. Farm Population and Farming
2.08      The area's farming population -- about 900,000 -- is culturally
quite uniform. The vast majority speak Chiluba and call themselves Baluba,



- 7 -
although much of Mwene Ditu zone is peopled by the closely-related Kanioka.
Luba farming is centered on maize-growing. Traditionally, households and
villages have moved as the conditions of soil fertility dictated. Social
organization is based on the immediate family (average size, 6), with a
hierarchy of chiefs whose power decreases as the size of the units increases.
The present-day administrative system retains the chief at the village and
collectivity (group of villages) level. During the 1950s, the colonial
authorities frequenty regrouped villagers into larger villages called
"paysannats" along roads. Under this system, it was easier to police ful-
fillment of legally obligatory cotton quotas (known as "imposed cultivation")
and to provide inputs and services, such as potable water, dispensaries and
schools. The system did not, however, adequately allow for the land needs
of the bush-fallow cultivation system, with its long fallow periods that
obliged "paysannat" farmers to cultivate farther and farther from the re-
settlement village.
2.09      The area's residents have a reputation for being enterprising
and commercial. Before 1960, a significant proportion of the area's present
farming population had lived and worked outside the area, many as commercial
farmers in the Kasai River Valley or in Shaba where they worked in jobs
related to mining or administration.
2.10      Some 90,000 out of the 140,000 farms in the area are not associated
with any development project and family members depend solely on farming for
their livelihood. The value of their output, net of allowances for tools
and seed only, and at present pr:ices, is about US$450 or $70 per head at
the official exchange rate, but perhaps US$35 at exchange rates that would
reflect the purchasing power of the Zaire. According to estimates of agricul-
tural labor requirements, the return for a day of labor on the family farm is
a bit more than one US dollar. Families on the remaining 50,000 farms are
slightly better off. They receive aid from existing projects or supplement
their income by peripheral involvement in government or diamond mining.
The small group getting fertilizer, cotton seeds, pesticides and subsidized
tractor cultivation from CAKO have an output, net of seeds, tools and service
costs, of $875 or $125 per person. Families using fertilizer available from
the FAO Fertilizer Programme (para. 2.28) have an estimated output, net of
seeds, tools and fertilizer, of $575 or $100 per person.
2.11      The most typical family farm consists of four active fields at any
one time: one right around the house which is fertilized with household
wastes and cultivated continuously, another that has just been cleared from
bush, a third cleared the previous year, and a fourth cleared two years pre-
viously. Except for the house field, farming rapidly depletes soil fertility.
After farming a field for three years, farmers allow it to return to bush.
After an uncontrolled fallow period of a minimum of five years, soil fertility
is restored, and the fields are ready to be cleared and cropped again. In
total, then, at any one time, on a typical 2 ha farm, 0. 75 ha will be farmed
while a minimum of 1.25 ha will be fallow. The house plot will cover about
0.15 ha and will usually grow maize and beans, as well as vegetables and
fruits for household consumption.



- 8 -
2.12      The principal crops are maize and manioc, and to a lesser extent
groundnuts, beans and cotton. Crops are grown in both wet seasons -- from
September to January and from February to May. Maize is planted in the
newly cleared field the first year, followed by maize interspersed with
beans or groundnuts. A third maize crop is planted the second year, and
then manioc, a two year crop which is harvested the third year. In addition
some farms grow cotton on part of their land during the first part of this
cycle.
2.13      Annual production totals about 460 kg. of maize, 5 tons of manioc
(before drying), about 200 kg. of beans and groundnuts, an average of 25 kg.
of seed cotton, and, from the house plot, unspecified quantities of palm oil,
papayas, manioc and sweet potato leaves, eggplants and spices.
2.14      The crucial input to this production is family labor.  Agricultural
tasks are about evenly divided between men and women, with men predominating
in clearing and sowing and women in weeding and post-harvest processing,
including the time-consuming task of hulling and shelling maize and soaking,
peeling, and pounding manioc. Land is not yet scarce, and its value depends
both on the labor put into clearing it and on its proximity to the house.
Tools are few and simple: hoes and machetes. The success of a farm depends
mainly on the amount of labor the family can furnish, on access to purchased
inputs, on soil quality around the village, and, of course, on the skill of
the family in applying the known techniques.
2.15      An estimated two-thirds of project-area farmers currently market
maize. They sell an average of 30% of their production. Those who sell tend
to be close to markets, associated with one of the development projects; many
are radio owners. They sell small quantities, often on the cob, and at their
homes. Nearly half of sales are to consumers or to village assemblers (who
are usually themselves maize farmers); about 30% are to rural or urban assem-
blers; 20% are to licensed traders. Seasonal price variations are great, and
most farmers sell shortly after harvest, when prices are lowest, because they
lack storage. Nevertheless, competition among merchants and truckers is in-
tense whenever roads permit truck transport. Farm prices can reach $0.65/kg
before the December harvest and about $0.40/kg after it, compared, for in-
stance, to $0.30/kg for cotton. These prices reflect acute scarcity and
are a strong incentive to increase supply.
2.16      The transporters, unspecialized, seasonal maize buyers who deal in
other consumers' goods during mos.t of t-he year, are the key to the system,
whether they buy at the farm or transport the farmer-assembler and his sack
of maize to market. They manage to operate despite shortages of trucks,
spare-parts and fucl; they finance a major part of maize marketing. Because
transport e-osts are high, transporters absorb 32% of the wholesale price of
maize in &u1-;i Mayi.  Farmers get 56% If they sell at the farm and take no
part in marki.ting.  The various asscrilcrs (who may also be farmers or trans-
porters) absorb 12% and retailers average a 15% margin over the wholesale
price.



- 9 -
2.17      Total maize production in the Project area is currently about
80,000 tons per year, of which about one quarter or 20,000 tons is marketed.
This level is far below the area's demand. In 1976, the provincial government
estimated Kasai Oriental's maize deficit at 75,000 tons. Although all of the
Region's towns consume marketed maize, a large portion is consumed in Mbuji
Mayi itself, where the purchases of MIBA for its diamond miners and their
immediate families alone account for over 7,000 tons.
D. Infrastructure
2.18      The agricultural infrastructure in the Project area includes
local branches of the country's major agricultural institutions (para 1.06-
1.09) and three local agricultural extension activities (para 1.20) now
working primarily to increase maize production. In addition, there are
various other agriculture-related infrastructure operations including road
maintenance and water supply.
National
2.19      ARD's Agricultural Service recently employed nearly 300 extension
agents in the project area, plus smaller numbers of staff in Animal Services
and Waters and Forests. Practically the only useful work, however, was done
by those agents seconded to the local maize promotion agencies, CAKO, and the
Tshilenge Project, and by the agents who work with the FAO Fertilizer
Programme. In February 1980, all extension agents of the Agricultural Service
in the Project area as well as those of CAKO and Tshilenge Project were
transferred to PMKO (Chapter IV below), which will subsequently absorb the
activities of the FAO Fertilizer Programme in the Project area.
2.20      Research.  Agricultural research is carried out in the area by both
INERA and the PNM (paras 1.08 andl 1.18). INERA's station outside Gandajika
is the second most important in Zaire. Its buildings, housing, equipment and
storehouses are in remarkably good condition, considering its many years of
budgetary constraint and official neglect. Preindependence research included
manioc and groundnuts, as well as maize and cotton. Since independence, for
a variety of reasons including lack of budget, supplies, and leadership, the
amount of research at Gandajika Station has been modest. However, this
includes development of three improved maize varieties (GPS 3, 4, & 5) with
yield potential of 5-7T/ha and an improved cotton variety (Zaire), which is
now being field-tested. PNM's Kasai operations are headquartered at the INERA
station. PNM has field-tested varieties of exotic maize, of which Salongo II
and Kasai I seem to be superior in all respects to the INERA-bred GPS-5.
Their yield potential is 6-lOT/ha and, well supervised, they yield 3-6T/ha on
farmers fields. Both GPS and PNM varieties are resistant to streak virus and
powdery mildew provided that they are not planted too late. INERA and PNM
multiply and maintain the foundation seed for their varieties.
2.21      Before its abolition, ONAFITEX (para 1.09) had the most articulated
storage and delivery system in the Project area, created to distribute inputs
and facilitate storage of cotton in anticipation of transport to its 5 local
cotton ginneries. There are 370 village storehouses, most of which



- 10 -
are in good repair. In the Project area, ONAFITEX has been replaced by La
Cotonniere, a mixed venture between Government, a cotton promotion company
(Colocoton), and three textile firms. La Cotonniere is now promoting cotton
cultivation in a wide area of Kasai Oriental and Maniema, including the
Project area, where it operates the 5 ginneries formerly belonging to
Colocoton. ONACER (National Cereals' Office) was created in part to fix maize
prices by intervening in the market.  In Kasai Oriental it ceased operations
entirely after a tentative start and, nationally, it was abolished in 1978.
In reality, here, as in many parts of Zaire, private traders do the maize
purchasing; prices are far higher than official floor prices due to shortages.
ONACER's successor, ONPV, does not operate in Kasai Oriental and does not plan
to do so.
Local
2.22      CAKO (Kasai Oriental Agricultural Commission), once the most
effective extension organization in the Project area, was established in
1968 with FED financing and technical assistance from the French Cotton
Fiber Development Company (CFDT), primarily to promote cotton production.
The original goal was to revive the abandoned paysannats around Gandajika,
developing cotton production. The focus turned gradually to maize, reflecting
bright financial prospects for maize as compared to weak prices and marketing
difficulties for cotton. In addition, La Cotonniere is promoting cotton
production (see para. 2.21).
2.23      Until its absorption into PMKO in 1980, CAKO provided minimal
services to about 24,000 farmers in its area, which covers primarily Gandajika
and Mwene Ditu zones plus a small part of Bakwa Kalonji zone in eastern
Tshilenge sub-region. Historically, its operations fell into three phases.
In the first, a five-year FED contract, 1968-73, 14,000 farmers were resettled
in paysannats where they were helped to produce cotton; the second, 1973-76,
brought in another 10,000 farmers who received extension services,
increasingly for maize production, and the first Zairian director; in the
third phase from 1976 to 1980 there was no FED financing or expatriate
assistance, and CAKO experienced severe difficulties adjusting to a lower and
erratic level of budgetary support.
2.24      About 150 of CAKO's roughly 400 employees were village level
workers, including 33 seconded from the Agricultural Service. The majority of
CAKO employees supported the work of the extension agents.
2.25      A major component of this support was the agricultural mecha-
nization service. In 1973-74, when the tractor program reached its zenith,
all 14,000 farmers covered by CAKO were having their fields plowed by tractors.
This operation has now drawn to a virtual halt; seven tractors were still
operable in July 1979. Spiraling fuel cost has made tractor plowing
prohibitively costly. In 1976/77, just over 1,000 farmers benefitted from
tractor plowing. A road team used to maintain roads in its area, but has
become largely ineffective. Its equipment has worn out and has not been
replaced. CAKO has a 2,000 ha seed multiplication farm at Mpoy-L to produce
maize and groundnut seeds and manioc cuttings, but which is now barely
operative due to lack of budget and materiel. Other support services Include
a motor-vehicle repair facility; a transport team which distributed agricul-
tural inputs when it had working vehicles; a building team; and a storage
unit.



- 11 -
2.26      Revenue from operations used to cover roughly half of operating
costs, with no provision for amortization, but deficits, covered by FED and
Government subsidies, were US$350-470,000 in 1975 and 1976 and $160,000 in the
first half of 1977. Extension services are not, of course, normally self
tinancing. however, %;AKO's quasi-commercial operations -- agricultural
mechanization and seed multiplication -- were also major contributors to the
deficit.
2.27      CAKO has experienced severe budget crises.  FED support has ceased.
Government was not willing to continue support at the previous level, and
CAKO's adjustment to lower levels of support was not easy, especially given
the expectation that it would continue to provide the same services as during
the period of FED support. The post-appraisal mission estimates that for 1980,
maintaining the former CAKO's operations, not including its agricultural
mechanization service, requires an annual subsidy of about $450,000 to bridge
the gap between its receipts and expenditures. Government's obligation to
maintain CAKO's services (not including the agricultural mechanization service)
has been subject of correspondence and IDA missions. Government has provided
the necessary support for 1979 and, for 1980, the required funds are budgeted.
2.28      FAQ Fertilizer Programme promotes fertilizer experiments, trials
on farmers' fields, and sales, principally for use on maize. It has been
confined, since 1976, to the three collectivities closest to Mbuji Mayi and
staffed by 5 agents (1 expatriate and 4 Zairians) who have worked with
extension workers of the Agricultural Service and Tshilenge Project (see para
2.29 below) and private truckers. Its operations are centered on distribution
of fertilizer to participating farmers; 829 tons were distributed to 8,000
farmers in 1977/8. Distributions were limited by supply, not by demand, which
the Programme estimates at 7,000 tons for the Project area for 1980/1.
The Programme has worked out appropriate dosages for different crops and soils
through nearly two thousand field trials. Recommended doses are 90 kg
nitrogen, and 40 kg phosphate per hectare for improved varieties (60 and 40
for other varieties) of maize, except when grown after cotton that has been
fertilized, with fertilizer applied in a split dose. Results varied depending
on soils and farmers' skill, but they were attractive to farmers in all cases.
Incremental maize production per hectare ranged between 1.0 and 1.5 tons,
mostly on local varieties, but were higher for improved varieties: GPS-5
(1.6-2.4 tons) and Salongo II (2.3-3.3 tons), at higher doses. At the
recommended doses, one unit of fertilizer (nutrient basis) yielded 10-14 units
of maize.  On farmers' fields, the benefit of using fertilizer on maize was
usually three or more times the cost and never less than two.  Fertilizer is
sold at the full cost, including transportation, on credit without interest.
Recoveries have been 90% or better.  Because of the heavy administrative cost
of lending to individuals, credit groups of 50 have been organized and cash
sales have been initiated. The Programme has also begun to train extension
workers and to sell improved seed.
2.29      Until its absorption into PMKO in 1980, the Tshilenge Rural Develop-
ment Project was headquartered in Kabeya Kamuanga and operated in the zones of
Kabeya Kamuanga, Miabi and Lupatapata in western Tshilenge sub-region.
Designed to improve maize and other agricultural production, it started in
1976 with modest Government financing without foreign support. With a staff
of 12 supplemented by local employees from ARD, its activities were limited by
severe budgetary constraints from its inception.



- 12 -
Roads
2.30      Office des Routes (OR), an autonomous parastatal institution
under tutelage of the Public Works Ministry, has its regional headquarters
in Mbuji Mayi, and is responsible for maintenance of all primary roads and a
few secondary ones in the area. La Cotonniere and, until recently, CAKO have
repaired other roads of interest to their activities. OR has one mechanized
unit. Early in 1979 it curtailed hand road maintenance due to budgetary
constraints.
2.31      Water supply.  Before 1960, the Government installed many pilot
rural water supply systems in the Project area. These had included motor-
driven systems for four paysannats; and hand-powered systems for 172 villages.
However, the Hydrological Service (SH), which is responsible to the State
Secretary of Rural Development of ARD was without a budget between 1976 and
1978 and has had meagre resources since then. Consequently virtually all of
these systems have fallen into disrepair. Gandajika is headquarters of SH's
regional operation, Gandajika Hydrological Project. UNICEF is assisting the
Gandajika Hydrological Project to rehabilitate several motorized water supply
systems for large towns in the Project area.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Description
Project Concept
3.01      The Project would support the development of input-supply and
extension services to farmers in the Kasai Oriental Region, principally in
order to increase production of maize and improve its marketing. It would
also develop basic infrastructure -- notably roads and drinking water facili-
ties. The Project would extend and consolidate services introduced under
previous projects financed by the FED, FAO, and the Zairian Government
(paras. 2.22-29); its principal objective would be to assist an estimated
150,000 farmer families to modify their farming systems and thus increase
their incomes. The principal changes envisaged (improved fertilizer and seed
procurement, distribution and sale, and a unified extension and training
system) would be simple in concept.  Proposed farming systems have been
extensively tested in the Project area, with satisfactory results. However,
the operating environment for the Project, notably the weakness of
institutions responsible for agriculture and rural development and enormous
logistic difficulties which impede supplies of goods and services throughout
Zaire, would complicate Project implementation. Special provisions to ensure
efficient administration and financial control are therefore required.
These are described below in Chapter IV. The six-year Project implementation
period would be required to develop adequate extension coverage of the area
and for adoption of the recommended maize seed-fertilizer package by an
estimated one-third of Project-area farmers; a shorter implementation period
would not permit valid conclusions to be drawn on the program's performance,
and a further project would be required to draw conclusions and to consolidate



- 13 -
the innovations introduced. Because of the uncertainties pertaining to
institutional arrangements and to the general environment in Zaire, Project
implementation would be carried out in two phases.  The first two years of
implementation would be devoted mainly to institutioi'il development, including
organization of PMKO (Kasai Oriental Maize Project Organization), the Project-
implementing agency, recruitment of technical assistants, development of an
effective input-supply system, introduction of the "training and visit"
extension and research system, and organization of agricultural credit.
Further, the tertiary-road improvement system would be set up and water
investments would be finalized. Following this start-up phase, a full review
of institutional arrangements and of proposed investments would be undertaken,
prior to proceeding with the second phase of the Project. Implementation
arrangements for Project components would be modified if and as appropriate
(see paras. 4.13-14).
Pro-ject Content
3.02      The proposed Project would include the following principal compo-
nents, implemented over a six-year period:
(a) Improvement of input supplies to farmers, including:
(i) Provision of additional fertilizer;
(ii) Purchase and/or production and storage of improved
maize seed; and
(iii) Development of storage facilities, provision of
transport, and organization of services for the
distribution and sale to farmers of fertilizer
and seed;
(b) Development of marketing facilities for maize through the
sale of trucks to private transporters;
(c) Development of improved extension, training and research
facilities, including improved facilities, staff and
organization of extension services, a new training program
for extension staff, and research on the farming system and
related labor-saving devices;
(d) Improvement of about 1,150 km of farm roads, including
reconstruction of bridges and ferries;
(e) Rehabilitation and improved maintenance of drinking water
systems for about 172 villages; and
(f) Provision of technical assistance in support of these
activities and to strengthen Project management services.



- 14 -
3.03      The Project would be implemented principally by PMKO (Kasai Oriental
Maize Project Organization, an extension organization recently formed from two
existing extension projects (CAKO and Tshilenge Project) and part of the
Department of Agriculture (paras. 2.22-2.27). Road development would be
carried out by the Office des Routes; water facilities would be developed by
the Hydrological Service and SOFIDE would oversee sale of trucks to private
transporters. In all three cases, implementation would be monitored by
PMKO.
Agjricultural Inputs
3.04      Fertilizer.  PMKO's Logistics Service would purchase fertilizer for
sale to farmers. From an estimated 1,000 tons per year now, the amount of
fertilizer used on maize in the Project area is expected to rise to 6,700 tons
by the Project's sixth year and to continue to rise thereafter to 12,100 tons
after 15 years. Annual incremental fertilizer use would range between 700
tons and 2,900 tons in project years 2 through 6. The total of these annual
increments would be 7,700 tons (including establishment of a stock of
approximately 2,000 tons). PMKO's Extension Service will base its recommenda-
tions on the experience of the FAO Fertilizer Programme. Farmers are expected
to be more cautious, however, initially applying less than half the
recommended dose (90 kg of N2 & 40 kg of P20 ) to half a hectare of maize,
one-half at sowing and the rest about a montg and a half later. Thus, the
typical farmer who adopts the seed-fertilizer package will initially share two
50-kg bags of fertilizers (one urea and one di-ammonium phosphate) with a
neighbor and will increase his purchases to two or three bags as he sees the
results. By the Project's sixth year, 53,000 small farms are expected to be
buying fertilizer for maize, and the number is expected to grow to 104,000
after 15 years.
3.05      Seed.  Initially, PMKO would purchase improved maize seed from the
Kaniama Kasese project, the source of seed to CAKO and Tshilenge Project in
recent years. At the discretion of PMKO's Director, after consultation with
IDA, PMKO might rehabilitate its seed multiplication farm at Mpoyi to produce
seed directly. The Project unit would finance purchase of seed or, in the
event of seed production by PMKO, certain production costs (foundation seed
purchase, fertilizer, pesticides, sacks, tractor operations, transportation
and mechanical drying) as well as capital costs of new storage and drying
facilities. INERA's Gandajika Station would continue to produce foundation
seed. PMKO's internationally recruited Research Officer would provide back-up
technical monitoring and control. Yearly seed sales are expected to vary
between 180 and 900 tons. Three varieties (Salongo II, Kasai I, and GPS-5)
will be available to give farmers a choice and to avoid the dangers of
overdependence on a single genetic strain. Since all three varieties are
open-pollinated, a farmer who has purchased improved seed need not purchase
again to renew his seed for some years. The small farmers of the Project area
are expected to purchase one 15-kg bag initially and one or two bags when they
renew their seed, ideally after about four years. The number of farmers
purchasing seed is estimated at 25,000 in the project's second year, falling
to 7-8,000 until the sixth year, when repurchases would swell the number of



- 15 -
seed-buyers to 30,000. At full development, seed operations should be fully
self-financing; PMKO will review costs and prices at least annually. At 1980
estimated prices, PMKO will buy seed from Kaniama Kasese at about US$1.30/kg,
and deliver it to farmers, who would pay about $1.50/kg cash or $2.00/kg after
harvest if they received credit.
3.06      Input Distribution and Sales.  PMKO would buy fertilier in 50-kg
bags. The fertilizer would be delivered by train and river boat from the port
to the Mwene Ditu or Luputa railheads, where warehouses would be constructed,
respectively, for 2,000 tons and 1,000 tons, as recommended by the FAO
Fertilizer Programme. Two additional 500 ton warehouses would be built at
intermediate points.
3.07      Plans for distribution of both seeds and fertilizers are based
on the system used by the FAO Fertilizer Programme which involves collabora-
tion with La Cotonniere and the similar system formerly used by ONAFITEX.
Fertilizer delivered from Matadi to Mwene Ditu is handled by a transiting
firm. Thence, its distribution in trucks is contracted to private truckers or
to La Cotonniere and sometimes it is stored in the Project area's 370 village
storehouses when La Cotonniere empties them and loads seed cotton. The PMKO
would finance repair and rehabilitation of these village warehouses, to assure
protection of seeds and fertilizers from deterioration or theft. PMKO would
purchase 10 6-ton trucks needed to transport the additional amounts of ferti-
lizer and seeds anticipated. Until recently, ONAFITEX was responsible for
scheduling of trips and other administrative details, although it leased its
trucks from CAKO. With the project, PIKO's Logistics Service would assume
responsibility for scheduling and administration. If satisfactory arrangements
could be worked out, it would charge La Cotonniere on a ton-kilometer basis
for collecting cotton and distributing cotton inputs. Proposed arrangements
between PMKO and La Cotonniere would be drawn up annually by PMKO; they would
form part of PMKO's annual work program and would thus be reviewed with IDA on
an annual basis (para. 4.13).
3.08      Sales of seed and fertilizer would be the responsibility of PMKO's
Logistics Service. Prices for cash sales would be set to cover CAKO's costs
in full:  about $22 for a 15-kg bag of seeds to cover the cost of production
and delivery, and about $26 for a 50-kg bag of fertilizer to cover purchase
and distribution costs at estimated 1980 prices. These prices would be
reviewed annually by PMKO management and adjusted for inflation or real
cost changes. Government gave assurances during negotiations that prices
would be sufficient to cover full costs and that they would be reviewed with
IDA at least once a year and adjusted as appropriate.
3.09      Cash sales would be encouraged.  The cost of a typical initial
$49 package at planting time should bring a return of about $150 at harvest.
It is expected that farmers using improved seeds and fertilizers will at least
double production over a five year period. Thus, farmers should be well able
to to afford inputs; it is expected that, after 9 or 10 years, all sales will
be for cash.
3.10      Credit sales would be important, particularly at the start, but only
as a promotional device to accelerate the program's expansion. In addition,
credit availability will prevent the program from favoring the more prosperous



- 16 -
farmers. However, the seed-fertilizer package is lucrative to farmers and,
after a few years, credit should not be necessary. Credit would be extended
only to groups -- both those already formed by the FAO Fertilizer Programme
and new groups characteristically of 50 members and headed by a locality
chief. To encourage the transition to cash purchases, it is planned that the
credit program would cover 100% of input cost in the first year, two-thirds
the second year, one-third the third year, and by the fourth year the group
members would be expected to pay cash. The projected pattern of PMKO maize
input sales is as follows:
ProJect Year                     2      3         4        5       6
Farmers Buying Seed &
Fertilizer For Cash               14,000  18,000  21,000  33,000   41,000
Farmers Buying Seed &
Fertilizer On Credit               9,000  13,000  17,000  12,000   12,000
Farmers Buying Seed Only For Cash          0   2,000   4,000   7,000   10,000
Seed Sold (T)                           440      180      190     250       900
Fertilizer Sold (T)                   1,900   2,640   3,530   4,560    5,730
A farmer from the most typical group would receive 15 kg of improved seed and
50 kg of fertilizer worth $49 on credit the first year his group received
credit. He would pay $65 after harvest and receive $22 credit towards the
$33 worth of fertilizer (62.5 kg) he would use in the next year, etc. until
he paid for all inputs in cash from the fourth year. The nominal annualized
interest rate of 60% may appear low in view of Zaire's recent inflation --
probably 100% in 1979 and an average of 60% for 1976-8. Inflation is
projected to be above 40% over the next three years. The project's farmers
apparently have no alternative source of institutional credit.
3.11      The two existing credit programs in the region, that for cotton and
the FAO Fertilizer Programme, both have good repayment records, the former
because La Cotonniere is the sole buyer and the latter because of its modest
size. Because these conditions will not pertain in the proposed project,
strong provisions to prevent default are built in. To prevent defaults,
any groups which fall into arrears would be excluded from further credit.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that PMKO would lend only to
farmer groups and that no loans would be made to groups which were in arrear
on prior loans or which had received credit for three successive years.
3.12      The credit operation under the project would be run by the inter-
nationally-recruited Chief of PMKO's Logistics Service (see para 4.06) with a
Deputy and a staff of 9 logistics officers and 9 deputies. This staff would
compete for the Chief position upon replacement of the internationally
recruited officer. PMKO would keep a separate budget and fund for credit
operations.



- 17 -
3.13      Trucks for Marketing.  Although the existing maize-marketing system
functions as efficiently as can be expected under present circumstances (paras
2.15-16), the projected tripling of the quantity of maize to be marketed from
20,000 to 60,000 tons over six years would create strains and bottlenecks.
The existing system should be able to accommodate the increase provided that
transporters' margins continue to be attractive, that roads are passable, and
that sufficient trucks and spare parts are available. To assure that trans-
porters' margins continue to be attractive, the Government gave assurances at
negotiations that it would continue its present policy of not regulating the
consumers' or producers' prices of maize in the Project area except to fix a
minimum producer price (paras 1.17 and 6.06). The Project would supplement
the Office des Routes program of road rehabilitation and maintenance (paras
3.21-3). The projected need for trucks is based on the assumption that
three-fourths of incremental maize production will be marketed during the
January-February bottleneck period, that 30% of marketed maize will travel
from farm to market exclusively by truck, and that each transporter will move
200 tons of maize during this critical period. On the basis of these assump-
tions, PMKO's Administrative and Financial Service would import 45 six-ton
trucks which would be sold to transporters through SOFIDE. Terms and condi-
tions of transactions between Government and SOFIDE, and between SOFIDE and
transporters would be fixed by an agreement between SOFIDE and Government
acceptable to IDA (see paras. 3.36 and 4.10). Before letting bids, PMKO would
identify the potential purchasers who would be residents of the Project area
and licensed transporters. SOFIDE would make a final selection, based on
banking criteria. Not more than three trucks would be sold to a licencee.
Extension, Training and Research
3.14      Extension.  All crop extension workers in the Project area (as
distinct from persons involved in forestry, fisheries, livestock and
statistics' gathering) have recently been transferred from the Agricultural
Service, CAKO and Tshilenge Project to PMKO. In 1981, it is expected that
PMKO will take over most of the FAO Fertilizer Programme staff. Over a four
year period, field staff would be expanded to a full complement of about 480.
The following table shows comparative personnel strength at all levels, at
present and at full development.
Sub-sector      Sector         Zone
Extension Personnel             Workers      Chiefs         Chiefs      Officers
Present                          381           23               9            0
At Full Development              477           60               9            3
Present levels exclude 20% of extension workers and 10% of supervisors on the
assumption that they are, and would continue to be, engaged in non-extension
tasks, such as statistics gathering and rule enforcement. Proposed staffing
levels are designed to provide adequate field coverage, varying from 300 to
320 farmers per extension agent. This ratio would permit institution of a
systematic, regularly scheduled visit system in which agents could devote the
major portion of their time to extension activities. Agents' time use would
be carefully planned to maximize their useful interaction with farmers. The



- 18 -
implementation of these agents' plans would be closely supervised. Supervision
would be integrated with continuous training, at the subsector and other
levels, to impart simple, punctual, and practial extension messages. This new
integrated extension service would be the only extension activity in the area,
apart from the cotton agency and a small number of DOA agents left for
gathering statistics and for forestry, livestock and fisheries.
3.15      PMKO's extension force would specifically not have responsibility
for enforcement of imposed cultivation (para. 2.08), since such responsibility
would interfere with their development functions. Imposed cultivation
produces situations where farmers are legally obligated to grow crops whose
cultivation is not in their interest, as has recently been the case with
cotton. Extension agents involved with the system become unpopular and
distrusted either because they enforce it or because they expect favors
for not enforcing it. Government gave assurances at negotiations that it
would divorce PMKO's extension staff from imposed cultivation after 1 January
1981.
3.16      PMKO's Director, on recommendation of his Chief of the Extension
Service (see para 4.07), would have responsibility for hiring and firing, pay,
and supervision of the extension service. Under the Project, PMKO would
establish 37 sub-sector offices and relocate 9 sector offices. It would
provide housing for sub-sector chiefs since, under the new system, their
houses would be sites for meetings and training of extension officers.
Transportation would be provided: bicycles for field workers, mopeds for
sub-sector chiefs and motorcycles for sector chiefs. These vehicles would be
sold to extension personnel by PMKO on credit to encourage good maintenance.
Under the Project, PMKO would introduce performance bonuses and travel
allowances to supplement the extremely modest basic pay.
3.17      Training.  In its Extension Service, PMKO would initiate a train-
ing program for extension staff. The Extension Training Officer (see para.
4.07) would be responsible for its administration and content. The program
would have three other full-time training officers and would also draw on
INERA staff. Training would be centered at INERA in Gandajika, also using the
PNM training facilities and ex-CAKO offices and guest house in Gandajika as
appropriate. In addition to staff, PMKO would provide tools and supplies for
field work including audio-visuals and four vehicles.
3.18      Initial orientation for Project staff and periodic substantive
courses of two or three weeks duration would be held in Gandajika. In addi-
tion, day courses would be held frequently at sector or sub-sector levels.
All training would be closely related to on-going field-level activities. The
major--but not exclusive--focus would be maize production. Emphasis would be
on such skills as how to farm with improved seed varieties, how to pick the
sowing date, how to sow a field at the recommended density, characteristics
of fertilizer, how to figure the dose for a field, how and when to apply it,
how to estimate seed and fertilizer demand and to take orders, how to weed
more effectively, and how to build a crib to reduce post-harvest: losses.
Such training would be the key to improving the morale and the competence of
the Extension Service and hence its productivity. Training would not only
link field workers' extension messages to research results from Gandajika and
elsewhere but would also offer an indirect means of supervising the workers.



- 19 -
3.19      Research.  The research component would be centered at INERA where
PMKO's Research Officer would be stationed. Existing facilities of INERA
would be utilized as appropriate. The Project would include provision of a
vehicle, funds for inputs for supplemental programs, and incremental salaries
and aliowaites aciulng the institution-building period.
3.20      The Project's research component would supplement INERA and PNM's
on-going plant breeding, variety and fertilizer trials, and would also comple-
ment them by bringing them into closer contact with farmers' problems and thus
making them more practical. The Project's supplementary research activities
would be four. Firstly, the Research Officer and his staff would work with
INERA to broaden its research into crop rotations, farm-management practices,
erosion control, and the use of controlled fallow (ley system) to increase
soil fertility with less purchased fertilizer. Secondly, the Officer would
supervise testing and promotion of maize-shelling and other devices that
could be manufactured locally and that might serve to reduce labor required
during bottleneck periods: fall planting, December-January maize shelling,
cotton harvest, and weeding times. Thirdly, he would also supervise research
and promotion of maize cribs to reduce insect and mold damage and premature
germination, thus permitting farmers to hold corn for optimal market prices.
Fourthly, the Officer and his staff would set up a soil fertility testing
facility at INERA to provide information to farmers through the extension
service.
3.21      Roads.  The Project would include upgrading and initially mainten-
ance of about 950 km of tertiary roads and of 200 km of unmaintained secondary
roads that serve the most important areas of agricultural production in the
Project area. The work would involve clearing of a 7 m uidth, cutting and
grading, and rehabilitation of drainage. In addition, 15 small bridges would
be constructed and some small ferries rehabilitated (Map IBRD 13636R).
3.22      Road works would be carried out by a mechanized brigade set up for
the purpose and located at OR's regional headquarters at Mbuji Mayi and
complemented by manual labor. The brigade would be subdivided into a
rehabilitation unit, a mechanized maintenance unit and manual maintenance
units, and a repair-and-supply unit, and a bridge unit. Equipment would be
the property of PMKO, but PMKO would not carry out road works.
3.23      The entire program would be implemented by the Office des Routes
under the supervision of PMKO with the assistance of its internationally
recruited technical roads' officer (para. 4.11). The scope of work to be
carried out and the financing and administrative arrangements would be
specified in an agreement between PMKO and the Office des Routes and in annual
work plans which would be submitted to and approved by IDA. Inasmuch as La
Cotonniere is also involved in roads' works in the Project area, it would be
included in discussions of annual roads' work plans.
3.24      Drinking Water.  The Project would include support for the
rehabilitation of about 192 non-motorized village water systems in the Project
area, the capital cost of creating mobile units to service them, and the
rehabilitation and reorganization of a small number of motorized water systems
in farming communities.



- 20 -
3.25      To avoid a possible repetition of the present situation, where
village drinking-water systems are practically all out of commissLon, no
disbursement would be made for this component until the Government had sub-
mitted to IDA a detailed program including satisfactory organizatLon and
financing arrangements. This program would require IDA approval. It should
provide, inter alia, for fulfillment of the following conditions: (a) pro-
vision of a reasonable budget allocation for the Hydrological Service; (b)
preparation of plans for involving beneficiaries of rural water systems in
their repair and maintenance; (c) verification of Hydrological Service cost
estimates; (d) provision of an acceptable work and financial plan for the
Hydrological Service; and (e) provision of satisfactory information on
cost-effectiveness of investments in motorized water systems. The cost-
effectiveness of rehabilitating non-motorized systems is evident -- cost is
about US$2/beneficiary or less -- and would not require separate justifica-
tion.
3.26      Project Management Unit.  Some Project costs do not fall exclusively
into one of the above headings. They include the cost of establishing PMKO
headquarters in Mbuji Mayi and the supplemental cost of the central
management, including an internationally-recruited Chief of PMKO's
Administrative and Financial Service (see para. 4.05).
3.27      Technical Assistance.  Internationally recruited officers have been
provided to assist the Zairian management of the PMKO only for specific
technical tasks for which the requisite expertise is not available locally.
These are: a Chief of Lhe Administrative and Financial Service for seven
years; a Chief of the logistics Service for six years; a Technical Roads'
Officer for five years; an Extension Training Officer for four and one-half
years; and a Research Officer for four years. Average cost (excluding
contingencies) of these internationally-recruited officers is estimated at
US$7,700/man month or a total of US$2.45 million. The officers would work
with Zairian staff and provide them with on-the-job training. Internationally-
recruited staff would all occupy "in-line" positions. Each would not have a
specific counterpart, but one of the subordinates with whom he worked could
expect promotion to the position of the internationally-recruited staff member
when the latter left.
B. Project Costs
3.28      Total Project cost is estimated at US$38.5 million of which about
US$19.7 million would represent foreign exchange requirements. Total Project
cost is summarized below by components:



- 21 -
Foreign
Local   Forein   Total    Exchange
__--(US$'000) -(--
Fertilizer                          -     1,900   1,900         100
Seeds                               700      700   1,400         49
Input Distribution and Sales    2,800   2,200   5,000            45
Maize Marketing                     800   2,000   2,800          72
Extension                         1,800      700   2,500         29
Training                            600      500   1,100         48
Research                            400      300     700         43
Roads                             4,100   3,300   7,400          45
Water Supply                        200      600     800         76
Project Management Unit           1,600   1,500   3,100          47
Base Cost                   13,000  13,700  26,700          52
Physical Contingency              1,900   2,100   4,000          52
Price Contingency                 3,900   3,900   7,800          50
Total Contingencies             5,800   6,000  11,800          51
Total Cost                  182800                          51
3.29      Costs have been estimated in July 1980 prices.  The physical
contingency of 15% is considered to be adequate to compensate for the absence
of design and detailed cost estimates in some instances, and uncertainties
regarding logistics of supply to the Project area. In the case of civil
works, the houses, offices, fertilizer storehouses, and small bridges to
be constructed are of simple design and estimates are thought to be reason-
ably accurate. Considerable uncertainty exists regarding the unverified
estimates for village-water-system rehabilitation; however, the component is
small, and underestimates would be allowed to affect the size and
implementation rate of the component rather than its cost. Table 2 shows
Project-cost breakdown by year.
3.30      Because Zaire is experiencing rapid inflation, and because it is
exceptionally risky to predict both future rates of inflation and exchange-
rate adjustments that might accompany them, Project costs are shown in US
Dollars. Local costs, based on mission estimates in July 1980 Zaires, have
been converted at Z 1.00 = US$0.34. Price contingencies are based on esti-
mated rates of world inflation: for public works and internationally-recruited
technical assistance, 7-1/2%; and for equipment and all other expenses,
6-1/2%. In effect, this procedure assumes that any future Zairian inflatibn
in excess of world inflation will, on average over project life, be
compensated by devaluations.
3.31      Project cost estimates include only those recurrent costs which are
incremental during the development period. Vehicle operating costs are mainly
for the vehicles that will rehabilitate roads that have been abandoned or are



- 22 -
impassable. Annual incremental fertilizer (base cost - US$4.1 million in-
cluding transport and handling up to farm), will be used to improve cropping
practices, mainly at the head of the bush-fallow rotation. Salaries and
allowances (base cost - US$7.8 million including US$2.5 for technical assis-
tance), as well as lesser items for office expenses and storage expenses, are
strictly incremental and limited to building of Project institutions.
3.32      PMKO, as an agricultural production entity, currently is exempt
from duties on imported products, including agricultural materials and vehi-
cles, and would continue in this status. Other taxes are negligible.
C. 
3.33      Financing of Project costs would be shared as follows:
US$         %
million
IFAD                                 15           39
IDA                                  11           28
ADB                                 6.4           17
Government                          6.1 /1        16
Total Financing                  38.5 /1       100
/1   This table includes only the cost of annual increments of fertilizer
and its distribution and sale. In addition, Government would be required
to finance these costs for existing levels of fertilizer use (US$3.7
million over 7 years, two-thirds in foreign exchange) and for other
increments of fertilizer use ($10.4 million). From 1987 through 1995,
annual foreign exchange payments for fertilizer would average about $2.3
million for costs of internal transport and distribution about $2.8
million.
The proposed IDA credit, on standard IDA terms, would cover about 28% of the
total cost of the Project. An IFAD loan for 12.15 million Special Drawing
Rights (US$15 million) for fifty years at 1% interest with ten years grace
would finance 39% of Project costs. Items which the IDA credit and the IFAD
loan would finance on a joint basis are indicated below (see para. 3.39). An
ADB loan of 5 million Units of Account (ca. US$6.4 million) for twenty years
at 7% interest with six years grace would finance the following items on a
parallel basis with IDA and IFAD: foreign costs of the roads component
including the services of a roads' technician, and foreign costs of construc-
tion of buildings and offices. The effectiveness of agreements for Project
financing by each of the three cofinanciers is conditional on effectiveness of
the other two agreements.



- 23 -
3.34      Government would contribute the incremental cost of local salaries
(US$3.95 million excluding contingencies). Government would also be respon-
sible for maintaining levels of expenditure in the Project area for services
on which the Project's incremental activities are based (PMKO (except agricul-
tural mechanization service and roads' brigade); Office des Routes; INERA;
PNM; and Hydrological Service (see particularly paras. 2.27 and 6.19).
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government would provide
annual budget allocations adequate to maintain these services at least at
their pre-Project level. Government budget allocations would be specifically
reviewed as part of the annual work program discussions with IDA (paras
4.13-4.14). It would be a condition of credit effectiveness that Government
had provided PMKO with at least Z 2,000,000 to finance its 1980 operations.
Arrangements for budget allocations were discussed during negotiations (para
6.19). Moreover, Government would continue to finance the import of the
pre-Project level of fertilizer used on maize in the Project area (1,000 T per
year), and would finance all but the annual increment of additional fertilizer
used under the Project through year 6 (para. 3.37). In other words, each
year, Government would finance purchase of the amount of fertilizer PMKO sold
in the previous year. Government assurances to this effect were obtained at
negotiations. In this way, Government would grow accustomed to allocation of
foreign exchange to fertilizer purchase; the dislocation of having suddenly to
pay for import of large quantities of fertilizer when foreign financing
stopped would be reduced; and the danger would be minimized that farmers,
accustomed by the Project to fertilizer use, would be cut off from supply by
Government's failure to import fertilizer. Severe budgetary and balance of
payments deficits are expected to recur in Zaire for the coming years.
3.35      In addition to the Government contribution, it is estimated that
participating farmers would contribute an additional 19 million days of their
own labor over the 6-year Project period. This contribution, excluded from
Project costs because it is not a capital item, is worth US$13 million and
would equal 25% of Project costs if it were counted.
3.36      Except for sale of trucks to transporters, all Project financing,
including funds for portions of the Project to be implemented by Offices des
Routes and the Hydrological Service, would be channeled by Government to PMKO.
Government would on-lend to SOFIDE funds for truck sales to transporters. The
terms and conditions of SOFIDE's borrowing from Government and subsequent on-
lending to transporters would be determined by a sub-agreement between Govern-
ment and SOFIDE which would be acceptable to IDA. It is expected that the
agreement would reflect SOFIDE's usual terms and would include a spread suffi-
cient to cover SOFIDE's administrative costs and risks (see paras 3.13 and
4.10). PMKO is an extension organization and not primarily commercial (see
paras. 6.12-16). Its operations do not normally cover their costs, the
exception being certain Project years of heavy external financing which might
give PMKO an operating cash surplus. Therefore, Government representatives
indicated during negotiations that Government would continue to waive customs
dufties on PMKO imports.  Government financing of PMKO activities would be on a
grant basis. Dispositions of any surpluses which PMKO might generate during
tne Project period would be made only with agreement of IDA (para 6.14).



- 24 -
D. Procurement
3.37      The following items are expected to be procured under international
competitive bidding following Bank/IDA guidelines (all figures include
physical and price contingencies): annual increments of fertilizer -- US$2.7
million CIF Zaire port; and vehicles (except roads' component vehicles to be
financed by AfDB -- US$2.8 million) US$6.2 million; and civil works (storage)
-- US$1.2 million. It is anticipated that all fertilizer procurement, regard-
less of financing source, would be bulked to simplify procurement, and to
improve the chances of getting attractive bids, and of getting timely delivery
to farmers. To assure fertilizer availability in time for September planting,
it should be ordered at least by the previous December under present conditions.
Of each year's bulk order, external financiers would finance the increment
over the previous year's PMKO sales; Government would finance the amount sold
in the previous year (para. 3.34). Civil works for houses and offices --
US$2.7 million -- involve many small buildings, most of them in remote loca-
tions. They would be unlikely to attract foreign bids unless a foreign firm
were represented locally, and therefore would be let through local competitive
bidding with local advertising.  Purchase of pumps and of spare parts for
pumps -- US$0.3 million would be from suppliers of the earlier pumps for the
water systems to be rehabilitated, thus avoiding proliferation of models and
compounding problems of stocking spare parts. Improved maize seed--US$1.7
million--would either be purchased from the only suppliers, the Kaniama Kasese
project and INERA Gandajika Station, or produced by PMKO.
3.38      Road works would be carried out by the Office des Routes; these
would include operating cost of the agricultural roads' brigade (excluding
labor cost) -- US$2.6 million. Existing government procurement procedures
would be followed for a variety of items: all purchases valued at less than
US$50,000; and many different items of equipment including office equipment,
training and research equipment, and radiotelephones -- US$0.5 million.
Government procurement procedures were reviewed during appraisal and are
satisfactory. Five technical advisers -- US$3.5 million -- would be inter-
nationally recruited. Other Project costs involve local salaries, incentive,
travel and housing allowances, as well as wages for roads works being carried
out under force account -- US$7.7 million; vehicle operating costs -- US$1.6
million; operating costs of storage, offices and buildings -- US$0.9 million;
transport and distribution of fertilizer and seed from port or local sources
to farms -- US$3.5 million; transport of roads' component vehicles from port
to project site -- US$0.4 million; and other items -- US$0.2 million.
E. Disbursement
3.39      Funds from the Credit Account of IDA and IFAD's Loan Account would
be disbursed over six years on the following basis:



- 25 -
IDA            IFAD
(US$ Million) (US$ Miilior
(a) vehicles and equipment as follows:
(i)  100% of total expenditures on vehicles and spare
parts (except for road development and sale to
transporters); office, training and research
equipment; and equipment for Hydrological
Service                                                      1.0           1.5
(ii)  100% of local expenditures on vehicles
and spare parts for roads' development                       0.2           0.2
(iii)  100% of amounts disbursed by SOFIDE for vehicles
and spare parts for sale to transporters                     1.4           2.0
(b)  100% of total expenditures on purchase or production,
transport, and distribution of fertilizer and
improved maize seed                                               2.5           3.6
(c) civil works as follows:
(i) 60% of total expenditures on construction and
rehabilitation of storage, houses, and offices               0.8           1.2
(ii) 25% of road and bridge works (excluding vehicle
purchase and local wages and allowances)                     0.2           0.3
(d) technical assistance as follows:
(i)  50% of expenditures on roads' technician                     0.1           0.2
(ii) 100% of expenditures on other experts and on training
costs                                                        0.9           1.3
(e) 100% of local expenditures on incremental operating costs
for travel and housing allowance and performance
bonuses; vehicle, storage, and office operating
costs; and extension training, research, and drinking-
water support operations                                           1.7           2.4
(f)  100% of total expenditures on studies and audits                   0.1           0.1
(g) 100% of the amount withdrawn from the Project Preparation
Facility on the date of credit effectiveness                      0.6            -
(h) an unallocated amount representing a part of price con-
tingencies on the above categories and transferrable to
them as appropriate                                               1.5          2.2
Total                                                       11.0         15.0



- 26 -
Items under disbursement categories (a) through (f) would be financed jointly
by IDA and IFAD, with IDA disbursing 41% of each item and IFAD 59%. IFAD has
designated IDA as cooperating institution to administer its loan. Item (g),
which would be entirely financed by IDA, represents an advance of US$616,000
on the credit under the Project Preparation Facility which was approved in
April 1980 to finance the costs of auditing PMKO and its predecessors; tech-
nical assistance and vehicles to elaborate PMKO's new accounting system, set
up its extension training, and complete preparation of the drinking water
program; and provision on an initial fertilizer stock.
3.40      Disbursements against (a), (b), (c), (d), (f) and (g) would be fully
documented. Disbursements against (e) would be made against statements of
expenditure certified by PMKO's Director and the Chief of its Administrative
and Financial Service. The documentation for such certification would not be
submitted for review, but would be retained by the Borrower at PMKO headquar-
ters and at the Department of Agriculture in Kinshasa and would be available
for inspection by IDA in the course of normal supervision missions. Table 3
shows the estimated disbursement schedule.
F. Accounts
3.41      The accounting system of PMKO's predecessors, CAKO and Tshilenge
Project, was defective. In 1979, the Department of Agriculture made an effort
to fill existing gaps in the books and to introduce a capital account and
depreciation (formerly, accounts were cash only). Nevertheless, the present
system is rudimentary and unsuited to management needs in an organization of
the size PMKO is destined to become.
3.42      The internationally-recruited Chief of PMKO's Administrative and
Financial Service, with the assistance of the Accounts unit, would establish
an appropriate system of accounts, which would enable the Director to know
PMKO's situation and to plan its future.  The system would also need to
accommodate the information requirements of the agencies financing the Project.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government would
submit for IDA approval a plan of accounting for PMKO no later than 31
December 1980. Since PMKO's mechanized-farming and credit operations present
particular dangers of financial loss, accounts for these activities would be
separated from other activities, highlighting to the Director or to IDA any
adverse developments with negative implications for the Project. Provision
for such separation should specifically be covered in the accounting plan.
PMKO's Chief of the Administrative and Financial Service would also assist
other entities carrying out Project activities: the Office des Routes, the
Hydrological Service and SOFIDE, in accounting adequately for their activities,
and assuring that the activities carried out by them and financed through the
Project to conform to provisions of the sub-agreements between PMKO and OR, SH
and SOFIDE (para. 4.10). Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
the OR, SH and SOFIDE would keep separate accounts adequate tc, explain all
Project activities.
G. Audit
3.43      PMKO's predecessors, CAKO and Tshilenge Project, have never been
properly audited. Government is now having the 1978 and 1979 accounts of CAKO



- 27 -
and Tshilenge Project audited by an independent firm. Results are expected to
be presented in June 1980 and will then be submitted to IDA. It would be a
condition of credit effectiveness that the Government had submitted to IDA a
full report on the results of that audit, including a statement of CAKO's and
Tshilenge Project's assets and liabilities and a disclaimer of claims out-
standing against CAKO or Tshilenge Project that might affect the Project.
3.44      Assurances were obtained from Government during negotiations
that, during the project, all PMKO accounts would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA. Audited accounts would be furnished to IDA
within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
H. Environmental Impact
3.45        Rehabilitation of village drinking-water systems would improve
the health status of roughly 250,000 villagers or more than one-quarter of the
area's rural population, among whom water-born diseases and parasites are now
endemic. Moreover, the project would have a mildly positive effect on, and
would seek a long-term solution to, the region's major environmental problems:
shortening of bush fallow as a result of population pressure, and consequent
mining of soil fertility and erosion. Application of fertilizer to maize
improves residual soil fertility. The Project's research component would seek
a practical way for farmers to convert from bush fallow to a crotelaria ley
system, a system already experimentally proved at INERA Gandajika but impracti-
cal to implement due to generalized, dry-season, bush burning. Such a system
would improve soil fertility, reduce erosion, and relieve population pressure.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Organization and Staffing
4.01      PMKO (Kasai Oriental Maize Project Organization) would have
principal responsibility for Project implementation and administration. PMKO
is a part of the Department of Agriculture (paras. 1.06-07, 2.19) and the
State Secretary of Agriculture would supervise PMKO activities under the
Project (see Chart 1). PMKO would, however, have sufficient autonomy to
ensure efficient Project implementation. The training and research components
would be implemented by PMKO in a close collaboration with the research
agency, INERA (paras. 1.08, 2.20). The road component would be implemented by
the Office des Routes (OR) (para. 2.30) and the drinking water component by
the Service Hydraulique (SH) (para. 2.31). In all three cases, PMKO would
exercise financial and general technical control, and all funds for the
Project would be channelled through PMKO. The sale of trucks to transporters
would be implemented by SOFIDE (para. 6.10); in this case, PMKO would exercise
financial and general technical control.
4.02      PMKO was created in February 1980 by merging CAKO (Kasai Oriental
Agricultural Co mission) with the smaller Tshilenge Project and with the
extension service of the Department of Agriculture in the Project area.



- 28 -
CAKO, the principal component of PMKO, was a specialized, agricultural
organization which operated within the Project area from 1968 to 1980. It
was the most effective extension agency in the region and had built up a
competent staff and considerable operating experience, providing services
to one-sixth of the farmers in one-half of PMKO's area. Like PMKO, it had
no formal legal statutes, being a unit of the Department of Agriculture and
reporting directly to the State Secretary of Agriculture. CAKO shifted
emphasis from cotton to maize beginning in 1973 and, after external financing
stopped in 1976, progressively curtailed tractor plowing services and, indeed,
all services as a result of budget crises. By 1978 and 1979, CAKO was
moribund. Nevertheless, its staff and operating procedures provide a good
basis for future development.
PMKO
4.03      PMKO's organization will be patterned on that of CAKO, though
covering a larger area of 26,300 km2 (see map IBRD 13637R), larger population
of nearly one million, and with significantly increased administrative capaci-
ties.  That capacity will be necessary for carrying out PMKO's two predominant
tasks. Firstly, starting in 1981, it will absorb and greatly expand the FAO
Fertilizer Programme's operations in the Project area to procure, distribute,
and sell fertilizer and maize seed. Secondly, it will integrate the extension
services it has recently taken over to make them effective through better
management, training, and provision of transport. Agreement was reached
during negot ations on PMKO's role.  Moreover, it is assumed that PMKO and La
Cotonniere, a mixed-ei.terprise cotton-promotion company operating in the
Project area and elsevfhere (para. 2.21), would cooperate to avoid duplication
of effort. While the principle of cooperation was agreed during negotiations,
specific agreements remain to be reached between the two parties. These
agreements would be satisfactory to IDA, which would review them periodically
(para. 3.07).
4.04      PMKO would be managed by a Director, appointed by the State Secretary
of Agriculture. A Regional Coordination Committee would be established,
chaired by the Regional Commissioner and including the PMKO Director and his
four service chiefs, the Regional Director of Agriculture, the Sectoral
Director of INERA, the Divisional Chief of Rural Development, the Chief of the
Gandajika Hydrological Project, the Regional Directors of UNICEF and of OR,
and a representative of La Cotonniere. It would provide generaL policy
guidance, but management would be the full responsibility of the Director.
Government agreed during negotiations that qualifications of PMKO's Director;
of the Chiefs of the Administrative and Financial, Logistics, and Extension
Services and their deputies; and of internationally recruited Extension
Training, Research, and Technical Roads' Officers would be approved by IDA,
and that Government would consult with IDA prior to making any appointment to
these posts. Terms of reference for these posts were agreed at negotiations.
It would be a condition of credit effectiveness that a Director, Chief and
Deputy Chief of the Administrative and Financial Service, Chief and Deputy
Chief of the Logistics Service, and Chief of the Extension Service approved by
IDA had been appointed.



- 29 -
4.05      Proposed organization and operations of PMKO's principal adminis-
trative divisions are described below. The Administrative and Financial
Service would handle administration, personnel, accounts, budgets and planning,
as well as disbursements to and financial monitoring of the contracted parts
of the Project (para. 4.10).  These are:  impleL n_:icrL of the roads
component by OR, of the drinking water component by the Hydrological Service
(SH), and of the trucks-for-marketing component by SOFIDE. The service
would also monitor arrangements with the FAO National Fertilizer Programme for
fertilizer procurement and any collaboration with La Cotonniere for use of
village storehouses, and joint use of its transit system and joint use of
trucks. The service would be responsible for monitoring and evaluation of the
Project as a whole (para. 4.13). An internationally-recruited Chief of the
Service would work with and train PMKO's accounts' staff for six years in
the new procedures needed.
4.06      An Logistics Service would be responsible for procurement, transport
and handling, storage, distribution, and sale of agricultural inputs to
farmers. The input-credit operation (para. 3.10) would be the responsibility
of this service. An internationally-recruited Chief would assist the service
for six years, and would be replaced by a Zairian from his staff. The Chief
would have experience managing commercial or analogous distribution-and-sales
operations in rural areas of developing countries. The service is designed to
be financially viable, after an investment period, and to contribute to the
support of extension, training and research from its profits.
4.07      The Extension Service would have a Chief and two internationally-
recruited officers, one for extension training and one for research. The
Chief would work with these officers to improve the recently-merged extension
services, instituting a training-and-visit system (para. 3.14) adapted to
local conditions to make extension responsive to farmers' wants and to estab-
lish close ties to INERA researchers. The Extension Training Officer would
set up and run the training operation for extension staff, concentrating on
fortnightly sessions at sector-chiefs' headquarters. The Research Officer
would set up and run operations planned under the research program. In the
initial phase, extension would concentrate on the most attractive available
farming changes: use of improved maize seed and fertilizer which PMKO would
procure and sell.  PMKO's organization and system, however, are designed to
serve farmers needs in general and to diffuse other innovations as well.
4.08      The Infrastructure Service would handle any remaining mechanized
farming operations, operation of the PMKO garage, and of the Buildings'
Brigade. The Project, however, would not support mechanized farming (see
para. 2.25). Charges for mechanized farming services should be sufficient to
cover PMK0's costs from these operations, including reasonable depreciation.
Account for mechanized operations would be kept separately from other PMKO
operations. Assurances to these effects were obtained during negotiations.
4.09      PMKO headquarters would be moved to Mbuji Mayi upon completion of
the new Project office, senior staff housing, and guest house. Before con-
struction of these buildings is initiated, the Government would select sites,
complete designs and provide detailed cost estimates satisfactory to IDA.



- 30 -
Former CAKO headquarters in Gandajika would continue to house the Training and
Research Units, in order to facilitate close coordination with INERA, and the
Infrastructure Service. There is adequate housing for the senior staff in
Gandajika at former CAKO headquarters and at INERA.
Contracted Project Components
4.10      PMKO's road improvement and maintenance program would be carried out
by the Office des Routes, drinking water facilities would be reconstructed and
maintained by the Hydrological Service (SH), and trucks would be sold to
transporters by SOFIDE. PMKO would have general responsibility for overseeing
implementation all of these components. The scope of work to be undertaken
and financing and administrative arrangements would be specified in agreements
between PMKO and OR, SH and SOFIDE respectively.  The agreement regarding sale
of trucks would define the responsibilities of PMKO and SOFIDE (see para.
3.13) and would specify lending terms and conditions both between Government
and SOFIDE and between SOFIDE and transporters in such a way as to cover
SOFIDE's administrative costs and risks (see para. 3.36). Signature of appro-
priate agreements approved by IDA would be a condition of disbursement of
funds for each of the components concerned. In addition to these agreements,
PMKO would make arrangements with La Cotonniere for joint use of village
storehouses and possibly for periodic use by La Cotonniere of PMKO trucks
and PMKO use of La Cotonniere's transit system for getting goods from Matadi
to the Project area.  PMKO's research activities would be carried out by PMKO
personnel in close collaboration with INERA and using INERA fields and build-
ings. Government representatives stated during negotiations that PMKO
personnel would be able to make such use of INERA fields and buildings.
4.11      An internationally-recruited technical officer would be employed
by PMKO to direct and monitor OR's implementation of the roads' component. He
would have experience in upgrading of earth feeder roads in the tropics and in
management.  Government agreed at negotiations to transfer PMKO's existing
road bridgade to the Office des Routes.
Technical Assistance
4.12      In all, assistance by internationally-recruited technicians would
total 26 1/2 person years over seven years. The five officers required, whose
qualifications and scope of work are described in paras. 4.05-07, 4.11, would
be specifically responsible for training their Zairian staff; their replace-
ments would be promoted from these officers when the technicians depart.
Annual Work Programs and Mid-Term Implementation Review
4.13      Specific Project implementation programs would be based on a
detailed annual work plan.  This plan would be prepared by PMKO's Director
and his staff each year; it should be finalized during September, i.e. three
months prior to the commencement of each fiscal year. Targets and provisions
within each work plan would be projected on a quarterly basis. The plan would
specifically review pricing of PMKO services (para. 3.08), staffing arrange-
ments (para. 3.14), arrangements with La Cotonniere (para. 3.07) and annual
budget allocations for PMKO as well as fertilizer procurement (para. 3.37) and
seed supply (para. 3.05).  If appropriate, PMKO's legal status and staffing
would be reviewed during the preparation of the annual work plans. The plans



- 31 -
Committee and the Ministry of Finance, in conjunction with an IDA supervision
mission which should normally be timed to coincide with the review. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the work program for each year would be
submitted to IDA before September of each year, commencing, in 1980 for review
and approval.
4.14      Because the Project would effectively be implemented in two phases
(para. 3.01), a detailed mid-term implementation review would be carried out
two years following Credit effectiveness. This review would assess in particu-
lar institutional arrangements for Project implementation, administrative and
logistic arrangements for supply of goods and services, and financing matters.
The review would also reassess the validity of investment programs for the
succeeding phase of the Project. PMKO would prepare a full report on progress
to date and a revised Project implementation plan for the Project's second
phase in advance of this review to serve as a basis for analysis by concerned
Government departments, IDA, and other co-financing agencies. Assurances to
this effect were obtained during negotiations. Government, IDA, and other
co-financing agencies would agree on the proposed implementation plan before
implementation of the Project's second phase.
B. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.15      As mentioned above (para. 4.05), PMKO's Administrative and Financial
Service would be responsible for monitoring Project disbursements and other
aspects of implementation required by management. Moreorer, the Service would
assess the effectiveness of the Project in producing more maize and other
crops. In so doing, it would use as a baseline a stratified sample of maize-
growing on 191 farms in the Project area 1/. Needed information on cropped
areas, crops, yields, seed and fertilizer use, farm and other prices, and
labor use would be obtained by the Institute of Economic and Social Research
(IRES) (Kinshasa) as part of its independent monitoring of Project activities
and of their impact financed separately under technical assistance from IFAD.
The Administrative and Financial Service would report on these physical para-
meters of farming annually. Specific reporting requirements were discussed at
negotiations.
4.16      The in-depth review, two years after credit effectiveness, would
constitute a part of Project monitoring. The PMKO Administrative and Financial
Service would collaborate with IDA and other government reviewers as
appropriate in carrying out this review, which would provide feed-back to
Project management and financiers and permit mid-course adjustments.
4.17      Government has provided assurances that, no later than six months
after the credit closing date, it would present a completion report on the
1/   Mwamufiya Mbuki.  "Maize production and marketing in four districts of
Zaire: an introductory economic analysis." Corvallis (Oregon), USA,
1976.



- 32 -
execution of the Project. This report, based on earlier work of the Admin-
istrative and Financial Service, would review the Project's accomplishments,
its benefits and costs, and would summarize lessons learned and implications
for future rural-development strategy.
4.18      The proposed Project implementation schedule (Table 6) was discussed
during negotiations.
V. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
A. Production Patterns and Yields
5.01      To describe agricultural production in the Project area, the roughly
140,000 farms can be represented by 5 pattern farms, based on their associa-
tion, or lack of association with existing agricultural Projects and with
income from the non-agricultural sector. Soil types are another factor that
would differentiate farms, but there is insufficient information to do so.
Since land is still a free good, hence not a constraint, farms are further
differentiated by family size and by distance from markets. Further, some
farms grow cotton but most do not. The pattern farms assume a family of
average size -- six - living an average distance from market, growing an
average amount of cotton, and farming average soils. Within these constraints,
farming practices anl results are reasonably uniform within the five pattern-
farm (PF) groups:
Pattern Farm 1  (90,000 farms; not associated with the
agricultural projects and with no major
source of off-farm income);
Pattern Farm 2  (26,000 farms; associated with CAKO but
without tractor clearing and plowing);
Pattern Farm 3  (2,000 farms; associated with CAKO and with
tractor clearing and plowing);
Pattern Farm 4  (9,000 farms; associated with FAO Fertilizer Program);
Pattern Farm 5  (15,000 farms; not associated with agricultural
project and with substantial off-farm income).
PF 1 accounts for nearly 2/3 of farms. PF 3 is disappearing as farmers aban-
don tractor plowing. PF 5 includes those principally around Mbuyi Mayi, who,
while classified as farmers, also earn money on the periphery of administra-
tion, commerce, and diamond mining.



- 33 -
5.02      Innovations expected to be recommended to farmers under the Project
are three: improved maize seed, fertilizer, and increased plant density. All
three have been extensively tested and proved satisfactory on farm conditions
in the Project area. Of three current best seed varieties, GPS-5 was developed
locally, and Salongo II & Kasai I adapted locally from Central American
varieties. Yield potential of GPS-5 is 5-7 T/ha and of the other two 6-10
tons. On farmers' fields, they yield 3-6 T/ha with good husbandry and moder-
ate (90 kg N & 40 kg P 20 5/ha) fertilizer doses. Maize diseases are a major
problem in the Project area. All three varieties are more resistant to the
most serious diseases -- downy mildew and streak virus -- than local vari-
eties. The PNM varieties are less resistant if planted late. In the last
year, PNM has achieved major success in selecting disease-resistant strains.
GPS-5 lodges readily, but mainly at agronomically optimal fertilizer doses
which it is unlikely to get on farmers' fields. Maize fertilizer doses have
been tested by FAO in over a thousand field trials in the Project area and in
Kabinda District over five years. Under a wide variety of soil conditions
(including poor ones) and rainfall distribution, nitrogen and phosphate
applications were invariably profitable on local and improved maize varieties
from low doses to doses well in excess of the 90-40-0 which the Project will
recommend. At doses of 60-40-0 and 30-40-6, increases in maize yield ranged
from 1.0 to 1.4 T/ha. The Project extension service would also recommend
increased plant density, which, PNM has demonstrated, increases yield and
undoubtedly reduces labor input per ton. However, nearly half of maize land
is actually intercropped; farmers often have reasons for lower densities.
No output effect is projected from this recommendation.  Similarly, other
improved practices: earlier sowing, better weeding, crotelaria ley rotation,
better storage and shelling, cannot be considered proven. The research
component will work on them in hopes of improving the diffusable package, but
no output effect is projected.
5.03      The appraisal mission has estimated the rate at which farms in each
model would "join" the Project, that is, would buy improved maize seed and
fertilizer from the Project for cash or on credit. Pattern 4 farms are
expected to join en bloc in the second year since they already buy fertilizer
on credit through the FAO Program. It is expected that farms of Pattern 3
will be assimilated to Pattern 2 as the tractor service gradually disappears.
A total of 12,000 farms from the two CAKO-associated models will have joined
by the second year and the remaining 26,000 will do so gradually over the next
four years.  Farms of Pattern 1 will be more difficult to reach.  They are
expected to join gradually with 20% (17,000) participating by the end of year
six and 75% (68,000) by the end of the fifteenth year.  The Pattern 5 farms
are expected not to participate at all.
5.04      The appraisal mission has estimated the present state of agriculture
in the Project area:  land use, labor tools, fertilizers, seeds, yields and
farm prices, hence production and its value. The mission also estimated the
changes that will occur in the first year after a farmer purchases improved
maize seed and fertilizer, and by the fifth year, when land use and cultural
practices will have adapted to the new inputs. It is assumed that nothing
will change except the interventions under the Project (except that the cotton
price is assumed to be doubled in about 1982 and the new Zaire cotton variety
diffused widely at about the same time).



- 34 -
5.05      The major agricultural features of the models are summarized as
follows:
Pattern Farm                        1         2           3          4         5
Number (000)                       90       26-28        2-0          9       15
Without Project:
area cropped/year (ha.)           0.9        1.65        1.95       0.9       0.6
labor used (days)               350        700         825        425       250
fertilizer used (bags)            0          0.4         0.4        1         0
maize produced (kg.)            460        840        1030        880       380
maize yield (kg/ha)            450-600   450-1000   500-900    600-1600 450-600
Five Years After Accepting Seed-Fertilizer Package:
number accepting package (000)  17          27           0          9         0
area cropped/year (ha)            1.185      1.65       (1.95)      1.05      0.6
labor used (days)               575        850       (1000)       600       250
fertilizer used (bags)            2          3          (3)         3         0
maize produced (kg)           1360       1870        (2030)      1810       380
maize yield (kg/ha)           1150-1650 1325-1700 (1150-1600) 1600-2300 450-600
Results are based on the assumption that extension workers will have no suc-
cess in persuading farmers to change practices, except to use improved seed
at somewhat less than the recommended rate and fertilizer at 60% of the recom-
mended rate by the fifth year after adoption. Part-time farmers are more in-
terested in other pursuits and none adopt. Adopters double their output if
they have previously used some fertilizer on maize but had no improved seeds,
and triple it if they previously used no fertilizer. By the Project's sixth
year, 54% of increased production stems from higher yields and 46% from ex-
panded area. Land use expands slightly in response to higher returns to
labor, and maize partially displaces cotton. Labor use expands, chiefly to
harvest and process the additional maize and other crops produced. Manioc,
bean, and groundnut production increase as a result of the residual effects
of fertilizer and expanded area cultivated, but cotton production declines
as farmers switch to more attractive crops.
5.06      Fertilizer is a significant new expense for farmers, while the
cost of improved maize seed is not much greater than the expense of foregoing
consumption or sale of regular seed. Therefore, sales of improved maize seed
are expected to expand more rapidly than those of fertilizer. The seed pack-
age costs the farmer US$45/ha; fertilizer would cost $36/ha at the dose the
Project will recommend, but $53/ha at doses the farmers will initially use.
Improved seed alone should still pay farmers a good return, but impact on
yield should be modest -- 70-100 kg/ha -- until farmers also buy fertilizers
and reap the benefits of the powerful seed fertilizer combination.



- 35 -
B. Labor, Equipment and Storage
5.07       Increased yields to land are not important in themselves, since
land is not a constraint and not a cost. They reflect, however, increasing
returns to labor growing maize where fertilizer is being introduced (PF-I, for
instance, where the increase is 22%). Analysis of returns to labor use on
different crops shows that growing maize and beans on the organically-fertil-
ized house plot is the families' most remunerative occupation and that the
secondary crops of beans and groundnuts (which benefit from improvements in
maize) are also attractive. Maize growing, with or without the Project, is
considerably more attractive than manioc, which uses up the soil's remaining
fertility at the end of the bush-fallow cycle, or cotton.
5.08      Increased returns to family labor and enterprises have to be paid
for by working more -- an additional 125 to 225 days per year per family.
Returns to farming labor without the Project range from US$1.05 to $1.40/day.
These returns compare favorably with the present wage for unskilled labor
in the area (about $0.70, except in the environs of Mbuji Mayi where it may
exceed $2.30 and where farming is marginal). Returns to cotton growing are
the lowest for any farming activity and equal to that for unskilled labor.
Returns from farmers' additional work under the Project is in all cases higher
than the unskilled wage (except around Mbuji Mayi) and higher than farming
returns to labor without the project.
5.09      A closer look at labor figures shows that the bulk of farm labor is
for harvest and post-harvest processing. The new input package reduces labor
per ton of maize in preharvest operations, but not for harvesting or shelling
or preparing manioc. Increases in output promise to make these operations
a real bottleneck. Annual family labor requirements under the Project, should
reduce rural underemployment and should not exceed family work possibilities.
However, the Project may push family work possibilities close to the socio-
logical limits, particularly for farms in the old CAKO patterns.  Seasonal
bottlenecks are likely to start developing as the Project advances, particu-
larly in harvesting and processing activities, which tend to be the province
of women. Since all families are performing the same tasks at the same time,
labor-hiring possibilities are few. Therefore, the Project's research, train-
ing and extension component will seek development of local manufacture and
promote labor-saving devices to attack the post-harvest labor bottleneck.
Particularly promising are maize cribs, which would permit maize to be stored
in cob longer with less loss, allowing shelling to take place during less busy
times in the annual work calendar. Other possibilities are hand maize shellers
and manioc shredders. Because of the experimental nature of these devices,
hoped-for benefits are not quantified among Project benefits.



- 36 -
VI. MARKETS, PRICES, FINANCIAL AND FISCAL ANALYSIS
A. Markets and Prices
6.01      The market for the Project's incremental maize production is assured
because Zaire imports a substantial amount of maize, principally from southern
Africa, and is likely to continue to do so for some time. It imported 175,000
tons in 1978. A 1975 Tennessee Valley Authority study estimates 1980 imports
at 165,000-280,000 tons and 1985's at 270,000-400,000 tons, depending on the
growth of the economy and assuming no major new interventions to stimulate
production.
GDP Growth/head/year             1980                  1985
---------------tons-------------------
Demand    Imports    Demand    Imports
0%            627,000    165,000   786,000    270,000
1.5%          684,000    222,000   851,000    335,000
3%            742,000    280,000   917,000    401,000
6.02      Provincial authorities estimate that, in 1976, Kasai Oriental alone
had a maize deficit of 75,000 tons, much of it for Mbuji Mayi itself and over
7,000 tons for MIBA miners alone.  Therefore, it is safe to assume that incre-
mental maize production from the Project will replace imports. Unless incre-
mental production substantially exceeded projections, it would be marketed in
the province and probably in the Project area; if it did exceed projections,
it could be shipped to Shaba by rail from the Project area.
6.03      Farm prices for maize vary widely depending, principally, on sea-
son and on proximity to market. In May 1977, the FAO preparation mission
found farm prices of US$175-230/ton for shelled maize but they had been
US$460-580/ton during the previous October-December, the pre-harvest period.
In December 1977, after six months of rapid inflation, the IDA appraisal
mission found prices of $580/ton or above and expectations that farm prices
for the December harvest would be in the range of $350-400/ton or higher.
Supposing that the average farm price at times when farmers actually sell
(mostly January) is only $350/ton and that transport, village and rural
assembly costs $270/ton, the equivalent Mbuji Mayi market price would be
$620/ton.
6.04      At these prices, local maize cannot compete in price with Zimbabwean
maize bought with foreign exchange purchased at the official exchange rate
and imported by rail. In May 1977, such maize could be delivered to Mbuji
Mayi at $245/ton. Zimbabwean white maize sells at a premium of about 40%
over US# 2 yellow maize FOB US Gulf port because of its locational and taste
advantages. In March 1978, with the border price of Zimbabwean maize in
Zimbabwe having risen to $245, the price delivered to Mbuji Mayi would still
be about $320/ton, significantly below the equivalent price of local maize.



- 37 -
6.05      Local maize does sell, however, because the foreign exchange to buy
Zimbabwean maize is not readily available, even after recent devaluations; con-
sequently, the quantities of imported maize that arrive in Kasai Oriental are
insufficient to meet demand. This situation is likely to continue until the
mid-1980s. If future devaluations do bring supply and demand for Zaires
closer to bala.,ce, local production costs will fall relative to foreign costs,
assuring that local maize production would be quite competitive with imports.
6.06      Maize demand is growing rapidly in Kasai Oriental.  Moreover, pro-
jected production increases from the Project would not equal even the Region's
present maize deficit until the program's 12th year. Therefore, for purposes
of farm budgeting and financial analysis, it is assumed that an average farm
price of US$350/ton will be maintained in real terms. During negotiations,
Government agreed not to fix the producers' maize price in the project area
(except to declare a statutory minimum) in order to assure that price incen-
tives to producers would be maintained. What Zaire saves by importing less
Zimbabwean maize will vary with international maize prices. Since the real
international price of maize is expected to rise over the project period while
foreign exchange is expected to continue to be in extremely short supply, the
economic benefits of producing maize locally rise substantially over time.
6.07      The Project is also expected to generate some additional production
of manioc, beans, and groundnuts. These increases are expected to be consumed
at home for the most part, the marketed portion not affecting markets for
these products.
B. Farm Incomes
6.08      Total farm incomes, both before the Project and five years after a
farmer first buys the seed-fertilizer package, are summarized here:
Pattern Farm                                  1       2        3        4       5
Before Project:                               ---------------(US$)--------------
Gross Income                                475     825      975     600      350
Costs Excluding Labor                        25      50      125      25        0
Return to Labor & Enterprise                450     775      850     575      350
Value of Family Labor                       275     500      575     275      175
Return to Enterprise                        175     275      275     300      175
Five Years After Accepting Seed-Fertilizer Package:
Gross Income                                875    1250   (1475)   1000       350
Costs Excluding Labor                       125     175    (225)    150         0
Return to Labor & Enterprise                750    1075   (1250)    850       350
Value of Family Labor                       400     600    (700)    425       175
Return to Enterprise                        350     475    (550)    425       175



- 38 -
6.09      The figures above and those in Table 1 are designed to show the
farmers' expected situation before and with the Project. To a small extent,
the differences stem from anticipated changes in the price of cotton and of
tractor plowing which would occur without the Project. The figures are,
therefore, adjusted to put them on a with-without basis before aggregating
the on-farm economic benefits and costs in the economic table (p. 45). Even
though farmers realize the benefits from having spent on inputs after four or
five months, benefits have been lagged to the agricultural year after they
would occur. This lagging highlights the working capital farmers' would need
to have to initially adopt the seed-fertilizer package if they received no
credit.   This effect is shown in Table 1.
6.10      Additional working capital needed to adopt the package without
credit varies from US$49 to 60 in the first year only. Credit offered covers
this amount plus the value of incremental family labor required. Returns to
farmers who invest their own resources at the outset are in excess of 50% in
all cases, even with the lagging method that understates actual returns. The
benefit/cost ratio varies between 4 and 8 counting cash costs only, and is
about 2 if the cost of family labor is included.
6.11      As extension coverage expands, it is anticipated that some farmers
will be impressed by the seed-fertilizer package, yet unwilling or unable
to risk buying fertilizer. Thus, it is projected that some farmers will buy
seed only. This number rises to ten thousand in year 6 and declines there-
after. The impact of buying improved maize seed, but otherwise keeping to
traditional practices, would be to increase farmers' income by less than US$5
in return for a modest outlay. Nevertheless, the non-fertilizer option is
not expected to prove very attractive to farmers. Yield increases of 60-100
kg/ha are not striking enough to be distinguished from normal seasonal
fluctuations; continued use of improved seed without addition of soil nitrogen
and phosphates would gradually deprive the improved varieties of their yield
advantage over ordinary maize seed. These farmers are expected to convert to
using seed and fertilizer as soon as they are able to do so.
C. PMKO Financial Projections
6.12      With the Project, PMKO's chief business would become procuring,
distributing, and selling fertilizer and seed for maize. The table on page
39 shows PMKO's projected cash flow.  Revenues from sale of maize seed and
fertilizer, on a cash basis, would, assuming reasonable management and adjust-
ments for inflation, more than cover the expenses of buying, transporting, and
selling them.  In the process of delivering seed and fertilizer to villages,
PMKO trucks would be able to bring back cotton, an additional source of
revenue. It is expected that the PMKO garage would provide repair services to
parties outside PMKO against payments.
6.13      Less than half of input sales would be on credit in any year, and
sales would be entirely for cash by the ninth program year. Credit operations
and terms are discussed in para 3.10 above. Assuming 10% bad debts, PMKO's
financial flow from maize credit would start to be positive after the second year



ZAIRE
SMALLHOLDER MAIZE PROJECT/PROJET MAIS DU KASAI ORIENTAL
?.M.K.O./ Proiet Mads Kasai Oriental 0rganisation"
Projected Cash Flow/Marge Brut Auto Financement Prevue
(os$ 000)
YEAR                                     19792/       1980        1981        1982       1983        1984        1985        1986        1987-9S           ANNEE
PROJECT YEAR                                            0           1           2           3          4           5           6           7-15            ANNEE DU PROJET
RECEIPTS                                                                                                                                                   RECETTES
PIMO  Pre-Project Operations 3-          375          375         375         375        375         375         375         375           375            Operations actuelles de Ia PMXO-/
EXTERNAL FINANCINGS                                                                                                                                        FINANCEMENT EXTERNE
IDA/IFAD/AFDB                             -           616       3,379      2,712       2,769       2,232       2,235        832             -             IDA/FIDA/B.A.D.
CASH SALES                                                                                                                                                 VENTES AU COMPTANT
Maize Seeds                                                        - -  -      41         91         106         176       1,171           300            Semences mais
Fertilizer                                -            -          495         763      1,306       1,875       2,585      3,387          3,487            Engraia
RECOVERY FOM CREDIT SALES                                                                                                                                  PAIEMENTS SUR VENTES  A CREDIT
Maize Seeds .                                          -         - -          242        150         155         170          55            35            Semencea eais
Fertilizer                                -            -           -          575        560         480         320         190            93            Engrais
FROM COTTON ORGANISATION FOR                                                                                                                               DE L'ORGANISATION COTONIERE
TRANSPORT AND HANDLING                    -            -           -          530        530         510         480         440           190            POUR TRANSPORT
GARAGE SERVICES TO OTHER PARTIES           -            -           20          20         20          20          20          20            20            SERVICE DE GARAGE
TOTAL                375          991       4,269       5,258      5,801       5,753       6,361      6,470         4 697             TOTAL
DISBURSEMENTS                                                                                                                                              DEBOURSEMENTS
PMKO Pre-Project Operations              825          825         825         825        825         825         825         825           825            Operations actuelles de la PMKO
Fertilizer Purchases (CIF Matadi)         -           242         484         702        871       1,089       1,331       1,621         1,621            Achat d'engrais
Maize Seed Purchases                      -            -          572         234        247         325       1,170         553           260            Seences mais
Input Distribution Credit                 -           290         836       1,836      1,552       2,042       1,785      2,131         1,983             Couts de distribution
Extension Services                        -            -          392         508        462         360         437         344           150            Vulgarisation
Training                                  -            62         304         180        192         254          80          80           110            FormatIon
Research                                  -            -          128         126        126         138          76          76            76            Recherche
Project Management Unit                   -           195         715         673        602         327         295         295           160            Unite de gestion
TOTAL               825        1,614      4,256        5,084      4,877       5,360      5,999       5,925          5,185           TOTAL
SURPLUS/(DEFICIT) for the Year           (450)        (623)         13         174        924         393         362         545           (488)          EXCEDENT /(DEFICIT) poor l'snnee
CUMULATIVE SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)               -            -         (610)       (436)       488         881       1,243       1,788          1,300           EXCEDENT/(DEFICIT) cuoulex
1/ Excluding tractor nperetinns, drinking water and roads / Operations de tract-ur, adductio  d'eau et routes non cooprisee
2/ P.M.K.O. did not exist in 1979 / P.M.K.O. n'existalt pas en 1979
3/ Includes government subsidy for operations covered I Y compris subvention gouvernementale au. operationa couvertes Par ce tahleau
in this table,
May 1, 1980                                                                                                                             I Mai, 1099



- 40 -
and would contribute to PMKO overhead. Nevertheless, in view of the financial
menace to PMKO from credit arrears or defaults, maize credit operations
should be accounted for separately from PMKO's regular budget. Therefore, no
funds should be transferred from the PMKO general budget to the PMKO maize
credit budget after project year 2. Government assurances to this effect were
obtained at negotiations.
6.14      During the years of Project financing, mission projections indicate
that PMKO should have a positive cash flow. These projections assume that
PMKO would be able to pass on to its customers or financiers the effect of
inflation. Government agreement was obtained during negotiations that
disposition of any such surplus as might materialize would be subject to
agreement of IDA (para 3.36).
6.15      At full development, the revenue-generating activities of PMKO
would nearly cover the cost of activities from which there is no cost recov-
ery: extension, training, and administrative overhead. Thus, PMKO would
continue to run a deficit and to require Government budget allocations.
However, these allocations would be less than they have been in the recent
past and would be supporting an organization with greatly expanded economic
functions.
6.16      In addition to the activities reflected in this projected budget,
PMKO would probably have others, reflecting its activities of the recent past,
such as production and sale of groundnut seeds, possible additional activities
in support of the cotton organization in the Project area, and tractor plow-
ing and clearing operations. Since the nature and scope of these activities
cannot be predicted, they are omitted here. However, in the event that trac-
tor-plowing operations continue to be offered to farmers, because losses on
these operations could constitute a heavy drain on PMRD's budget, they should,
like credit operations, be kept separate from the rest of PMKO for accounting
purposes (para 4.08). PMKO dealings with the cotton organization should not
involve subsidies. Government assurances on this point were obtained
at negotiations.
D. Cost Recovery and Fiscal Analysis
6.17      The Project is designed to minimize the fiscal burden on the Zaire
Government by charging full cost for seed, fertilizer and trucks in such a
way that revenues from these operations contribute to the cost of extension,
training and administration. After the six-year Project period, the only
new activity which would not recover its cost would be road maintenance.
PMKO's projected deficit would be about US$500,000, less than before the
Project.
6.18      Government expenditures in the Project area for Project-related
activities for FY 1977 are estimated as follows (in US$'000):



- 41 -
CAKO                               166
Agricultural Service               177
Tshilenge Project                  232
INERA                              148
Hydrological Service                10
733
These figures exclude normal expenditures by OR on its established program of
maintenance of primary and secondary roads in the Project area. This program
is on-going and is financed, in part, by IDA credits. As for other concerned
agencies, the Agricultural Service, INERA and SH have been able to carry out
only minimal operations.   Under the Project, PMKO would absorb CAKO and
Tshilenge Project completely. Most of the existing Agricultural Service in
the Project area (excluding statistics, livestock, forestry and fisheries)
would be merged with PMKO. INERA would continue its present programs outside
the scope of the Project, and it is assumed that INERA Gandajika would con-
tinue to receive modest budgetary allocations; these would not, however, be
essential to Project success. The SH would require increased budgetary
allocations in the future.
6.19      It is an important condition of IDA support of the Project that the
Government agree to support existing services in the Project area at least at
their pre-Project level, and to provide adequate annual budget allocations to
the respective agencies involved in a timely manner (para. 3.34). Assurances
to this effect were obtained during negotiations. For 1980, before the
Project began, it is estimated that PMKO would require US$825,000 equivalent
to continue its Project-related activities (that is, excluding mechanized
agriculture and road maintenance). Of this amount, about US$375,000 should be
covered by PMKO revenues. Therefore, a Government budget allocation of about
US$450,000 would be required. The Government would no longer need to provide
budgetary allocations for the Tshilenge Project, and allocations for the
Agriculture Service could be greatly reduced; this would represent annual
savings for the Government of about US$100,000 and US$150,000 respectively.
Continuing normal budget allocations for the OR would be required and assur-
ances to this effect were be obtained during negotiations. Budget allocations
larger than those of the recent past would be required for the SH; the amount
of these allocations would have to be determined and agreed with IDA prior to
implementation of this Project component (see para. 3.25), but they are
estimated at US$60,000 a year (US$50,000 more than present allocations).
Future Government budget allocations to PMKO, OR and SH would be agreed upon
annually between the Government and IDA as part of the work plan review (para.
4.14).
6.20      The Project's fiscal impact, in addition to amounts required to
maintain pre-Project levels of services, is summarized below (constant 1979
dollars).



- 42 -
___________-_------(US$ 00)--
Project Year                      1        2        3         4         5     6    7-15
Before external financing:
PMKO supplemental cash flow  -2,900  -2,100   -1,400   -1,400  -1,400 +  200  +100
Road component                 -1,500  -1,100   -1,200   -1,200  -1,100 -1,500  -900
Drinking water component       -  300  -  100   -  100   -  250  -   50 -  100         0
Supplemental research          -  150  -  150   -  150   -  150  -  100 -  100         0
Expenditures avoided on
Agricultural Service and
Tshilenge Project           +  250  +  250   +  250   +  250  +  250 +  250  +250
Supplemental expenditures
on Hydrological Service    -   50  -   50   -   50   -   50  -   50 -   50  - 50
Total                          -4,650  -3,250   -2,650   -2,800  -2,450 -1,300  -600
After external financing:
External financing @ 84% of
Project costs /1              4,600   3,700    3,600    3,700   3,500  2,700        0
Total                          -   50  +  450   +  950   +  900  +1,050 +1,400  -600
/1   Without price contingencies because in constant Dollars.
After an initial period of investment and institution-building, which would be
financed under the Project, all operations of PMKO and INERA related to seeds
and fertilizer would be self-financing. Their profits would contribute part
of the cost of extension and could contribute more than projected here with
good management. Prices would have to be revised annually to keep up with
cost increases. Operation and maintenance of Project-rehabilitated water
systems would be designed to be self-financing.
6.21      In addition to the fiscal effects mentioned here, the Project would
increase the government's revenues through duties on fuel, trucks, and spare
parts; reducing maize imports would reduce revenue from import duties. These
effects would be roughly offsetting.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Project Benefits
7.01      By providing a package of improved maize seed and fertilizer to
53,000 farmers by Project-year 6 and 104,000 by Project-year 1.5, the Project



- 43 -
would increase maize production by 50% -- 38,000 tons -- by year 6 and by
110% -- 91,000 tons -- by year 15. An additional 10,000 farmers by year 6
would be buying improved maize seed only. This new production would give
participating farmers more income and would enable them to increase their
consumption of other goods. It would save the country valuable foreign
exchange by replacing maize imports with local production.
7.02      Farmers who adopted the seed-fertilizer package would gradually
alter their traditional cropping pattern. In addition to increasing maize
production they would increase production of manioc, beans, and groundnuts
while decreasing production of cotton, assuming that present terms under which
they produce cotton are not radically altered. In year 6, these changes would
aggregate to 19,000 tons more manioc, 1,500 tons more beans and groundnuts,
and 1,600 tons less cotton; in year 15, they would come to 62,000 tons more
manioc, 3,500 more tons of beans and groundnuts, and 3,000 tons less cotton.
Inputs for these secondary crops would vary accordingly.
7.03      In addition to the income benefits to farmers and to the import-sub-
stitution benefits to the country from more production, the Project-generated
farming changes would lead to much fuller employment on area farms, particu-
larly on the majority not formerly associated with any project. By year 6,
farmers would be working an additional seven million days per year and by
year 15 almost nineteen million. These are equivalent to 23 and 30 days per
person in participating families respectively.
7.04      By the second decade of the Project, the "benefits" of additional
employment could turn instead into a social cost of labor particularly for
farm women, who shell the maize and soak, peel, and prepare the manioc.
The Project's research component is aimed at testing and promoting diffusion
of simple machines to break this bottleneck. In addition, it will test and
promote construction of family maize cribs and food storehouses to decrease
storage losses and to ease the expected marketing bottleneck. It will conduct
trials of improved rotations and cropping patterns designed to increase labor
productivity and to find partial substitutes for imported fertilizers. No
estimate is made of the benefits of these Project activities, although
they are expected to be considerable.
7.05      The production increases will depend upon a number of other Project
components, including the reinforcement of the private commercial system by
sale of additional trucks, and the reorganizing and retraining of the exten-
sion service. These components would in turn have beneficial effects through-
out the farming communities. PMK0 input distribution and credit officers
would deal with crops other than maize; extensionists would advise on a range
of farmers' problems and would refer them to INERA for solutions; truckers
would carry passengers and beer as well as maize. Such benetits have been
counted only to the extent of: (a) assuming that La Cotonniere would contract
with PMKO to distribute its inputs and collect its cotton in the Project area
while using its own trucks elsewhere, and (b) assuming that truckers' willing-
ness to pay for new trucks reflects the value of those trucks to them and the
value of their transport services to society.



- 44 -
7.06      Improvement of 1,150 km of roads would benefit everyone in the
Project area. Since road transport is quite competitive in the area, a part
of road user costs savings would be passed along to farmers (and others),
resulting in slightly higher farm prices for marketed production and slightly
lower prices for consumer goods.
7.07      Villagers in 179 localities, more than 250,000 people, would have
a clean water supply available in the village, because the Project would
finance rehabilitation of their systems and ensure that they would have
assistance in repairing them in the future. Not only would the time-consuming
and onerous women's task of fetching water be greatly alleviated, but the
health of villagers would be improved.
B. Economic Justification
7.08      The economic justification of the Project under the most likely
projections of future events is summarized in the table below. Costs and
benefits are incremental. Figures are in constant 1980 US Dollars. The cost
of project components whose benefits have not been quantified (research,
training after year 6 which will be for innovations not reflected in benefit
streams, and drinking water) have been eliminated. Road-user savings benefits
are derived from Table 5. Cotton transport benefits assume that the cotton
organization will contract with PMKO to move cotton production in the area and
inputs for cotton (1/8 of the weight of the cotton) an average of 100 km at 40
k/Tkm. Marketing truck benefits include distribution of maize (not counted
elsewhere since production benefits are based on farm-gate prices) and of
other goods and persons transported. These benefits are assumed to be
fully reflected in the price of the trucks.
7.09      No adjustments have been made in the financial price of labor.  There
is ample evidence that the financial price used -- US$0.70/day -- reflects
social opportunity cost. The Project would require more labor than is used
now -- a real social cost -- but would increase the efficiency of that labor.
7.10      Adjustments have been made to reflect the extreme scarcity of
foreign exchange at the official exchange rate. Under present circumstances,
even after several devaluations, foreign exchange is allocated by licensing
and other non-market mechanisms. For purposes of calculating economic benefits
and costs, the Zaire's value is taken to be US$0.27 in 1980 (the departure
point for Project calculations) declining to US$0.14 in 1985. Adjustments
have been made accordingly to reflect the local component of all Project costs,
as indicated in Table 2, and of Project benefits that do not replace imports:
all except maize and cotton. Foreign-exchange savings are based on the
alternative of importing Zimbabwean maize by rail through Sakania and Mexican
1-1/6" staple cotton through Matadi. The price of Zimbabwean maize reflects
its locational and (for Zairians) quality advantage over North American maize;
it usually sells for 40% over the price of US #2 yellow, FOB US Gulf. Thus,
the US Gulf projected 1981 price of 169 US 1980 $/ton translates to a Zimbabwean
price of US$237, which becomes US$282 cif Sakania, all on the conservative



ZAIRE
SMALLHOLDER MAIZE PROJECT/PROJET MAIS AU KASAI ORIENTAL
Eeonoic AcalysisAnalyse Enonoeac
(1980 US0 million)
Foreign Exchange/   Year/   Year/  YLer/   Year/   Year/   Year/   Year!   Year!   Ye!   Yer    Yea!   Year!   ler/   Year    Year
D-nises        AMne    A-cee  Amcn    Annee   Aenee e   Anne    Ae.ee   A-.c    ont   Anee   Ane    Ace    Ann-   A.."   Annex
(7.)            1       2        3       4        5       6        7       8        9       10       11      12       13       14      15
Benef its                                                                                                                                                                            BeneficeB
Maize                               (91)                      1.8   4.0     6.5      9.7    12.7    15.5    17.8    20.0        22.0    23.8    25.6    27.5    29.2    30.8        MAle
Maniac                               (0)                    0.1      0.2     0.3      0.4     0.6      0.7     0.8      0.9       1.0     1.1      1.3     1.5      1.6      1.8     Macinc
B-cls/gro-ednote                     (0)             -      0.1      0.1     0.2      0.3     0.4      0.5     0.6      0.6      0.7      0.7      0.8     0.8      0.8     0.9      flrinote!aranhldee
Bedacti-n in coittn                                                                                                                                                                  Redaction de c-cso-atior
pesticide coasunptiln            (100)                     -        -       -        -        -      0.1     n.1      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1     0.1     0.I        de pesticidac not-nci.r.
Cotton                             (100)             _      0.6      0.5      -      -0.6    -1.5    -2.1    -2.5    -2.8        -2.9    -7.9    -2.9    -2.9    -2.9    -2.9        Coton
Road user cost  aing                 (0)                    0.5      0.6     0.6      0.7      0.8     0.8      0.8     0.9       0.9     0.9      0.9     0.9      0.0      1.1     Er.nooies cur - eafi  des ro-tiers
Marknting track benefice             (0)             -      0.1      0.1     0.2      0.2      0.3     0.4      0.5     0.5       0.6     0.6      0.6     0.7      0.7      0.8     Becefice-  des canionx de consercialisatioc
Cotton transport benefits            (0)             -      0.4      0.4     0.3      0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2      0.2      0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2      0.2     Bneefices de tr-nsport do   nonr
otal                                                   3.6      5.9     8.1    10.9    13.5    16.1    l9.3    20.4        22.6    24.5    26.5    28.8    30.7    32.8             TotaL
Casts                                                                                                                                                                                Couts
Fara labor                           (0)             -      0.5      0.9     1.3      1.7      2.3     2.7      3.1     3.5       3.9     4.3      4.7      5.2     5.6      6.0     Main d'oeuyre
Fertilixer (cif Zaire port)        (100)            0.9     0.6      0.8      1.1     1.4      1.1     1.3      1.5     1.7       1.9     2.0      2.2     2.3      2.4      2.6     Engrais (nif pert eaimnix)
SIed                                (49)            0.4     0.1      0.1     0.1      0.1     0.6      0.3     0.3      0.3       1.1     0.3      0.3     0.3      0.8      0.2     Storkaga des se-en-es
Distriboti-o cad SeloI.                                                                                                                                                               iitiibutiec et  -ertes:
*eed cad fertilizer tra-aport   (40)             0.3      0.4      0.6     0.7      0.9     1.2      1.1     1.3      1.5      1.8      1.7      0.8     2.0      2.0     2.2        tra.aport des sence t er den engrais
other                             (49)            0.3     0.7      0.4     0.5      0.1     0.1      0.2     0.i      0.2      0.1      0.2      0.1     0.2      0.1     0.1         *utre
Marketing                           (72)             -      0.3      0.4     0.5      0.5      0.6     0.7      0.7     0.8       0.0     0.9      1.0      1.0     1.1      0.1     Cnerciissiioo
Ennetsi-n                           (29)            0.4     0.4      0.4     0.3      0.4     0.3      0.3     0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3     0.3      0.3      0.3     Enc-dreneet
T-ainins                            (48)            0.1     0.1      0.1     0.1      0.1     0.1       -        -       -         -       -        -        -       -        -      FPrsatio-
Roads                               (45)            1.3     0.8      1.0     0.9      0.8      1.1     0.8     0.7      1.1       0.7     1.2      0.8      1.1     0.8      0.8    RBeats
M ..ge-ent Unit                     (47)            0.6     0.5      0.5     0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2      0.2      0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2      0.2    Utite de gestibn
157. physical coetiogea-ies 2/                     0.6      0.6      0.6     0.7     0.7      0.8      0.7     0.8      0.9      1.0      1.0      1.0     1.1      1.2      1.0     Froelsin  pour depsas.ecet des quantit.a:15%
Tot.l                                         49       5.3      5.8     6.4     6.9      7.8      8.3     9.0    10J5      11.8    12.)    12.       13.7    14.5    I3.0           Tontl
NET BENEFIT                                          -4.9    -1.4    +O.1    1.7    +4.0    .5.7    .7.8    +9.3    +9.9    +10.8    12.4   o14.1   .15.1   +14.5   +19.3              BENEFICE NET
it  Includes salvage -alue                                                                                                                          11 Y coapris v-leur de reop-er.tion
2! Not courting fans lbor.                                                                                                                          2! Main d'oeavr  xcla.
May 2, 1980                                                                                                                                        1I  2 cai 1980



- 46 -
assumption of no major disruptions of maize production in southern Africa.
The equivalent farmgate price in the Project area is about $370/ton.
(Table 4 for details). The Matadi cotton price is assumed to be roughly
equivalent to the cif north Europe price. The equivalent farmgate price
for seed cotton is roughly $910/ton in 1981.
7.11      Based on these assumptions and adjustments, the internal rate of
return to Zaire's economy from the Project is 45%. A cost over-run of 10%
would reduce this rate of return to 38%; a cost over-run of 2()% would reduce
it to 32%. Foreign-exchange savings exceed foreign-exchange costs starting
from the third Project year. Cumulative benefits have repaid cumulative costs
by the fifth year. These high returns stem from the facts that the Project
(a) proposes very minor changes in existing farms, which can be considered to
be sunk costs, (b) benefits from a very attractive agronomic package devised
and tested by INERA, PNM, and FAO, which gives quick returns, and c) would be
building on existing extension projects (CAKO and Tshilenge Project).
C. Risk
7.12      The Project consists of simple innovations that involve minor
changes in existing farming techniques. These innovations have already been
tested locally, and are fairly well known to farmers and valued by them.
Therefore, the technology can hardly be considered either experimental or
risky.
7.13      Administratively, however, the Project involves some substantial
changes. Zaire's administrative environment has proved difficult for the
implementation of other projects. All other IDA projects in the sector
have experienced considerable difficulty obtaining Government participation
and other actions agreed upon, in recruiting technical officers interna-
tionally, and in cost over-runs. Project management would most likely have
to operate in an environment where basic supplies disappear from local mar-
kets, both official and unofficial, or, when procured by the Project, dis-
appear between the capital and the Project area. It would operate in an
arena where a great many entities and people have to agree before anything
can happen, and where the future of government policies and of government
institutions that will handle them is particularly uncertain. The Project
is designed to minimize such risks, but it cannot escape from its environ-
ment altogether. Therefore, a cbnsiderable risk remains that there would
be serious delays in getting improved seed and fertilizer to the farmers.
7.14      Sensitivity tests were made to determine the impact on the Project's
economic rate of return of four major risks: that benefits might lag behin4
costs, that Government support and foreign exchange for the program might
be cut off when IDA involvement ended, that cotton policy might be radically
altered, and of yields being drastically below predictions. Firstly, if im-
plementation difficulties caused benefits to lag one year with no change in



- 47 -
costs, the rate of return would fall only to 27%. Thus, the Project's economic
viability could survive those efiects of an adverse administrative environment.
Secondly, if all benefits and costs were cut off after year 6, the rate of
return would still be 15%. Thus, Government abandonment of the extension and
f-i i.'i   -y', ;-r  -f the road7s;, and refusal to allocate foreign exchangae
to fertilizer import, while drastic in consequence, would not compromise the
economic viability of the Project. Thirdly, if the Project area cotton
organization refused to cooperate with the Project, bought its own trucks and
refused to share its transit and storage facilities, the Project would lose
trucking revenue and would have to spend more for storage and transit arrange-
ments. However economically wasteful these measures, the Project's rate of
return would still be 42%. Fourthly, if, for some reason unrelated to costs,
maize benefits were only two-thirds of projections, the rate of return would
still be 20%.
7.15      A number of risks are considered to be improbable:  that the import
price for maize be substantially lower than forecast, that the Zaire strengthen
drastically during the period of foreign financing, or that the world price of
fertilizer rise significantly more than projected.
D. wEmon _ IeDri
7.16        The Project's principal employment effect will be to reduce
underemployment on participating farms. The roughly 550,000 people who live
on farms not affected by existing projects and who have no appreciable non-
farm income constitute the poorest element of the area. It is estimated that
they now have about 110 days of work on their farms per adult per year, and
that when they fully participate in the Project, they will have 180. In real
terms, the return per work day is expected to rise by one-eighth (one-quarter
for work on maize). For the roughly 230,000 people on farms already partici-
pating in existing projects, benefits will be more modest. For the roughly
90,000 living on "part-time" farms and involved in the mining and/or city
economy, thus a priviledged rural class, the Project anticipates no benefits.
Thus, adoption of the Project package tends to narrow rural income class
distinctions and to benefit the poorest families disproportionally. It
increases employment most among families now the most underemployed.
7.17        In the Project's early years, it reaches mostly farmer families
that have participated in existing projects because their support is already
enlisted. Also, families with enough spare cash to purchase fertilizer will
be able to do so without having to be members of a credit group. Although
these families are better off than the area's rural average, they are still
absolutely poor, with purchasing power of less than US$50/head. As for the
poorer families not now associated with a project, the Project's credit,
extension and training components are designed to reach them as rapidly as
possible, consistent with the financial safety of the Project. All are
expected to be covered by the Project's extension system and, after six years,
20% are expected to be buying fertilizer and seed; after 15 years, that
figure is expected to rise to 75%.



- 48 -
7.18        The Project will generate very few permanent wage jobs.  There
will, however, be a sizeable amount of temporary construction work, princi-
pally in road upgrading.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, the following assurances were obtained from the
Government of Zaire:
I. General Covenants
(1)  Procurement:  on procurement arrangements for the Project,
including the bulking of fertilizer orders and their
procurement through international competitive bidding
(paras 3.37-3.38);
(2) Accounts and Audit:
(a) that the Government would submit for IDA approval a
plan of accounting for PMKO no later than 31
December 1980 providing specifically that, inter
alia, PMKO's mechanized farming and credit operations
would iave separate accounts (paras 3.42, 6.13 and
6.16);
(b) that OR, SH and SOFIDE would keep separate accounts
adequate to explain all project activities (para
3.42); and
(c) that PMKO accounts would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA; that audited accounts
would be submitted to IDA within six months of the
end of each fiscal year (para 3.44).
(3) Completion Report: that the Government would submit a completion
report on the Project (para 4.17).
II. Project Implementation Covenants
(4)  Annual Work Program:  that the Government would submit for IDA
review and approval an annual work program (para 4.13).
(5)  Mid-Term Implementation Review:  that Government agreed to
collaborate with IDA and other financing agencies in carrying
out the mid-Project review two years after Project effectiveness
(para 4.14).



- 49 -
(6)  Staffing:  that the terms of reference and qualifications of
PMKO's Director, the Chief of PMKO's Extension Service,
and the Deputy Chiefs of its Logistics and Administration
and Finance Services would be approved by IDA and
that the Government would consult witk- T' prior to
making any appointment to these posts (para 4.04); and
that IDA would approve terms of reference and qualifica-
tions of internationally-recruited officers and would be
consulted on all appointments (para 4.04).
(7)  Facilities:  that Government would furnish to PMKO such exist-
ing facilities of INERA (including PNM) in the Project area
as may be needed for Project implementation (para 4.10).
(8)  Imposed Cultivation:  that extension agents of PMKO take no
part in enforcement of the system of imposed cultivation after
1 January 1981 (para 3.15).
(9)  Road Brigade:  that Government transfer the PMKO road brigade
to Office des Routes (para 4.11).
(10)  Credit Arrangements:  that PMKO would make credit
available only to farmer groups, and not extend credit
to any group that is in arrears on previous credit
obligations or which had already received credit for
three successive years (para 3.11).
(11)  Pricing:  that Government continue its present policy of not
fixing the price of maize in the Project area except to
establish a minimum producer price level (paras 3.13 and
6.06).
III. PMKO Finances
(12)   Regarding CAKO Finances:
(a) that Government would provide annual budget allocations
to PMKO at least adequate to maintain pre-project levels
.of services in the project area for: PMKO's extension,
administration, seed multiplication and garage activities,
for OR's road program, and INERA (paras 3.34,
6.19);
(b)  that seed and fertilizer sales be at prices that fully
cover costs, and that these prices be reviewed with
IDA at least once a year (para 3.08, 4.13);
(c)  that PMKO continue mechanized farming services only on
the basis of full recovery of cost, including amortiza-
tion (para 4.08);



- 50 -
(d) that no transfers be made from the PMKO budget to the
maize credit program after the second year (para 6.13);
(e)  that disposition of any PMKO surpluses during the Project
period will be made by Government with the agreement of
IDA (para 6.14);
(f)  that PMKO dealings with La Cotonniere not involve sub-
sidies to the latter (para 6.16); and
(g) that Government continue its present policy of exempting
PMKO from all duties (para 3.36).
IV. Fertilizer Imports
(13) that each year Government would finance purchase of the amount
of fertilizer sold by PMKO the previous year for the maize
program (paras 3.34, 3.37).
8.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness would be:
(a) Undertakings by other financiers suitable to IDA (para. 3.33);
(b)  that the Government have provided PMKO with at least Z 2
million for its 1980 operations (para. 3.34);
(c)  that IDA have received from Government the full report
of an audit of CAKO and Tshilenge Projectl978 and 1979
accounts by an independent firm, and a statement of
assets and liabilities and a disclaimer of claims
outstanding against PMKO (para. 3.43); and
(d) employment of a Project Director Chief and Deputy of
PMKO's Administration and Finance Service, Chief and
Deputy of its Logistics Service, and Chief of its
Extension Service (para 4.04), with satisfactory
qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of
employment in consultation with the Association.
8.03      Disbursement of funds from the following components would be condi-
tional on signing of sub-agreements between PMKO and the implementing agencies
respectively concerned, and their approval by IDA (para. 4.10):
for roads component                      with OR
for drinking water component             with SH
for trucks for marketing component       with SOFIDE
8.04      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed
Project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$11 million to the Government
of Zaire on standard IDA terms.



- 51 -
ZAI'
SMALLHOLDER MAIZE PROJECTJPROJET NAIS AU KASAI ORIENTAL
Budast:  Pattern Farm  YIu,det:  Modh1e d'Exploitation
(Independet:  Full-time/Indpendent, * plein temps)                                   Table/Tableau 1
Before Project/         1st Year after joining/              5th Year after joining/
Avant Projet         lere annee de participation          5eme annee de participation
---------------------------  Land use/Emploi de terre --------------------------
Area harvested                                                        (ha)                                                Superficie recolt4e
Maize                            0.55                       0.55                                 0.8                      Mals
Manioc                           0.25                       0.25                                 0.325                    Manioc
Maize-beans                      0.25                       0.25                                 0.25                     Malsi-haricots
Beans or groundnuts              0.15                       0.15                                 0.175                    Haricots ou arachides
Cotton                           0.05                       0.05                                 0.25                     Coton
---------------------------  Production/Production --------------------------
(kg)
Maize                          457.5                      797.5                             1,360.0                       Mais
Manioc                       2,500.0                   2,550.0                              3,380.0                       Hanioc
Beans or groundnuts            182.5                      187.5                               211.5                       Haricots ou arachides
Cotton                          25.0                       25.0                                 25.0                      Coton
------------- Gross value of output/Valeur brut de la production -------------
(US0)
Maize                          14                        28B                                  490                         Mais
Manioc                         154                       158                                  209                         Manioc
Beansor groundnuts             111                       114                                  114                         Haricots ou arachides
Cotton                           7                         7                                   12                         Coton
others 1/                       29                        29                                   29                         Autres 1/
Total                     467                        596                                  854                              Total
Inputs/Intrants
-------------------------------- Value/Valeur  -----------------------------
Improved maize seed                                        22                                   34                        Semences ameliorees de mais
Other planting material:                                                                                                  Autres semences:
Maize                            8.0                       2                                    2                         Mais
Manioc                          neg.                       neg.                                 neg.                      Manioc
Beaus or grounduuts           12,0                       1.0                                  14.0                       Harlots cu arachides
Cotton                         neg.                       neg.                                 neg.                       Coton
Tools 2/                        12                         12'                                  12                        Outils 2/
Fertilizer:                                                                                                               Engraisd
Field cleared this year:                                                                                                  Champ de lere annee
"-*d1e-                       --                        it                                   31                           Kale de- _  ,1t  31  15an
Field cleared last year:                                                                                                  Champ de 2eme anne
Maize                         --                        10                                   21                           Hais
Return to famaily labor                                                                                                   Re6mundration au travail
and enterprise               435                        522                                  740                          familial at a 1'enterprise
-----_---__---------_ Labor use/Lmploi de main d'oeuvre ----------------------
(days/jours)
Maize                           77                        12(                                  225                       Mai$
Manioc                         197                        200                                  265                       Manioc
Maize-beans                     50                         50                                   50                       Mais-haricots
Beans or groundnuts             22                         92                                   29                       Haricota ou arachides
Cotton                          10                         10                                    7                       Coton
Total                     356                        402                                  576
------------------ Return to Labor/Remuneration au travail fasilial  .--.---___
(US$/day/jour)
Maize                            1.22                       L.44                                 1.49                    Male
Manioc                           0.76                       0.78                                 0. 78                   Manioc
Maize-beans                      2.44                       2.44                                 2.44                    Mais-haricots
Beans or groundnuts              1.53                       1.67                                 1.67                    Haricotg ou arachides
cotton                           0.70                       0.70                                 1.57                    Coton
1.22                      1.30                                 1.28
1/ Crops interplanted on house plot (and elsewhere), e.g. sweet potatoes, eggplant, papaya, oilpalm, as well as animal
production (goats, chicken), and hunting and fishing.
2/ Annualized.
April 29, 1980



ZAIRE
SMALLHOLDER MAIZE PROJECT/PROJET MAIS AU KASAI ORIENTAL
Project Costs: Summary / CoGt du Prolet: R6sume
(US$'OOO)
For.Exch.
-----------------------------------------Year/Annee------------------------                  Total      Devises
Component       0           1            2             3             4             5             6            1-6           X      Elgment
Fertilizer               242          702         170           218            242           290            -           1864        100      Engrats
Seed                      -          760           -             -             -            675             -           1435         49      S.innces
Distribution & Sales    290          646         1262           848          1108            579           234         4967          45      Distribution et Ventes
Trucks for Marketing       -          -           369           492           554           615            738          2768         72      Crmions pour commercialisation.
Extension                  -         392          508           462           360           437            344          2503         29      Encadrement
Training                  62         304          180           192           254            80             80          1152         48      Formation
Research                   -          128         126           126            138            76            76           670         43      Recherche
Roads                      -        1491         1032          1208          1208           1058          1435          7432         45      Routes
Drinking Water             50        302          100             72          235             21            -            780         76      Adduction d'eau
Project Management Unit 257          715          673           602            327           295           295          3164         47      Unit6 de gestion
a/                                                                                                                                   a/
Total Base Cost          901        5440         4420          4220          4426          4126          3202            735         52      Coat de base
Physical Contingencier 135           816          664           633           664            619           480         4011          52      Provision pour d6passement des
quantit6s b/
Price Contingencies c/   32          585          818          1131          1579           1863          1772          7780         50      Provision pour depassement des
___  ___  ____        ____                        ____                        __        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Prix    I/
Total Contingencies      167        1401         1482          1764          2243          2482          2252          11791         51      Total Provisions
Total Project Cost      1068        6841         5902          5984          6669          6608           5454        38526          51      Cout total du projet
a/  Base cost estimated as of July 1980                                            */  Estimation du cout de base en  juillet 1980
h/  An average of 15% of base cost                                                 b/  15% du cout de base en moyenne
c/  Assuming international inflation as follows:                                   c/  Sur hypothese d'une hausse de prix internationale comme suit:
1980-6
Public works & Internationally-recruited                     Travaux publiques et assistance technique internationale
technical assistance.                      7k%           7%
Equipement & all other costs               64%           6%  Equipement et tout autre cout
Assuming that devaluations of the Zaire                                             Sur l'hypothese que, dorenavant, les divaluations du Zaire                a
will henceforth closely correspond to any                                           correspondeont, en moyenne, a l'excas de l'inflation  zairoise            
excess of Zairian over world inflation,                                             par rapport IL l'inflation mondiale, les m%mes taux d'inflation            j
the same inflation rates are applied to                                             s'appliquent aux couts Atrangers et locaux.
foreign and local costs.
r 
April 29, 1980                                                                                                            le 29 avrll 1980                    5.



-3 -Table/Tableau  3
ZAIRE
SMALLHOLDER MAIZE/MAIS AU KASAI ORIENTAL
Disbursements: Estimated Schedule/Decaissement: Plan Estimatif
(us$'ooo)
IDA Fiscal Year    Quarter ending        Disbursement      Cummulative Disbursement
Exercice IDA        Trimestre  a         Decaissement      Decaissement cumule
1981             June 1    1981            600                     600
1982             September 1981           800                    1,400
December  1981           500                    1,900
March     1982           400                    2,300
June      1982           4oo                    2,700
1983             September 1982           500                    3,200
December  1982           400                   3,600
March     1983           400                    4,000
June      1983           400                   4,400
1984             September 1983           4oo                    4,800
December  1983           400                   5,200
March     1984           400                    5,600
June      19814          4J0                    6,000
1985             September 19814          400                    6,400
December  1984          400                    6,800
March     1985           500                    7,300
June      1985           400                    7,700
198 6            September 1985           400                    8,100
December  198 5          400                   8,500
March     1986           400                    8,900
June      1986           500                    9,400
1987             September 1986           430                    9,800
December  1986           400                   10,200
March     198 7          400                   10,600
June      198 b/         400                   11,000
a/  Based on cost estimates with               a/  A base des estimations des couts,
appropraite lags in disburse-                  sur hypothese que tout decaisse-
ments to reflect country                       ment soit decale d'un delai indique
experience.                                    par 1'experience nationale.
b/  Closing date, June 30, 1987                b/  Date de cloture, 30 Juin 1987
April 30, 1980                                                 le 30 avril 1980



ZAIRE
SMALLHOLDER MAIZE PROJECT/PROJET MAIS DU KASAI ORIENTAL
Bconomi~c Ax1g;ya      Value of Maize / Prix gconomique du Mais
(1980 US$ or Z/ton)
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985-88          1989-95
US No. 2 Yellow FOB Gulf Port!/ ($)    122        137     157      169     169      172      174     176       178          179                   US NO 2 jaune fob yort du golfc
Zimbabwe FOB Priceb/              ($)    170      192     220      237     237      241     246      246      249          250                    Prix fob Zimbabwve
Rail Transport to Sakania         ($)     45      45       45       45      45       45      45       45       45           45                    Transport par rail a Sakania
Border Price                      ($)    215      237     265      282     282      286     291      291       294          295                   Prix frontiare
Accounting Rate of
Foreign Exchange (o/$)                                           3.7     4.0      5.0     5.55    6.25       7.14        7.14                   Taux de change comptable
Border Price                      (a)                            (1042)  (1128)  (1430)  (1615)  (1819)   (2097)         (2106)                   Prix frontiare
Loading                           ($)                                3       3        3        3       3         3            3                   Chargemn nt
RailTrna port:(aTransport par rail:  Sakania-
Miene Ditu                      ($)                               36      36       36       36      36        36           36                       anMwene Ditu
Truck Transport:  Hwene Ditu-    -
Mbuyi Mayi                   49      49       49       49      49        49           49                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nbuji Mayi
Opportunity Cost at                                                                                                                               CoGt d'opportunit&
Mbuji Mayv                      ($)                             370      370     374      379      379      382          383
Average Trans7ort:  Farm to                                         46o46                                                                            nbuji   ye
Mbuji May"$                                                                                                                                     Co4t d'o portunite  a une
Opportunity Cost at Average,                                                                                                                       _    d
Prolect-&A*a Fern               (5)                             324      324     328      333     333       336          338                      ferme novemne                          .
(Z)                          (1199)  (1296)  (1640)  (1848)  (2081)   (2397)          (2413)
_   Source:  World Bank:  Commodity and Export Projections Division
Source:  Banque Mondiale:  Division des Projections sur les Produits de Base et les Exportations                                                                                        m
1V  140% of the above.  Actual Zimbabwe price in 1979 US$ was 168.4/ton in 1977 and 214.7/ton in March 1978.                                                                               a
Majoration de 40% sur le prix amgricain.  Prix payes en Rhodesie en dollars americains de 1979 etaient de
168.4/tonne en 1977 et de 214.7/tonne en mars 1978.                                                                                                                                   c
C/  Excludes duty
Droit de douane  non coinpris
d/  Assu!ming transport of 75 km on unimproved roads costing US$ 0.52 K/Tkm and 25 km on improved roads costing $ 0.26 3t/1k, and
not taking into account project improvements in roads.
Sur base de transport de 100 km, dont 75 km sur pistes au frais de  US$ 0.52 K/Tkm et 25 km sur routes d'interet general
au frais de $ 0.26 KtTkm, sans compter l'effet de l'ameli6ration des routes par le projet.
May 2, 1980                                                                                                         le 2 mai 1980



ZAIRE
SMALLHOLDER MAIZE PROJECT/PROJET MAIS DU KASAI ORIENTAL
Economic Analysis: Road Benefits / Analyse Economique: Benefices du Volet Routier
Benefits from User Cost Saving to Traffic Existing without Agricultural Project/
Benefices des economies du cout d'emploi a la circulation independante du projet
A.  On Agricultural Roads                                                          Sur les routes agricoles
Daily Traffic +2 trucks full/camions pleins                1 light vehicle/   Circulation quotidienne
2 trucks 1/2 full/camions demi-pleins       vehicule leger
Tons/day                       18                                 1           Tonnes/jour
Tons/year                  6,570                                365           Tonnes/an
User Cost Saving/TKM    $ 0.1558                          $  0.3464           Economies du cout d'emploi/TKM
Savings/km/year         $  1,025                         $      126           Economies/km/an
Total Savings/km/year                      $ 1,151                            Total Economies/km/an
Project Year                         1     2     3     4      5   6-15        Annee du projet                      a
Agricultural Road Improved (km)       0   190   380   570   760    950        Routes agricoles ameliorees (km)
Savings/km/year  ($)              1,151 1,151 1,151 1,151 1,151  1,151        Economies/km/an ($)
Savings  ($ '000)                     0   219   437   656   875  1,050        Economies ($ '000)
B.  On Secondary Roads                                                             Sur RIL
Daily Traffic +3 trucks full/camions pleins                4 light vehicles/  Circulation quotidienne
3 trucks 1/2 full/camions demi-pleins       vehicules legers
Tons/day                       27                                 4           Tonnes/jour
Tons/year                  9,855                              1,460           Tonnes/an                          d
User Cost Saving/TKM   $  0.1558                           $ o.3464           Economies du cout d'emploi/TKM  ff
Savings/km/year        $    1538                           $    508           Economies/km/an                     D
$20146                                                             -
Total Savings/km/year                     $  ,                                Total Economies/km/an           P d
km/RIL improved                               208                             km/RIL ameliorees               m  S
Saving/year ($'000)                           426                             Economies/an ($'000)            H  D
U,



ZAIRE
SMALLHOLDER MAIZE PROJECT/PROJET MAIS DU KASAI ORIENTAL
Econamfc Anslysi s; Road Venefits / Analyre Econouique; Bdnditces den Routes
II.                     Benefits from User Cost Savings to Traffic Generated/Benefices des economies du cout d'emploi i la circulation engendree
Project Year                       1      2       3      4       5      6       7        8       9       10      11       12       13      14       15    Annee  du projet
307h of Incremental Maize Production   1,650  3,600   5,850  8,700  9,450 13,950 15,900  17,850  19,500  21,150  22,800  24,300  25,950  27,300  307 de la production diffirentielle du mais
Incremental Consumers' Goods              825  1,800   2,925  4,350  4,725  6,975  7,950   8,925   9,750  10,575  11,400  12,150  12,975  13,650  Biens differentiels des consommateurs
Total Incremental Transport             2,475  5,400   8,775 13,050 14,175 20,925 23,850  26,775  29,250  31,725  34,200  36,450  38,925  40,950  Total  transport differentiel
Averatge Distance Moved  (km)              100    100     100    100    100    100    100         100     100      100     100      100      100     100  Distance mDyenne  de deplaceaent
'000 ton km                               248    540    878   1,305  1,418  2,093  2,385   2,678   2,925   3,173   3,420   3,645   3,893   4,095   '000 tonne km
Portion of Network Upgraded              .394   .508   .672    .836  100   1.00   1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00  Portion du re'eau am'eliorie
Savings/TKM  ($)                        .1558  .1558  .1558   .1558  .1558  .1558  .1558   .1158   .1158   .1158   .1158   .1158   .1158   .1158  Economies/TKM  ($)
Savings  ($'000)                           13      43     92      170    221    326    372       417      456     494      533      568     606      638  Economies $ '000)
III. SALVAGE VALUE OF EQUIRQIIT ($'Crc)                                                                                                              302  Valeur Residuel du Materiel                   3
IV. TOTAL  ENEFIT3  $'(ooo)               658    906  1,174   1,471  1,697  1,802  1,848   1,893   1,932   1,970  2,009    2,044   2,082   2,416  BDaefices Totales                                     s
H  



ZAIRE
SMALLHOLDER MAIZE PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
19B0                       1981                        1982                         1983                        1984
11   2       3      4      1      2      3     4       1      2      3     4       1      2_                            2     3      4-
EVENTS                                                                  Depends On
PPF    Por.ect Preparation Facility Effective
E      Credit Etfective                                                         20, 21, 22
SF     Seed and F-rilizr Deiered to Far-er                                      E, 1.2.5,6,(1981); E, 1,2,3,4,5,6, (thereafter)
TM     First Tru-ks for Marketing Operating                                     E, 7,8, 9
ET     E-tersion Tr-inmq Systemo Opera-ico                                      10, E, 11
RO     Road and 8rldge Ope.ra tove Begin                                        E. 12, 13, 14, 15
W      Begin Rehabilitetion Drinking VVater Systemni                            16,17, E.18, 19
H      New Project H.dq..uarters Operational                                    22, 23
A      New Accou-tr Syete- Optrationol
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
Seed and Fertilizer                                     Duration      _epend. On
{Months)1
1        Fertilizer. Bid, Order, Deliver to Proievt Area Railhead    8         E (iecept 1st PPF order ini PPF)
2        Seed  Order and Take DeliVer                                6                                                                                     F                                              1E
3        Expand leput Delivery end Sales System                      7         E                                                                                                                                                 55                 2         5
4        PMKO VehivIe fexcept roads). Bids, Order Take Deli.er      10         E                                                                             _  _                                                                     S                             SF
5        Deliver snpts to Farm and Sell                              3         E, 1, 2, 6 (fter 1981, also 3, 4)                                                 3
6        t-e,iefei Loi-ttrs Service Chief to PMKO                   1
4
Trucks fvr Marketirg
7        Negotiate and Sign -oerrrent-SOFIDE Agreenent              12         E
8        PMKO Compil. Short List of Eligible, Interested Byers       6          , 7                                                                                     7                   8                   9
9        Trucks Bide, Order and Take Delivervy                      10         E, 7, 8
Eotension T'aining
10        Recruit sd Hire Etension Training Officer                  8         PPF                                                                 ,      0 ,              f     .
11        Establish Ectensi-o Training Progret                        S         10, E                                                            r      -   *                  f
Roads
12        Vehicle -roade)  Bids, Order, Take Delivery                12         E
13        Hire R-adt' Technician                                      3         E
14        Negotiate end Sign PMKO  OR Roads' Agreement end
Work Progrem                                              6         E, 13
15        Organi-e Rods' Brigade                                      6         E, 13
Drinqi gW-ater
16        Find and Hire Consultants for St.dy                         4         PPF
17        Study Systems, Verify Cots, Plan                            3         18                                                                   18      17           18
18        Pumps and Equip-nr    Order and Teke DOi]vary               8         E, 16, 17                                                                                    1
19        Vehicles (drinking water): BRde. Order, Take Delivery      10         E, 16, 17
PMKD Managenente
20        Co-plete First Audit                                        2         PPF
21        Recruit and Appoit Director, Chiefs ol Logistics and
Enten-on, Deputy Chiefs of Lggistics, and Admie..
istration and Finance                                      8                                                                         2-
22        Recrit and Appoint Chief of Adtini,tretio- and Fitance     3         FPF                                                        2
23        Coa,plete New Accoonts System                               4         22                                                                                             25
d24       Detailed Design and Site Preparation for Buildingn          3         -
25        Contract for and Cc-stmuct  Buildings                      18         24, E
April 30, 1980                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           World Bank   21637



ZAIRE
SMALLHOLDER MAIZE PROJECT                                                                    ....K-n One-si Moan P,,w. f MKOI
ORGANIZATION CHART                                                                     VO "Ad-nI-aainoR-ibd.nn
FncilM-1ito,iogod C-sn-.
Tenfmnicai L,aiso
41 Re-pon-t  fo l.PIKO.ooa, Do f- Road  Coorposeos  K. Oi  ARoeoOO   Cb-,50     , ,10Di--0
PrOjfct Coordlrato)                   R~~~Ai-Cmpse o.P.     Dro., n.m    btis-  t C seff   tsl (se  Oiena Osh Otf  Choinosr Re. -.aIDroo R 0
Di= ,to Of UNICEF. Ofogona Dtoeo of Offim do Roouet a-d I Co-noipre r.,e- -no
....... ...................                         ..................~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ C.--p 1 df PMKO Dirs,-  iCho--iroo. Chwt o  Eoso.oo.  S-oi-o E. ... on T.mng Off-,c   R-t.od
OMtt Mc fet of LgtiSsme(toDItento  INERA                 h.,O sote
(Ocecto, Gccc,al,         -ydrol-t...                             Soru.c-
Onffnl- Ofce               io
R....  nohIC I.1
__________________                                                                         Hi                                ...l_ _ _                            7
-d ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~        ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~4roo Adom.fdci-nI..I                                                                     It,
(Cccl    .....fc,occr,ccndScc,,Ofcac,,o.,.hOtfi
CooS ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~26



IBRD  13636R
I                            I tf                          1 o MAY  1980
230                                                         24'                                                         250
Th,s map has been prepared by the                                                                   ZAIRE
World Banks staff eocIos1sely for
the to-noionce of the rdeadr of
thereport to nOtch t to attached.                                             SMALLHOLDER   MAIZE   PROJECT
The denomina-tofs used and the                                                                             Roads
bou,daes shoontOtsmap                                                                           P -  Project Roads
do ,ot imply, on the part of the
World Bank and to af fi,ates. any
udgme-nt o the legalsta.                                                                             Project Roads
any terr,ory or a,sy endorsmn`-oetod
6rac-ept-ce ofu-h ho.,danes g                                                                           ~( ..... Asphalt Roads (Maintained by OR)
Main Earth Roads (Maintained by OR)
(Iip        M-!uOale2~                   @                                   ,,    ,      Agricu!tural Roaas Maintained by
(7, C. Lace                                                                                     OR-Lo Cotonniere Agreement
.  *Mukombra_>  ,   W   \     ,    |                    I I    I~-   Railway
f . . . OBadibango                                       - -.-  5  _              70nZones Boundaries
6-  ~      Kabeya                   /P6-
-60       t(orousranga              (\                            L         a. o Mbuji               Sub-region Boundories                60
QMupornpc                                 -  oakwo Bao                                      Rivers
Ka                                                               biende   -  a  '  j_-  nda\  F  FERRIES
*  /   -  tY    \  6       >  _;                       \                ~~~~~~~~~~I NDOMBA
TshintshantkuO    Merode - :?MlobI       $:          Ts t Bnbe'                                              2  KAPONJI
ing            r/                                                                  3  KASANSA
0   D ibungin    J     KwadiN,/4KatandX                            \               4  YATAMBWE
Kwad~~ *:AKotanda             1       ~~5  KALAMBAYI
*                                  ( .i   , .    tppO-   I              6  KASA DI MUOKO
i      Pantjla Sclb   ;                                     7  KINSALELE
Lukolaba                       Bena
~Tshile Qf  boa                -                    8  MULUNDA
P3           FS, "~~.            .                         9  M PATA
gt Kamill           < | kono , - ';-*                 10  KANUTSHINA
'I:< Kapa ngu       .          -*.I
KanioQNRoOpy
Camba?v                I*
Kabwele  Kanda          QKambaYe  _/       s.
/ Matamba rn
7 /                   |    Mwene   Kandolo           Kabii4-    .                                                                  N      7
Xy  /ltu  *-Qjshiamvi /      Tshifu                 _
o l,   .L pto 9  1 20  40      60
KILOMETERS
0 . >t\S  E  Og  20       ,    40
MILES                            250
"; ~~Mulunduop 
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBtIC $SUDAN
CAMEROON %.U
Musaene           *.                        'U                                 +      _ t!  7cr0>
Boje  *                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UGANDA
.,iMusengeO          t)                 *                 t?        / (;ABON  /              ZAIRE
Z   I       ~~RWAND4
10."-"Tubeya                                                          .            0                      To  BR
( Kanutshina              2                                                 BI           m o                 T.s) t
|Mi--- _'   : .                          %           - - V ANGOLA
JUNE 1978






I B R D 13637R
23                                                     24                                                     250 >MAY 1980
Th,  map has been prepared by the                                                             ZAI RE
World Bank,s staff esa-sl-ely for
the contem,ence of the read-ers f                                         SMALlHOLDER   MAIZE  PROJECT
th,e rep art to erh,,h to attachedSM LH                                                  DE     MAZ         PR JC
The denrisnatsons used and the
boundares shown o th,smp                                                          Administrative  Divisions
do sot _mply, o the part of the
World hank and ,ts affiliates, any
judgment on the legal status of
any terrntory or any endorseme-t
or occeptance of such boundan,es  ,o
Pre -project CAAKO Division Boundaries
BALUBA                                           Collectivities Boundaries
KABEYA                                  \                         -    Zone Boundaries
(    KAMUANGA                    M  JI     DILUNGU>
-6GA        ) TMYH 1  L  E   N    GXE      2                       Sub-region Boundories                       6
t                     M rbu ji MayiO                                                  <  >'        s,5Fk.  0  20  40  60
*MBUJI( MAYI                                                                KILOMETERS
I                            ~~~~~                                     ~~0*.  0  20             40
')    (              '\1/    Tshilenge )                                                M LES
TSHILUNDU    :. BAKWA             ,J%..
ALONJI       )             d
. ..... . ....o 26                                 s, 
Kamiii                               one-
Lek i J                         4i                                    Kolarboyi
KAMIJI ./-               daKanda              OGandika GANDAJIKA                                  _
9   Kamiji   AMeNNande Kaseki                                      Baluba Shakondi
*-x  5         ~Kanda Kanda    '~-Gandaiika/J     
Mwene Ditu       ..
_7o   1  O    > B 3 <s , .... t 8 7
-7'                               K                                                                                                7 p  J  I  70
M W E N E             D ITU
250
Mulundu                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CENTRAL AFRICAN REPU LIC
< Mulundu                          7                           XCAMEROON4                     !    $SUOAN
Katskisungu:                           E                                         UG- cDA
;  t   I                                  (0'GABO",  7 AI RF
Kanutshint  shiri a.)UAeri
230  ,i(j:;.:2a   .-                         24J                   ATLANTIC             L ANGOA            [wAMj
123                                                   214Z '\(,
I                          I                    -       : g                 I'-  Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AMA    I






- 61 -
ZAIRE
SMALLHOLDER MAIZE PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION VOLUME
Table of Contents
ANNEX 1.   Seed and Fertilizer and Sales
Table 1. Cost Estimates: Fertilizer
Table  2.  Cost Estimates:  Seeds
Table  3.  Cost Estimates:  Input Distribution and Sales
ANNEX 2.   Maize Marketing                                                  3 pages
Table  1.  Cost of a Truck
Table  2.  Cost Estimates: Trucks for marketing
ANNEX 3.   Extension Training                                               8 pages
Table 1.   Cost Estimates:  Extension
Table 2.   Cost Estimates:  Training
ANNEX 4.  Research                                                          4 pages
Table 1.   Cost Estimates:  Research
ANNEX 5.   Roads
Table  1.  Project Roads
Table  2.  Existing Traffic on Project Roads
Table  3.  Vehicle Operating Costs
Table  4.  Costs Estimates:  Roads
ANNEX 6.   Village Drinking Water                                           3 pages
Table 1. Water Systems to be Rehabilitated
Table 2. Cost Estimates: Drinking Water
ANNEX 7.   PMKO Organization
Table 1. Cost Estimates: Project Management Unit



- 62 -
ANNEX 8.   Financial Analysis
Table  1.  Budget:  Pattern Farm I
Table  2.  Budget:  Pattern Farm 2
Table  3.  Budget:  Pattern Farm 3
Table  4.  Budget:  Pattern Farm 4
Table  5.  Budget:  Pattern Farm 5
Table  6.  Financial Analysis:  Pattern Farm 1
Table  7.  Financial Analysis:  Pattern Farm 2
Table  8.  Financial Analysis:  Pattern Farm 3
Table  9.  Financial Analysis:  Pattern Farm 4
Table 10.  Financial Analysis:  Farms Buying Improved Seed Only
Table 11.  Financial Benefits and Costs:  On Farm Component
Table 12.  Financial Analysis:  Maize Credit Operation:
PMKO Cash Flow
Table 13.  Fiancial Analysis:  Maize Credit Operation:  Flow by
Pattern Farm
ANNEX  9.  Job Descriptions and Qualifications of Senior Staff              6 pages
ANNEX 10.   Financing Plan
Table 1. Financing by Item



