Dokanit of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONL
Rbpt N. 12595
PROJECT COMPLETION RErPoRT
GUATEKALA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2383-GU)
DECEMBER 20, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:        12595
Type: PCR
Country Operations Division II
(Central America and Panama)
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted dtribution and may be usd by recipiens only in dte perforanxe of
thdke offical dties. Its contents may not otherwi be disclosed witout World Bank autorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
CurrencV Unit - Quet:al
Average Market Rates for Period
End of 1984    US$1  o   Q1.00
End of 1985    US$1 U    Q2.63
End of 1986    US$1  =   Q2.86
End of 1987    US$1  a   Q2.70
End of 1988    US$1  -   Q2.64
End of 1989    US$1  -   Q2.85
End of 1990    US$1  -   Q4.51
End of 1991    US$81     Q5.03
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BANDESA        -     Banco Nacional de Demarrollo Agricola
(National Agricultural Development Bank)
BANVI          -     Banco Nacional de Vivienda
(National Housing Bank)
SG             -     Banco de Guatemala
(Guatemala's Central Bank)
CACM           -     Central American Common Market
cIIu           -     Clasificacion Industrial Internacional Uniforme
(Uniform International Industrial Classification)
CASEX          -     Banco Centroamericano de Integracion Economica
(Central American Bank for Economic Integration)
CORFINA        -     Corporacion Financiera Nacional
(National Financial Corporation)
FIASA          -     Financiera Industrial y Agropecuaria, 8.A.
(Industrial and Agricultural Finance Corporation)
FIGSA          -     Financiera Industrial de Guatemala# 8.A.
(Guatemalan Industrial Finance Corporation)
PISA           -     Financiera Industrial, S.A.
(Industrial Finance Corporation)
GUATEXPRO      -     Centro Guatemalteco de Promocion de Exportaciones
(Guatemalan Export Promotion Center)
ITC            -     International Trade Center
SIECA          -     Secretaria Permanente de Tratado General do Integracion
Economica
(Permanent Secretariat for the General Treaty for
Central American Economic Integration)
SVIR           -     Standard Variable Interest Rate of the Bank
FIaCAL D ER
January I - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washlngn, D.C. 20433
U.SA
Offic, of Olreotr4eneral
Opeftons Evaluaion
December 10, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUIVE DIREC RS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Guatemala -
Industrial Credit Project (Ian 2383-G)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Guatemala - Industrial Credit Project (Loan
2383-GU) prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. Part n of the report
contributed by the Borrower provides a thoughtfil assessment of design shortcomings and
implementation lessons.
The main objective of the project was to promote non-traditional exports outside the Central
American Common Market by providing: a line of credit for small and medium enterprises; and
technical assistance to strengthen the export policy framework and the appraisal and supervision of
subprojects by the financial intermediaries.
The project largely failed to meet its objectives. The economic and policy environment was
not conducive to private sector investment or to export activities destined for new markets. The line
of credit component suffered from serious design deficiencies. In the early years of the project, the
onlending rates were uncompetitive in an environment of controlled interest rates, and the financial
spreads offered to participating intermediaries were not attractive. The technical assistance component
was largely unutilized and audit covenants were not complied with for several years.
As a result of the above, project implementation was very slow and the loan closed three years
behind schedule. Implementation was also affected by the fact that Bank disbursements to Guatemala
were suspended three times during the project period because of the country's failure to meet its debt
service obligations. Weak monitoring and evaluation arrangements made It impractical to reestimate
economic and financial returns of subprojects.
Overall, the project is rated as unsatisfactory. Institutional development achievements are rated
as negligible and sustainability as unlikely.
The PCR is of good quality and candidly discusses the many shortcomings of the project. Its
major conclusion is that the project's objectives and design were inappropriato given the
macroeconomic, trade and financial policy distortions prevailing in the country at the time.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
i Th documn has a rostioed duuibution and may be used by reipie only in the performance of their oflicial dus ls conte_t
may ro otherwis be discloked withWut Wodd Bank ahoriaon.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Q!TE-MNa
INDUTITRIAL CPADIT PROJECT
ELOAN A383-GtJ)
TABLE_OF CONTENTS
PAGE NO.
PREFACEA...         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  i
EVALUATION SUMMa RY    ii    ...      0*          
PART I .    PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.  Project Identity  . . . . .. . . . .. .
B.  Background  . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .            1
C. Project Objective and Descriptio.i . . . .           1
D. Project Design and organization . . . . .            2
E. Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . .            3
P.  Project Results . . . . . . . . . . . . .           4
0. Project Sustainability  . . . . . . . . .            6
R.  Bank's Performance  . . . . . .    . ...            6
T. Borrower's Performance  . . . . . . . . .            7
J. Project Relationship  . . . . . ... . .              7
K.  Project Documentation and Data  . . . . .           7
L.  Lessons Learned . . . . . . . . . ... .             8
PART II.    PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.  Project Preparation and Implementation . .          9
B.  Lessons Learned      . . . . . . . . . . .         12
C. World Bank/Borrower/Central Bank
Relationship . . . . . . . ........                13
PART III.   BASIC DATA
1.  Related Bank Loans  . . . . . . . .... .           14
2.  Project Timetable . . . . . . t..  . . . . .       14
3.  Loan Disbursements  . . . . . . . .  .  ..         15
4.  Project Cost and Financing  . . . . . . . .        15
S.  Status of Major Loan Covenants  . . . . . .        16
6.  Use of Bank Resources       .  .  .  .  .  .  .    18
This document has a restrcted distribudon and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dudes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizatdon.



ANNEXES    1.  Subproject Profile  . . . . . . . . . . . .         19
2.  Distribution of Subprojects . . . . . . . .        20
3.  Subprcjocts Financed Under Loan 2383-GU . .        21
4.  The Financieras:  Balance Sheet . . . . . .        23
S.  The Financieras:  Income Statement  . . . .        24
6.  Commercial Bankss  Balance Sheet  . . . . .        25
7.  Commercial Banks:  Income Statement . . . .        26
8.  List of Intermediaries Under Loan 2383-GU .        27



I-$ 
P8QJET=  COMPLETION RPORT
INDUSTRIAL CREDI PROJECT
(LOAN 2383-GU)
'REFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Industrial Credit
Project in Guatemala, for which Loan 2383-GU in the amount of US$20.0 million was
approved on February 21, 1984. The project was implemented at a time when the
economic and political climate in Guatemala were uncertain, thus sharply reducing
investments and limiting access to foreign financing. Actu.-A implementation took
much longer than expected at appraisal for reasons both irternal and external to
the project. The final date for commitment was postponed three times from June
30, 1986 to December 31, 1989, and the original Closing Date of December 31, 1987
was also postponed three times to June 30, 1990. A total of US$3.25 million from
the Loan was cancelled, mostly reflecting unutilized technical assistance funds.
The final disbursement was made on July 19, 1990.
The PCR was prepared by the Country Operations Division 2, Country
Department TI, of the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Part I and Part ZII), and Banco de Guatemala (Part II).
Preparation of the PCR was started in mid-Apri 1992 and a completion
mission visited Guatemala in May 1992. It is based, inter alia, on the Staff
Appraisal and President's Reports; the Loan and Project Agreementsl supervision
reports; correspondence between the Bank, and the Borrower and Banco de
Guatemala; and MIS data.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GUATEMALA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2383-GU)
EVALUATION SUMtARY
ObJectives
1.          The project was intended to support the Government's strategy of
promoting non-traditional exponts outside the Central American Common Karket
(CACM) by: (i) providing technical assistance to encourage producers of non-
traditional products to export to markets outside the CACH, to strengthen the
export promotion policy framework and strategy, and to increase the capacity of
Banco de Guatemala (BG) and participating financial intermediaries to prepare,
appraise, and supervise proje-ts; and (ii) providing medium- and long-term credit
and foreign exchange to medium and smaller enterprises to finance the fixed
assets and related working capital needs of financially and economically sound
investment subprojects for industrial rehabilitation, reconversion and expansion.
Implementation and Results
2.          The loan was approved on February 21, 1984 but did not become
effective until February 27, 198S because of administrative red-tape (see para.
1.9).  Actual implementation took much longer than expected for reasons both
internal and external to the project and significant loan disbursements occurred
only in Bank fiscal years 1986, 1988 and 1989. First, the level of domestic
investment declined significantly during the first years of the loan (para.
1.10).  The recovery of investment, and particularly private sector investment
in 1987, coincided with the resumption of disbursements under the Bank loan
(para. 1.10). Second, general foreign exchange availability varied over the loan
life affecting subloan demand since in fact the primary advantage to
beneficiaries of the credit line was its access to foreign exchange (para.1.11).
hird, the rate of interest charged on subloans during much of the period was
uncompetitive with alternative (and interest controlled) domestic sources of
funds (para. 1.12). Fourth, the commercial banks were unaccustomed to carrying
out the kinds of detailed project evaluations required to obtain financing. The
BG apparently was also slc to train its staff and adopt the credit manuals
agreed upon during loan negotiations and train staff of the commercial banks in
project evaluation (para.1.13). Eifth, it is likely that the small size of the
spread allowed to financial intermediaries discouraged the use of the credit
line, taking into account what the financial intermediaries considered were
onerous project evaluation and supervision requirements (para. 1.13).
3.          During the period mid-1988 to end-1989 when the great majority of
commitments were made, a number of factors contributed to the speeding up of
implementation. The liquidity of the banking system had decreased, there was a
shortage of foreign exchange, subloan interest rates were in line with competing
interest rates, the free limit had been increased and working capital financing
was permitted with Bank resources, subproject appraisal and BG review procedures
had been simplified, and the Government permitted financial intermediaries to
accept at nominal value Government stabilization bonds which traded at a discount
in the secondary market, both as guarantee for subloans and for use in repaying
subloans.



- iil. -
4.          The project also experienced interruptions due to Guatemala'" non-
payment of its debt service obligations to the Bank. During the life of the
project, disbursements to Guatemala were suspended three times (September 17,
1985, August 30, 1988, and September 6, 1989) lasting from one week to four
months. On July 2, 1990, Guatemala was placed on non-accrual status and as a
result, no new projects were approved, project execution was suspended, further
extension of the loan's commitment and Closing Date was not possible, and
supervision was halted.   Effective December 9, 1991, US53.2S million was
cancelled from the loan account.
5.          Forty two subprojects were financed under the loan, of which 22 were
above the free limit of US$400,000. The average size of subloans was VS$384,600
and the average size of subprojects was US$585,100. Five subloans financed new
enterprises and the rest financed expansion and modernization. All subloans were
made to private enterprises and almost all financed projects in Guatemala City.
Twenty nine subloans, for which partial information on employment generation is
available created 848 new jobs. For all subprojects together, the average cost
per job created was about US$32,000 equivalent.   Excluding working capital
subprojects, for which job creation is usually nil, the average cost per job
created of about US$23,000 equivalent was relatively low (para. 1.16).
6.          Of the 42 subloans, 27 have been fully repaid, 10 are being repaid,
and repayment for the remaining five has not yet started. There were no reported
arrears under the subloans. Financial rates of return (FRR) were calculated for
all investment subloans above the free limit (52%) and for about 80% of all
investment subloans below the free limit (pars. 1.18) . Economic rates of return
(ERR) were calculated for only 8 (or 19%) of the 42 subloans, in accordance with
the loan agreement stipulations (calculation of ERRs only for subprojects above
the free limit, excluding working capital). The extent to which Bank staff
monitcred the adequacy of the economic and financial analysis applied to
subproject appraisal was uneven. Due to unavailability of data, the project's
effect in expanding output and non-traditional exports outside the CACM is not
readily evident (para. 1.19).
7.          The two studies envisaged under the technical assistance component
of the project were not undertaken, seemingly because of the Government's
reluctance to use Bank funds for technical assistance purposes in spite of its
original undertakings. Two studies on exports were financed, however, by other
external creditors and supported the preparation of the Export Sector Promotion
loan (not presented to the Board) and the Economic Modernization Loan (approved
by the Board irn November 1992). Except for some training of Project Unit staff
in BG and purchase of one computer for the Project Unit, the technical assistance
objective of improving intermediaries' project evaluation, appraisal and
supervision capabilities were not fulfilled. Of the US$2.0 million originally
allocated to the technical assistance component, only US$38,245 was utilized
(para. 1.20 and 1.21).
Findinas and Lessons Learned
8.          A loan of this design should not have been made in a country with
such serious macroeconomic imbalances, where the financial sector was not
competitive, and in which interest rates were closely controlled (para. 1.30-
1.34). The loan disbursed slowly primarily because subloan interest rates were
not competitive with controlled domestic interest rates. Subloans were repayable
in local currency at an interest rate which was pegged to the World Bank's cost
of funds plus spreads to cover administrative costs. However, given interest
rate controls and an inadequate exchange rate premium in domesti'e rates, subloan
rates were in general considerably below free market levels. In addition, a
mechanism to adjust subloan interest rates annually worked too slowly. Fir.ancial
spreads on subloans were also not large enough to cover the costs of project
preparation and supervision, the risks of the credit operations and did not
therefore provide financial intermediaries sufficient incentive to promote use
of the credit line. As a consequence subloans were primarily sought during times



- iv -
of foreign exchange stringency. Finally, controlled interest rates dtd not allow
inclusion of an adequate foreign exchange risk premium in subloan interest rates.
9.          Other lessons that could be derived from project experlence on the
design and implementation of credit operations such as this one includet (i)
distortionary trade policies presented a major obstacle to the project's
objective of further expanding non-traditional export outside the CACM; (ii) more
intensive Bank appraisal and supervision of financial intermediaries or sthe
strengthening of supervisory agencies are required in order to ensure that the
same standards that the Bank would normally apply if it were lending directly to
them are maintained; (iii) technical assistance needs to be prepared carefully
in advance and exclusively to cover essential needs directly related to project
execution, and to implement them rapidly, since the relevance of technical
assistance and the interest of both the Bank and the Government are subject to
fast erosion; and (iv) given the general instability of the economy the absence
of an automatic adjustment mechanism for subloan interest rates maade it
difficult to adjust those rates quickly to changing circumstances.
10.         Purthermore, it should be noted, particularly for projects of this
type, that a delay of one year to accommodate congressional approval will tend
to affect any project irrespective of how carefully it was designed, particularly
if the borrower is not ready to make disbursements immediately to be reimbursed
at a later date when the agreements become effective. In Guatemala, as in other
Central American countries, more expeditious approval processes need to be
established.



PROJECT COM-PLETON R"PORT
GUATEMVAL
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2383-OU1
PART Is PROJECT REVIEW FROM TWE BANK S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Proiect Identity
Project Name:                  Industrial Credit Froject
Loan No.:                      2383-GU
Original Loan Amount:          US$20.0 million equivalent
Cofinancing:                   None
RVP Unit:                      Latin America and the Caribbean Region
country:                       Guatemala
Sector:                        Industry
Borrower:                      Republic of Guatemala
B.    Background
1.1   Creation of the Central American Common Market (CACM) in 1961 stimulated
the development of GuatemalaIs industrial sector. By the mid-1970s, however, the
CACM's small size became an obstacle to further industrial development as
opportunities for investment in new activities were largely exhausted and growth
of manufacturing sector exports were limited to increases in regional demand for
existing products. The CACM limitation was aggravated by world-wide recession,
the drop in prices and revenues for all major commodities exported by Central
America (coffee, cotton and sugar), and serious political and social tensions
including armed conflicts in El Salvador and Nicaragua as well as Guatemala.
1.2   The Guatemalan Government recognized the need to reorient industrial
development from regional import substitution to export for third markets if the
country were to achieve higher export growth rates. By end 1982 it decided to
gradually eliminate disincentives for exports outside the CACM, to encourage
increased productivity and domestic value added, as well as to assist exporters
in opening new markets for non-traditional exports (i.e. all exports except
coffee, cotton, sugar, bananas and beef). Specifically the Government decided
to: (i) give priority to non-traditional exports in the phasing out of exchange
controls and import restrictions; (ii) revise export incentives, including
reshaping of tariff policies to rationalize the uneven effective protection for
industrial products; and (iii) increase technical assistance to exporters
focussing on the promotion and development of non-traditional exports.
C.    Proiect Obiective and DescriDtion
1.3   The subject $20 million project, prepared by the Banco de Guatemala (BG)
with the assistance of Bank preparation missions in June and September 1982, was
appraised in December 1982 and updated in December 1983. Its objective was to
support the promotion of non-traditional exports outside the GCN. The loan was
made to the Government as follows: $2.0 million for technical assistance, of
which $625,000 was to be provided to BG on a non-reimbursable basis; and $17.9
million for the financing of investment subprojects.



-2-
1.4   Project components iuicludeds
Part; a     Financing specific investment projects through sub-loans
to enterprises;
Part B:     Training staff of the project unit and participating
intermediaries in project evaluation and supervision;
PaoC:-9-    Financing technical assistance through sub-loans to
enterprises producing non-traditional goods;
PaSt D:     Providing  technical  assistance to  the borrower to
support development of an export promotion program;
Part St     Study of ways to support growth of small enterprises.
1.5         Bank financing of subproject components in line with their estimated
foreign exchange content was permitted as follows: (i) 100% of imported machinery
and equipment, inputs, and consulting and training services; (ii) 60% of locally
purchased machinery, equipment, parts and inputs; and (iii) 40% of buildings,
related infrastructure, and installation costs of machinery and equipment. Such
financing was subject to an overall limitation of 65% of the total project cost
of new enterprises and 80% for existing enterprises, excluding land but including
fixed assets to be financed under the proposed subproject.
1.6         The loan carried the standard variable interest rate (SVIR), a front-
end fee of $49,875, and a commitment fee of three-fourths of on., percent per
annum on the principal amount of the loan not withdrawn. It was repayable in 17
years, including 4 years of grace. The Government assumed the cross-currency
risk, and onlent the proceeds of the loan in US dollars to BG on the same terms
aiid conditions as the Bank loan, except for US$625,000 which was granted BG to
finance technical assistance to public entities. BG onlent the loan proceeds in
Quet:ales to industrial borrowers through financial intermediaries that met SG
conditions for participation. Interest on the subloans was at a rate of not less
than the annual interest rates applicable to the Bank loan plus up to S
percentage points. The maximum terms of investment subloans were 12 years with
up to 3 years of grace. The 5% markup over the World Bank's cost of funds was
distributed as follows: financial intermediaries were allowed a maximum fixed
spread of 4% for small-scale subprojects and 3% for medium-scale subprojects and
the BG was allowed spreads of 1% and 2%, respectively. Bank funds for technical
assistance were onlent by BG in Quetzales for up to 5 years, including up to 2
years of grace through financial intermediaries at the Bank's SVIR plus a 1%
spread to the financial intermediary.
1.7         A Project Unit was established under BG to carry out the project.
Its operation was governed by e Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures,
supplemented by a Credit Manuaj. covering the investment financing operation (see
pare'. 1.26). intermediaries were to be required to sign participation agreements
with BG, which would detail their responsibility to: (L) maintain a sound
financial condition; (ii) appraise projects in accordance with BG guidelines;
(iii) supervise projects to ensure that resources had been used for the purpose
intended and that projects were progressing on schedule; (iv) adhere to terms of
lending and repayment of loans; (v) ensure that procurement and disbursement
provisions were met; (vi) maintain adequate records on Bank-financed subprojects;
and (viii) provide the Project Unit and the Bank with periodic reports on
subprojects financed and under study.
D.    Proiect Desian and Oraanization
1.8         The design of the project had faults in a number of respects,



-3-
reflecting among other things a poor appreciation of the distorted macroeconomic
environment in Guatemala and a limited understanding of the operations of credit
markets. Loan funds were expected unrealistically to be committed in about two
years. Credit demand, however, was overestimated and subloan commitments were
much slower than anticipated and the final date for commitments had to be
postponed three times. Secondly, in an environment of controlled interest rates,
the rates on subloans and spreads to financial intermediaries were unattractive
to project beneficiaries and financial intermediaries respectively. As a result
funds from the loan were attractive only during periods of foreign exchange
shortage. Thirdly, subloans were made in Quetzales with no premium for foreign
exchange risk. Fourthly, the project did not take account of the Government's
traditional reluctance to borrow funds for technical assistance.   Finally,
elaborate rules for subloan appraisals were not adhered to in part because they
were seen as too onerous.
F.    Proiect Implementation
1.9         Implementation took longer than expected for reasons internal and
external to the project. Although the loan was approved on February 21, 1984,
it only became effective February 27, 1985. The terminal date for effectiveness
had to be postponed twice due to slowness in obtaining the required approvals of
the loan by the Congress, Secretary-General of the planning agency, and by the
Read of State. The final date for commitment was postponed three times from June
30, 1986 to December 3, 1989 and the original Closing Date of December 31, 1987
was postponed three times to June 30, 1990.
1.10        Loan commitments were slow and uneven with significant disbursements
only in Bank fiscal years 1986, 1988, and 1989. Firstly, domestic investment
declined significantly from an average of 15.7% of GDP in 1980-1982 to 11.4% in
1983-1985, and 10.3% in 1986. Investment recovered in 1987 to 13.9% and stayed
roughly at this level through 1989.
1.11        Second, general foreign exchange availability varied over the loan
life affecting subloan demand. In November, 1984 the Government had adopted a
new exchange rate system under which exporters and importers were allowed to
transact various percentages of their foreign exchange operations in the parallel
market. In 1985 and early 1986 only 3 subloans were approved, two at an exchange
rate of Q2.788 to the dollar and one at Q1.63 to the dollar. In 1986 a three-
tier multiple exchange rate system was established with an official arket, a
regulated market for most imports and exports, and a market determined banking
exchange rate. A rate of Q2.5 per US dollar applied to imports financed under
the loan and until May 1988 eight more subloans were approved. In June 1988, the
exchange rate was unified and further depreciated to Q2.70 per USS1.00, and kept
at this rate despite a continuing fiscal disequilibrium. Between June 1988 and
December 1989 the remaining 31 subloans under the project were authorized. It
appears that the shortage of foreign exchange beginning when the Government
attempted to maintain the nominal exchange rate contributed to an acceleration
of commitments under the loan.
1.12        Third, the rate of interest charged on subloans affected the pace of
commitments.   Domestic interest rates were still subject to direct public
controls and seemed to reflect an inadequate premium for foreign exchange risk.
Moreover the interest rate review mechanism called for under the loan did not
work as anticipated as adjustments were made with considerable delays and
consequently were out of line with then existing market conditions. As a result
the project's subloan interest rates therefore were frequently noncompetitive.
From 1985 until early 1987 the annual 15.58% interest rate on subloans exceeded
rates of 12-13% available from commercial banks. From March 1987 until July
1988, subloan interest rates were reduced to 14%, competitive with commercial
bank rates of between 14% and 15%. When commercial bank interest rates rose to
16% in early 1989 the interest rate on subloans was raised to the same level in



- 4 -
October 1989. Use of the credit line apparently was further discouraged by the
judgement of financial intermediaries that the allowed spread (three percentage
points for medium-scale subprojects and four points for small-scale subprojects--
i.e. firms with assets, excluding land, of less than US$250,000 equivalent) was
inadequate given what they thought were onerous and costly project evaluation and
supervision requirements.
1.13        Fourth, approval of subloans was slow reflecting commercial banks
unfamiliarity with the detailed project evaluations required to obtain financing
and the BG's slowness in training its own and commercial bank staff and adopting
the credit manuals agreed upon during loan negotiations. Because of the slow
pace of commitments during the early stages of the loan, the larger than
anticipated size of subprojects, the free limit was increased from U~T000,000 to
US$400,000 in December 1986. In another attempt to be responsive to the needs
of the industrial sector and increase loan activity, the project agreement was
also amended in February 1988 to allow financing of working capital and US$6
million was reallocated to this new category.
1.14        Finally, during the commitment period of the loan, Bank disbursements
to Guatemala were suspended three times (September 17, 1985, August 30, 1988 and
September 6, 1989) for periods ranging from one week to four months. After
Guatemala was placed on non-accrual status on July 2, 1990, no new subprojects
were approved and project execution was suspended. Effective December 9, 1991,
the US$3.25 million remaining undisbursed under the loan was cancelled.
1.15        In summary, there wera a series of factors which delayed subproject
commitments: a low level of investments due to macroeconomic factors when bank
liquidity was high, an interest rate policy which put rates on subloans at levels
above domestic rates for a large part of the commitment period, and requirements
for subproject review and supervision which the financial intermediaries
considered onerous particularly in view of the low interest rate spreads allowed
on subloans. While the commitment period of the loan lasted from March 1985 to
June 1990, the great majority of commitments were made between mid-1988 and the
end of 1989 when the liquidity of the banking system had decreased, there was a
shortage of foreign exchange, subloan interest rates were in line with competing
interest rates, the free limit had been increased and working capital financing
was permitted with Bank resources, subproject appraisal and BG review had been
simplified, and the Government permitted financial intermediaries to accept at
nominal value Government stabilization bonds which traded at a discount in the
secondary market, both as guarantee for subloans and for use in repaying
subloans.
F.    ProJect Results
1.16        The loan was expected to finance 60-80 industrial subprojects
involving a total cost of US$32.0 million and to generate 1,500-1,600 new jobs
at an average fixed investment cost of US$20,000 (in 1983 prices) per job. In
the event the loan financed 42 subprojects (between 53% to 70% of the original
estimate) at a cost of US$24.8 million (78% of the estimated original total
cost).   Twenty-nine subloans, for which partial information on employment
generation is available, created about 848 new jobs. For all subprojects, the
average cost per job created was about US$32,000 equivalent. Excluding working
capital subprojects for which job creation is usually nil, the average cost per
job created of about US$23,000 was relatively low.
1.17        Of the 42 subprojects, 22 were above the free-limit of US$400,000;
including six above US$1.0 million. The average size of subloans was $384,600
and the average size of subprojects was $585,100. Five subloans financed new
enterprises and the rest funded expansion and modernization. All subloans went
to private enterprises and almost all (91%) financed projects in Guatemala City,
reflecting the concentration of industrial activity in the capital.   (See



statistLes on subloans In Annexes 1, 2, and 3.) The high demand for equipment
modernization and plant expansion was in line wlth expect.ations at a.,raisal.
Out of the 42 subloans, 27 have been fully repaid, 10 are being repaid and
repayment for five subloans has not yet started. There are no reported arrears.
1.18        Financial rates of return (FRR) were calculated for all investment
subloans above the free limit (52%) and for about 80% of all lnvestment subloans
below the free-limit. However, economic rates of return (ERR) were calculated
for only 8 (or 19%) of the 42 subloans since the loan agreement specified
calculation of ERRs only for subprojects above the free limit, excluding working
capital.   The calculations of FRR (38%) and of ERR (54%) are taken from
applications of financial lntermediaries, are prospective, and may reflect upward
blases Lnherent Ln the process of seeking BO approval of the subloan.
1.19         Due to unavailability of data, the project's direct effect in
expanding output and non-traditional export outside the CACM is not readily
evident. Nonetheless, partly due to the introduction of economic policies more
conducive to exports (i.e. the three-tier multiple exchange rate system ln 1986)
and expansion of inventory and imported capital goods, non-traditlonal export
outside the CACM increased in 1987 and continued growing in subsequent years.
Export of Industrial Products to Non-CAM. 1984-1989'
(US$ millions)
Subsector       r 1984    1985  | 1986  | 1987    1988  | 1989
Food, Beverage,
Tobacco               23.6    23.2    21.6    33.2    35.3    43.9
Chemical Products         23.2    23.1    19.9    23.3    19.8    21.0
Textile & Clothing         8.6      6.0     7.8    14.6    14.7    17.8
Manufacture wood           1.8      2.6     5.5      918    12.6    10.8
Glass products             1.7      3.6     3.5      3.6     4.9      4.5
Machinery (non-elect)     21.3    20.5      0.2      0.1     0.8      2.2
Metal Products             0.6      0.5     0.2      1.0     0.3      3.2
others                     9.3      8.2     7.7      9.1    17.5    24.1
--.TOTAL             90.1    87.7    66.4    94.7   105.9   127.4
Increase/Decrease    _-3%    -25%    +43%    +12%    +20%
1.20        Under the project's technical assistance component, two studies were
envisaged on: (i) the levels of effective protection of individual industrial
projects, alternatives for providing incentives to exports, and the need for
additional financial mechanlsms for exporters (21 man-month for US$260,000); and
(ii) identlfying policy and other constraints to the growth of small-scale
enterprises and the best means to eliminate the constraints (8 man-months for
US$95,000).  Although not financed by the loan because of the Government's
reluctance to borrow technical assistance funds, two studies on exports financed
by other external creditors were completed (Export Guarantee and Insurance System
in Guatemala, and Effect of Tariff Reform).   These studLes supported the
preparation of the Export Sector Promotion loan (not presented to the Board) and
the Economic Modernization Loan (approved by Board in November 1992).
Source: Guatemala Countra Economic Memorandum, Juno 19, 1991.



- 6 -
1.21        The  technical  assistance  component  also  aimed  at  improving
intermediaries' project evaluation, appraisal and supervision capabilities. This
objective was not fulfilled.  Participating financial intermediaries limited
their subproject appraisal to a simple cash flow analysis (ability to service
debt) and a review of the guarantees offeted by clients. In some instances,
intermediaries assisted enterprises in completing the application forms required
by BG but seldom, if ever, undertook a proper project evaluation. The task of
evaluating projects was performed by the CG in order to meet Bank requirements.
In June 1989, when it was clear that the technical assistance component would not
be fully utilized, US$1.6 of the US$2.0 million from the technical assistance
category was reallocated to the investment category of the loan.   Of the
remaining $400,000, only $38,246 was utilized for some training of the SG Project
Unit staff and purchase of a computer and the rest was cancelled.
G.    Proiect Sustainabililty
1.22        The proceeds of the loan were used primarily to finance imported
machinery, equipment and raw materials. The subloans were repayable in local
currency and the payments collected thereunder have not been relent by SG but
will be used to repay the loan made to SG.   Many subloans were made for
relatively short periods. Most of the working capital subloans made in 1989 were
made for periods of as little as six to 12 months. Nevertheless, significant
exchange losses have and will continue to accrue to the SG as most subloans were
made at Q2.5 or Q2.7 to the US dollar while the exchange rate fluctuated around
QS/US$1 since 1990.  Consequently, based on exchange rate movements to the
present, the amount of Quetzales required to repay the principal of the Bank loan
could be roughly double that originally anticipated. Sustainable benefits from
the project, other than the lessons learned by the participating implementing
agencies and financial intermediaries, would include the returns on the
investments made from the one time transfer of resources.
H.    Bank Performance
1.23        During project preparation and appraisal, Bank staff and consultants
worked closely with Banco de Guatemala, the Ministry of Industry and Economy, the
Ministry of Finance and the Guatemala Export Promotion Center, as well as a
representative sample of 30 industrial firms with high export potential in order
to understand financing needs at the enterprise level.   Nonetheless, the
appraisal mission's expectations regarding the investment climate in Guatemala
were too optimistic, while the project failed to account for the structure of
Guatemalan interest rates and ignored obvious foreign exchange risks.
1.24        The appraisal mission also sought to determine the training and
technical assistance needs of both potential exporters and support organizations
and concluded that there was a great demand for technical assistance funds.
Nevertheless, it failed to take into consideration the Guatemalan Government's
reluctance to finance technical assistance from Bank funds. The project did not
have an agreed program of technical assistance for staff training although an
improvement in the capacity of BG and participating intermediaries to prepare,
appraise and supervise subprojects was critical to reduce the risk of initial
delays in subloan processing under the new institutional arrangements established
under the project.
1.25        Ten supervision missions between 1984 and 1990, and a total of 64.1
staffweeks (of which about 8 were in the field) were devoted to thts project.
Shortcomings of supervision were: (i) the time allocated was less than adequate
at about 10 staffweeks per year given the problems of the loan; (ii) missions
were short, usually only one person; (iii) missions focused on loan utilization
rates rather than addressing more major problems affecting the project (i.e. the
impact of poor macroeconomic policies, anomalies in the interest rate system, a



- 7 -
biased tariff system, etc.). Therefore, efforts to overcome weak loan demand by
reallocating funds to a new working capital component and increasing the free
limit proved ineffective in completing the project on schedule; and (iv) the Bank
failed to impose compliance with some of the loan covenants (i.e. economic
analysis being applied to subproject appraisal was inadequate and periodic
progress reports were submitted sporadically with no evldence that regular
submissions were ever requested). Supervision effectiveness was further diluted
by the project's protracted implementation period.
I.    Borrower's Performance
1.26        Banco de Guatemala's operation under the project was to be governed
by the Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures, supplemented by the Credit
Manual covering its investment financing operations. These were intended to
ensure that credit was made available for financially and economically sound
investment subprojects, and to guide BG and participating financial
intermediaries in the preparation, appraisal, and supervision of subprojects.
in the event these guidelines were not fully followed. There was no supervision
by BG of the participating banks and BG's promotion of new operations was poor.
Participating banks evaluated subprojects merely by checking the market,
technical  feasibility,  financial  estimates  and projections.    No  regular
supervision of sub-projects were conducted, and only occurred on a selected basis
when an enterprise was unable to pay, in which case the financial intermediary
resorted to judicial actions.
1.27        Audit reports were generally late, incomplete, and unacceptable.
Audits performed by the Superintendencia de Bancos did not satisfy the
independent audit criteria of the Bank. Audit reports for 1985, 1986, and 1987
did not contain a statement on sources and application of funds, a separate
auditor's opinion on Statements of Expenditures, and a compliance opinion on
financial covenants under the loan agreement. In spite of extensive Bank efforts
to improve the quality and timeliness of audit reports, reports for 1988-1991
were also submitted late and in the case of the first two years satisfied Bank
requirements only after an addendum was submitted at a later date.
J.    Proiect Relationship
1.28        Although the relationships among the Ministry of Finance, SG and the
Dank were generally cordial, BG's responses to Dank requests for action and
information (such as revisions in interest rates charged to intermediaries and
enterprises; implementation of technical assistance and training; submission of
audit reports) were frequently inadequate and delayed.   Intermediary banks
complied with BG's requirements for subl6an application only minimally as some
intermediaries felt that SG was requiring unnecessary information and that its
subproject approval process was too slow.  Coordination among the Secretary
General of Planning (SEGEPLAN), the agency which coordinated all technical
assistance program received abroad, the Director of External Finance, the General
Manager of BG, and the Vice Minister of Economy, the agency involved in the study
of the export incentive system, was poor. Staff turnover during the nine years
from appraisal to cancellation contributed to poor performance.
K.    Proiect Documentation and Data
1.29        The legal agreements, including the various amendments, generally
provided the parties with adequate rights, protection and clarification during
project implementation. Basic data for the preparation of this PCR on the part
of the Bank's Project Files and MIS was generally readily available, although
supervision  reports  were repetitive.   Data requested  from BG concerning
subprojects was furnished.



-8
L.   Lessons Learned
1.30        A financial intermediary loan of this design should not have been
made la a country with such serious macroeconomic imbalances, where the financial
sector was not competitive, and in which interest rates were closely controlled.
Many of the lessons of this operation are similar to those in other financial
credit projects. First, because financial sector problems are often the result
of Government policies, the Bank should ensure that the macroeconomic environment
is conducive to the achievement of the intended project objectives. In fact the
Guatemalan economy suffered from serious macroeconomic imbalances, a distorted
exchange rate system, and interest rate controls. Subloans were repayable in
local currency at an interest rate which was pegged to the World Bank's cost of
funds. However, given domestic interest rate controls and an inadequate exchange
rate premium in those rates, it was impossible to set competitive rates on
subloans and at the same time provide for an attractive spread for participating
intermediaries and an adequate foreign exchange premium. Actual rates, however,
were still higher than controlled domestic rates and, consequently, subloans were
primarily sought during times of foreign exchange stringency. Guatemala's trade
regime was still biased for the protection of final consumer goods and industries
when the loan was approved. Finally, as soon as the loan was made the overall
level of domestic investment declined significantly.
1.31        Second,  intensive Bank appraisal and supervision of financial
intermediaries or the strengthening of the supervisory agencies are required in
order to ensure that they are properly regulated, and that the same standard that
the Bank would normally apply if it were lending directly to them are maintained.
However, in this case financial spreads on subloans were not large enough in the
view of financial intermediaries to cover the costs of project preparation,
supervision, and the risks of the credit operations, providing them insufficient
incentive to promote use of the credit line.
1.32        Third, the project demonstrates the need to prepare technical
assistance carefully in advance and to implement it rapidly since the relevance
of studies and the interest of both the Bank and the Government is subject to
fast erosion.    The Government's  attitude toward borrowing  for technical
assistance also should be carefully investigated.
1.33        Fourth, given the general instability of the economy and economic
policies and the absence of an automatic adjustment mechanism for subloan
interest rates, it was difficult to adapt subloan interest rates quickly to meet
changing circumstances.
1.34        Fifth, delays in domestic approval of Bank operations can have a
significant impact on project implementation and benefits, whatever their design
features, especially if the government is not ready to make disbursements subject
to subsequent Bank reimbursements once the loan is effective. In Guatemala, as
in other Central American countries, more expeditious approval processes need to
be established.



- 9 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM TBE BORROWER'S PERSPEcTIVE 2
A.    Proiect Preparation and Implementation
2.1.        Banco de Guatemala Document No. 439-OC-GU,  "Appraisal Report,
Industrial Credit Project, Guatemala" of January 26, 1984, written with
assistance from World Bank project preparation missions, indicated that the
objectives of this initial project were to provide financial assistance for
Guatemalan industry during a time of severe foreign exchange constraint and to
support the Government's strategy of promoting nontraditional industrial exports
outside the Central American Common Market.
2.2.        Funds were to be made available to cover fixed asset needs and
working capital requirements associated with investment subprojects, and the
Government was to receive technical assistance in evaluating the existing export
promotion system.
2.3.        Total project cost was estimated at US$32 million, of which the World
Bank was to contribute US$20 million. The counterpart contribution of US$12
million was to be obtained as follows:   US$6.5 million from intermediary
financial institutions and US$4.5 million from subproject promoters.
2.4.        On May 29, 1984, the Government of Guatemala and the World Bank
signed a Loan Agreement for the equivalent of various currencies of Us$20
million. On the same date, Banco de Guatemala signed a Project Agreement with
the Bank under which it assumed responsibility for execution of the project.
2.5.        The loan took effect as of February 27, 1985, once the additional
conditions for effectiveness specified in Section 6.01 of the Loan Agreement had
been complied with.
2.6.        Under the terms of Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement, loan proceeds
were to finance the following expenditure categories:  Investment Financing,
US$17,950,125; Technical Assistance, Us$2 million; and Fee US$49,909.
2.7.        Since the amount budgeted for technical assistance was not being
used, the World Bank mission of April 1989 recommended that US$1.56 million be
reallocated from this category to investment financing. Formal consent to this
change, requested by the Ministry of Public Finance in a communication to the
Bank dated June 9, 1989, was given on June 21, 1989.
2,
2 Ppatd by Danc o Guatemal. 



- 10 -
2.8.        Execution of the project budget was as follows:
(US$O00)
CATEGORY                                BUDGET    ____
_  Allocated    Implemented    Cancelled 3
TOTAL                      20,000.00      16.750.90      3.249.10
1.  Investment Financing          19,510.10      16,662.90      2,487.20
2.  Technical Assistance             440.00          38.10        401.90
3.  Fee                               49.90          49.90          -
2.9.        Execution of the investment financing budget was as follows:
YEAR                  COMZGTTED                UTWLIZED
TOTAL                        17,379.10                16,662.90
1985                                                       -
1986                          1,219.70                1,180.90
1987                            849.50                  849.50
1988                          3,563.10                3,495.80
1989                         10,326.60               10,005.00
1990                          1,420.20                1,131.70
2.10.       During the early stages of the project (1985-87), the pace of the
credit program was slow, owing to certain of its specifically administrative
aspects and to the country's economic policies at the time. For instance:
(a)   the information requested in connection with industrial loan
application was exhaustive, from the standpoint of both
applicants  and  financial  intermediaries.    In  addition,
approval of applications was very slow, since three
organizations were involved:   the particular intermediary
financial institution, Banco de Guatemala, and World Bank
headquarters in Washington, D.C.
(b)   the project was designed in an economic context in which
parity existed between the domestic currency and the U.S.
dollar. However, by November 1984, Guatemala had adopted a
multiple exchange rate system which gave rise to distortions
and uncertainty as far as credit business was concerned, with
the result that Banco de Guatemala had to redesign lending
procedures so as to bring them into line with the new exchange
measures adopted.
(c)   late 1984 and early 1985 were pre- and post-electoral periods
in Guatemala and were therefore times of political and
3  anuary 10. 1992.



- 11 -
economic uncertainty when investors refrained from negotiating
for loans.
2.11.       In one move designed to accelerate project implementation, agreement
WdB obtained from the World Bank in December 1986 to raising the subproject free
approval limit raised from US$200,000 to US$400,000.
2.12.       There was finally a turnaround in the program in late 1988 and early
1989, a period which saw release of 84% (US$11.2 million) of the total loan
proceeds disbursed by the World Bank for investment financing purposes (US$16.7
million).  This surge in investment activity was the result of a period of
relative political and economic stability in Guatemala and also of amendments to
the Project Agreement and credit program rules.  These amendments basically
expanded loan coverage to include working capital financing for industrial
enterprises, and raised the loan ceiling in relation to the total cost of a
subproject.
2.13.       After negotiations among the World Bank, Ministry of Public Finance
and Banco de Guatemala, these contractual changes were set out in a second letter
of Amendment of Loan Agreement issued by the World Bank on July 26, 1988. (The
first Letter of Amendment of Loan Agreement, dated September 3, 1985, created the
US$2 million Special Account, intended to facilitate the disbursement of loan
proceeds.)
2.14.       The credit program suffered a setback as a result of the measures
adopted by the Monetary Board in August 1989 for liberalizati-. of the exchange
rate and interest rates, measures which led some businesses to cancel their loan
applications.
2.15.       In the circumstances,  the Ministry of Public Finance,  on the
recommendation of Banco de Guatemala, asked the World Bank in January 1990 to
extend the deadline for committing and disbursing loan proceeds from December 31,
1989 to December 31, 1990, a request that was not acted upon.
2.16.       In April 1990, the World Bank placed Guatemala in non-accrual status,
the reason why requests relating to Loan 2838-GU were not acted upon. This meant
that USS3,249,100 of loan proceeds pending disbursement were virtually frozen.
Subsequently, the Borrower negotiated cancellation of this amount, an operation
carried out by the Bank on January 10, 1992.
2.17.       As a result of regulatory and contractual requirements, interest
rates at the beginning of the program were 15.58% per annum on investment
subloans and 11.58% per annum on technical assistance subloans. Participating
banks were allowed spreads of 3% and 4%, respectively. During the period the
line of credit was in effect, however, no technical assistance loans applications
were received.
2.18.       Because the cost of loan resources fell from 10.58% to 7.92% in March
1987, Banco de Guatemala cabled the World Bank on March 5, 1987 requesting that
it agrees to the subloan interest rate being lowered proportionately. The Bank
responded by telex on May 5, 1987, authorizing this rate to be lowered to 14%,
a figure in line with the banking system rates then in effect.
2.19.       On September 29, 1989, the Loan Committee reviewed and changes
program interest rates so as to bring them into line with financial market rates.
On this occasion, the rate for subloans was set at 16% per annum and for
financial intermediaries at 13% per annum.
2.20.       By telex on August 29, 1989, the World Bank proposed a modification
of subloan rates, as financial system interest rates had been liberalized under
Monetary Board Resolution JM-140-89.   Its recommendation was that Banco de
Guatemala charge the intermediary banks an interest rate equivalent to the



- 12 -
marginal cost of funds.
2.21.       In his response telexed on November 11, 1989, the Managing Director
of Banco de Guatemala advised the World Bank that his technical staff were
analyzing this proposal so that it could be discussed before possibly being
submitted to the Monetary Board. He also advised that the Bank had indicated
they would continue to apply the same interest rate (16% per annum) until January
1990, even though the Resolution which had liberalized rates was already in
effect.
2.22.       On July 31, 1991, applying the interest rate policy on foreign
currency loans set out in Monetary Board Resolution J3-165-90 (which dealt with
the earning rate on Banco de Guatemala's open market operation), the Loan
Committee fixed annual interest rates of 21.24% for subloans and 18.24% for
participating banks.   Subsequently,  under the same mechanism,  the subloan
interest rate was changed to set at 19.52% per annum on November 21, 1991.
2.23.       In its Resolution JM-378-91 of October 10, 1991, the Monetary Board
directed that interest rates on foreign currenuy loans to intermediary banks and
on their counterpart domestic currency loans be determined in light of the cost
of the external resources, projected depreciation in the exchange rate, and Banco
de Guatemala administrative costs. Account was also to be taken of the level of
banking system interest rates so that competitiveness with these resources would
be maintained.
2.24.       On April 2, 1992, under these instructions, the interest rate on
subsidiary loans (credit to participating banks) for the April-June 1992 quarter
was set at 12.08% and on loans to final users at 15.08%, rates that have remained
in effect until now.
B.          Lessons Learned
2.25.       The lessons learned from preparation and implementation of this
project were as follows:
2.26.       The legal and regulatory instruments governing a project of this type
need to be flexible, and amendment procedures even more so, given the fact that
the economies of our countries are very volatile. The rigid structure of these
programs may mean that progress with them is doubtful.
2.27.       Changes of Government and economic policy have a direct impact on the
outcome of a financial project. With this in mind, the World Bank should remain
in constant communication with project executing agencies so that strategies and
procedures can be adjusted to fit new circumstances.
2.28.       Experience was gained in working with the contractual instruments and
loan application appraisal and approval methods required by the World Bank, and
with the procedures used in disbursing loan proceeds. Since utilization of these
instruments and processes has its complexities, implementation of the project was
slow. We therefore recommend that for future programs of this type, the World
Bank provide ongoing assistance with their interpretation and management.
2.29.       The information requested of loan applicants with a view to appraisal
and possible approval of their proposals was exhaustive, making the whole process
so slow that a number of potential sub-borrowers withdrew their applications.
These problems induced the Project Management Unit, in consultation with World
Bank staff, to ask instead for the minimum information needed to allow appraisal
of a subproject, account being taken of whether the amount applied for was below
or above the free limit. In addition, visits before and after loan approval were
eventually dispensed with.



- 13 -
2.30.       Approximately 80% of subprojects financed were visited by Project
Management Unit personnel, in some cases accompanied by World Bank mission
members and in other by external auditors of the program, good results being
obtained in the process.
2.31.       The project objective was to promote exports of nontraditional
industrial goods outside the Central American market, and provide the Government
of Guatemala with technical assistance focused on the industrial sector
production system.
2.32.       This objective was not achieved to the extent anticipated, since the
strategies by which the Government had intended to foster exports were not
introduced during the project implementation period -- for the reason that
conditions conducive to opening up of the industrial sector to new markets simply
did not exist. However, many of the enterprises which applied for loans to
expand and modernize their installed capacity thereby prepared themselves for the
outward-oriented economic policy which the Government is pursuing at present.
C.          World Bank/Borrower/Central Bank Relationships
2.33.       The relationship between the World Bank and the Central Bank was
cordial at all times, despite some instances of inflexibility at the commencement
of the program. Subsequently, it became more open and spontaneous, which meant
that situations of the interpretative type could be overcome promptly.
2.34.       All communication was suspended once the World Bank placed the
country in non-accrual status (April 1990), after which Washington no longer
responded to administrative approaches of any type.
2.35.       The relationship between the Central  Bank and the Borrower,
represented by the Ministry of Public Finance, was cordial and flexible. Banco
de Guatemala, as executor and administrator of loan proceeds, kept the Borrower
abreast of program developments, thus complying with its obligations under the
Management Contract entered into by the parties.
2.36.       Amendments to the Loan and Project Agreements were discussed
beforehand with this Ministry, a consensus being reached in each case.



- 14 -
PART IXI   BASIC DATA
1.   Related Bank Loans
Loan Title/No.                                  Date of    Status/
|_______                    Purpose             Approval     Comments
Livestock        The loan provided financial     01/71    The loan
Development      and technical assistance to               was closed
Project;         about 300 beef building and               on 6/30/78.
Ln. 722-GU       fattening ranches to
increase production through
efficient modern
techniques. A special fund
was created in BG for the
discounting of livestock
subprojects presented by
qualifying intermediaries.
Earthquake       A small business credit         07/76    This loan
Reconstruction   component was included                    was closed
(Urban           under the loan which                      on
Development);    provided US$3.0 million for               12/31/82.
Ln. 1314-GV      assistance to small
producers of construction
materials and $1.0 million
to small commercial and
industrial enterprises.      __-_            _
2.   Proiect Timetable
Planned           Actual
| _________________________________ _ ,Date                   Date
Identification                               ..             06/21/82
Preparation                                  ..              09/82
Appraisal Departure                        12/82            12/29/82
Issues Paper                                               01/06/83
Loan Negotiations                            ..             05/09/83
Board Approval                            06/12/83          05/21/84
Loan Signature                            04/26/84          05/29/84
Loan Effectiveness                        08/28/84          02/27/85
Subloan Commitment Deadline               06/30/86          12/31/89
Loan Closing                              12/31/87          06/30/90
Final Loan Cancellation                                     12/09/92



- 15 ^
3.   KM& "812AXMEA9L3Ak
Cumulative Estlmated and Aetual Disgursements
(US$ million)
r                                    _    ,~~~r-   __ _ __ _  .-
FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90    FY91
Appraisal Estimate     4.50  S1.50  18.50  20.00  20.00  20.00  20.00
Actual                 0.04  02.08  02.08  07.48  16.61  16.61  16.75N
IActual as t of
Estimate            1.0%  18.0%  11.0%  37.0%  83.0%  83.0%  84.0%
Acua . m                  . of    _-        - r I---:: _.   _._-
IDate of First Disbursement                07/02/84
Initial Loan Closing Date                 12/31/87
First Extension of Loan Closing Date      12/31/88
Second Extension of Loan Closing Date     12/31/89
Third Extension of Loan Closing Date      06/30/90
Date of Last Disbursement                 07/19/90
4.   PERoect Cost and Financina
A. Projeet Cost
(US$ million)
_______ Appraisal Estimate
.______________________ _ .  ,Local           Foreign          Total
Investment Component                11.0             17.9           28.9
Technical Assistance                 1.0              2.0            3.0
Total Project Cost 5                12.0             19.9           31.0
Front-end Fee                  ._.                     .1             .1
Total                          12.0             20.0           32.0
4 A tio of USS3.25 mon fromM Ae undid podlon of he loan. Te Sm dfunea  was for USS123,486 on July 19,
1990.
$ Includi:ag pdice contineny .



- 16 -
B. Proiegt Financing
(USS million)
Source        Local      Foreign         Total         Percent
IBRD                 -             20.0           20.0           62.5
Bo                   1.0            _              1.0            3.1
Intermediaries       6.5            _              6.5           20.3
Enterprises          4.5        _                  4.5           14. 0
Total               12.0           20.0           32.0          100.0
C. XBRD Financina
(Expressed in US$ Equivalent)
!BRD Expenditure        Original       Revised          Actual
Categories             Loan           Loan            Loan
l____________________  .Allocation    Allocation    Disbursements
Investment Financing   17,950,125         1,950,120    12,030,693.82
Civil Works
Goods
Consultant Serv.
Working Capital                           6,000,000       4,632,059.20
Technical Assistance:
Consultant Serv.      2,000,000        2,000,000          38,245.97
Fees                        49,875           49,875          49,875.00
Subtotal      -     __ ___ _____   16,750,873.99
Cancelled                                                3,249,126.01
Total              20,000,000       20,000,000    20,000,000.00
5. Statue of Walor Loan Covenants
Agreement   Section                   DescriDtion                Status/Comments
Loan        2.09        BG to provide in a timely manner the   Complied with
foreign exchange required for the
procurement abroad of goods and
services.
Project     2.01        BG shall carry out the Project in        Partially complied
accordance with sound financial          with
standards and practices, qualified
personnel, the Statement of Operating
Policies and Procedures and the
Credit Manual.



- 17 -
Aareement   Section                   Description                Status/Comments
Project     2.02        SG shall maintain until Project          Complied with
completion a Project Unit, and
provide it with all necesuary
resources.
Project     2.04(b)    DO shall use the proceeds accrued to   This provision was
it from the repayment of the             waived and the
principal of Subsidiary Loans for        funds will be used
further relending.                       to pay off the
Government loan.
Project     2.05(a)    BO shall review with the Bank             Complied with
annually the adequacy of interest
rates to be charged.
Project     2.05(b)    BG shall revise interest rates in a    Complied with, but
manner satisfactory to the Bank.         with significant
time delays
Project     2.07(a)    BG shall furnish to the Bank all          Complied with
(b)        information requested, and will
maintain adequate records and
procedures.
Project     2.07(c)    Do shall prepare a report summarizing  Pending. BG has
the experience under the loan, six       agreed to complete
months after last disbursements.         Part II of this
PCR.
Project     3.02        BG shall furnish the Bank agreed         Complied with
information for subloan
approval/authorization
Project     5.01        SG shall maintain records adequate to  Complied with
reflect the operation, resources and
expenditures in respect of the
Project.
Project     5.02(a      BG shall have the accounts referred    In general, audit
and b)     to in Section 5.01(a), and financial   reports not
statements related to such accounts,    satisfactory.
duly audited for each fiscal year.
SG shall furnish to the Bank no later
than four months after the end of
each year, certified copies of the
accounts, financial statements and
audit reports iD such detail as
requested.



- 18 -
6. Use of Sank Resources
A.  8tafLLInBua
Actual
sta e of Project cycle           Fiscal Year       Staff Weeks
through Appraisal                           83                    18.1
Appraisal through Board Approval            84                    51.6
Supervison                                 92                    64.1
:    Iotal                             - -:       -   133.8
S. Missions
Month/    No. of   No. of    Date of
Activity              Year     Persons   Weeks       Report
Identification                  6/82       2        1       10/29/82
Appraisal                      11/82      ..        ..      01/26/84
Supervision 1                   9/84       1        1       10/23/84
Supervision 2                   3/85       1        1       05/17/85
Supervision 3                   8/85       1        1       10/17/85
Supervision 4                   3/86       1        1       05/02/86
Supervision 5                  11/86       1        .5      12/23/86
Supervision 6                   3/87       1        1       04/27/87
Supervision 7                  12/87       1        .5      01/05/88
Supervision 8                   6/88      ..        ..      06/22/88
Supervision 9                   4/89       2        2       06/30/89
Supervision 10                  3/90       1        1       04/30/90
'  MIS dau as of July 21. 1992.



- 19 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT                               ANNEX I
WATEMALA
INSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
................................_
Subproject Profile Under Loan 2838-CU
By Size of Subtoans                go.            X               Amunt                 X
Up to US$100,000                             12         28.61                 742,009           4.6X
USS1OO,0O1 - US$250,000                       8         19.01               1.375,752           8.5X
US00,OO1 - US$300,000                        12         28.6"               4,422.897          27.3X
US$S00,001 - USS1,000,000                     6          14.31              4.160,456          25.71
U81,000,001 - USSS,000,000                   4          9.31               S,511,746          34.01
Hore than U#5,.000,000
,..............    .........    ....................    .........
42        100.01              16,212,860         100.02
By Size of Subprojects
...................................
Ut  to USI250,000                            17         40.5X               2,398,834           9.71
UtS$  l001 - US$1,000,000                    19         45.21              11,717,313          47.3X
US$1,000,001 - USS5.000,000                   6          14.31             10.678,941          43.12
more than US$5,000,000                        *
.........    ......................... ...... ................  ............... ....
42        100.0X              24,7M5,088         100.0X
By Size of Enterprise
................................... ........................................ 
Satl (let   thn 51 eltoye)                   18         42.9X               S,344,283          33.01
Medium (S  to 100 mployees)                  9         21.4X               3.857,473          23.81
Largo (more than 100 employees)              15         35.7X               7,011,104          43.2X
...,,,...........  .............,... ..... _.............................    .........
42        100.0X              16,212,860         100.0X
By Maturity
...................................
Less than 1 year                              4          9.5X               2,023,853          12.51
I to 3 years                                 1S         35.71               3,617,964          22.31
4 to 5 years                                 16         38.1X               5,888,293          36.3X
more thn S years                              7          16.7X              4,682,750          28.9X
.........    .........    ....................    .........
42        100.0X              16,212,860         100.0X



- 20 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT                            ANNEX 2
GUATEMALA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Distribution of Subproject Under Loan 2838-CU
8y Region                   No.           X               Amount               X
......___.. .. .... ._............................ ........   ............. ._... .......... .... ............ _.........   .............. . .. 
Guateata                                   38         90.S2             14,109,638         87.0%
San Marcos                                  1          2.42              1,947,142         12.0X
Escuintla                                    1         2.4%                 71,625          0.4X
Suchitepequez                               2          4.82                 84,455          0.52
,.......   .........   ............._._......   ......
42        100.0%             16,212,860       100.0%
By Sector/Product
_ _ .... ........        .
Apparel                                    2         4.8X                 61.830          0.4%
Carpet and rug  mfa cturing                2         4.8%                487.817          3.0X
Cleaning products                          1         2.4X               1,167.616         7.2X
Communfcations equIpment                   1         2.4X                161,035          1.0%
Construction materfats                     1         2.4X                134.208          0.8%
Cooking oil                                1         2.4X              1,947,142         12.0C
Dairy                                      1         2.42                211,701          1.3X
Fertilfzer                                2          4.86              1.499,743          9.3X
Food stuffs (except beverages)            5         11.9X              1,080.619          6.7X
Furniture                                 2          4.8X                130,043          o.a%
Metat sheets/galvanized irons              5         11.9X              1,999,093        12.3%
Paper products                             6         14.3%             3.225,531         19.9X
Ptastics                                   S         11.92              1,988,162        12.32
Printing                                   2         4.82                509,112          3.12
Rubber                                    3          7.1%                793.122          4.92
Textiles                                   3         7.1%                816,086          L.OX
........ ......... ................... ...... ..
42        100.0%            16,212.860        100.02
By Financing Purpose
.......... ............................... .........
New                                        S         11.9X             3,600,4C8         22.22
Modernization                              2         4.82               1,257,529         7.82
Expansion                                 3S        83.3%             11,354,923         70.0%
......... ......... ....................  .........
42        100.0%            16,212,860        100.02



PROJECT CCrPLETION REPORT
GUATEMALA
ANNEX 3
INDUSTRtAL CREDIT PROJECT
. - --- ----------- .......                                              Page 1 of 2
Subprojects Financed Under Loan 2838-GU
...................................
Subproject                                     Investment         FRR       ERR      Amount of       Amount of
No.              Sector/Product               Purpose          (X)       (X)       sublomn        Subproject
IA-01          Plastic                       Expansion            15.0X     23.0X       357,229         472,030
IA-05          Paper                         Expansion            45.0X    179.02       660,747         842,643
IA-06          Polypropylene bags            Expansion            21.3X     60.0%       646,971         946,534
IA-07          Paper bag and carton          Expansion            42.6X     15.0%     1,355,745       1,751,000
IA-08          Corrugated steet,             New                  28.32     13.1%     1,041,243       2,854,800
galvanized iron
1A-09          Clearning products            Modernfzation        22.6X     35.52     1,167,616       1,991,741
1A-10          Cooking oil                   New                  33.62     38.1X     1,947,142       2,004,000
lB-Ot          Communlcatfons/TV/Radfo       Expansion           62.72       -          161,035         216,000
1B-02          Carpets                       Expansion            32.4X      -          200,000       1,030,400
1B-03          Confectionary/candies         New                  21.62     56.02       507,869         507,869
18-04          Construction materials        Expansion            28.9%      -          134,208         235,000
18-05          Plastic                       Expansion            40.4%      -          191,665         298,510
18-06          Textite, draperies            Expansion            95.02      -          310,134         407,200
19-07          Furniture                     Expansion            79.02      -           64,395         165,000
1B-08          Plastics                      New                  72.3%      -           77,880         236,600
IB-09          Metal                         Expansion           23.1X       -           71,625          80,370
18-011         Business forms                Expansion            37.02      -          325,051         406,000
1B-012         Metal lids                    Expansion            35.0%      -          397 601         644,444
18-013         Toilet paper                  Expansion            24.1%      -          364,212         574,074
18-014         Rubber processing             Expansion             -         -           38,390          53,222
18-015         Bakery                        Expansion            56.4%      -          127,669         200,000
10-016         Dehydrated fruits             Expansion            18.0%      -           46,065          75,667
18-017         Fabrics                       Expansion            21.6X      -           71,583         176,800
19-019         Biscuits and crackers         Expansion             -                    368,353         460,000
1B-020         Apparel                       Expansion             -         -           35,556         39,700
18-021         Flour mill                    Modernitzation        -         -           89,913         186,400
18-022         Dairy product                 Working capital      19.S      -          211,701       1,047,000
18-023         Garments                      New                   -                     26,274         119,000
1-025         Rug manufacturing             Working capital       -         -          287,817        800,000
1B-026         Paper products                Expansion           35.3X       -          295,113        497,000



ANNEX 3
Q=:
Page 2 of 2
Subproject                                       Investment         FRR       ERR       Amount of       Amount of
No.               Sector/Product                Purpose          MX)       MX)        Subloan        Subproject
,.^__.................   ....................................    ....... ........... .......   ........... ............   .................. ........
2A-WC001        Polypropylene bags            Uorking capital                  -           655,167         852,000
2A-WC003        Tire recapping                 Working capital       -         -           689,793         705m000
2A-WC004        Packaging materiats           Working capital        -         -           459,973         474,100
2A-WC005        Fertilizer                     Working capital       -         -           999.909         999,909
2A-UC006        Textiles                      Working capital        -         -           434,369       1,000,000
2A-UC408        Fertilizer                    Workirg capital        -         -           499,834         500,000
2B-WCOOI        Rubber                        Working capital             -                 64,939          69.700
28-WC002        Lithography                   Working capital        -         -           184,061         190,000
28-WC003        Mattress. beds                 Working capital       -          -           65,64B          97,100
2B-UC004        Kraft paper bags              Working capital        -         -            89,741          90,300
2B-WC005       Metal sheets                   Working capital        -         -           165,413         167,975
2B-WC006       Machetes                       Working capital        -         -           323,211         330,000
16,212,860     24,795,088
=========    ==s======fflQ



- 23 -
GATENALA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
lllE fFINCIERAS - 8AEANCE SHEET                           ANNEX 4
(atllioM oft Quetiales)
1983     1984      1985      1986      1987     1988      1989      1990       1991
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.......... .......... .......... .......... .......... .......... .......... .......... ................. _. 
ASSETS
Current           40#816.0  49,655.0  57,008.0  60,110.0  66,700.0  66,7.0   90,681.0 140,500.0   279,4a.0
FteIgn            14.0    105.0    105.0       50.0      67.0      5.0    159.0    438.0         116.0
bestfe        40,802.0  49,5S0.0  56,903.0  60,060.0  66,3.0  66,873.0  90,522.0 140,06Z.0   279,307.0
IrmestbeNts       3,611.0   3,838.0  4,396.0   8,034.0  11,131.0  18,944.0  16,982.0  16,ES4.0   161,593.0
Lao & Dsoomts  99,47.0 110,5S9.0 134,727.0 166,950.0 210,130.0 251,148.0 295,948.0 425,920.0  5S6,85Z.0
Other Ietmtnos  24,219.0  22,962.0  38,181.0  47,244.0  S1,890.0  53,207.0  48,426.0  70,113.0   112,53.0
Other Asets        3,132.0   5,481.0   5,886.0   7,416.0  11,139.0  18,120.0  10,118.0  8,443.0    41,889.0
fixed Asets         635.0    663.0    638.0    325.0    101.0    216.0    226.0    393.0           1,033.0
eferre Assts        326.0    257.O      229.0     204.0    930.0   5,677.0   6,174.0   8,396.0     2,210,0
WoTAL            172n,16.0 193,427.0 241,065.0 290,28.0 352,041.0 416,190.0 468,555.0 670,639.0 1,155,553.0
"~~~~~~csaz  8__*wtx% .c                 _ _    _ _ 
ForeIn          l7,548.0   7,496.0   6,132.0   5,462.0   3,449.0  20,197.0  13,475.0   7,302.0  8,804.0
galetE.          144,101.0 142,073.0 208,283.0 251,?50.0 30r,.0 34,669.0 399,240.0 603,424.0 1,047,321.0
a4           120,430.0 143,94.0 186,231.0 237,117.0 28,592.0  M9,944.0 342,011.0 495,821.0   829,204.0
B.G.          21,738.0  15,299.0  18,548.0  12,055.0  11,038.0  39,673.0  44,475.0  91,614.0   167,852.0
Otes           1,933,0  2,880.0   3,504.0   2,378.0  11,017.0  7,52.0  12,134.0  15,986.0    50,26S.0
Oter LabiUtites   1,7m.0   1,148.,   1,288.0   1,699.0   1,987.0   2,142.0  1,35s.0   2,117.0    10,60.0
Subtotal     152,942.0 170,71.0 215,703.0 258,911.0 313,14.0 369,808.0 414,220.0 612,843.0 1,066,71.0
Ptsfdln Capttal    10,072.0  11,072.0  11,072.0  11,072.0  12,193.0  12,853.0  13,253.0  18,193.0    26,193.0
esers             4,388.0   5,842.0   7,633.0   9,655.0  12,842.0  18,219.0  24,854.0  23,731.0    30,439.0
Others              158.0    (31.0)    72.0       172.0      51.0  3,180.0   2,416.0    164.0         0.0
Subtotat      14,618.0  16,885.0  18,m.0  20,899.0  25,086.0  34,252.0  40.,52.0  42,088.0    56,632.0
... . ............... .......... .................... ......... .......... ........... .... .....
Profit (Loss)     4,636.0   5,827.0   6,585.0  10,473.0  13,812.0  12,130.0  13,812.0  15,708.0   32,190.0
TOTAL            172,196.0 193,42.0 241,065.0 290,283.0 352,041.0 416,190.0 468,555.0 670,639.0 1,155,553.0
ammuesm  aum      a muam   ompacqa. amaooomomaw     -     uaui  33mmaa
................................................... __,_.
S sou     Es tadfstloa ganaarias Unffticod  Centroameifs
sWerintendemle de Bantu, luatiat, CA.
a:ptrtabl



CUQIATEU A IIDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
TIE FIMUtACIEnS - IRC   STATEBN                                AN       5
(.11 tif    of 0wtas(as                                     - '
1983    *               s98b    tess      1987       1988       1989       1990      1991
......* 0 -*- 0....0.   .0.... ...**   obe.*.e   .**...*W. 0*a.*.* .... ***  *=.....b 00    ......  0......
1.   ENCORE                           16,766.0   23,111.0   26,109.0   13,248.0   48,739.0   59,492.0   74,606.0  104,254.0  98,831.0
Interest15,764:0   21:870   24,565.0   13,00:   467510 50,42.0   73,951.0  1,130  194 314O0
Subtotat                     16,688.0   22,943.0   2516780    3,183.0   48,076.0   59,354.0   74,464.0  103,674.0  196,905,0
Others                              78.0      168.0      431.0       65.0      66.0      38.0      14Z.0      580.0    1,926.0
El.  EXPENsS                          2,143.0   16,663.0   19,S60.o    2,M.0   37,607.0   51,067.0   63,174.0   90,357.0  173,598.0
Interest                         10,280.0   14,454.0  16,652.0   2,495.0   33,48.0   43,681.0   55,411.0   75,956.0  150,9.0
emissions                            1.0        5.0        4.0        1.0      60.0       54.0      104.0       42.0     273.0
Subtotat                     10,2Bl.0   14,459.0   J6,06.0    2,496.0   33,542.0   43,735.0   55,515.0   73,995.0  IS0,772.0
Adulnfstratlve                    1,862.0    2,184.0    2,94.0      287.0    4,065.0    7,312.0    7,659.0   14,359.0   22,876.0        N
Ill. OPERATING PROIS (LOSSES)          4,623.0    6,468.0    6,549,0   10,465.0   11,132.4    6,445.0   11,432.0  13,897.0   25,233.0
IV.  SPECIAL OPERATIOVS                   19.0     U88.0)     t0.*)       12.0    2,709.0  3;697.0    2,384.0    1,823.0    7,071.0
V.   tEl REULS                         6,642.0    6#280.0    6,400   10,477.0   13,a41.0   12,142.0  13,816.0   15,720.0  32,304.0
Vi.  ADJUTIEIS FMa PEVIs TEARS            (6.0)    (45.0)      10110      (4.0)    (29.0)      (12.0)     (4.0)     (12.0)    (114.0)
Vil. PROFIT (LOSSES)                   4,636.0    5,A27.0    6I55.0   *0,473.0   13,812.0   12,130.0   13,812.0   15,708.0  32,190.0
.......                   ...      ...... ..... be.
Saauce: Estadistfa Si wuias Unf if iead.s Centroameriaa
SWerfntdmsncla   Bancos, Guteule, C.A.
6:pcrtab5



- 25 -
OAT55AU - INDUSTIAL CREDti PROJECT
tllE CONERCIAL AlilS- BALACE MNEET                                  ANN=X 6
(IlUlses of Oetzates)
1983       1984       1985         1i987                198        198        199        199
........... ....................   ......    .......    .......    .......    . ........ ... .,,....
Current          32,262.0  350,36.0   630,080.0   769,434.0  671,112.8   850,562.0  976,90.0 1,170,091.0  1,630,347.o
Dautlt         258,383.0    95,6.0   553,3)7.0   727,8.0  603,90   8502,5.0  933,M.0 1,153,808.0  1,w,186.0
Fert            70,1.0   51 .689.0    76,7a.0   42,350.0   67,121.0   47,9.0    42U.M.0   16,23.0          28,161.0
Iwvstimnts (Pur  303,11.0  365.18.0   412,709.0   38,438.0  638,2.0  601,868.0  454,38.0  942,813.0  2,603,231.0
smalt          303,11.0   35,070.0   4t1, 6".0  S78 951.    3Z,8.   601,141.0  6s4.7.0  94612.0  2,0,9.0
formfgi"           70.0       118.0    1,068.0    3,487.00    5,468.0      727.0      201.0      201.0       252,
Loan It 0im-
Cmmts (Nt)  1,32,766.8 1,489289.0 1.421,320.0 1,108,834.0 2,174.Z74.a 2,606,003.0 2,910,917.0 3,364,152.0  3,997,982.
Fixged Ai"es (Ret)  11,768.0  2,123.8   11,062.0   11,962.o   11,622.0   137220.8   16,075.0   24,850 a     1,169.0
Defered Asets 7,21.0    9,771.0    12,627.0   39,866.0   117,701.   103,958s.0  109,840.0   83,812.   1347.
Othes            256Z454.0   383,935.0  238,392.0  296,855.0  535,984.0  640,35.5  774,099.0   76,38.0  1,331.46.0
TOTAL        2,234,652.0 2,585,693.0 2,926,733.0 3,50,8.  4,2,96.0 4,816,7480 5,442,719.0 6,312,1O6.0 10,154,612.0
amsawaum nomnsn  .au.,.nuae uwnanoummsauuum ~                         u             m
L2A32UTIES
D"ops          I6,680.0 1,894,617.0 2.374,S12.0 2,189,069.0 3,26,074.0 3,63,761.0 4.169,318.0 4,8.670.0  8,QB,410.0
tfe      1,656,617.0 1,89,91.0 2,368,064.0 v,8u8,02.0 3,266,940.0 3,656,614.0 4,167,903.0 4,874,043.0  ,0W2.312.0
Omni *epoIt  344,214.0   378,18.    605,426.0   73,660. 8621,817.0  906,5890 1,053,86.0 1,322,131.0  1,69171.0.
a'mP          1,131'120.0 1,294,288.0 1,501,255.0 2,078.  2,335,8.O 2,21,07.0 2,9813.0 3,317,512,0  5,743,107.0
find lte       177,31.0   221,506.0   261,33.0   126,506.0  109,205.0  128,594.0  132,666.0  234,200.0   589,486.0
ForeIgn         1,0.0         705.0    6,480       1,046.0    1,134.0    1,147.0    1,415.0    1,a27.      2,0.o
Creits          1214U,.0   24S,4500 136,709.0   19,843.0  497,454.0   S61,24.0  600,204.0  S4,253.0   s8,234.0
Bometle         88,15.0   107,604.0   88,68.0   118,831.0  375,744.0  41,935.0  442,2..0  455,615.0   46,27.0
Ferelg,        126,215.0   137,668.0   68,0240    86,s92.0   13710.0   12,20.0  157,931.0   S8,83.0         ,95.0
s3 Cre           100,70.0   86,34.0   52,321.0   49,596.0   40,418.0    7,570.0  100,40.0    7,431.0    141,"99.0
Cao LIabillil.   13,184.0     3,662.0    11,320.0   10,045.0   10,97.0   12,56.0   15,591.0   32,117.0    69,993.0
Omts             4,396.0    S,292.0    5,714.0    6,269.0    7,2Z.0    8,091.0    8,344.0   14,187.0    32,.
Fermiu           61.o        ,370.0    5,614.0    3,776.0    3,414.0    4,165.0    5,z47.0    7,930.0    32946.0
nlceUtgs          8,294.0   101,351.0   123,693.0   124,439.0  141,375.0  159,714.0  1S7,078.0   22,094.0   462,84.0
Sabtet       2,069,203.0 2,339.32.0 2,718,S63.0 3.268,992.0 3,958,018.0 6,470,604.0, 3,040,599.0 5,731,567.0  9,391.49a.0
Paid-In Captlt    112,8?5.0   W,566.0   140,368.0   156,246.0  175,244.0   186,065.0  196,173.0  2S,005.0    29,724.0
Rsere"            36,816.0   40,092.0    4,376.o    s1,0o3.0    1,210.0   98,452.0  125,789.0   14,824.0    5 s3,64.0
Othncap           15,758.0   21,71;0    24,426.0   33,308.0   64,494.0   61,627.0       ao,158o. o 160,71.0   25,7.0
ebtaut         165,449.0   185,370.0   208,170.0   240,597.0  290,948.0  346,14.0  402,120.0  S60,99.0     1,114.0
TOTAL        2.234,652.0 2,324,693.0 2,926,733.0 3,509.S89.0 4,248.966.0 4,816,748.0 1,442,719.0 6,s2,106.0 ,1s4,612.0
.......................... ....................................  
SwArce: Esttdgsttes enarlas unIfcadas Centroamr)can
Sqwfnte,dmnc    e  w aes, OutaLa, CA.
*:prtb



ATEIIAAU - IINISJIAL     r PRoIC
TOE   W IIWE C BEP=  *l JUCOUi STATENEIST                       ANNEX 7
.ilor   f Ousaes)
195       1984       1985       1986      1987       t988       196        990        1
... ... *.... ........ ..... ............ _. .... O....... .0.00......... , ,,,,,,,,,, ,,,,, ,,,_.. . *-O  ---...... .........
1.  IIICOME                          187,352.0  216,975.0  23,399.0   309,152.0  407,518,0  507,120.0  620,479.0  897,321.0   1,368,125.0
Interest               ~~~~~160,62.0  107,190.0  210,587.   215.013 0  342 331.0  440,431.0  547,001.0  819,539.0  1,v2Z,01.O
Camuslssiefl            ~~~~17,072.0   17,343.0   3.606.0   15,410:0  ffi.    0,as3h    3o,.    33,174.0    42,685.0
Subtotal                    177,842.0  204,533.0  224,193.0  200,56a.0  69,747.0  465,806.0  577,73.0  852,713.0  1,314,7M.0
Currency EAchange                6,077.0   10,644.0    8,125.0   14,076.0  30,110.0   33,613.0   50,563.0   29,030.0    45,60.0
others                            3,433.0    3,798.0    4,011.0   4,513.0    7,66.0    7,701.0   12,213.0   15,578.0    27,743.0
ii.  e iEXsSEs                       165,69.0  198,373.0  217,673.0  23,351.0  366,598.0  442,521.0  554,S42.0  764,668.0  1,193,049.0
Interest                        89,206.0  109,509.0  118,626.0  164,741.0  221,643.0  269,794.0  349,60  469,860.0   760,49.0
CoTuisstoM                         210.0      215.0      407.0      1".0   1t697,.o       W.        m.0        78.0      2,530.0
subtotst                     69,416.0  1o9,rn.o  1,03.0  1",847.0  223,30.0  27,131.0  35,166.0  470,"4.0           8,979.0
emeavy bexw                       2,864.0    6,836.0    3,024.0    5,505.0   13,900.0  16,473.0   18,06.0   27,90.C     25,2.0
Cufnc tretfvoe                   73,41-0   81,813.0   95,616.0  112,999.0  129,358.0  15M,97.0  185,50.0  266,060.0    34,808.0
111. O wTII; ItEs0LTS                 21,657.0   20,602.0  1t,726.0   25,81.0   40,920.0   64,599.0   6S,937.0  132,653-0     1076.0
Iv.  OTHEI WLTS                       (1,449.0)   1,392.0    7,70.0    9,.0   14,7M.0    6,42.0   17,178.0   33,94.0          52,107.0
V.   NET RESULTS                      Z0,206.0   21,994.0   26,426.0   35,784.0  5S,703.0   71.031.0   83,115.0  166,267.0   247,183.0
... f.....      ....a     ....... ...    .
Source: Estadisticas rwis UniSf lead.s C.ntrouiSani
SSWntuen@1a de Incws,  umtmta, C.A.
e:pcfla6



- 27 -
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
........._.....
GUATEMALA
ANNEX 8
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
, .......................
List of InteraMrfsIes Urdv Loon 2M-GU
,.............................
lUND Plnancln        X
financfal Interedfary              Mo.         X            CUSS)
...................................    ......    ......    ...............    ......
Saco Agricole  wecntiL                      2          5S          2,257,276        14X
Bano dot Cafe, S.A.                          1         2X             89,741         1X
Sangc de ta Construcclon, S.A               S         122           811,602          52
Dance de Exportaclcn                         1         2X            134,208         1X
Ban    rinal y Toun, S.A.                   3          7X          1.186.368         7X
Baneo IuobfltrIo, S.A                       2          5X            729.482         4X
Danco Indstr1st, S.A.                       4         102          1.S96,506        10X
Banco 1nterncionl, S.A.                     3          7X           214.444          1X
Dance Nhtropotftan., S.A.                   2          52           372,736          2X
Sam* Occldente                               1         2X            26,274          02
Banco PIo tor                                2         SX            690,723         42
Financier  Industrial, S.A. (PISA)          9         212         4,552,529         282
Financiers -ndutrial y
Aoricole, S.A. (FIASA)                   6         14X         2,195,226         14X
Financmers de Iversuon                      1          2X          1,355,745         82
......    ......       ...............    ......
42       O0         16.212.860        100X



