Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4.'90c-GU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
GUATEMALA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
January 26, 1984
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
}  This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Exchange Equivalents
1 Quetzal = 1 US dollar
Abbrevial:ions
BANDESA         Banco Nacional de Desarro:Llo Agricola
(National Agricultural Development Bank)
BANVI           Banco Nacional de Vivienda
(National Housing Bank)
BG              Banco de Guatemala
(Guatemala's Central Bank)
CACM            Central American Common Market
CIIU            Clasificacion Industrial ]:nternacional Uniforme
(Uniform International Industrial Classification)
CABEI          Banco Centroamericano de Integracion Economico
(Central American Bank for Economic Integration)
CORFINA         Corporacion Financiera Nacional
(National Financial Corporation)
FIASA           Financiera Industrial y Agropecuaria, S.A.
(Industrial and Agricultural Finance Corporation)
FIGSA           Financiera Industrial de Guatemala, S.A.
(Guatemalan Industrial Finance Corporation)
FISA            Financiera Industrial, S.A.
(Industrial Finance Corporation)
GUATEXPRO       Centro Guatemalteco de Promocion de Exportaciones
(Guatemalan Export Promotion Center)
ITC            International Trade Center of the United Nations
SIECA          Secretaria Permanente del Tratado General de
Integracion Economica
(Permanent Secretariat for the General Treaty for
Central American Economic Integration)
SVIR            The World Bank's Standard Variable Interest Rate



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GUATEMALA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ...................................                1
A.    Economic Setting ...................................               1
B.    Industrial Policies and the CACM ...................    2
C.   The Structure of Industry and Industrial Investment.    3
D.   Industrial Exports  ........................               .        5
E.    Foreign Trade Development Strategy and Outlook    .....    5
II.    THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM ...... ...............                              8
A.   The Banking System .................................    8
BG ............................................................    8
The Financieras  ....................................              8
The Commercial Banks ...............................   10
CORFINA ............................................    11
Other Financial Institutions  .......................   11
B.   Monetary Policy and Mobilization of Resources    ......   12
C.    Financing of Industry and Credit Demand ....            ........   13
III.    THE PROPOSED PROJECT ....................................   15
A.   Project Objectives and Institutional Structure .....               15
Background .........................................   15
Project Objectives and Description  ....            .............   15
Institutional Structure ............................   16
B.   Investment Component -.. ...................       ........   16
Potential Intermediaries  ...........................   16
Beneficiaries  ......................................   16
Operating Policies, Procedures and Guidelines ......              17
Subproject Appraisal and Supervision ....             ...........   17
Lending Terms and Conditions    .          .......................   18
C.   Technical Assistance and Training Component .........   19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Guatemala
in December 1982 composed of Messrs. N.C. Hughes, M. Alonso, M. Hinds, and
J.P. Wogart of the Bank, and Mr. M. Lebwith (Consultant).    This report was
subsequently revised by Mr. Hughes following a mission to Guatemala in
December 1983.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
IV.   THE PROPOSED LOAN .......................................   21
A.   General Description ........     ........................  21
Project Cost and Financing Plan .....     ...............  21
Amount and Conditions of Loan .....     .................  22
Procurement .........................................   22
Commitment and Disbursement ......     ..................  23
Accounting and Auditing .......     .....................  23
B.   Project Benefits and Risks ..........................  23
V.   AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS             ..                 25
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex 1 - BG's Project Unit: Statement of Operating Policies
and Procedures
Annex 2 - Credit Manual: Criteria for Evaluating Investment
Subprojects
Annex 3 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
Annex 4 - Selected Documents Available in the Project: File
Annex 5 - Supporting Tables
T-1       Summary of Balance of Payments (1977-81)
T-2       Tariff Protection and Composition of Production
T-3       Generation and Use of Foreign Exchange by the
Industrial Sector (1979-81)
T-4       Sectoral Composition of Gross Production (1977)
T-5       Productivity and Wages in the Manufacturing Sector (1973-81)
T-6       Investment in Manufacturing (1982)
T-7       Exports to Central American Common Market and Other Countries
(1977-81)
T-8       The Financieras - Balance Sheets
T-9       The Financial System - Lending by Type of Institution
and by Activity
T-10      The Financieras - Income Statements
T-11      The Commercial Banks - Balance Sheets
T-12      The Commercial Banks - Income Statements
T-13      The Consolidated Banking System Assets
T-14      Financing of Industrial Firms
MAP



GUATEMALA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
I. The Industrial Sector
A. Economic Setting
1.01      Guatemala has a small, open economy, traditionally dependent on
agricultural production and on commodity exports for its foreign exchange
earnings. Agriculture is the country's largest employer, providing jobs to
53% of the labor force, and its contribution to GDP is the most important of
the productive sectors (25% as against 16% for industry and 4% for
construction). Agricultural exports are 62% of total exports and are the
main source of foreign exchange to pay for imports from outside the Central
American region, including roughly 40% of the manufacturing sector's current
inputs and practically all the machinery and equipment used in the economy.
1.02      The Industrial sector employs 14% of the labor force, and produces
mostly for the domestic and regional markets. While its exports now
represent 30-35% of total exports, most of them go to the Central American
Common Market (CACM - paras. 1.07-1.10). Since exports to the CACM only
generate hard currency revenues when there is a trade surplus (and for the
amount of such surplus), the Guatemalan manufacturing sector generates only a
small fraction of the hard currency needed to pay for the raw materials,
intermediate goods and machinery and equipment that it has to import from
third countries.
1.03      Historically, commodity exports (mainly coffee, cotton, bananas,
sugar, beef and recently cardamom) aided by conservative fiscal and monetary
policies have helped maintain a relatively stable balance of payments and a
low rate of inflation. During the 1970's, Guatemala enjoyed a significant
improvement in its terms of trade, particularly during the years of the
coffee boom. This allowed imports to grow at an average compounded annual
rate of 18% throughout the decade, while net international reserves increased
by 732%. Inflation also went up, although it remained low by Latin American
standards, averaging 10.8% p.a. Consequently, Guatemala was able to maintain
a strong and stable economy during the period, and achieved an average rate
of growth of 5.7% in real terms.
1.04      Since 1980, balance of payments stability has been threatened due
to a combination of factors. The terms of trade turned abruptly against
Guatemala, caused by a fall in commodity prices and an increase in import
prices. The Banco de Guatemala (BG) terms of trade index (the ratio between
export and import international price indices in dollar terms) fell 44% in



-2-
1980-82, with respect to its 1979 value. Economic growth slowed in 1980,
fell in 1981, and was negative in 1982-83, resuLting in an average real
growth of minus 0.7% p.a. for 1980-83. Also, the deepening political crisis
in the region caused significant capital flight. Until exchange controls
were imposed in April 1980, capital from other countries went through
Guatemala on its way to third countries, aggravating the problem posed by
domestic capital outflows. In addition, the same concern for the political
stability of the region caused foreign banks and suppliers to drastically cut
credits to Guatemala. As a result of these devtelopments, the private
component of the balance of payments (including imports of public productive
enterprises) went from a deficit of US$147 million in 1979 to $623 million in
1981, of which 75% was due to the declining trade balance and 25% to private
capital outflows. The government financed 55% of this deficit by reducing
the consolidated banking system's net international reserves 97%, and the
rest by stepping up net official capital inflows (Annex 5, Table 1).
1.05      The deteriorating situation in Nicaragua and El Salvador initially
helped Guatemala to counteract the drain on its balance of payments. Exports
to those countries went up steeply, mainly because intra-regional trade does
not require immediate use of hard currencies. After a deficit of US$4.6
million in 1978, Guatemala achieved consecutive intraregional trade surpluses
of US$31.3 million in 1979, US$222.9 million in 1980, US$185.01 million in
1981 and US$22.2 million in 1982. The scarcity of foreign exchange in other
CACM countries, however, made it difficult for ]3G to collect the
corresponding payments in hard currency, forcing BG to extend increasing
credit to Nicaragua and El Salvador, until in mid-1982, BG decided not to
allow any further increases. Guatemalan exports to the CACM have been
falling since 1981, and it is estimated that intraregional trade as a whole
decreased by about 5% in 1982, and by a similar amount in 1983.
1.06      Exchange controls were established in April 1980, and sales of
foreign exchange became subject to prior approval of BG. As balance of
payments problems worsened, BG slowed its rate of foreign exchange approvals,
resulting in substantial delays to potential importers. Consequently, the
lack of foreign exchange to purchase imported raw materials and components
has become a critical problem which has been aggravated in recent months due
to the introduction of a system of import quotas (para. 1.18).
B. Industrial Policies and the CACM
1.07      The basic objective of Guatemalan industrial policies during the
last three decades has been the promotion and development of an import
substituting manufacturing sector on a regional scale, mainly oriented to the
production of consumer goods. The instrument used to achieve this objective
has been the CACM, which was created in 1961 by the five Central American
countries (Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua and Costa Rica), to
provide a free trade area for regionally manufactured goods. The main
instruments of the CACM are: (a) a common external tariff system for
extraregional imports; (b) a free trade convention for regionally
manufactured goods; and (c) a common system of incentives for industrial



- 3 -
investment, comprising exemptions to the payment of tariff duties on inputs
and capital goods imported from outside the CACM and income tax exemptions.
1.08      Being a small market, the CACM was quickly saturated.  By the late
sixties and early seventies, opportunities for investment in new activities
were exhausted, and growth of the manufacturing sector was limited to
increases in demand for existing output. Obstacles to free trade became
common, as governments tried to improve their trade balances by protecting
their weakest industries against regional competition. The 1969 war between
El Salvador and Honduras and the subsequent withdrawal of the latter from the
CACM heightened the divisions between member countries. It was then that
the Guatemalan government became interested in fostering exports outside the
region, and the Centro Nacional de Promocion de Exportaciones (GUATEXPRO) was
established in 1971 as an official institution to promote non-traditional
exports to non-regional markets.  In 1983, GUATEXPRO was abolished as part of
the Government's cost-cutting program. Its functions have been taken over by
the Division of Interior and Exterior Commerce of the Ministry of Economy.
1.09       The current structure of protection for most consumer goods and
some intermediate goods is relatively high, unevenly distributed, and
introduces a bias against exports to third countries on products with high
domestic or regional content. Intermediate goods not produced in the region
can be imported free of duty, but intermediate goods produced in the region
enjoy substantial protection, and producers using the latter as inputs face
higher costs than their competitors in international markets.
1.10      High tariffs for most consumer goods and some intermediate goods
result in the achievement of balance of payments equilibrium at a lower rate
of exchange than in free trade conditions. This not only discourages exports
but also favors imports not subject to prohibitive tariffs. This effect has
been aggravated by the cumulative difference (about 11%) between domestic and
international rates of inflation during the last decade, and especially
during 1973-77. As a result, the Guatemalan manufacturing sector imports 40%
of its inputs from outside the CACM and generates only 20%-25% of the hard
currency needed to pay for those inputs from CACM exports (Annex 5, Table
3). While the erosion of the specific part of the common external tariff has
somewhat diminished effective protection, it is unlikely that the system's
anti-export bias has been affected significantly, and an updated study on
effective protection is needed (para. 3.13).
C. The Structure of Industry and Industrial Investment 1/
1.11      Food, beverages and tobacco, chemicals and textiles and clothing
are the most important subsectors in Guatemala, accounting for 78% of gross
1/ Data in the following paragraphs are based on the 1977 manufacturing
census and differ substantially from national account data, because the
latter include within the manufacturing sector firms with less than
5 employees, whose output is often better classified as a service.



output and 70% of value added (Annex 5, Table 4). Backward linkages with the
rest of the economy are specially important in the largest subsector, food,
beverages and tobacco, which uses 75% of all domestic inputs purchased by the
manufacturing sector. This subsector produces 40% of the sector's value
added and 46% of its output, mainly in milling, sugar production, malt
beverage production and beef packing. The second largest subsector,
chemicals, is much less linked with the rest of the economy, importing 54% of
its gross output. It produces 19% of the sector's value added and 21% of
gross manufacturing output, mainly medicines, soaps and cosmetics,
fertilizers and insecticides, plastic products and petroleum refining.
Textiles and clothing, the third largest subsector, imports 50% of its output
and produces 11% of the sector's value added and gross output, mainly in
spinning, weaving and clothing manufacture.
1.12      Firms with more than 50 employees account for 78% of value added
and 72% of employment in manufacturing, but firms with between 5-50 workers
account for three-fourths the number of enterprises and one-fifth of the
sector's output, employment and wages. Productivity and hourly wages are
closely correlated, with both variables increasing with the size of the
firm. Firms with more than 50 employees, which have a labor productivity
equal to 3.2 times firms with 5 to 9 employees, pay hourly salaries 2.3 times
larger (Annex 5, Table 5). Value added per unit of wage also increases with
the size of the firm, but reaches its maximum in firms with 20 to 50
employees, reflecting relatively greater union strength (and thus a higher
wage structure) in the largest industries.
1.13      Gross investment was very high during the boom of the mid- to late
1970s (over 20% of GDP during 1976-79) and, although it dropped thereafter,
it was still high relative to the historical trend of the 1960s and early
1970s. Although data on industrial investment expenditures is not available,
it can be approximated by using imports of capital goods as an indication of
changes in the level of investment, and on this basis it is estimated that
manufacturing gross investment declined by 25% in real terms from 1978 to
1981. Part of the investment decline can be explained by a 'wait and see'
attitude adopted by potential investors due to the political uncertainty
affecting the whole Central American region, and the world recession.
Moreover, scarcity of foreign exchange became more severe after 1980,causing
difficulties for firms dependent on imported raw materials and components.
In mid-1982, the situation was still difficult; 65% of firms surveyed by BG
had not realized investment outlays during the previous 12 months, and only
10% of them had realized higher outlays in comparison with 1981 (Annex 5,
Table 6). Capacity utilization was low, with 57% of the firms using from 50%
to 74% of their capacity, and only 21% using 75% or more.  The drop in
capacity utilization, however, seems to be a recent development because the
combination of growing output and falling investment during 1978-80 implies
that capacity utilization actually increased during that period.
1.14      Manufacturing investment can be expected to recover if foreign
exchange is made available, if priority is given to the promotion of exports
to third countries, and effective incentive policies are implemented to
achieve this objective. Much of the existing industrial capital stock will
need to be renovated, if a long-lasting export drive is desired, and the



- 5 -
modernization of the industrial sector is to be achieved.  The proposed
project would represent a first step in dealing with these difficulties
(para 4.01).
D. Industrial Exports
1.15      Total industrial exports in 1980 (the latest complete data)
amounted to US$321.7 million. Among industrial subsectors, the most
important exports have been chemicals, which in 1980 amounted to US$111.5
million. Exporting subsectors which are still important producers, but whose
shares in manufactured exports have decreased because they are less able to
compete internationally, were food, beverages and tobacco (US$50.6 million)
non-metallic minerals (US$20.4 million) and textile products (US$24.4
million). According to a 1973 study, the latter three subsectors produce
mostly consumer goods characterized by more intensive use of local inputs and
higher effective protection. Other subsectors which are becoming important
exporters are metal products and machinery (US$41.9 million), rubber goods
(US$23.4 million), and paper products (US$21.4 million). Subsectors which
have remained relatively stagnant are leather goods (US$6.8 million) and wood
products (US$6.7 million) (Annex 5, Table 7).
1.16      Although exports to Central America represent a small fraction of
the Guatemalan manufacturing output (10%-15%), they initially played an
increasingly important role in strengthening industrial development in
Guatemala. Between 1977 and 1981, these exports doubled from US$157 million
to US$303 million (Annex 5, Table 7). Although exports to third countries
almost tripled (from US$23 million to US$65 million), they still represent
only 18% of Guatemalan manufactured exports.   Products with high-cost
domestic content, such as those produced by the food, beverages and tobacco
and textiles and clothing subsectors,2/ have estimated ratios of domestic to
international prices (average weighted by gross output) of 1.5 and 1.6
respectively, while the less protected and import intensive chemical sub-
sector shows a ratio of 1.1. As a result, chemical exports (i.e. pharma-
ceuticals, soaps, perfumes and fertilizers) to third markets are almost four
times as much as the other subsectors combined.
E. Foreign Trade Development Strategy and Outlook
1.17      Government efforts to promote foreign trade have been limited and
were focused on a "drawback" scheme (para. 1.19) and on GUATEXPRO. With
assistance from the International Trade Center (ITC), the latter focused on
providing (i) marketing data to associated enterprises; (ii) direct
assistance to selected product groups; (iii) seminars and workshops on
product design, quality control, handling/packaging/labelling; and (iv) trade
fairs and trade missions to selected third markets. Overall, these efforts
have emphasized the gathering, processing and dissemination of information,
2/ These subsectors consume 84% of all domestic inputs used by the manu-
facturing sector.



- 6 -
and a stronger effort is needed in working with individual enterprises to
develop marketing strategies for specific products. A major portion of the
technical assistance proposed under this project would assist in achieving
this goal (paras. 3.13-3.14).
1.18      In response to the current balance of payments crisis and reduced
foreign exchange reserves, the government established exchange controls
(paras. 1.04-1.06). Subsequently, a tolerated parallel exchange market began
to develop in which the dollar is currently being traded at a premium of 35%
over the official rate. On November 14, 1982, the Government enacted Law No.
406-82 which established a system of import restrictions, based on different
categories of "essentiality". According to this law, importers were allowed
to buy 100% of their level of imports in 1981, if they fell under the most
essential category. Products classified in category 2 could be imported up
to 90% of the 1981 level, category 3 up to 70%, category 4 up to 50%,
category 5 up to 30% and category 6 up to 20%. Since most industrial inputs
fell into categories 3 and 4, industrial production and exports were severely
hampered once inventories were drawn down and new inputs had to be imported.
At the end of 1983, the regime for industrial inputs was liberalized by
including most items in category 3. A further revision is planned in
mid-1984, following consultations under the INF stand-by agreement. During
negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government, that, as a condition
of loan effectiveness, the government would take steps to exempt the
beneficiaries of the project from import restrictions.
1.19      For exporters who rely on imported inputs, the import controls
and other factors which raise import costs make it difficult to compete in
international markets. Measures are needed which would compensate for the
anti-export bias of the present system. This was attempted in the past, but
multiple and often competing objectives were sought after and results were
largely unsatisfactory. For example, a "drawback" mechanism was originally
designed to decentralize industry rather than to promote exports. Although
recent legislation has shifted the emphasis to export promotion, this measure
will need to be complemented with others to provide the incentive required to
generate more exports. However, in July 1983, the government introduced a
tax certificate (CAT), which would allow exporters to receive a tax rebate
from their receipts from sales of non-traditional goods to third countries,
equal to 15% of sales for new products or existing products going to new
markets, or 10% for existing products being sold in existing markets. The
effectiveness of this mechanism will be examined as part of the study of
export incentives to be carried out under the project.
1.20      A major issue for a successful export performance is the mainte-
nance of a favorable exchange rate. The government has chosen to tolerate an
unregulated parallel market while trying to control domestic inflation
through strong deflationary policies. The success of this measure is based
on the expectation of a recovery in world trade. This penalizes potential
exporters who either do not have access to foreign exchange, or must absorb
the differential between the dollar value of their exports and the amount of
Quetzales they receive.



- 7 -
1.21      Over the longer-term, successful promotion of non-traditional
industrial exports will require the rationalization of tariffs, as well as
further development of an effective policy framework and export incentive
system. Assistance would be provided under the proposed loan to help the
government to carry out studies dealing with these matters.



-8-
II.   THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM
A. The Banking Sysi:em
2.01      The banking system in Guatemala is comprised of the central bank,
Banco of Guatemala (BG); 14 commercial banks, including 1 official and 1
semi-official bank, 10 Guatemalan private banks, and 2 foreign banks; 4
private financieras, Financiera Guatemalteca S.A. (FIGSA), Finaciera
Industrial y Agropecuaria S.A. (FIASA), Financiera Industrial S.A. (FISA),
and Financiera de Inversion;and 3 specialized 2redit institutions, the
Corporacion Financiera Nacional (CORFINA), Banco Nacional de Desarrollo
Agricola (BANDESA), and the Banco Nacional de Vlivienda (BANVI).
Of these entities, all except BANDESA and BANVI, are presently involved in
financing industry. The remainder of the financial system comprises a
variety of non-bank financial intermediaries, mainly insurance companies and
savings and loan cooperatives.
2.02      BG was established in 1945 as the government's central bank and
fiscal agent, with responsibility for formulating and implementing monetary
policy, ensuring the efficient operation of the banking system, and
controlling Guatemala's international reserves. BG is administered by the
Monetary Board, consisting of the Ministers of Finance, Economy, and
Agriculture; representatives of the University of San Carlos (the national
university), the state banks, the private banks, and the commercial,
industrial and agricultural associations. BG its generally well regarded both
within and outside Guatemala as a professional, well-managed and adequately
staffed organization. Under the Bank's Livestock Development Project (Loan
722-GU) a special fund was created in BG for the discounting of livestock
subprojects presented by qualifying financial intermediaries. BG has also
managed other government funds (i.e., for guaranteeing loans to small
enterprises, housing, and small farmers) and export credit lines extended by
other governments. Since BG would be the executing agency for the project,
the experience it has gained will be useful in carrying out its
responsibilities.
2.03      The Financieras.  The 1962 Decree 20,3 "Ley de Sociedades
Financieras" provided the basis for establishing private financieras. FIGSA
was established in 1965, FIASA in 1968, and FISA and Financiera de Inversion
in 1981. FIGSA and FIASA with total assets of US$65 million and US$60
million, respectively, as of June 30, 1983, are the largest private
financieras. FISA's total assets are much less (US$18 million) but FISA's
main shareholder is Banco Industrial, the largest private commercial bank in
Guatemala. In just two years of operation, Financiera de Inversion has
acquired total assets of US$6 million. The basic objective of the
financieras is to invest in, promote and/or chmnnel domestic and foreign
resources to industrial, agricultural and livestock enterprises. The law
allows them to subscribe shares in private firms, issue securities, guarantee
issues of other enterprises, and obtain domestic and foreign loans (the
latter with authorization of the Junta Monetaria). By law, financieras have



- 9 -
to lend for a minimum of 3 years to investment subprojects, but they are
allowed certain exemptions which enable them to provide some short-term
credit mainly for financing acceptances and letters of credit. They must
have a minimum authorized capital of US$ 0.5 million (or more if required by
the Junta Monetaria), and they are subject to a maximum earning assets/equity
ratio of 20:1.3/ Financieras are prohibited from obtaining deposits, and
are subject to reserve requirements on their obligations (35% for obligations
with maturities up to 30 days, and 10% for over 30 days). Like commercial
banks, they cannot grant loans to a single firm for more than 20% of their
equity. Financieras are also limited to financing not more than the
equivalent of 25% of the paid-in capital of any single enterprise, except
those they promote. In such case, for a period not exceeding two years,
their share capital participations can reach up to 50%.
2.04      By mid-1983, financieras held 5.8% of the banking system's
assets 4/ of US$2.6 billion and accounted for 5.7% of total industrial
credit at June 30, 1983, in comparision with 2.7% and 2.0%, respectively, at
the end of 1975 (Annex 5, Table 8). Financieras' assets increased in nominal
terms 23% on average p.a. during 1975-1983. Growth was faster during
1977-1980, as a result of increasing credit demand fueled by the
post-earthquake reconstruction program and the coffee boom; but it decreased
considerably during 1981 and stagnated in 1982-83, reflecting the sharp
decline in credit needs and availability resulting from the country's current
problems (paras 1.04-1.06). The financieras' portfolio is mainly medium and
long-term, with about 60% of their term portfolio having maturities of up to
three years, and the other 40% of five years or more, with one-half of these
loans going to industry (Annex 5, Table 9).
2.05      During the period 1975-1983, the financieras experienced a
considerable change in their liabilities' structure, substituting domestic
for foreign resources as the main source of funds. During the period,
foreign resources decreased from US$9.7 million to US$7.8 million, and local
resources increased from US$5.7 million to US$125.3 million. Bonds have been
increasingly the most important source of local resources, 5/ representing
about 83% of financieras' total liabilities by mid-1983.  Factors which help
to explain these trends are the increasing availability - particularly during
the coffee boom - of generally lower cost local resources, and the increasing
difficulties in obtaining foreign loans. Financieras' portfolio in arrears
(as percentage of total portfolio) was 3.7% at the beginning and of the
period; it varied considerably in 1976-1977 (part of the coffee boom years)
was 3.9% at the end of 1981, and rose to 8.0% by mid-1983. The government is
presently taking steps to deal with this problem (para. 2.12). In addition,
3/   As of mid-1983, the financieras maximum earning assets were 8.2 times
their equity.
4/   Defined as including all financial institutions listed in para 2.01
except BG, BANDESA and BANVI.
5/   Bonds are issued with maturities between 3 and 10 years, some of them
with a repurchase agreement, and yielding on average about 10% (ranging
from 8%-12%) but effective yields are higher as the interest on the
bonds is tax free.



- 10 -
like commercial banks (para. 2.06), financieras' liquidity has increased
sharply during 1981-82, and clients who accumulatetd cash surpluses were able
to repay some of their arrears. The financieras' average return on assets
(before taxes) varied between 2.1% and 3.9% p.a., averaging 3.0% p.a. during
1975-82. However, the average has been declining in the last five years, to
2.1% in 1983,6/  mainly as a result of a decreasing financial spread
(onlending interest rates have not kept up with the increased cost of
borrowings), increased competition (i.e., two new financieras were
established in 1981) and the reduced credit demand of the last two years
(Annex 5, Table 10). However, as the financieras have substantially
increased their leverage in recent years, average return on equity has
actually increased sharply, rising from 8% in 1975 to 34% in 1982, before
dropping to 24% in 1983.6/
2.06      The Commercial Banks.  Fourteen commercial banks form the core of
the financial system and account for about 85% of the banking system's
assets (Annex 5, Table 11). The largest and most important is Banco
Industrial, with total assets of US$394.7 million (as of June 1983). Banco
Granai & Townson is the next largest bank, followed by Banco de Occidente,
Banco Inmobiliario and Banco Agricola-Mercantil, with total assets ranging
from US$202 to US$231 million. The remaining banks are somewhat specialized,
relatively new, or are branches of foreign banks. After growing from US$385
million in 1975 to US$1.0 billion in 1980, commercial banks' loan portfolios
grew much more slowly, reaching US$1.2 billion in 1982. About 90% and 97% of
commercial banks' total and industrial portfolio, respectively, is in
short-term loans of up to one year. Lending rates are fixed and there is a
maximum permitted rate. Since there is also a prohibition against adjusting
the rates on existing loans when the maximum rate is increased, banks find it
more profitable to lend at the shortest term possible, as this increases
their effective yield. 7/ Commercial banks loans made since 1975 are
concentrated in industry (34%), commerce (21%), and agriculture (16%) (Annex
5 Table 9). Portfolio in arrears of commercial banks has increased
considerably since 1975, particularly during 1979-81 (from 8% to 19% of total
portfolio), but they declined somewhat in 1982 to 16%. Arrears were actually
understated because renewals of overdue loans amounted to 27% in 1979 and 30%
in 1981.
2.07       Since 1975, commercial banks, like the financieras (para 2.05),
have been receiving a steadily increasing flow of local private funds, which
amounted to US$1.7 bilion by mid-1983. The struct:ure of such deposits has
changed slightly during the period, with the share of savings and time
deposits increasing from 70% in 1975 to 79% in 1983. Commercial banks'
equity also increased from US$56 million in 1975 t:o US$147 million in 1983,
primarily because commercial banks are subject to a maximum earning assets/
equity ratio of 10:1. In order to keep pace with expanding operations,
additional capital had to be raised. Commercial banks' return on assets
(before taxes) of about 1% during 1975-1983,6/ was low (Annex 5, Table 12),
6/   Annual rate based on 10 months' earnings.
7/   Although Banks are allowed to apply adjustab].e onlending rates for loans
with foreign funds, such loans have comprised only a small share of
their portfolio.



- 11 -
because of increasing administrative costs, (i.e., presently around 4% of
assets), and additionally, during the last 2-3 years, reduced earnings due to
portfolio arrears and idle assets. Because borrowing is limited to 10 times
equity, return on equity has beea less than for the financieras (para. 2.05)
but has averaged between 9%-14% since 1975.
2.08      CORFINA was created in 1972 as an autonomous government entity with
responsibility for promoting the diversified development of the industrial,
mining and tourism sectors, by sponsoring new enterprises, granting long-term
loans and providing technical assistance. CORFINA had, as of June 30, 1983,
paid-in capital of US$7.5 million. CORFINA started operations in 1974,
lending to and promoting mainly medium and large scale enterprises. Following
the 1976 earthquake, the government through CORFINA and with assistance from
USAID, established an emergency assistance program to rehabilitate small-
scale enterprises in the capital and handicraft industries in the highlands.
By mid-1983, CORFINA's assets amounted to US$323 million (12.6% of banking
system assets) of which US$166 million was invested (including equity of
US$17 million and loans of US$149 million) in 16 projects promoted by this
institution. Of these projects, 9 are already operating, but over half are
operating with losses. The other 7 require additional investments of about
US$45.0 million before they can commence operations. Although portfolio in
arrears represents about 14% of CORFINA's total loan portfolio, these arrears
are spread among a large number of borrowers, and portfolio affected by
arrears is therefore about 90% of the total number of operations. As
CORFINA's largest borrowers have only recently entered the repayment period
for their loans, arrears could increase rapidly in the near future. Most of
CORFINA's operations have been financed with foreign borrowings which account
for about US$175 million or 58% of total borrowings. The balance is provided
by BG (14%), depositors (5%) and other sources (23%). At present, however,
CORFINA has no funds available for further lending, and is experiencing a
considerable cash-flow deficit. Thus, CORFINA is in a very difficult
financial situation, its viability as a development lending institution is in
doubt, and it is not anticipated that it could meet the criteria for
participation under the proposed project (para. 4.04). A high level
committee, headed by the Superintendent of Banks, is presently carrying out a
detailed analysis of CORFINA's financial situation and quality of its
portfolio. The findings of this committee will provide a basis for the
government to decide what ought to be done with the institution.
2.09      Other Financial Insitutions.  The Central American Bank for
Economic Integration (CABEI), although not part of the Guatemalan banking
system, has been active in financing Guatemalan industry since its inception
in 1961. During 1975-1982, CABEI made 57 loans totaling about US$67.0 mil-
lion to Guatemalan industry (equal to about 4% of total industrial lending by
the banking system). More recently, declining credit demand as well as
scarcity of resources has limited CABEI's industrial activities. In 1982
only 3 industrial loans (about US$5.0 million) were made to financieras for
relending to agroindustry. Data for 1983 is not yet available; however,
CABEI's contribution to industrial financing in Guatemala is expected to be
small.



- 12 -
B. Monetary Policy and Mobilization of Resources
2.10       Guatemalan monetary policy has traditionally been based on conser-
vative management of the money supply, supported by an equally conservative
fiscal policy, a fixed parity with the dollar (not changed for more than 50
years) and interest rate ceilings. The slow expansion of the money supply
and fixed parity helped to maintain inflation rates in the order of 1% p.a.
for decades. However, during 1971-81 the money supply increased at 17% p.a.
and the inflation rate went up to an average of 11% p.a., resulting in a
perceptible decline in the real exchange rate with respect to the dollar.
During that period, fixed parity was maintained because favorable expecta-
tions regarding the long term prospects of the Guatemalan economy brought
about substantial capital inflows.
2.11      In the presence of the contractionary effects of the current
balance of payments crisis, net foreign assets of the consolidated banking
system declined, and the banking system rapidly increased its net domestic
assets, from 16.1% of GDP in 1979 to 26.3% in 1981. Most of this increase
went to the central government, which had stepped up its investment expendi-
tures (from 4.5% to 7.2% of GDP) in an effort to maintain the economy's rate
of growth (Annex 5, Table 13). However, the large increase in internal
credit was not enough to compensate for the sharp contraction of the banking
system's net foreign assets, and the annual rate of growth of the money
supply declined from 19% during 1971-79 to 11% in 1980-81 (approximately
equal to the rate of inflation).
2.12      In 1982, the government's deficit dropped to about 4.5% of GDP as a
result of cuts in investment expenditures, but two new problems have devel-
oped. The combination of an increase in the supply of reserve money in a
declining economy with exchange and import controls, has caused a substantial
rise in the banking system liquidity in local currency. As Banks are not
willing or able to increase their lending because of the depressed state of
the economy, funds earmarked to purchase foreign exchange (with delays up to
7 months) are accumulating as liquid assets, causing a drop in the banks'
profitability from the relatively high level of previous years. In addition,
reduced sales led to erosion of profits of enterprises. As a result, arrears
grew rapidly until 1981 and although they increased only slightly in 1982 and
1983, they are high, and BG is planning to provide temporary refinancing of
credit in arrears at interest rates substantially lower than the original
credits. To achieve this objective, BG intends to sell public bonds with
repurchasing agreements at compensatory rates to financial intermediaries.
The coupon rate would be about 12%, and the proceeds of such sales would be
used to rediscount loans in arrears. The rediscount rate would be about 8%
and BG would absorb the cost differential. An estimated Q200 million (2.3%
of GDP) of credits in arrears are expected to bet refinanced in this way, thus
effectively using up the excess liquidity in the banking system.
2.13      Since October 1981, commercial banks maximum interest rates have
been 13% for depositors and 15% for borrowers. However, while lending rates
for new operations have been charged at their maximum, deposit rates have
remained well below the maximum (at 7.8% on average) as the banks' excess



- 13 -
liquidity has not encouraged any increase in passive rates.  Consequently,
real interest rates have tended to be negative for depositors and positive
for lenders. Unlike commercial banks, financieras are not subject to
interest rate ceilings, and lending rates are 15% while borrowing (i.e.,
bond) rates are 10-11%.
C. Financing of Industry and Credit Demand
2.14      Internally generated resources have traditionally been the major
source of funds for the financing of industrial enterprises. A 1977
industrial survey shows that enterprises' equity and reserves provided 45% of
total resources, while bank loans only provided about 23% and other sources
32% (Annex 5, Table 14). The survey also shows that only about one-third of
borrowing is long term. Since 1977, however, industrial firms have been able
to rely increasingly on borrowing to finance their needs, especially larger
firms which were also able to borrow abroad, mainly as a result of the
sizeable expansion of the eurodollar market in the mid-to-late 1970's. This
situation changed during 1981-1982, however, when external credit dropped
sharply (para 2.11). Larger Guatemalan firms--overall--have had greater
access to long-term credit than smaller firms, since lending to small-scale
enterprises involves a higher relative cost and such enterprises often cannot
provide the collateral the banks require.
2.15      During 1975-83, over one-third of total credit from the banking
system was channeled to industry, with an unusually high 44% (US$390
million) share of loans to industry in 1981 (reflecting CORFINA's loan for
US$220 million to a pulp and paper project). The share of loans to agricul-
ture remained at about 16% during the period, and the share of commerce
increased from 16% to 21%. These three sectors received almost three-fourths
of total lending of the Guatemalan banking system during the period.
Overall, industrial credit grew by about 14% p.a. average in nominal terms
(slightly over the inflation rate) during 1975-81 but slowed down in 1982 and
1983. While commercial banks have been the main source of financing to
industry, the financieras and CORFINA have been practically the only sources
of medium- and long-term credit. For the next several years, CORFINA's
lending, if any, is expected to be very limited, because of its current
problems (para. 2.08). While commercial banks are in the process of
initiating investment lending the private financieras are expected to
continue to be the main source of this type of financing.
2.16      It appears that overall investment credit demand is beginning to
increase and prospects appear more favorable for the establishment of
policies conducive to export-led investment. However, lack of foreign
exchange is constraining the growth of this demand. If this constraint is
eased, credit demand for rationalization of existing production
(modernization of production capacity and some equipment replacement) by
firms with established markets is likely to revive. Demand for investment
financing, as projected by the financieras and commercial banks could amount
to between US$30-40 million over the next two years, if adequate financing is
made available. In addition, because of the decline of the CACM market,
exporting to third markets has become urgent for many industrial enterprises,



- 14 -
and an export diversification effort by the private sector with strong
support from the government is vital. This, in turn, would require financing
to restructure production facilities, adapt products to new markets, and
satisfy the corresponding working capital requirements. If these overall
trends are taken into account and a conservative: approach is adopted to
investment demand projections as well as to the trend in capital goods
imports to industry (para. 1.13), a demand of about US$125.0 million p.a. for
imported capital goods for new investment projects as well as modernizing
existing production, may be expected over the next 2-3 years. About
one-third of this amount or US$40 million p.a. is expected to be financed
through the financial system, of which about one-half would be financed under
the proposed loan. The remainder of firms' credLit requirements would be met
by commercial banks, suppliers credit, private sources, bilateral export
lines of credit administered by BG, and in a few cases by direct foreign
loans.



- 15 -
III. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Institutional Structure
Background
3.01       The proposed project would represent the Bank's first direct
support for the development of the industrial sector in Guatemala. For a
number of years the Bank carried out preparatory work with a view to
channeling resources for industrial financing in the Central American
countries through CABEI; however, promising solutions to legal problems in
connection with the provision of guarantees have only recently been found.
During the 1970s CACM countries became increasingly concerned with providing
direct financial support to small and medium-sized industry, while CABEI
concentrated primarily on large, regionally-oriented projects. Most
countries either established or strengthened existing national institutions
capable of providing industrial finance, and the Bank began working with
individual governments to prepare projects designed to strengthen these
institutions and to deal with the needs of each industrial sector. The
possibility of Bank participation in the financing of industry in Guatemala
was first discussed in 1978; however, it was not until 1982 that the
government was able to reach a clear consensus of how the Bank might help
meet the needs of the sector. The proposed project was prepared by BG with
the assistance of Bank preparation missions in June and September 1982. It
was appraised in December 1982, and updated in December 1983.
Project Objectives and Description
3.02       The proposed project, which would be the first Bank IDF project in
Guatemala, is intended to assist Guatemalan industry, during a time of severe
foreign exchange constraint. It would support the Government's strategy of
promoting non-traditional industrial exports outside the CACM. It would make
a start in (i) modernizing or renovating existing plant and equipment, and to
a lesser degree, expanding capacity of establishing new enterprises: (ii)
helping firms with export potential to diversify into third markets; (iii)
encouraging improvements in the export policy framework; and (iv) helping to
develop more effective mechanisms for financing exporters and smaller
enterprises. To this end, the proposed project would finance the fixed asset
and related permanent working capital needs of investment subprojects, and
provide project-related technical assistance to the Government for evaluating
its existing export promotion system, to exporters (or potential exporters)
and to BG and financial intermediaries. Manufacturing, agroindustrial, and
mining enterprises would be eligible to participate. At present, it appears
that firms producing wooden furniture, wood products, chemicals and
pharmaceuticals are in the best competitive position for expanding existing
market shares or developing new non-regional markets. It is expected that
firms in these subsectors would be the major beneficiaries of the project, as
well as selected firms in such subsectors as clothing, food products, leather
goods and rubber products.



- 16 -
Institutional Structure
3.03      The Project Unit, which would carry out the proposed project, would
be the Seccion de Credito Bancario of BG's Departamento de Credito. The
Project Unit would help train staff from financial intermediaries to assist
in project implementation, and would use its own full-time staff, which would
include a sub-director (sub-Jefe), who would be responsible for
implementation of the project. As it may be difficult to obtain the
full-time services of a qualified engineer, BG would undertake to utilize
consulting services as necessary to obtain the required expertise. The
appointment of a sub-director for the Project Unit would be a condition of
loan effectiveness. The sub-director would be responsible for managing the
operations of the unit, and would report to the director of the Seccion de
Credito Bancario in BG's Credit Department. The Project Unit's financing
operations would be governed by a Statement of Operating Policies and
Procedures (Annex 1) and investment subproject appraisal and supervision
criteria would be established in a Credit Manual (Annex 2). Project funds
would be channeled through a separate account established in BG. Financial
accounting would be handled by the appropriate departments of BG.
B.  Investment Component
Potential Intermediaries
3.04      The financieras are the only financial institutions in Guatemala
that presently make long-term loans to industry. The financieras have the
orientation and staff necessary to help prepare and evaluate investment
subprojects and would account for most of this type of lending. Two finan-
cieras, FIASA and FIGSA, which have been in operation for over a decade, are
expected to be the most important intermediaries using Bank funds. Together
with FISA and Financiera de Inversion, they are expected to account for about
US$14 million, or over three-fourths of the utilization of the US$17.9 mil-
lion allocated to the investment component. While it is difficult to tell at
this time exactly which commercial banks would participate under the proposed
loan, several of the more dynamic banks are expected to be active in seeking
new lending opportunities and would utilize a relatively small portion of the
loan. To encourage as many financial institutions as possible to
participate, no more than US$5 million could be cDmmitted by any single
intermediary. The adequacy of this requirement would be reviewed not later
than September 30, 1985. Both financieras and banks would need to take steps
to train existing staff, to hire new professional staff or to contract
outsiders, as needed, to carry out project evaluation and supervision tasks
in conformity with the Project Unit's requirements. With appropriate
training, commercial bank loan officers can be expected to become proficient
in project evaluation and supervision procedures.
Beneficiaries
3.05      The investment component would assist industrial firms which are
planning investments to establish new plants or to expand, modernize or



- 17 -
restructure existing production capacity, provided that the firms are or will
become internationally competitive. The project would also help enterprises
with total assets--excluding land--of less than US$250,000 equivalent, as of
December 31, 1983, which have been defined as small-scale enterprises (SSE).
The proposed project would support lending to such enterprises, which account
for over two-thirds of the number of firms, by providing additional
inducements for banks to lend to such firms. To avoid concentrating
investment financing in a few larger firms or groups of firms, Bank financing
for investments by any single enterprise or its subsidiary would be limited
to US$1.5 million. On an exceptional basis, this requirement could be waived
provided that: (i) the firm would produce non-traditional exports and would
export at least 50% of its output to non-CACM markets; and (ii) financing
required over this limit would be essential if the firm were to meet its
export goals. A lower limit of US$10,000 would also be established.
Operating Policies, Procedures and Guidelines
3.06      The policies and procedures that would govern the Project Unit's
investment financing operations are set forth in a Statement of Operating
Policies and Procedures (Annex 1). It specifies, among other things: (i)
financing objectives; (ii) the type of subprojects that would be financed;
(iii) the terms and limits of financing; (iv) the criteria for subproject
approval; and (v) the responsibility of financial intermediaries. Guidelines
for subproject appraisal and supervision would be established in the Credit
Manual (Annex 2), which would be used by the Project Unit and all
participating intermediaries. The Statement of Operating Policies and
Procedures and the Credit Manual as presently drafted would form a
satisfactory basis for BG channeling of Bank funds for investment subprojects
under the proposed project. Agreement on the content of both documents was
reached during negotiations, and approval by BG's Board would be a condition
of loan effectiveness. Any subsequent modification of these documents would
require prior Bank authorization.
Subproject Appraisal and Supervision
3.07      Commercial banks and to a lesser degree the financieras, need addi-
tional trained staff to identify, prepare and appraise subprojects. During
the initial phase of project implementation the Project Unit would work
directly with financial intermediaries as well as potential beneficiaries in
this task. In addition, consulting expertise would be made available to
coordinate and supervise this effort, and formal training would begin as soon
as possible, but not later than September 30, 1984. In line with the
requirements of the Credit Manual, the depth and sophistication of subproject
appraisal would be varied to fit the size and nature of subprojects. Invest-
ment subloans to medium-sized enterprises would be subject to a detailed
review of their technical, financial, market and economic aspects, of both
the enterprise and the subproject. For investment subloans above US$200,000,
the economic rate of return (ERR) would be calculated by the Project Unit,
using standard Bank DFC guidelines. Subloans to SSEs would be subject to
simpler appraisals, focussing on the key market and technical variables,
repayment capacity and on the financial rate of return (FRR). All appraisals



- 18 -
would include an analysis of the procurement prDcedures applied (para 4.05),
as well as of certain key economic indicators, (e.g., output, employment,
value added, foreign exchange earnings/savings) to assist in monitoring of
the impact of subprojects.
3.08      The first five investment subprojects submitted by the Project Unit
would require the Bank's approval regardless of subloan size. This would
enable the Bank to assess in detail the initial appraisal efforts of the
Project Unit, and to provide feed-back and assistance where necessary.
Thereafter, Bank approval would be necessary only for investment subloans
above US$200,000. This procedure is expected tD result in a review by the
Bank of 25-30 subprojects covering about one-half of the investment compo-
nent.
3.09      Initially, subproject supervision would focus on follow-up by
financial intermediaries of subloans during their disbursement periods to
ensure proper utilization of funds. Financial intermediaries would be
expected to assume primary responsibility for supervision of subprojects and
BG's own direct supervision would be planned to support and monitor their
efforts. Although intermediaries would work closely with industrialists in
the preparation of appraisals and supervision of subprojects, and would bear
the credit risk, BG would have the ultimate responsibility for ensuring the
quality of appraisals and effectiveness of supervision.
Lending Terms and Conditions
3.10      Bank funds would be relent in Ouetzales.  The interest rate to the
sub-borrower would be variable and equal to the Bank's standard variable
interest rate (SVIR) plus up to 5%. This would include maximum fixed spreads
to financial intermediaries of 4% for small-scale subprojects and 3% for
medium-scale subprojects, with a spread to BG of 1% and 2%, respectively.
The maximum terms for investment subloans would be 12 years, with up to 3
years of grace. Appropriate maturities for each subloan would be established
on the basis of cash flow projections for each subproject.
3.11      The Bank would finance the direct and indirect foreign exchange
costs involved in the purchase of (i) fixed assets, including machinery,
equipment, and their installation costs, repair or replacement parts, build-
ings, and infrastructure costs related to the construction of the new facili-
ties; (ii) current assets, including incremental permanent working capital
needs related to investment subprojects. The foreign exchange component
would be calculated as follows:
(a) imported machinery, equipment, spare parts,
inputs and consulting and training services; 100%
(b) locally purchased machinery, equipment,
parts, and inputs;                                60%
(c) buildings, related infrastructure, and
installation costs of machinery and
equipment.                                        40%



- 19 -
3.12      Bank financing of foreign exchange costs of investment subprojects
would be subject to an overall limitation of 65% of the total project cost of
new enterprises and 80% for existing enterprises; excluding land but includ-
ing fixed assets to be financed under the proposed subproject. On average,
the Bank would finance about 63% of the total investment cost involved.
Beneficiaries would need to provide from their own resources, a minimum of
10% of the total cost of restructuring, modernization or expansion of exist-
ing enterprises and 25% of the cost of new enterprises. Financial inter-
mediaries would provide sufficient funds to complete the financing required
(i.e., averaging about 20% of subproject costs).
C. Technical Assistance and Training Component
3.13      The project's technical assistance and training component would
focus on aiding the Government in evaluating how to strengthen its export
promotion system, assisting exporters of non-traditional products to develop
new markets outside of the Central American region and on training staff of
the Project Unit and participating financial intermediaries in the
preparation, appraisal, and supervision of subprojects. The Government would
be assisted in developing an export promotion strategy through a review of
the existing system of export incentives, institutional framework and
financial mechanisms. Expertise would be provided to study (i) levels of
effective protection of individual industrial products; (ii) alternatives for
providing incentives to exporters; and (iii) the need for additional
financial mechanisms for exporters. Under the direction of the Project Unit,
technical assistance in market development would be provided to potential
exporters to enable them to determine the export potential of specific
products, to identify product quality and design standards required in third
markets, and to develop test marketing and promotional strategies for
entering specific markets. Individual and group training of Project Unit and
financial intermediary staff in project evaluation and supervision is
expected to take place both prior to and following loan effectiveness. More
formal training based on course curriculum would be used to train staff of
financial intermediaries and new Project Unit staff during the first two
years of project implementation. The Government would also receive
assistance in carrying out a study of possible ways of stimulating and
supporting the growth of SSE. The study would focus on identifying policy
and other constraints to the growth of such enterprises as well as the best
means of eliminating such constraints.
3.14      Technical assistance and training to be provided under the proposed
project would amount to about 165 man-months of consulting services at an
average cost of US$12,121 per man-month (including administrative overhead,
salaries, international travel and subsistence). Bank funds would be on-lent
by BG in Quetzales and through financial intermediaries at a rate up to the
Bank's SVIR plus a 1% spread to the financial intermediary, which represents
an appropriate cost for the beneficiary. In the case of direct technical
assistance to BG or other Government entities, BG would receive the funds as
a grant. The maximum term for technical assistance subloans would be 5 years
with up to 2 years of grace. The total cost for this component would be
US$2,000,000 in accordance with Table 3.1 below:



- 20 -
Table 3.1: Technical Assistance
Beneficiary                Assistance               Man-Months    US$ Cost
Project Evaluation
BG/Financial          (1) Advisor on project
Intermediaries            preparation, appraisal
and supervision                   12         120,000
(2) Training seminars on
project preparation,
appraisal and supervision          7         150,000
19        270,000
Export Marketing
BG/Individual firms  (1) Market analysis, exploration
and selection                     30         350,000
(2) Market preparation (adapta-
tion or development of
product concept, design,
quality, packaging,
labelling)                        35         400,000
(3) Market promotion, test
marketing, market
penetration                       52         625,000
117      1,375,000
Export Policy Development
BG/Ministry of        (1) Study levels of effective
Economy                protection in industry             12       150,000
(2) Compare alternative incentive
systems for industrial
exporters                          6         75,000
(3) Review adequacy of export
financing mechanisms               3         35,000
21       260,000
Small-Scale Enterprise Development
BG/Ministry of        (1) Study the most appropriate means
Economy                for promoting the development of
small-scale enterprises            8         95,000
TOTAL                       165     2,000,000
3.15      BG would prepare the terms of reference and subproject document
(indicating work program, expertise required and implementation schedule) for
each sub-component and submit them to the Bank for its approval. The
selection of consultants would be carried out in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines for the use of consultants.



- 21 -
IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. General Description
Project Cost and Financing Plan
4.01      The total cost of the project is expected to amount to US$32
million of which the Bank would finance US$20 million, or 63%, amounting to
the expected foreign exchange cost involved. Participating financial
institutions would provide US$6.5 million equivalent (20% of the total),
project sponsors would contribute US$4.5 million (14%) and BG would finance
US$1.0 million equivalent (3%). The financing plan for the project is
contained in Table 4.1 below:
Table 4.1: Project Financing Plan
(in US$ millions)
Percent
Foreign   Local   Total    of Total
Investment Component
IBRD                             17.9        -      17.9        56
Intermediaries                    -          6.5     6.5        20
Sponsors                          -          4.5     4.5        14
Subtotal                       17.9       11.0    28.9        90
Technical Assistance Component
IBRD                              2.0        -       2.0         6
BG                                -          1.0     1.0         3
Subtotal                        2.0        1.0     3.0         9
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan           0.1         -       0.1         1
Total                          20.0       12.0    32.0 7/   100
7/   Including price contingencies.



- 22 -
Amount and Conditions of Loan
4.02      The proposed loan of US$20 million including a front-end fee of
one-fourth percent of the loan amount, would be made to the Republic of
Guatemala at the Bank's SVIR (presently 10.08%) and standard commitment
fee. The government would assume the cross-currency risk, and would on-lend
the proceeds of the loan in US dollars to BG on the same terms and conditions
as the Bank loan to the government, except for US$625,000 which would be
given to BG as a grant to finance technical assistance to public entities.
The signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between the government and BG
would be a condition of loan effectiveness. The proceeds would be allocated
as follows: US$17.9 million for the financing of investment subprojects and
US$2.0 million for technical assistance. BG would channel the proceeds of
the loan to industrial borrowers, through financial intermediaries that meet
BG conditions for participation (para. 4.04). Repayments to the Bank would
be made over a fixed 17-year term, including 4 years of grace. The surplus
of repayments to BG over repayments due to the Banlk would be relent for
purposes consistent with those of the project.
4.03      Based upon the Bank's SVIR, final rates to beneficiaries, after
including a spread for BG and financial intermediaries, would range from
about 11% for technical assistance to about 15% for investment financing in
Quetzales.  Inflation has declined from 11.0% in 1981 to 6.5% in 1982-83 and
is expected to continue at relatively low levels thereafter. Consequently,
the proposed rates would be positive in real terms. However, agreement was
reached at negotiations for a review of the above interest rate structure no
later than August 31, 1985, and annually thereafter.
4.04      Intermediaries would be required to sign participation agreements
with BG, which would detail the intermediaries' responsibility to: (i)
maintain a sound financial condition; (ii) appraise projects in accordance
with BG guidelines; (iii) supervise projects to ensure that resources had
been used for the purpose intended and that projects were progressing on
schedule; (iv) adhere to terms of lending and repayment of loans; (v) ensure
that procurement and disbursement provisions are met; (vi) maintain adequate
records on Bank-financed projects; and (vii) provide the Project Unit and the
Bank with periodic reports on subprojects financed and under study. As a
condition for loan effectiveness, the Bank would need to receive signed
satisfactory agreements between BG and at least three intermediaries.
Procurement
4.05      The proceeds of the loan would finance the foreign exchange costs
of imported and locally procured equipment, materials, civil works and
services. Consulting services for subprojects or technical assistance for
the project would be open to international recruitment, and will be selected
in accordance with "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency", published by the Bank
in August 1981. For investment subloans, participating intermediaries would
satisfy themselves that procurement items are suitable for the respective
subprojects and reasonably priced, and that the beneficiaries are purchasing
from the most advantageous source. In cases where it may be difficult or too



- 23 -
costly to obtain three quotations because of the smallness of the order, this
requirement could be waived if adequate justification is provided. All
subproject appraisals would include a discussion of procurement procedures
used, responses received, prices quoted and criteria for selection of
suppliers. It is not expected that any single contract would exceed
US$750,000.
Commitment and Disbursement
4.06      Full documentation would be required based on an approved list of
goods and services for all investment subprojects.  Since the two-tier system
involving BG and the financial intermediaries requires a longer time for
processing of subprojects than is usual for single-tier loans, disbursements
for investment subloans would be made for expenditures incurred up to 180
days prior to the receipt by the Bank of the particular subloan request.
4.07      Disbursements under the proposed loan are expected to be consistent
with regional and bankwide disbursement profiles of IDF lending. The final
date for submission of subproject proposals would be June 30, 1986 and the
closing date for disbursements would be December 31, 1987.
Accounting and Auditing
4.08      BG would maintain separate project accounts in accordance with
accounting principles consistently applied and in a form satisfactory to the
Bank. The project accounts would be audited annually by the Superintendencia
de Bancos or by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The annual
audit would include a balance sheet, statement of income and expenses, and a
statement of sources and application of funds. Supplementary data on project
objectives, operations, quality of portfolio, and scope and quality of work
carried out by BG and the financial intermediaries would also be provided.
The annual audit report in a scope and format satisfactory to the Bank, would
be submitted to the Bank not later than four months after the end of each BG
fiscal year. In addition, BG would forward to the Bank quarterly reports on
the project's financial situation and operations.
B. Project Benefits and Risks
4.09      The proposed project would represent a significant step in helping
the Guatemalan Government to address the problems faced by non-traditional
exporters of industrial goods in dealing with unfavorable terms of trade; and
by producers with obsolete plant and equipment who need to modernize or
renovate their facilities. Such enterprises would be assisted in
re-orienting these productive facilities to become more efficient producers,
and to obtain scarce foreign exchange resources. The project also would
assist small-scale enterprises to play a greater role in the growth of the
sector. In addition, the project would provide technical assistance to
existing and potential non-traditional exporters in diversifying their
markets, and would strengthen the capability of the financial system to
appraise and supervise subprojects. The proposed project is expected to



- 24 -
finance some 60-80 industrial subprojects involving total project costs of
about US$32 million, focussing on a wide range of small and medium-sized
enterprises.  The project is expected to have a substantial employment
impact, generating a total of about 1,500-1,600 new jobs, at an average total
fixed investment cost per job of around US$20,00 in 1983 prices.
4.10      In addition to meeting the immediate need for a stronger export
performance, technical assistance contemplated under the proposed project
would assist the government in resolving longer-term problems by studying the
most appropriate means of developing a policy framework for export
development, and for measuring the efficiency of industrial enterprises.
Based on the financieras subproject pipeline, the bulk of the financing is
expected to go to the chemicals, wood products, food, beverage and tobacco,
clothing, and metal-mechanics subsectors.
4.11      The project is expected to contribute to the institutional develop-
ment of the financial system. It would focus on widening financial inter-
mediation and supporting BG's efforts to build-up subproject appraisal and
supervision capabilities of participating intermediaries. The capability of
financial intermediaries to lend to SSEs is expected to be strengthened con-
siderably.
4.12      As conceived, the proposed project does not involve any unusual
risks. However, because the institutional arrangements established under the
project would be new and intermediaries would need to develop their capabili-
ties in project appraisal and supervision, some initial delays in subloan
processing may occur. This risk would be considerably reduced by rapid
implementation of the technical assistance and training component. A
continuation of the unsettled political situation in Central America and the
failure of world trade to revive may also cause some firms to postpone
investment decisions; however, this risk has been taken into account in the
definition of the loan amount. In addition, the Bank would closely supervise
the initial phase of project implementation.



- 25 -
V. Agreements and Recommendations
5.01      During negotiations agreement was reached with the government and
BG on:
(i)  the amount, allocation and terms and conditions of the
proposed loan (paras. 3.10-3.12, 3.14, 4.02, and 4.03);
(ii)  the scope and arrangements for implementing the technical
assistance component (paras. 3.13-3.15);
(iii)  the staffing of the Project Unit and the appointment of a
sub-director responsible for carrying out the project (para.
3.03);
(iv)  the content of the Statement of Operating Policies and
Procedures, and the Credit Manual (para. 3.06);
(v)  a procedure for reviewing the adequacy of onlending rates to
subborrowers (para. 4.03); and
5.02      Prior to loan effectiveness:
(i)  a subsidiary loan agreement between the government and BG,
satisfactory to the Bank, would be signed (para. 4.02);
(ii)  BG's Board of Directors would (a) adopt a Statement of
Operating Policies and Procedures and a Credit Manual (para.
3.06) and (b) appoint a sub-director for the Project Unit
(para. 3.03).
(iii) at least 3 financial intermediaries would have signed
satisfactory participation agreements with BG (para. 4.04);
and
(iv)  the Government would take steps satisfactory to the Bank to
exempt beneficiaries under the loan from import restrictions
(para. 1.18).
5.03      The proposed loan constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of
US$20 million to the Banco de Guatemala on the terms and conditions outlined
in Chapter IV.



-26 -                               ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 6
GUATEMALA: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
BG's PROJECT UNIT: STATEMENT OF OPERATING POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
A. Policies
1.        The objectives of the BG's Project Unit shall be to promote
industrial development especially in sectors that generate foreign exchange,
create new jobs, and increase the use made of Guatemalan natural resources.
Such sectors would be: (a) manufacturing; (b) agro-industry; (c) forestry
and lumber; (d) fishing industry; (e) mining; and (f) services directly
associated with these sectors.
2.        In order to accomplish those objectives, the Project Unit shall:
(a) operate through financial intermediary institutions to finance
(i) well-designed projects for the creation, expansion, or
restructuring of production capacity, especially that of
small- and medium-scale enterprises; and (ii) production
inputs required by non-traditional exporters;
(b)  ensure that non-traditional exporters and small-scale
enterprises (SSE) are given the access to credit and technical
assistance they require for proper project preparation and
implementation;
(c) encourage financial intermediary institutions to assist
borrowers in improving the techn:ical and financial aspects of
their project preparation and to develop their capabilities
for project appraisal and superviision.
3.         The Project Unit shall make use of its resources for the following
purposes:
(a) to grant loans through financial intermediary institutions for
the purchase of (i) fixed assets such as machinery and
equipment (installation costs included), buildings, handling
and storage facilities, and related civil engineering works;
(ii) permanent (i.e. incremental) working capital needs for
related investment subprojects;
(b) to meet payment of all costs and commissions arising out of
its own activities; and
(c)  to effect any other financial transactions connected with its
objectives.



-27 -                              ANNEX 1
Page   of 6
4.        The Project Unit shall establish a maximum limit on the financing
of each investment subproject. This limit shall be cumulative, taking into
account the outstanding balance of previous Project Unit's loans to the
enterprise, or to any subsidiary enterprise.
5.        Investment subloans shall be expressed in Quetzales and BG shall
cover the foreign exchange risk associated with such operations.
6.        Projects for which credit financing is sought shall be judged on
the following criteria: (i) economic and financial viability; (ii) genera-
tion of foreign exchange; (iii) generation of value added; (iv) use of
domestic raw materials, goods and services; (v) employment generation; and
(vi) other financial and technical factors, depending on the nature of the
particular project. For projects which shall require financing by BG (from
whatever source) in excess of US$200,000 equivalent, their evaluation shall
include a calculation of the economic rate of return for the project.
7.        The Project Unit shall operate for an indefinite period and shall
employ sufficient staff to attend to the activities of project preparation,
promotion, appraisal and supervision, including the necessary administrative
functions. Its principal resources shall consist of funds allocated to it by
BG from the proceeds of loan agreements entered into with national and inter-
national financial institutions, its own earnings and funds coming to it from
any other source.
8.        The Project Unit shall encourage participation by as many inter-
mediary institutions as possible, avoiding a concentration of financing
through any single one of them. To this end, the Project Unit shall set a
limit of US$5 million on the participation by any financial intermediary.
9.        In order to be accepted as a participating financial intermediary,
a financial institution must be properly equipped to appraise and supervise
long-term loans, sign a contract establishing the conditions of participation
and corresponding obligations, and meet any other requirements prescribed by
the Project Unit.
10.       In financing subprojects, the Project Unit shall, if required,
provide financing in conjunction with financial intermediaries and sub-
borrowers, and to that end it shall establish the appropriate structure for
participation.
11.       The interest rates payable by borrowers and the spreads to finan-
cial intermediary institutions shall be as set by BG in conformity with those
agreed upon with the corresponding source of funds.
12.       Maturity periods on loans granted by the Project Unit shall be
established on the basis of cash flow projections of each subproject and
enterprise, and on the type of asset to be financed.
13.       Financial intermediary institutions shall make financing available
to sub-borrowers on the terms and conditions established under the project,
except for the interest rate on its own counterpart funds, which shall be as
established by BG.



- 28 -                              ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 6
14.       Loans made available to intermediary institutions for the financing
of subprojects shall be subject to the following conditions:
(a) they may be granted only to financial intermediaries operating
in accordance with the laws of Guatemala;
(b)  the financial intermediary must ensure that the borrower will
have access to sufficient funds to complete its financial
plan, including the financing of its working capital needs;
(c) the financial intermediary shall, as much as possible, help
applicants to prepare their studies of technical, financial,
and market aspects of their subprojects in an acceptable form
that will facilitate appraisal; as well as conduct the
subproject appraisal and supervision as established by the
Project Unit;
(d) the financial intermediaries shall repay their loans from BG
punctually, even if they have not been reimbursed by their
sub-borrowers; they shall also pass on to BG any repayments
received in advance from sub-borrowers;
(e)  financial intermediaries and beneficiaries shall comply with
all such terms, conditions, and requirements as may be
established by the Project Unit.
15.       The Project Unit shall only finance projects for which alternative
financing on reasonable terms is not available i-rom other sources.
16.       The Project Unit shall maintain separate accounts and keep proper
records of its operations, which shall be duly audited; it shall also set up
a well-designed system for the retrieval of information on its activities.
17.       The Project Unit shall conduct periodic reviews of the results of
its operations, the participation by financial itntermediary institutions and
the results given by subprojects financed, then making recommendations for,
or itself carrying out, whatever adjustments it deems necessary for the
accomplishment of its appointed objectives.
B. Procedures
BENEFICIARIES
ARTICLE 1:
Individuals or corporate bodies meeting the following requirements
may be beneficiaries:



- 29 -                             ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 6
(a)  those establishing a new enterprise or expanding or
restructuring existing production capacity, provided the
amount of the BG loan applied for does not exceed US$1.5
million and is not less than US$10,000, or the equivalent in
Quetzales. The upper limit shall be cumulative, including any
other outstanding debt balance from other BG subloans under
the project to the subborrower, or any of its subsidiaries.
(b) those with the managerial, technical, and financial capacity
to implement their projects efficiently.
TERMS AND CONDITIONS AFFECTING OPERATIONS
ARTICLE 2: Within the limits enunciated, the following provisions shall
apply:
(a)  the Project Unit may finance up to 65% of the value of fixed
assets (excluding land and including the assets to be
financed) and permanent working capital of a new investment
enterprise, or up to 80% when an existing enterprise is being
expanded; intermediary financial institutions shall contribute
not less than 10% from their resources, while the sub-borrower
shall meet the remainder of project costs, but not less than
10% of the total cost of the expansion or modernization of an
existing enterprise, or 25% of the total cost of a new
enterprise;
(b)  the Project Unit shall not provide financing:  (i) to cover
existing debts or debts to third parties; (ii) for the rental
or purchase of land or commercial buildings; (iii) for the
purchase of securities; (iv) for the payment of dividends or
recovery of investment capital; (v) for used goods, except
when appraised or guaranteed by a firm of recognized
capability or solvency; and (vi) to pay taxes or other fiscal
liabilities of beneficiaries;
(c)  small scale enterprises (SSE) are those firms having total
assets, excluding land, of less than the equivalent in
Quetzales of US$250,000, as of December 31, 1983; and
(d)  for technical assistance subprojects, the Project Unit shall
follow the following procedures: (i) prepare terms of
reference and subproject document satisfactory to the Bank
indicating the objectives of the assistance proposed,



-30 -                              ANNEX 1
Page   of 6
including a detailed work plan and implementation schedule for
carrying out these objectives and indicating the functions to
be carried out by consultants to be financed under the
subproject; (ii) select consultants in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank, indicating the number of
proposals received, the proposal selected and reasons for its
selection.
INTEREST RATES, SPREADS AND COMMISSIONS
ARTICLE 3: The interest rate payable by loan beneficiaries on funds provided
by the Project Unit shall be up to the Bank's SVIR plus 1% for technical
assistance subloans, and up to the Bank's SVIR plus 5% for investment
subloans. Participating banks themselves shall set the rate payable on funds
lent directly from their own resources, within the limits laid down by BG.
ARTICLE 4: Spreads for financial intermediaries would be 4%, 3% and 1% for
subloans to SSE's, medium-sized enterprises and for technical assistance,
respectively.
ARTICLE 5: Financial intermediaries shall pay a commitment charge at the
rate of 0.75% per annum on the principal amount of the Project Unit's loan
not withdrawn from time to time. Such commitment charge shall accrue from
the date of the loan agreement between the Project Unit and the financial
intermediary. The commitment charge is transferable to the subborrowers.
MATURITY PERIODS
ARTICLE 6: The maximum loan repayment period shall be determined in each
case by the participating intermediaries and the Project Unit, within the
following limits: (a) for investment subprojects; up to 12 years, including
3 years of grace and (b) for technical assistanc:e subprojects; up to 5 years
including 2 years of grace.
Repayment installments may be scheduled on a monthly, quarterly or
semi-annual basis by the financial intermediary, in accordance with the
nature of the particular subproject.
PROCESSING OF LOAN APPLICATIONS
ARTICLE 7: A proposed subproject shall be appraised by the participating
intermediary in accordance with the Credit Manual issued by the Project
Unit. Both the feasibility study and the appraisal report shall be forwarded
to the Project Unit, which shall analyze them and recommend appropriate
action to BG's Credit Committee, which will have the responsibility for
approving or disapproving all subprojects. If the funding to be made



-31 -                              ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 6
available by the Project Unit with resources from abroad is over US$200,000
or its equivalent in Ouetzales, BG's decision must be ratified by the World
Bank.
ARTICLE 8: Once a loan application has been approved, notification shall be
sent to the participating intermediary, accompanied by a statement as to the
amount of the subloan that will be granted.
ARTICLE 9: After receipt of notification of approval, the participating
intermediary shall provide the Project Unit with a copy of the loan contract
entered into with the beneficiary.
ARTICLE 10:  Requests for disbursement from the Project Unit shall be
accompanied by the documentation specified in the Credit Manual as required
as evidence of purchase or intent to purchase the goods and services in
question.
ARTICLE 11:  These Regulations shall come into effect on



- 32-                              ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 9
GUATEMALA: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
CREDIT MANUAL: CRITERIA FOR EVALUATING INVESTMENT SUBPROJECTS
(Spanish version)
I. El PROYECTO: RESUMEN, CONCLUSIONES Y RECOMENDACIONES
A. Resumen y Conclusiones
1. a) Breve descripcion y proposito;
b) patrocinadores del proyecto (la empresa y sus accionistas);
c) factibilidad tecnica y comercial;
d) plan financiero, indicando (i) el costo detallado de las
inversiones necesarias en moneda extranjera y moneda local; y (ii)
cada fuente de financiacion para cada bien o servicio que sea
financiado;
e) evaluacion financiera;
f) evaluacion economica.
B. Recomendaciones
1. Condiciones a ser incluidas en los documentos legales;
2. recomendaciones y justificaciones para cualquier arreglo especial
antes:
- de la firma del contrato
- del inicio de los desombolsos.
II. LA EMPRESA: ANTECEDENTES Y ACCIONISTAS
1. Descripcion de la empresa y del proraotor
a) Nombre, naturaleza y evolucion, fecha y lugar de la
constitucion de la empresa; una resena historica de la misma;
y lineas de produccion actuales;
b) informacion sobre los propietarios, accionistas y promotores;
capitalizacion y control de la erapresa; principales accio-
nistas y participacion de invers:Lonistas extranjeros;



- 33 -                             ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 9
c) experiencia previa de la empresa y los accionistas con el BG,
incluyendo los diferentes creditos otorgados, historia de
recuperaciones, prestamos en mora, y el saldo;
b) informacion sobre otras empresas afiliadas a la solicitante
del credito, incluyendo la participacion de cada empresa
afiliada en la capitalizacion de la solicitante.
III. LA EMPRESA: ADMINISTRACION Y ORGANIZACION
1. Miembros del Directorio de la Empresa
a) Nombres y calificaciones pertinentes, experiencias y
representacion:
b) descripcion de responsabilidades.
2. Organizacion
a) Organigrama de la empresa, especificando la estructura de la
organizacion, numero de empleados por cada unidad de la
organizacion y las distintas categorias de empleados;
b) canales de comunicacion dentro y entre unidades organizacionales;
delegacion de responsibilidades;
c) sistemas de control interno (personal, productividad, inventario,
contabilidad de costos, etc.);
d) sistema de tomar decisiones en cada nivel de responsibilidad;
e) sistema de planeamiento, programacion y presupuesto.
3. Relaciones de trabajo
a) Aplicacion y efectos de las legislaciones laborales, practicas
gremiales;
b) escalas de salarios, seguridad social, sistema de incentivos,
otros beneficios.
IV. LA EMPRESA: OPERACIONES
1. Sistema de Produccion
a) descripcion del sistema de produccion actual:
b) ampliaciones recientes, diversificaciones, adquisiciones y
consolidaciones de produccion:
c) volumen anual de produccion por principales lineas de productos -
de ser posible los cinco anos;



- 34 -                             ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 9
d) utilizacion de la capacidad de produccion;
2. Sistema de Ventas
a) Volumen anual de ventas por principales lineas de productos - de
ser posible los ultimos cinco anos;
b) el porcentaje de mercado cubierto pcr la empresa para cada pro-
ducto y las principales empresas comLpetidoras; en el caso de
exportaciones especificar todos los otros factores (i.e. calidad,
presentacion, transporte, tarifas, distribuciones, etc.) que
afectan la capacidad de la empresa de competir en cada mercado
extranj'ero;
c) sistema de mercadeo.
V. LA EMPRESA: SITUACION FINANCIERA
1. Analisis financiero de ser posible de los ultimos cinco anos
a) balances;
b) perdidas y ganancias;
c) fuentes y usos de fondos;
d) indices financieros y tendencias;
e) analisis de la solidez financiera y rentabilidad de la empresa.
2. Auditoria externa
a) nombre y experiencia del auditor externo;
b) conclusiones, recomendaciones, comentarios y opiniones del
auditor.
VI. LA EMPRESA: CONCLUSIONES SOBRE FORTALEZAS Y DEBILIDADES
VII. EL PROYECTO: PROPOSITO E INVERSIONES PROPUESTAS
1. Proposito del proyecto y diseno
a) descripcion del proyecto y su proposito;
b) existencia de procesos de produccion alternativos y su eficiencia
relativa;
c) justificacion de procesos selecciona,los.



-35 -                              ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 9
2.  La Inversion Propuesta
a) Lista de las principales maquinarias requeridas y sus
especificaciones, capacidad instalada, numero de turnos, dias de
operaciones por mes y por ano;
b) disponsibilidad de maquinaria (locales, importaciones), tiempo de
envio del fabricante, servicio y suministro de repuestos;
c) base para seleccion entre por lo menos tres proveedores (excepto
en casos cuando sea relativamente dificil o costoso de obtenerlo),
incluyendo precios, calidad, escala de la planta, compatibilidad
de nuevos equipos con los medios existentes y futuras
ampliaciones, etc.;
d) justificacion de la ubicacion elegida (adquirida o rentada),
disponsilidad de terreno para ampliaciones futuras, acceso al
mercado y medios de transporte;
e) equipo para el control de la contaminacion y otros efectos
nocivos;
f) servicios necesarios de combustible, agua, alcantarillado, energia
electrica, telefono;
g) obras civiles, incluyendo edificaciones, pequenas construciones,
vias de acceso, etc.
h) necesidades de capital de trabajo y su justificacion.
VIII. EL PROYECTO: ASPECTOS TECNICOS
A. Materias Primas y Productos
1. Principales Materias Primas
a) Fuentes, suministros, disponibilidad (presente, futuros) y
variacion en las estaciones; necesidades de transporte y de
almacenamiento.
b) calidad indicando si son perecederas, tendencias de los precios,
dependencia de las importaciones, impuestos sobre importaciones,
requerimientos de cambios de moneda extranjera y disponibilidad;
c) concesiones; contratos actuales, creditos comerciales.
2. Productos
a) Especificaciones (calidad, tamano, peso, volumen, empaque, etc.);
conveniencia o aplicabilidad a las condiciones del mercado;



- 36 -                             ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 9
b) por cada linea de producto, volumen des produccion y valor,
factores de temporada que afectan la produccion, y produccion
diaria, mensual y anual.
c) utilizacion de capacidad instalada.
d) medios de control de calidad y standards de pruebas (factor de
desperdicios).
3. Mano de Obra
a) Disponibilidad y calidad de mano de obra, numero de obreros
requeridos en cada etapa de produccion;
b) requerimentos de entranamiento, programas y medios (locales,
exteriores);
c) supervision de trabajo; necesidad de asistencia tecnica o
instruccion (temporal o permanente);
d) impacto del proyecto sobre el nivel de ocupacion nacional escala
de sueldos;
4.  Plan de Implementacion
a) Responsabilidades de la ejecucion del proyecto: nombres,
definiciones y division de responsabilidades;
b) construccion y fecha de inicio, demoras;
c) calendarizacion de las inversionesz desarrollo de produccion
(volumen, calidad, lineas):
d) programa de mantenimiento y disponibilidad de repuestos.
5. Asistencia Tecnica
a) Arreglos con los consultores (nombres, experiencia, descripcion de
servicios, duracion del contrato, previsiones de penalidades y
garantias, etc.);
b) acceso a la tecnologia e investigacion, innovaciones tecnicas,
patentes, licencias, registros;
6. Compras de Bienes y Servicios
a) Discussion de los procedimientos de ccmpra que van a ser
utilizados;
b) justificacion de cada compra en terminos de compatibilidad,
calidad y precios;



- 37 -                             ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 9
c) analisis de las cotizaciones de proveedores potenciales,
incluyendo la propuesta de cada proveedor, los precios indicados y
los criterios de seleccion utilizados.
IX. EL PROYECTO: EL MERCADO
1. Entorno Empresarial
a) Importancia estrategica del proyecto para el pais; relacion al
plan de desarrollo del gobierno;
b) licencias para operar, permisos de importacion para negociar en
moneda extranjera, para hacer contratos con el exterior, para
establecer operaciones exteriores o recibir participacion inter-
nacional, garantia de franquicia, privilegios;
c) participacion directa o indirecta en el proyecto; papel como
cliente, suministrador, competidor o proprietario; participacion
en la junta directiva de la empresa;
d) distribucion de ganancias y repatriacion de capital;
e) control de precio y ganancias;
f) incentivos o subsidios fiscales aplicables al proyecto (libera-
ciones de impuestos, tarifas protectoras, cuotas o subsidios de
importacion o exportacion, reintegracion de impuestos, deprecia-
cion acelerada, impuestos sobre revaluacion del activo, etc.);
2. Precios
a) Precio de fabrica por linea de produccion y el precio del mismo
producto importado (c.i.f.), indicando variaciones temporales y
regionales; tendencia, fabricas afectadas y estimaciones de
precios futuros.
3. Demanda
a) Desarrollo historico de la demanda interna y/o externa durante los
ultimos cinco anos;
b) bases y estimaciones de demanda interna y/o externa durante los
proximos cinco anos.
4. Oferta
a) Produccion local o importada por linea de produccion durante los
ultimos cinco anos;
b) nombres de competidores, su capacidad y su utilizacion de
capacidad por fabricas existentes;



-38 -                              ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 9
c) naturaleza y grado de competencia (estructura de costo, precio,
calidad, productos o servicios); posibilidades de fusiones;
d) bases y estimaciones de oferta interna y/o externa durante los
proximos cinco anos.
5. Plan de Mercadeo
a) Contratos para ventas (internas y/o exportaciones);
b) promocion, propaganda (agencia, de publicidad), presupuesto;
c) politica crediticia hacia el cliente;
d) experiencia de mercadeo del vendedor por producto.
e) sector de mercado.
X.  EL PROYECTO:  PLAN DE INVERSION Y SU FINANCIAMIENTO
1. Costo Total del Proyecto en Moneda Local y Extranjera
a) Inversiones fijas (terreno, lugar de desarrollo, caminos,
edificios, construccion de la planta, maquinaria y equipo, gastos
anticipados, imprevistos); fechas de adquicisiones, vida util de
las maquinarias, precio CIF, recargos de descarga, obligaciones y
tasas de cambio, costos de instalacion;
b) requerimientos de capital operativo, variaciones de temporada o
ciclo;
c) gastos de formalizacion de prestamos;
d) programa de inversion (cronograma de ejecucion de obras);
e) costos incurridos hasta la fecha de presentacion de la solicitad;
f) bases de las estimaciones del costo incluyendo imprevistos.
2. Fuente Finaciacion del Proyecto
a) Proposito, moneda y forma de utilizacion, linea de credito
afectada;
b) terminos y condiciones de financiamiento; programa de compromisos,
desembolsos y repagos; garantias of recidas;
c) condiciones y convenios de financiamiLento (restricciones para
contratar nuevas deudas o avales, distribucion de dividendos,
etc.);



-39 -                             ANNEX 2
Page 8 of 9
d) participacion de fondos generados internamente; contribucion de
los accionistas; creditos comerciales; proveedores.
XI. EL PROYECTO: EVALUACION FINANCIERA PARA EL PERIODO DE VIDA UTIL DEL
PROYECTO
1. Costos de Operacion y Ganancias
a) Costos fijos y variables;
b) costo unitario por productos;
c) punto de equilibrio como porcentaje de utilizacion de capacidad;
d) ganancia de operacion y ganancia por linea de produccion.
2. Estados Financieros para Cada Ano Fiscal
a) Estados de ingresos;
b) estados del flujo de caja;
c) balances.
3. Indices Financieros (analizando tendencias)
a) Relacion de liquidez
-   relacion corriente
-   relacion acida
-   cobertura del servicio de la deuda
b) relacion de ganancias
-   margen de ganancias (ganancia bruta/ventas);
-   ganancia neta/activos totales;
-   relacion de habilidad de ganancia (ganancia neta/capital
proprio);
c) relacion de solvencia
-   capital pagado/deuda a largo plazo
-   capital pagado/deuda total
4.  Rendimiento Financiero
a) Tasa interna de retorno (financiera);
b) analisis de sensibilidad, riesgos e incertidumbres, influencia de
factores variables sobre el rendimiento de inversiones;



-40-                               ANNEX 2
Page 9 of 9
c) rendimiento para los inversionistas, estimando distribuciones de
los dividendos; y ganancias por accion.
XII. EL PROYECTO: EVALUACION ECONOMICA Y SOCIAL
1. Analisis Costo-Beneficio
a) Divisas ganadas y/o ahorradas como resultado del proyecto;
b) tasa economica de retorno;
c) riesgos e impacto de cambios en los precios sobre el rendimiento
economico.
2. Otros Efectos
a) Efectos sobre el crecimiento y programa de desarrollo del pais
(balanza de pagos, substitucion de importaciones, etc.);
b) utilizacion de capacidad productiva ociosa, apertura de nuevos
mercados, transferencia de la tecnologia, estimulo para nuevas
industrias, etc.;
c) entrenamiento de trabajadores y mejoramiento de la administracion;
aumento del nivel educativo de la poblacion local; mejoramiento de
salud, condiciones de nutricion y viv:ienda;
d) generacion de empleos directos e indirectos.
3. Efectos Ecologicos
a) Regulaciones para prevencion de incendio, explosion, ruido,
radiacion, etc.;
b) medidas contra efluentes y basuras; solidos, liquidos, o vapores y
gases toxicos, disposicion de subproductos, problemas e
investigaciones recomendadas, regulaciLones, locales.



- 41 -
ANNEX 3
GUATEMALA: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
ESTDIATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS 1/
Disbursement (USS millions)
IBRD Fiscal Year/Quarter                             By Quarter            Cumulative
FY 1985
September 30                                          0.5                   0.5
December 31                                           1.5                    2.0
March 31                                              1.0                    3.0
June 30                                               1.5                   4.5
FY 1986
September 30                                          2.0                   6.5
December 31                                           2.0                    8.5
March 31                                              1.5                   10.0
June 30 2/                                            1.5                  11.5
FY 1987
September 30                                          2.0                  13.5
December 31                                           2.5                  16.0
March 31                                              1.5                  17.5
June 30                                               1.0                  18.5
FY 1988
September 30                                          1.0                  19.5
December 31 3/                                        0.5                  20.0
1/ Estimated disbursements would conform to both regional and bankwide profiles
for the IDF sector.
2/ Terminal date for submission of subprojects.
3/ Closing date for disbursements.
LCPI2
January 1984



- 42 -
ANNEX 4
GUATEMALA: INDUSTRIAL CREI)IT PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.  Assessment of the Needs of Industrial Exporters in Guatemala.
International Marketing Group, New York, New York.
2. Protection of Manufactured Goods in Guatemala. Prepared by M. Hinds.
3. Legislacion Vigente Para el Desarrollo del Sector Industrial. GUATEXPRO.
4.  Guia de Procedimientos y Documentos de Exportacion.  GUATEXPRO.
5. Guatemala, Promocion de Exportaciones, UNDP.
6. El Sector Industrial de Guatemala, 1976-1980. Secretaria General de
CONAPLAN.
7.  Boletin Estadistico, April-June 1977; October-December 1979; July-
September 1980; July-September 1981; January-June 1982; April-June 1983;
Banco de Guatemala.
8. Boletin de Estadisticas Bancarios, I Trimestre 1982, II Trimestre 1983.
SuDerintenrdencia de Bancos.
9. Censo de la Industria Manufacturera Fabril 1977. Ministerio de
Economica.



GUATEMALA: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table 1: SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (1977-81)
(in Us$000)
Total
1977        1978        1979        1980       1981         1979-81
1)  Current Account                                   -35.2    -262.2       -196.4      -176.4      -564.7      -937.5    74.9%
a) Trade Balance                                73.3    -191.4      -173.3         47.2      -240.9
b) Net Services                              -204.3    -i86.4       -149.8      -333.4       -414.7
c) Transfers                                    95.8     115.6       126.7        109.8        90.9
2) Private Capital Flows                              122.9  .  236.5         41.9      -323.0       -58.3      -339.4    27.1
3) Errors and Omissions                                -2.8        -.8         7.4        18.4          -.3        25.5    -2.0
4) Sub-Total 1/                                        84.9      -26.5      -147.1      -481.0      -623.3   -1,251.4   100.0
5) Official Capital Flows                              71.1      102.5       120.1       162.0       274.3       556.4    44.5
6) Change Int'l. Reserves (Increase   -)             -156.0      -76.0        27.0       319.0       349.0       695.0    55.5
Memo Items:  Terms of Trade (1970=100)                164.4      173.6       16'.3       146.0        116.2        -         -
Exports GNFS                          1,160.2   1,092.4    1,221.4    1,519.8    1,299.1
Imports GNFS                          1,086.9   1,283.8    1,394.7    1,472.6    1,540.1
1/ Private Accounts = Official Capital Flows plus changes in reserves.
Note: Terms of Trade for January - May 1982-85.6
SOURCE: Banco de Guatemala                        -
LCPI2                                                                                                                                     L
January 1984



- 44 -
GUATEMALA:  INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT                               ANNEX 5
Table 2
Table 2: TARIFF PROTECTION AND COMPOSITION OF PRODUCTION
(1)                   (2)             (3)            (4)              (5)
Theoretical Tariff        Theoretical      Implicit      % of Value       % of Gross
Effective Protection         Tariff          Tariff           Added          Output
(A) Consumer Goods
31   Food, Beverages, Tobacco               187.1                88.5            47.1            41.5            47.0
322   Clothing                             1,822.8               101.2            44.9              2.7            2.0
324   Footwear                       Negative Value Added        123.1            38.6              1.2            1.0
332   Wooden Furniture                       281.6                79.6            71.4               .6             .4
342   Printing                                 2.9                  -                .9             3.8            2.0
3522   Medicines                                8.2                91.6            15.2              5.7            3.0
3523   Soaps, Cosmetics                       242.6               104.0            16.4              2.7            2.9
3551   Tires                                   40.4                98.1            40.1              1.3            1.4
356   Plastic Products                        99.6               201.4            18.1              2.5            2.4
3832   Radio, T.V.                             62.0               160.2             6.4              1.0             .9
3843   Automobiles                             45.3                91.4             8.1               .4             .4
3844   Motorcycles, Bicycle3                  160.0                71.2            -8.2               .6             .7
Total and Weighted Average         222.8                92.6            40.1             64.1           64.1
(B) Intermediate Goods
321   Textiles                                36.7                90.4            51.3              7.3            7.5
3233   Leather, except shoes, clothes          74.2               121.6            54.8               .1             .1
331   Wood and Cork                           98.3               138.6            11.5              1.5            1.4
341   Paper                                   34.7                66.4            24.7              1.8            2.4
351   Ind. and Agr. Chemicals                 -2.2                54.0            -2.3              3.8            4.4
3521   Paints                                  54.1                84.0            11.4               .6             .6
353   Petroleum                               29.0                49.6             3.0              2.3            5.9
3559   Rubber, n.e.c.                          24.7               196.1            26.1               .3             .3
36   Non-Metallic Minerals                   33.7                57.9            21.7             9.0             6.3
37   basic Metals                            17.7                39.6             4.6             1.7             2.5
Total and ',eighted Averages         3?.4               7r.5            2n.2 27                          31.3
(C) Capital Goods
30, except 3832, 3843, 3844                  IQ 7                7/, A            A 1             7 7              A
(TD) Total                                       157.2                84.8            32.2           100.0           100.0
Definitions: Theoretical Tariff Effective Protection -  It is the proteet.ion to the activity  as distinct from the
product, estimated from the theoretical structure of tariffs.  It does not take into account exemptions.
The averages were weighted by value added. Data refers to 1.973.
Theoretical Tariff: It is the tariff estimated from the legal specific and ad-valorem tariffs. Averages
weighted by gross output. Data refers to 1973.
Implicit Tariff: It is the percentage in which local prices of products exceed international prices.
Averages weighted by Gross Output. Data refers to 1973.
Note: Value added and gross output shares correspond to 1977. Given the stability that these compositions normally
show, the use of 1973 data for tariffs and 1977 data for the composition of production does not introduce
substantial error.
SOURCE: Column 1: Alan I. Rapoport "Effective Protection Rates in Central America", in W.Cline and E.Delgado, Editors
Economic Integration in Central America.  The Brookings Institution, Washington, D.C. 1978.
2 & 3:    Jorge Rorstcheff "Estudio de los efectos de la Nueva Tarifa Arancelaria and nivel general de precios
al consumidor" SIECA/BID.
Columns 4&5: 1977 Census of the manufacturing sector.
LCPI2
January 1984



-45 -                             ANNEX 5
GUATEMALA:  INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT            Table 3
Table 3: GENERATION AND USE OF FOREIGN EXCHANGE
BY THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR (1979-81)
(in US$000)
1979          1980          1981
(A) Hard Currency Generated By                           1979          1980
the Manufacturing Sector:
1. Exports to countries outside the CACM            29.6          48.5          63.7
2. Trade Surplus in the CACM 1/                      5.3         165.7         192.9
3. Total                                            34.9         214.2         256.6
(B) Imported Inputs from Outside the CACM
1. Intermediate Goods
(a) Fuels and Lubricants                        123.1         181.5         164.8
(b) Inputs for Agricultural Intermediate
Foods Production                           72.0          72.8          78.6
(c) Inputs for Agricultural Capital
Goods Production                           28.3          21.3          25.8
(d) Construction Materials                       98.1          92.5          98.7
(e) Other Intermediate Products                 401.6         455.1         466.3
Sub-Total Intermediate Goods Imports        723.1         823.2         834.2
Less, Inputs imported from the MCCA 2/    20.2             23.0          23.4
Total Intermediate Goods Imported from
Outside the CACM                          702.9         800.2         810.8
2. Capital Goods
(a) Machinery and Equipment                     217.4         180.8         193.5
(b) Transport Equipment                          90.5          76.4          66.3
Total Imports of Capital Goods          307.9         257.2         259.8
3. Miscellaneous                                     8.5           7.8          13.7
4. Total Inputs Imported from Outside the
CACM                                       1,019.3       1,065.2       1,084.3
(C) (A * B) %                                            3.4%         20.1%         23.7%
Memo Item: Inputs Imported from
Outside the CACM as % of
Total Imports                           67.8%         66.7%         64.8%
1/ Total Guatemalan Trade surplus in the CACM less non-manufactured exports to the CACM.
2/ Estimated.
SOURCE: Items under (A): Economic Memorandum on Guatemala, November 1982, Report No. 4195-GU
Items under (B): Estadisticas de Cambio Exterior (Mimeo), 1979, 1980, 1981.
Banco de Guatemala.
LCPI2
January 1984



GUATEMALA:  INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table 4:  SECTORAL COMPOSITION OF GROSS PRODUCTION (1977)
Composition of Production
(Figures in Percentages of Value of Production)                   Gross Production
Inputs                                                             by Sub-sector
Third                                  Total    Gross                  X of          X of Total
Coun-   Total    Wage                 Value    Produ-                Total Mfg.   Manufacturing    X of Total          X of Total
Domestic   CACM   tries   Inputs   Bill    Profits   Added    ction              in Qm  Production    Value Added         Euploymeit       Fixed Aaseta
31 Food, Beverages, Tobacco         55.8       1.9    7.6       65.4      6.6       22.4      29.0      100.0      691.2       46.4             40.2            32.9              43.4
311 Food                             63.5        1.6    5.5      70.6      5.8       18.8      24.5      100.0      536.0
313 Beverages                        22.8       2.1   10.3       35.1    10.7        45.6      56.3      100.0       83.5
314 Tobacco                          28.5       5.3    8.6       42.4    12.1        32.6      44.6      100.0       22.4
32 Leather, Textiles, Clothing   30.2          5.3   22.6       58.2    14.1        20.8      34.9      100.0      160.8       10.8             11.2            22.0              15.3
321 Textiles                         30.4       4.6   26.3       61.3    11.3        20.5      31.8      100.0      109.5
322 Clothing                         25.5       6.8   15.8       48.1     19.9       24.6      44.4      100.0       29.7
323 Leather, except shoes            43.9       2.8   21.3       68.0    13.3        14.7      28.0      100.0        7.5
324 Footwear                         31.8       8.0   10.6       50.4    24.1        17.7      41.8      100.0       14.1
33 Wood and Furniture               48.6       0.4    3.3       52.3    19.1        24.4      43.5      100.0       26.2         1.8             2.3             6.1               2.4
331 Wood                             53.9        -      2.7      56.6    17.1        22.4      39.5      100.0
332 Wooden Furniture                 32.4        -      4.4      36.8    26.3        29.8      56.1      100.0       _
34 Paper                            11.0       1.3   38.3       50.6    16.7        26.8      43.4      100.0       65.4        4.4              5.7             7.0               5.6 
341 Paper                             8.0       2.1   61.0       71.1      8.2       11.9      23.2      100.0
342 Printing                         10.2         .5   15.8      26.6    24.9        42.2      67.1      100.0
35 Chemicals                         8.7       4.7   49.6       63.0      8.7       21.1      29.8      100.0      311.9       21.0             18.6            12.1              14.2
351 Industrial and Agricultural    4.5          6.4   55.5       66.3      6.9       20.6      27.5      100.0
352 Chemical Products                13.2       6.0   26.1       45.4    13.4        29.0      42.5      100.0
355 Rubber                           20.S       2.7   38.5       6i.9    i5.9        11.1      32.9      100.0
356 Plastic                          12.8      11.0   35.6       59.4    11.6        23.3      34.9      100.0
36 Non-Metallic Minerals            27.9       13   14.         43.3    1 T    38     .5      52.3      100.0       92.0        6.2              9.6             7.9              10.6
37 Basic Metals                      4.1         .6   68.7      13.4      6.8       14.4      21.2      100.0        6.8        2.5               1.6            1.5               2.9
38 Metal Products                    8.7.      2.7   32.0       43.5    12.9        36.5      49.4      100.0       96.4        6.5              9.5             9.7               5.0
381 Cutlery, furniture, structures 9.7          2.0   26.1       37.8    15.3        41.9      57.       100.0        7.4          .5              1.2             .9                .5
383 Electrical Machinery             7.1        5.9    34.7    47.6    10.0          33.9      43.9      100.0
384 Transportation                   7.2         -      56.2    63.4       9.8       18.9      28.7      100.0
39 Other                            2.3          .6     5.2      8.1    13.5        70.3      83.8      100.0
3                                 34.2        2.8    23.3    60.3        9.5       24.1      33.5      100.0 1,488.2  100.00         100.0                  100.0           100.0
SOURCE: Direccion General Estadistica: V Censo de la Industria Manufactuera, Fabril, 1977, Guatemala
Note: The difference between the sum of value added plus industrial inputs and gross output is due to other inputs (general expenditures).
LCPI2
January 1984



GUATEMALA: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table  5:  PRODUCTIVITY AND WAGES IN MANUFACTURING SECTOR (1973-81) 1/
1473           1974           1975           1976           1977            1978           1979            1980           1981
I. Wage Trends (Firms affiliated to the
Social Security System)
(A) Manufacturing Sector
1. Wages Bill (Qm      )                                  58,4           64.9            94.6          102.8           95.5           118.9           134.5          151.8           189.3
2. Affiliated persons (thousands)                         47.7           50.3            66.7           69.9           70.8            70.6            69.5           78.9            78.4
3. Annual Wage/person (Q thousands)                        1,17            1.29           1.42           1.47           1.35             1.68           1.93           1.92            2.41
4. Index of Real Manuf. annual wage/person 2/            100.0           94.8            89.7           84.0           68.5             78.9           81.2           72.8            82.2
5- Ratio of manufacturing wages to average wages           1.58            1.48           1.51           1.50           1.44             1.58           1.61           1.59            1.69
in the economy.
(B) All Sectors
1. Wage Bill (Qm)                                        344.9          434.7           515.4          574.1          579.2           714.4           836.7         ,924.7         1,081.7
2. Affiliated Persons (thousands)                        468.9          499.4           550.2          586.6          6L7.5            673.3          694.8          766.9           757.0
3. Annual Wage/Person (Q thousand)                          .74             .87            .94            .98            .94             1.06           1.20            1.21           1.43
4. Index of Real Average Annual wave/persoa 2_/          100.0          100.7            94.1           88.1           75.6             78.5           80.0           72.6            77.0
5. Unemployment rate 4/                                    3.4             3.1            5.2            4.3            3.3              3.7            4.3             5.8            8.0
II. Prodctivity and Wages by Sub-Sector (Census Data for 1977)                                                                                                                                                   a,
Value Added Per Man-hour (Q in 1977)                              Hourly Wages (Q in 1977)
Total Assets    ] or gnrx-                                                        More Than                                                     More Than
per Worker      ing Force      Average    5 to 9       10 to 19      20 to 50        50         age    5 to 9   10 to 19    20 to 50              50
31  Food. Beverages, Tobacco                         18.5           32.9          5.20       1.48          2.95         1.85        5.14          .98        .42        .59         .93            1.04
32  Textiles and Clothing                            10.2           22.a          2.nn       1.06          1.31         1.71        7.15         .h7         .37        .50         .57             .72
33  Wood and Furniture                                4.3            5.9          1.44       1.12          1.30         1.45        1.59          .57        .42        .42         .58             .68
34  Paper and Printing                                9.1            7.0          3.49       1.58          1.81         4.58        3.67        1.18         .54        .69        1.22            1.32
35  Chemicals                                        27.7           12.1          7.45       2.54          4.55         6.84        7.98        1.74         .72      1.04         1.25            1.96
36  Non-Metallic Minerals                            14.0            7.9          4.38       1.23          1.67         1.51        5.75        1.07         .42        .46         .65            1.31
37  Basic Metals                                     28.2            1.5          4.01       1.21          1.87         3.21        4.21        1.05        .5b         .82         .64            1.09
38  Metal Products                                   10.6            9.7          3.88                                                            .95
39  Other                                             7.6             .9          5.31                                                            .83
3                                                   15.2          100.0          4.13       1.38          2.18         4.28        4.48          .99       .46         .62         .85            1.08
Value Added per Unit of Wage                       -                          4.17       3.00          3.52         5.04        4.15         -          -          -           -                _
SOURCE AND NOTES:    1/ Time trends refer to affiliates to the Social Security System, which in 1977 covered only a third of manufacturing  workers (Source: Banco de Guatemala).
Productivity and wages by subsector refer to firms included in the 1977 Census, which covered also about a third of manufacturing workers.  The two groups
coincided to a large extent.  The rate of growth of the Social Security affiliates, however, far exceeds the rate of growth of employment, and these figures
should not be used as indicators of the latter.
2/ Deflated by Urban CPI (Banco de Guatemala).
3/ The Social Security System now covers 32% of the total labor force,
4/ Estimated for the whole economy. Source - Economic Memorandum on Guatemala, November, 1982,Report No.              .
LCPI2
January 1984



GUATEMALA: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table 6: INVESTMENT IN MANUFACTURING (1982)
Planned Investment      Actual Inve.tmeut At         C8pacity Utilization
Sectors                        1982 1/              % of Firms With                  .      -l-
% of Firms With         ILgher                     % of Firms Ut,ilizing
Higher        No           Outlays        Not        50-74%   75 or more
Outlays   Outlays                       Outlays
Food Processing                      21.0        54.0             9.5        60.8           50          18
Beverage and tobacco                  3.7        74.1           10.3         62.1          52           22
Textiles                             30.4        34.8           18.2         59.1          67          20
Clothing and Leather                  8.0        76.1           12.4         80.9          59           13
Wood and Furniture                   21.7        53.3              -         91.4           53          12
Paper and Printing                   28.3        52.1           21.7         63.1           36          33                     1 |
Rubber and Plastics                  26.5        44.1            5.1         56.4           68          29
Chemicals                            37.5        47.2            9.5         60.8           69          20                     X
Non-Metallic Minerals                 14.3       50.0             9.3         60.5          71           5
Basic Metals                         12.6        58.8              -         70.6           47          35
Metal Products                       11.7        58.3             5.0         81.7          36          37
Other Industries                     23.1        30.7             -         1u0.0          62          39
TOTAL                             20.5        54.9           10.0         64.8          57          21
1/ Plans made in early 1982 by surveyed firms.
2/ First semester 1982 in comparison to 1981 reported by surveyed firm in September of 1982.
SOURCE: Table (A): Direccion General de Estad'stica and Banco de Guatemala.
Table (B): Banco de Guatemala, "Encuesta de Actividad Industrial", 1982.                                           a 
LACPI2
January 1984



GUATEMALA: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table 7: EXPORTS TO CENTRAL AMERICAN COMMON MARKET AND OTHER COUNTRIES (1977-81)
(US$000)
1977                         1978                           1979                          1980                        19812/
Other                         Other                         Other                        Other                         Other
Products                              C.A.C.M.1/    Countries    C.A.C.M.1/    Countries    C.A.C.M.1/    Countries    C.A.C.M.1/   Countries    C.A.C.M.I/    Countries
TOTAL                                    222.5          937.7          264.7          815.1          304.1          904.1          440.8          1,030.3       419.3           906.3
I.   BASIC PRODUCTS                       16.1          905.7          20.9           768.0           26.1          843.2           57.4            900.2        46.9           756.3
1.   Non Processed Food                   10.5          694.1           13.6          558.6           18.9          561.2           46.4           633.8                        606.3
2.   Agricultural Raw Material             5.6          208.8            6.1          203.2            6.1          279.1            9.2            264.9                       150.0
3.   Minerals                              -              3.1            0.1            6.2            0.4            2.9            0.4              1.5                         -
4.   Fuels                                 0.03           0.05           1.0            0.05           0.6            -              1.5              0.1
II.  SEMI-MANUFACTURED GOODS              49.9            8.9           55.7           17.3           75.9           31.3          110.2             81.6        69.5            85.0
1.   Agro                                 35.4            5.1           38.8            8.1           51.0            9.8           77.4             10.2
2.   Chemicals                             7.8            3.5            8.8            2.4           12.6             2.2          16.7              8.9
3.   Minerals                              6.7            0.3            8.1            6.8           12.3            19.2          16.2             62.5
III. MANUFACTURED GOODS                  156.5           22.7          188.1           29.7          202.2           29.6          273.2             48.5       302.9            65.0
1.   Foood/Beverages/Tobacco              29.8            3.3           33.0            2.7           28.7            2.5           45.7              4.9                          7.6
2.   Textile Products                     16.7             1.9          17.8             1.2          19.0             0.7          23.7              0.7                         6.3
3.   Leather Gooods                        3.6            0.6            3.7            0.6            4.5             0.8           5.3              1.5                         -
4.   Wood Products                         4.2            0.4            3.6            0.7            4.4             0.5           5.7              1.0                          1.1
5.   Chemicals                            46.7            11.4          58.4            13.2          61.6            14.9          89.8             21.7                        27.6
6.   Rubber Goods                          9.4            0.7           10.1             1.8          10.1             2.4          18.4         -   4.7                          -
7.   Petroleum Derivates                   0.2            -              1.0            -              1.6             -             1.4              0.1                         -
8.   Non Metallic Minerals                16.5             2.0          21.0             2.1          17.6             2.3          17.4.             3.0                          3.0
9.   Metals                                4.6            0.7            5.3             1.3           5.4             0.8           9.9              1.6                         2.4
10.  Machinery and Tranport
Equipment                         12.9             0.4          19.5             4.1          18.0             3.0          24.0               6.4
11.  Other                                12.2            1.3           13.7            1.9           21.1             1.8          32.1              2.9
1/   Central American Common Market.
2/   Estimates.
SOURCE: Banco de Guatemala, GUATEXPRO
LCPI2
January 1984



GUATEMALA: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table 8: THE FINANCIERAS - BALANCE SHEETS
(In US$000)
1975         1976             1977           1978          1979           1980             1981           1982          1983 a/
ASSETS
Current                           3 347.4       1 030.8          1 017.0       3 889.0        5 828.6         15 753.0       45 777.0        36 083.5        9 964.5
Foretgn                          2.1          9.9             10.0           18.0            2.7             2.5            4.5             27.1          10.9
Domestic                    3 345.3       1 020.9          1 007.0        3 871.0       5 825.9         15 750.5       45 772.5         36 056.4       9 953.6
Investments                         462.9       2 906.1          1 488.0        3 840.5       2 089.2          2 509.6        3 405.5          3 427.3       3 224.4
Loans and Discounts              15 244.7    16 086.1          18 925.0       28 154.8       36 700.1        56 364.1        75 002.6        83 993.6      96 383.7
Other Investments /              1 086.3         882.2            882.2        1 493.6       8 860.3          6 436.8       19 236.0         17 989.2     46 161.5
Other Assets                      1 361.6       1 364.9          1 205.0        1 866.3       1 679.5            854.8        1 732.9          6 750.9      4 959.1
Ftxed Assets                        220.7         212.6            218.0          435.4          424.1           286.5          323.3            672.3         653.1
Deferred Assets                      20.4          24. 1            19.0           25.1           31.3            48.9          490.8            415.4         353.4
TOTAL                      21 744.0    22 506.8          23 700.0       39 704.7       55 613.1        82 253.7       145 988.1       149 332.2    161 699.7
LIABILITIES
Foreign                            9 717.9      9 159.9          8 740.0        8 486.5        8 415.6         8 766.5         8 605.7         8 154.7       7 532.4
Domestic                           5 680.0       6 839.2         8 072.0       23 341.8       38 772.3        64 204.9      121 047.7        122 182.0   133 089.7
Bonds                       2 548.2       2 348.8          6 740.0      13 888.8       28 333.0        45 163.5       100 005.0       104 822.0   117 063.7
BG                              -            -               877.0       8 349.2        9 622.5         18  666.4      2 0    S6.3     12 945 6       i 15  1.3
Other                       3 531.8       4 490.4            455.0        1 103.8          816.8           375.0          886.0          4 414.2         909.7
Other Liabilities                    612.6        470.3            431.0          603.0          661.0           693.3        1 419.9          1 575.5       3 775.9
Sub- Total                 16 010.5    16 469.4          17 243.0       32 431.3       47 848;9        73 664.7       131 073.3       131 912.2    144 398.0
Paid-in Capital                    4 828.0      4 829.0          4 829.0        4 829.0        4 829.0         4 829.0        8 942.0          9 542.0      10 072.0
Reserves                            447.8         539.3            721.0           76.0        1 319.7         1 783.3        2 487.8          3 505.9      4 382.1
Other                               457.7         669.1             -             839.3           -               -              -          (     26.9)  (      17.7)
Sub-Total                   5 733.5       6 037.4          5 550.0       5 744.3         6 148.7        6 612.3        11 429.8         13 021.0    14 436.4
Profit (Losses)                      -             -               907.0        1 529.1        1 615.5        1 976.7         3 485.0         4 399.0       2 865.3
TOTAL                            21 744.0    22 506.8          23 700.0       39 704.7       55 613.1       82 253.7        145 988.1       149 332.2    161.699.7
a/ To October 31, 1983.
b/ Includes "Fondos Especiales" to amortize bonds in circulation.
SOURCE:  BG/Superintendency of Banks.                                                                                                                                             z Z
LCPI2                                                                                                                                                                              mx
January 1984                                                                                                                                                                         M



GUATEMALA:  iNDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table 9: THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM - LENDING BY TYPE OF INSTITUTION AND BY ACTIVITY
(in US$000)
Forestry
instit./      Total        Agriculture         Livestock      Hunting &        Mining         Industry       Construction         Commerce   Transportation    Services    Consumer Goods            Other
Year                                                            Fishing
Commercial
Banks 1/
1975        308,980.0        51,390.2          13,430.2           345.0          168.4         119,390.1        10,595.6          53,384.0         4,340.4        10,852.5         15,170.6         29,913.0
1976        327,726.7        55,680.6          13,673.1           314.9          149.9        124,005.0         26,969.2          54,254.8         3,141.0        17,899.0         14,239.0         17,400.2
1977        415,983.0        60,248.0          12,916.0           329.0        1,613.0        135,283.0         35,287.0          90,816.0         4,709.0         9,576.0         14,410.0         50,796.0
1978        486,401.0        65,257.0          13,627.0           530.0        3,423.0        141,882.0         44,579.0         122,480.0         3,410.0        11,349.0         19,761.0         60,103.0
1979        568,322.0        62,038.0          17,724.0         1,350.0          923.0        187,591.0         54,831.0         125,533.0         7,131.0        13,683.0         20,343.0         77,175.0
1980        664,373.0       115,224.0          16,626.0         1,388.0        4,687.0        240,288.0         48,464.0         134,381.0         4,659.0        11,699.0         31,120.0         55,837.0
1981        702,922.0       122,167.0          16,077.0        2,390.0         3,823.0        235,967.0         51,519.0         161,224.0         3,655.0         9,093.0         29,315.0         67,692.0
1982  2/   533,797.9         85,847.6          13,045.9         2,766.0          860.1        184,627.5         37,452.9         117,407.6         3,304.1        12,623.5         26,136.2         49,726.5
Financieras
1975          5,599.0            879.3            692.7            55.5           15.0           2,579.7           -                  97.0           131.8            728.0           170.0            250.0
1976          5,961.4            773.3            494.7            80.0            -             3,554.4            43.0              -              447.3             56.0             5.0            507.0
1977          7,599.9            640.4            757.9           402.4           33.9           4,221.5           490.0              35.5           736.8            124.0              7.0           150.5
1978         15,353.7         2,374.0             435.2           150.0            -             7,559.8            751.0            334.0           605.6         2,809.6            209.0            110.1
1979         14,866.0         3,420.2             630.1           746.1            -             7,694.4             14.0             22.0            78.7         2,045.0               6.0           209.5
1980         27,248.4          6,009.3          3,227.5             -              -            12,704.3            790.5            695.3           350.0         1,761.5          1,160.0            550.0
1981         21,344.4         9,346.7           2,713.9             -             75.0           3,370.1           173.0             290.5            79.0            492.2         4,804.0             -
1982  2/    17,399.1          3,288.3           1,001.9           300.0            -            11,719.1           -                 313.8           188.0            534.5            36.0             17.5
CORFINA
1975          4,400.9            -                  -              15.0          142,8           3,159.8           -                  -              150.0           732.8             -               200.5
1976          6,650.9            -                  6.0           100.0          493.7           5,356.4             35.0             30.0             -             527.1             14.0             88.7
1977          8,544.3            -                  4.2            15.0           10.0           7,319.2             35.0             -                -             735.7             -               425.2
1978          5,594.5             19.0              -              15.4           60.0           4,243.4           599.5              -              345.0           320.6             -                 7.0
1979         13,141.3             60.0             13.0             -             16.0          10,405.5             30.0             -            1,612.0          410.6                9.0           585.2
1980         36,380.3            -                  8.6             -          2,631.6          23,946.7             30.0             -            2,380.0        6,874.6              10.8            498.0
1981        157,644.2            292.0              -               -          3.755.2        150,316.7  3/          30.0             25.0            16.0        1,810.8              -             1,398.5
1982  2/      6,546.1            -                                  -              1.9           5,419.3           -                  -                -             375.9             -               749.0
1/ Does not include Credito Hipotecario Nacional (an official commercial bank).
2/ As of September 30, 1982.
3/ Includes a loan for US$110.0 to a CORFINA promoted pulp and paper project.
SOURCE: BG/Superintendency of Banks
LCPI2
January 1984



GUATEKALA: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table 10:r THE FINANCIERAS - INCOME STATEMENTS
(in US$000)
1975              1976               1977               1978              1979               1980               1981                1982                 19831/
I.  Income                                        1,819.7            2,453.7            2,419.7           3,544.0            5,104.8            7,556.7           12,381.5             18,316.8           13,427.5
Interest                                    1,732.2           2,345.0            2,323.2            3,460.2            4,970.5           7,364.3           11,400.6              17,171.2           12,802.6
Commissions                                    48.3               95.8              45.0               50.4               43.9              121.2              930.0              1,054.1              596.7
Sub-total                               1,780.5            2,440.8            2,369.1            3,510.6           5,014.4            7,485.5           12,330.6             18,225.3           13,399.3
Other                                          39.2               12.9              50.6               33.4               90.4               71.2               50.9                 91.5               28.2
II.  Expenses                                      1,196.4            1,453.8            1,464.5           2,241.1            3,517.1            5,476.3            9,091.4             13,883.7           10,534.6
Interest                                      580.7             863.7              887.3            1,660.5            2,774.3           4,673.1            7,867.1              11,957.2            9,064.2
Commissions                                     4.1                8.8               3.3                2.1                1.6                1.5                1.0                250.9              134.1
Sub-total                                  584.8             872.5              890.6            1,662.6           2,775.9            4,674.6            7,969.1             12,208.1            9,198.3
Administrative                                611.6              581.3             573.9              578.5              741.2              801.7           1,223.3               1,675.6            1,336.3
III.  Operating Profits (Losses)                       623.3           1,000.0              955.2            1,302.9           1,587.7            2,080.4            3,290.1               4,433.0            2,892.9
IV.  Special Operations                              (142.7)           (217.2)             (13.3)              82.5               11.2              26.7              187.1                 (31.5)              (4.5)
V.  Net Results                                      480.6             782.8              941.9            1,385.4           1,598.9            2,107.1            3.477.2              4,401.6            2,888.4
VI.  Adjustments from Previous Years                   (8.9)              7.8                2.5              143.6               16.6                9.1                7.6                  0.2               13.3
VII.  Profit (Losses)                                  471.7              790.6             944.4            1,529.0            1,615.5           2,116.2            3,484.8               4,401.8            2,901.7
1/ As of October 31, 1983.
SOURCE: BG/Superintendency of Banks.
LC?I2
January 1984



ANNEX 5
Table 11
- 53 -
GUATEMALA: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table 11: THE COMMERCIAL BANKS 1/ - BALANCE SHEETS
(in US$ 000)
1975         1976         1977         1978          1979         1980         1981        1982        1983
ASSETS
1.  Current                          156,177.1   265,401.7   274,434.0   273,253.0   274,876.0   250,717.0   273,146.0   397,011.2              345,183.4
Domestic                       149,177.3   253.447.8   257,746.0   258,521.0   247,991.0   230,801.0   250,366.0   355,657.0    290,525.9
Foreign                          6,999.8    11,953.9    16,688.0    14,732.0    26,885.0    19,916.0    22,780.0    41,354.2               54,657.5
2.  Investments (papers)             131,619.4   126,032.9   141,038.0   122,529.0   115,646.0   163,944.0   237,044.0   345,122.0              303,777.1
Domestic                       131,619.4   125,325.4   140,331.0   121,646.0   115,646.0   163,933.0   237,021.0   345.088.1              303,719.0
Foreign                            -            707.5        707.0         883.0        -             11.0         23.0         33.9           58.1
3.  Loans and Discounts (net)        346,308.0   410,177.2   546,929.0   701,713.0   856,390.0  1021,800.0  1118,653.0  1148,181.9  1,301,135.0
4.  Fixed Assets (net)                 4,555.8      5,813.8       8,283.0      9,611.0    12,894.0    14,951.0    13,750.0    12,717.7           11,843.4
5.  Deferred Assets                    1,302.4       1,737.2      2,132.0      3,185.0      4,672.0      6,242.0       6,347.0     6,331.4        8,125.1
6.  Other                             51,496.6    78,419.0    82,093.0   106,846.0   139,913.0   147,281.0   162,082.0   172,278.0    248,341.4
TOTAL                         691,459.3   887,582.6  1054,909.0  1217,137.0  1404,391.0  1604,935.0  1811,022.0  2081,642.2  2,218,405.4
LIABILITIES
1.  Deposits                         569,689.1   729,007.4   864,038.0   982,268.0  1073.546.0  1213,259.0  1396,861.0  1643,027.9  1,634,797.4
Domestic                      569,448.0   728,277.2   863,278.0   981,775.0  1072,811.0  1212,168.0  1396,043.0  1642,060..4  1,633,787.6
Demand                      156,917.3   222,425.7   265,834.0   280,627.0   308,933.0   316,992.0   333,138.0   327,481.2    347,440.1
Savings                     360,740.0   455,307.1   539,706.0   565,994.0   610,627.0   722,979.0   916,579.0  1174,468.5  1,114,443.5
Term                         51,790.7    50,544.4    57,738.0   135,154.0   153,251.0   172,197.0   146,326.0   140,110.7    171,904.0
Foreign                            241.1        730.2        760.0        493.0         735.0      1,091.0        818.0        967.5       1,009.8
2.  Credits                           19,348.2    31,873.6    69,378.0    74,070.0   108,843.0   115,157.0   111,649.0    83,802.1    210,956.3
Domestic                         9,979.4    11,786.8    46,739.0    49,542.0    60,441.0    63,795.0    65,715.0    28,446.0    109,912.2
Foreign                          9,368.8    20,086.8    22,639.0    24,528.0    48,402.0    51,362.0    45,934.0    55,356.1    101,044.1
3.  BG Credits                        17,024.5       2,473.8      2,339.0    15,373.0    36,159.0    59,714.0    74,614.0    54,996.7    107,483.4
4.  Other Liabilities                  2,908.4      4,068.5      2,444.0       3,579.0      5,088.0      5,539.0    11,337.0    35,250.9        24,592.3
Domestic                         1,382.8      2,622.3      1,058.0      2,257.0       3,085.0      4,289.0      8,985.0    22,298.6       24,515.7
Foreign                          1,525.6      1,446.2      1,386.0      1,322.0      2,003.0       1,250.0      2,352.0    12,952.3           76.6
5.  Miscellaneous                     26,562.4    40,956.8    16,739.0    22,661.0    54,299.0    78,206.0    72,979.0   117,376.6              88,523.1
Sub-total                     635,532.6   808,380.1   954,938.0  1097,951.0  1277,935.0  1471,875.0  1667,440.0  1934,454.2  2,066,352.5
6.  Paid-in Capital                   44,820.0    63,800.9    73,022.0    84,160.0    88,162.0    92,601.0   100,147.0   102.701.8    111,101.9
7.  Reserves                           8,496.1      9,370.5    13,244.0    18,916.0    22,599.0    25,582.0    28,987.0    34,384.9             36,626.7
8.  Other Capital Accounts             2,610.6      6,031.1    13,705.0    16,110.0    15,695.0    14,877.0    14,448.0    10,101.3              4,324.3
Sub-total                      55,926.7    79,202.5    99,971.0   119,186.0   126,456.0   133,060.0   143,582.0   147,188.0    152,052.9
TOTAL                         691,459.3   881,582.6  1054,909.0  1217,137.0  1404,391.0  1604,935.0  1811,622.0  2081,642.2  2,218,405.4
1/ Does not include Credito Hipotecario Nacional
SOURCE: BG/Superintendency of Banks.
LCPI2
January 1984



CUATk?1ALA:  IND'USTRIAL CREDIT FROJECT
Table 12: THE COMMERCIAL BANKS 1/ - INCCME STATE4ENTS
(in UiS$OOO)
1972         1973        1974         1975         1976         1977          1978          1979          1980          1981          1982           1983
I.  INCOME                   26 967-3   27 904.5   40 899.4   54 342.9   64 406.9   81 436.2   100 420.7   124 951.9   150 929.2   169 482.7   201 890.8                           147 497.0
IntereFt             17 844.8   18 615.1.   26 408.0   38 424.3   46 699.3   58 627.2    75 576.3    93 559.6   113 675.1    133 186.5   165 672.4                        126 128.6
Cotmissions           4 743.4 _ 4144.           6  142.5     7 006.9     7 063.5      8 756.5       9 229.8      11 704.9      13 441.5    16 300.5    23 459.2             13 623.6
Suib-.-ctal       2-5U8.2    23 359.3   32 550.5   45 3T.2    53                                                                            97         189 131.&            1-39752 2
Currency Exclhanme   2 876.3       3 187.2      5 568.5     5 786.7      7 862.9   10 086.2    11 661.9          14 335.0    16 498.2         13 285.6       8 445.8         4 842.5
Ccher                 1 502.8       1 358.0    2 780.4       3 125.0     2 781.2      3 966.3       3 952.7       5 352.4       7 314.4       6 710.1        4 313.4         2 902.3
II.  EXPENSES                 23 990.7   25 068.1   35 028.2   49 316.2   54 689.3   66 296.8    82 153.0   109 901.6   133 222.1    153 326.6   189 799.3                          139 005.7
Interests            10 430.8   11 400.1   15 223.1   25 219.0   25 248.7   26 873.2               34 175.7    44 439.9    52 721.9    70 385.1    97 740.8                 72 541.0
Coomissions              124.8     2 248.0        221.7        231.9        271.2       648.2          462.4         452.5          67.0         101.0         237.0           179.6
Sub-Total         10O-555.-6  -13 T4T.T   T5s4V47.8  57 V5-6.-F T55T9.9- -27 5-2T. I -31 131 T--4  92 T  -52 78. 5   -7  W. T                         9 778             727 76
Currency Exchuang    1 513.1       1 769.8    2 756.5        2 642.3     3 809.9      5 528.2       6 329.1       8 848.2       10 526.0       7 666.9       4 501.4         2 281.7
AdminLtscratAve      11 922.0      9 650.2   16 826.9   21 223.0   25 359.5   33 247.2    41 185.8    56 161.0    69 907.2    75 173.6    87 320.1                          64 003.4
ITT.  OPERATING sESULTS          2 976.6     2 836.4    5 871.2        5 026.7      9 717.6   15 139.4        18 267.7    15 050.3    17 707.1          16 156.1      12 091.5         8 491.3
IV.  OTHER RESULTS               (433.5)      (111.81      (263.5)        13.9      (215.5)   1 558.i    (4 204.2)            756.3       1 483.2       1 653.1         587.1      (-)  600.7
V.  NET RESULIC               2 543.1      2 724.6    5 607.7        5 040.6      9 502.1   16 697.5       14 063.5       15 806.6    19 190.3        17 809.2      12 678.6         7 890.6
1/  Does not include Credito Hipotecario Nacional.
/ As of October 31, 1983. --x
SOURCE: BG/Superintendency of Banks.                                                                                                                                                                 X
LCPI2
January 1984



55 -                          ANNEX 5
Table 13
GUATEMALA INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table 13: THE CONSOLIDATED BANKING SYSTEM ASSETS
(as percent of GDP)
1977      1978       1979      1980       1981
Assets
Net Foreign Assets                10.3       9.0        8.4        3.0      -2.2
of which: Net International
Reserves               12.1       10.6      10.1        4.6         .3
SDRs and Medium and
Long-term Foreign
Liabilities             1.8        1.6       1.7        1.6        2.5
Net Domestic Assets               14.8      13.8       16.1       20.6      26.3
of which: Central Government,
net of official
capital                  .9         .5       1.1        3.7        7.7
Rest of the Public
Sector                  -.6        -.7      -1.0       -1.2        -.6
Private Sector         12.6       12.6      15.1       16.2       16.6
Total Assets = Liabilities        25.0      22.8       24.5       23.6      24.1
Currency in circulation        5.2        4.7        5.3       4.8        4.7
Sight Deposits                 5.3        4.4        4.8       4.2        3.9
ml                             10.5       9.1       10.1       9.0        8.6
Time and Savings Deposits         13.0      12.1       12.7       12.9      13.9
M2                                23.5      21.2       22.8       21.9      22.5
Capital and Reserves               1.6       1.7        1.8        1.7       1.6
Memo Item: GDP                    5,480.5   6,070.5   6,903.0   7,879.4   8,663.0
SOURCE: Banco de Guatemala
LCPI2
Januarv 1984



-56-                           ANNEX 5
Table 14
GUATEMALA: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table 14: FINANCING OF INDUSTRIAL FIRMS
(National Industrial Survey 1977)
(In percentages)
(1)            (2)            (3)
Total        Domestic        Foreign
as % of (1)    as % of (1)
LIABILITIES
- with financial institutions          23              60             40
short-term                      13             70             30
long-term                       10             47             53
- other sources                        32              69             31
short-term                      22             71             29
long-term                       10              61            39
SUB-TOTAL                                55              65             35
EQUITY                                   45              87             13
LCPI2
January 1984



BRD-11659R1
90' ~     ~        ~        S             /   ivME Sl
M   E X   I C   0            ~                             i
GUATEMALA                                                                    M EX C 0
.~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~       ~ ~~r --havr   -iEd  - - - - - - - - -d                  -- -------
R:id                          I                                               + Ds a
D !tpos9me                    ! oMaoLiOOa                                                                                        X
Iti
+0 ...
@ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MI~  M-O1t  ii
_t                                                                   M - e   Uelchor MencoOf  B E L 1 Z E          F71
0     20    40    Mo    90                "'o                  L. bert0   /  San Fronc cb
O    to  20   30   (0                                                                      S 50  '
.   M vg                       j               *                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~         ~         ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~S.nto T-rb o.  
.                                             ;SS                             0
+0               +~~~~0
M5    E X I Cn  a0   e aO)nGvl; 
an~~~~ ~ ~ ~ an a.                                                                                              Hon iurosnVa
\   /  Nenton    o                             \                                               >       A     \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~enu
COBANt                            EL E        STF
t,                                                                        Otqno.Jg\  
si         I   (          ISA~~~~~~~~~NTA CRUZ DEL QLICHE   /                       |        \     /
.w  A\tS ARCO                        /.S Manes acacan
A~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LS
g g Ad~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'IULA )
wi /        t       ~~~MAZATENANGO       ANTIGA,                         /     \\                I<vN            e
I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~E  SALVAogtDOtXI       \XRq, ^   LS,AOX,,
1:A,4t ..Ft CUB-A,?f>v A'g
92'                     91+                         >         47     l  7A *W  D OR A                       ,OSTA  Ri



