Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3711-GU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$20.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
January 26, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Official Foreign Exchange Rate         Parallel Foreign Exchange Rate (1983)
US$1.00  =  Q  1.00                        US$1.00  =  Q  1.35
Q  1.00  =  US$1.00                        Q  1.00  =  US$0.74
In this report, currency accounts are expressed in Quetzales (Q) and US
Dollars (US$) at the Official Foreign Exchange Rate.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BANDESA   -  Banco Nacional de Desarrollo Agricola
(National Agricultural Development Bank)
BANVI     -  Banco Nacional de Vivienda
(National Housing Bank)
BG        -  Banco de Guatemala
(Guatemala's Central Bank)
CACM      -  Central American Common Market
CIIU      -  Clasificacion Industrial Internacional Uniforme
(Uniform International Industrial Classification)
CABEI     -  Banco Centroamericano de Integracion Economica
(Central American Bank for Economic Integration)
CORFINA   -  Corporacion Financiera Nacional
(National Financial Corporation)
FIASA     -  Financiera Industrial y Agropecuaria, S.A.
(Industrial and Agricultural Finance Corporation)
FIGSA     -  Financiera Industrial de Guatemala, S.A.
(Guatemalan Industrial Finance Corporation)
FISA      -  Financiera Industrial, S.A.
(Industrial Finance Corporation)
GUATEXPRO -  Centro Guatemalteco de Promocion de Exportaciones
(Guatemalan Export Promotion Center)
ITC       -  International Trade Center
SIECA     -  Secretaria Permanente del Tratado General de
Integracion Economica
(Permanent Secretariat for the General Treaty
for Central American Economic Integration)
SVIR      -  Standard Variable Interest Rate of the Bank



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GUATEMALA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Guatemala
Beneficiary:         Banco de Guatemala (BG)
Amount:              US$20.0 million equivalent, in various currencies,
including about US$0.1 million capitalized front-end
fee.
Terms:               Repayable in 17 years, including four years of grace,
at the standard variable interest rate (SVIR).
Relending Terms:    (A) The Borrower would onlend to BG US$17.9 million,
at the same interest rate, term and grace period as for
the proposed Bank loan. The Borrower would bear the
cross-currency exchange risk with the US Dollar. BG
would onlend in Quetzales US$17.9 million equivalent
for investment financing on the following terms:
Interest             Including
Per Annum              Grace
in %      Term    (Years)
BG to Participating Financial
Intermediaries for:
Subloans to Small
Enterprises'/                                SVIR + 1)
)   Same as subloans
Subloans to Medium                                      )   to enterprises
Enterprises2/                                SVIR + 2)
Weighted Average                     SVIR + 1.9
Participating Intermediaries
to Enterprises for:
Subloans to Small                              SVIR+   )
Enterprises1/                                 up to 5      U
-                               ) ~~~~~~~~~~Up to  Up to
Subloans to Medium                             SVIR +   ) 12 Years  3 Years
Enterprises2/                                 up to 5  )
1/ Enterprises with fixed assets of up to US$250,000.
2/ Enterprises with fixed assets of more than US$250,000. Relending to any
single enterprise and its subsidiaries would be limited to US$1.5
million. In addition, BG would not finance firms having alternative
sources of foreign exchange financing. This would effectively limit the
participation of most large enterprises.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
BG would bear the exchange risk between the US Dollar
and the Quetzal; an average spread of 1.9 percentage
points for BG has been allowed to cover its operating
costs for the project and the exchange risk.
(B) The Borrower would make available to BG US$2.0
million of the loan proceeds for technical assistance,
comprising: (i) US$625,000 on a non-reimbursable basis,
to finance training and policy studies to be carried
out by government agencies; and (ii) US$1,375,000 on
the same terms as the Bank loan and with an annual
interest rate of up to the interest rate payable on the
Bank loan, for onlending through participating finan-
cial intermediaries to enterprises in Quetzales, on
terms of up to five years including two years grace, at
the same interest rate payable by BG to the Borrower
plus a one percent spread for the financial interme-
diaries, to assist the enterprises to develop non-
traditional industrial exports outside the Central
American Common Market (CACM) by identifying product
quality and design standards required in markets
outside the CACM and developing test marketing and
promotional strategies for specific products.
Project
Description:         The proposed loan would support the Government's
strategy and measures it is taking to promote non-
traditional industrial exports outside CACM for the
efficient growth of industry by: (i) providing techni-
cal assistance to help exporters of non-traditional
products develop new markets outside the CACM; to
strengthen the Government's export promotion policy
framework and strategy; and to strengthen the capacity
of BG and participating financial intermediaries to
prepare, appraise and supervise projects; and (ii) pro-
viding medium and long-term credit and foreign exchange
for financially and economically sound industrial
reconversion or expansion projects. By providing
enterprises with technical assistance, credit and
foreign exchange, the proposed loan is expected to
generate employment, income and a more rapid expansion
of non-traditional exports than might otherwise be
possible.



- iii -
Project Risks:       The proposed loan's principal risk is slower than
expected commitments due to lags in improved export
performance stemming from slow recovery of world trade
coupled with difficulties in opening new export
markets. In addition, disbursements could be delayed by
start-up difficulties in putting into operation new
financing arrangements. Finally, the generally
unsettled situation in Central America could delay some
investment decisions. However, the project's emphasis
on technical assistance and training should reduce these
risks. To minimize the risks further, the Bank intends
to supervise closely the start-up of the project unit in
BG.
Estimated Cost:                                    ----------US $Million-----
Local     Foreign    Total
Investment Component          11.0        17.9      28.9
Technical Assistance           1.0        2.0        3.0
Total Project Cost          12.01/     19.91/    31.91/
Front-End Fee on Bank Loan    -            0.1       0.1
Total Financing Required  12.0         20.0       32.0
Financing Plan:                                    ----------US $Million-----
Local     Foreign    Total
IBRD                            -        20.0       20.0
BG                             1.0          -         1.0
Intermediaries                 6.5          -        6.5
Enterprises                    4.5         -         4.5
Total                   12.0        20.0       32.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                                     ----------US $Million-------
IBRD                  FY      1985    1986    1987    1988
Annual                         4.5     7.0      7.0      1.5
Cumulative                     4.5    11.5    18.5    20.0
Economic Rate
of Return:           Not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:              4390b-GU dated January 26, 1984.
1/ Including price contingencies.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of US$20.0 million to the Republic of Guatemala to
assist in the financing of an Industrial Credit Project. The loan, which
includes a capitalized front-end fee of one-fourth of one percent, would
have a term of 17 years, including four years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate. The proceeds of the Bank loan would be onlent to
the beneficiary, Banco de Guatemala (BG) at the same interest rate, term
and grace period as for the proposed Bank loan, except for US$2.0 million
for technical assistance.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Guatemala Economic Memorandum" (Report No.
4195-GU) was circulated to the Board in June 1983. The conclusions of that
report are incorporated in this section. Annex I summarizes the main
social and economic indicators.
Overview
3.        Guatemala's population of about 7.5 million (mid-1982) is growing
at about 3.0 percent per year. Its most significant characteristic
is a sharp ethnic division. The Indians, about half of the total
population, constitute its poorest segment. The separation of the Indians
from the rest of society - of mixed ancestry and European origin - has its
roots in cultural and linguistic differences, and has been exacerbated by
lack of access to good land, public services, and employment in the modern
sectors. Malnutrition is severe and infant mortality is high. The adult
literacy rate is only 46 percent, one of the lowest in Latin America. The
high population density (262 per square kilometer of agricultural land) is
nearly triple the average in Latin American countries.
Resources
4.        Guatemala has a diversified physical environment.  The varied
climate and dispersion of good soils allow cultivation of a variety of
agricultural products. The country has some petroleum and nickel deposits
as well as substantial hydro-electric power potential and some exploitable



- 2 -
geothermal fields. Guatemala's natural beauty, mild climate, archeological
monuments, and proximity to the United States constitute a good potential
for tourism development.
Structure of the Economy
5.        The small size of the country makes external markets important to
growth, while making the economy vulnerable to fluctuations in
international prices. Exports of primary agricultural and manufactured
products (mainly consumer goods) have been a major source of growth.
Primary products are exported to the U.S., Europe, and Japan. A major
share of manufactured exports is oriented to other countries of the Central
American Common Market (CACM). Guatemala has consistently achieved trade
surpluses vis-a-vis other CACM members, but the dynamism and growth
potential of this market has been reduced recently by economic and
political problems in the region.
6.        Agriculture, manufacturing, tourism and, recently, oil are
important sectors in Guatemala. Agricultural output growth at 3.8 percent
a year during 1965-1982 has been among the highest in Latin America; the
sector presently generates over one-fourth of GDP and about half of total
employment and exports (mainly coffee, cotton, sugar, bananas, and beef).
Savings from export agriculture provide a substantial share of investment
financing. Industrial output, which grew at an annual rate of about 5.8
percent during 1965-82, presently contributes over one-fifth of GDP,
employs one-sixth of the labor force, and accounts for about one-third of
exports. In the mid-1970s, tourism expanded to rank third after coffee and
cotton as a foreign exchange earner. Tourism earnings, however, fell from
about US$82 million in 1979 to US$12 million in 1982 as political tensions
in the region increased and security conditions in Guatemala worsened.
Crude oil production started in 1979 and reached about 10,000 barrels per
day in 1983, equivalent to one-fourth of domestic consumption. About half
of the production is exported, since it cannot be used domestically because
of its high sulphur content. Proven oil reserves are modest, estimated to
last about six years at the current rate of production. Exploration
continues, however, and the Government hopes to confirm larger reserves.
Growth Paths
7.        Until the 1960s, Guatemala's growth originated mostly from
exports of traditional products. During the 1960s and early 1970s,
industrial growth was stimulated by Guatemala's participation in the CACM,
which provided manufacturing firms with a larger protected market. This
period saw the emergence of a dynamic industrial class. However, as the
limit of expansion of the CACM trade was approached, further development of
industry was constrained. This limitation, combined with a decline in
world demand for traditional export crops, underscored the need to broaden
the basis for economic growth. Towards this end, the Government is taking
steps to re-orient its incentive system to encourage non-traditional
exports to markets outside the CACM, both in industry and in agriculture,
to stimulate the domestic economy through their multiplier effects.



-3-
Recent Growth Trends
8.        Between 1965 and 1978, Guatemala enjoyed steady and substantial
economic growth with a low rate of inflation. GDP grew at six percent per
year, fostered by favorable world prices for the country's traditional
exports, growth of manufactured goods to CACM countries and expansion of
tourism. The private sector played a major role in diversifying exports by
developing cotton and sugar plantations, and by creating the largest
industrial sector in Central America. During the last six years, however,
the country experienced serious economic difficulties caused mainly by (i)
falling world demand and prices for Guatemala's traditional export crops
and rising international prices which led to a 24 percent deterioration in
the terms of trade; (ii) payment difficulties in the CACM, which adversely
affected exports of manufactures; and (iii) political developments in
Central America which discouraged private investment and foreign financing
while stimulating private capital outflows. All of these unfavorable
developments resulted in a significant deceleration in GDP growth from five
percent in 1978 to less than one percent in 1981 and a decline in 1982 to
minus 3.5 percent and in 1983 to minus 2.3 percent.
Fiscal and Balance of Payments Policies
9.        Government policies until the late 1970s have given top priority
to financial stabilitv and to providing a favorable climate for domestic
and foreign investors. Key elements of this approach have been a strong
and stable currency, freedom from external payments restrictions, import
protection through the CACM common tariff, and minimal taxation. Current
public revenues fluctuated around 12 percent of GDP; current expenditures,
around 9 percent; public investment, about four to five percent; and the
public deficit, about two to three percent. The level of public
expenditure was low, compared with that of countries at a similar stage of
economic development, and economic growth benefitted only a small segment
of the population. Basic services, particularly in, education, health and
rural developments, remained inadequate.
10.       During 1980-81, there was a departure from the generally cautious
fiscal and monetary policies. In an effort to stimulate the economy, the
Government increased public investment to 7.4 percent of GDP in 1980 and to
8.6 percent in 1981. However, a sharp decline of Ziscal revenues from
foreign trade and domestic production brought about a substantial
deterioration of public savings which dropped to about 1.1 percent of GDP
in 1981. The public deficit reached 6.8 percent of GDP in 1981 and was
financed mostly through an expansion of Central Bank credit, which tripled
in 1980 and doubled again in 1981. The rate of inflation increased to 9.5
percent per annum on the average during these two years.
11.       Expansionary fiscal policies in 1980-81 were accompanied by large
external imbalances which drained international reserves. Imports
continued to increase while depressed export proceeds caused an acute
shortage of foreign exchange. The current account deficit of the balance
of payments increased from 2.6 percent of GDP in 1979 to 6.5 percent in
1981. Low levels of official external financing, difficulties in



- 4 -
collecting payments in convertible currencies from other CACM countries,
drying up of foreign commercial bank and supplier credits and net private
capital outflows of about 2.8 percent of GDP annually further exacerbated
the foreign exchange shortage. To protect reserves, exchange controls were
introduced in 1980 and made more stringent in 1981, while the Central Bank
increased its borrowing from foreign sources. Nevertheless, net foreign
exchange reserves decreased to US$23.5 million at the end of 1981,
equivalent to about 0.2 months worth of merchandise imports (compared to
US$733.1 million, equivalent to 6.3 months of merchandise imports in 1978).
12.       The Government which took office in March 1982 started addressing
the rapidly deteriorating economic situation by taking austerity measures
aimed at containing the disequilibrium in public finances and balance of
payments. Total Government expenditures in 1982-83 were about 20 percent
below the level in 1981 as a result of sharp cutbacks in both current and
capital spending. Current expenditure was reduced mainly through a freeze
in Government salaries, reductions in personnel and cuts in budget
allocations of goods and services. Costly, low priority infrastructure
projects were either postponed or cancelled. As a result, the central
government deficit was cut to 4.6 percent in 1982 and about 3 percent in
1983, from 7.4 percent in 1981. The growth of domestic credit to the
public sector also dropped, to about 30 percent from 97 percent in 1981,
and the rate of inflation decreased to about six percent. In November
1982, the ceilings on domestic interest rates were lowered to 12 percent
(for loans) and to 9 percent (for deposits) in line with the downward trend
of domestic inflation and foreign interest rates.
13.       The current account deficit of the balance of payments also
decreased to 3.8 percent in 1982 and about 2.6 percent in 1983, as imports
declined more rapidly than exports reflecting the decline in economic
activity as well as an intensification of exchange controls. Net short
term capital outflow decreased. However, falling long-term capital
receipts were insufficient to finance the current deficit. To cut the loss
of gross reserves, the Government introduced restrictions on import
payments and delayed the processing of commercial payments, resulting in
arrears of about US$280 million at the end of 1983. Pressure on the
quetzal resulted in a premium of 30-35 percent for the dollar on the
officially tolerated parallel market. The loss in net reserves was sharply
reduced in 1982 and was reversed in 1983.
14.       Based on a stabilization program, the Government reached
agreement with the IMF for a stand-by arrangement of US$120 million
equivalent (upper credit tranches) over the period August 1983-December
1984. Through 1983, Guatemala has qualified for all purchases available
under the stand-by. In the external sector, the stabilization program aims
at achieving a small overall surplus in 1984 and a reduction of payment
arrears, while relaxing exchange controls. The stabilization program is
predicated on achieving further progress in the fiscal area, including a
tax reform to improve the efficiency of the tax system and to support
production and exports with a view toward encouraging rapid economic
recovery. The program aims at containing the overall public sector deficit
at 3.0 percent in 1984, while increasing government current and capital



- 5 -
expenditures to support a larger development effort, particularly to reduce
poverty in rural areas and diversify exports. During 1984, the Government
expects that the main contribution to adjustment will come from tax reform
legislation which was enacted in 1983, and is designed to improve the
overall efficiency of the tax system. The main component of the reform is
the substitution of a value added tax for the existing sales (stamp) tax.
The new tax is expected to reduce significantly tax evasion. In addition,
the existing progressive rate structure of the corporate income tax has
been simplified; a new tax on the net income of financial institutions has
been introduced; taxation of credits, transfers and repatriated income of
foreign investors has been changed to be comparable to that of other
countries with the view to encourage foreign investment; and taxation of
beverages and other selected items has been increased. To support
production and improve export competitiveness, the tax package provides for
exemption of exports from the value added tax, progressive elimination of
all other taxes on exports over the next three years and tax credits of up
to 15 percent for non-traditional exports outside the CACM. The
Government's budget for 1984 envisages a modest increase of current
expenditure (about 11 percent) and a significant increase of current
revenues (about 24 percent) from the depressed levels of 1983, with the
objective of financing about US$418 million of capital expenditures.
Although much higher than capital expenditures in 1983 (US$287 million),
the 1984 level would be near the levels achieved in the late 1970s.
15.       As regards credit, the program calls for a slowdown in the growth
of overall domestic bank credit to a rate consistent with approximate
equilibrium in the overall balance of payments. A significant part of this
deceleration is to result from the fiscal measures and the resulting reduc-
tion in credit demands. The authorities have stated their intention to
follow a flexible interest rate policy to ensure that domestic interest
rates in the banking system continue to be positive in real terms and
competitive with comparable rates abroad. Elimination of a 3 percent stamp
tax on bank credits in the context of the tax reform has helped to reduce
the excessive cost of short-term borrowing.
External Debt
16.       Apart from the Bank, official external financing has been
provided primarily by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the
Central American Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI), the U.S. Agency for
International Development (USAID) and the Investment Fund of Venezuela
(VIF). IDB funds carried a substantial concessional element and often
contained components repayable in local currency. The IDB made loans for
agriculture (credit, irrigation and fisheries), industry, electric power,
transportation, rural education, water supply, and health services. CABEI
concentrated mainly on regional projects in highways, telecommunications,
and in recent years, on power and water supply projects. USAID mainly
financed rural development, rural electrification, rural education and
health facilities. VIF assisted in power generation and transmission.



- 6 -
17.       The external public debt of Guatemala is low by international
comparisons. In 1982, its outstanding and disbursed medium- and long-term
public external debt amounted to only 12.6 percent of GDP. Service
payments on that debt were equivalent to 6.8 percent of exports of goods
and non-factor services. International agencies accounted for 46.8 percent
of total disbursed and outstanding debt in 1982. The Bank's share of the
debt outstanding was 16.6 percent and its share of service was 25.2 percent
i-n 1982. Of other major lenders to Guatemala, IDB holds 21.7 percent of
external public debt outstanding, VIF 18.8 percent, CABEI 8.3 percent,
and USAID 7.6 percent.
Prospects and Creditworthiness
18.       The country is facing liquidity problems in the external sector
as well as in the fiscal accounts. The authorities are addressing these
problems within the framework of the stabilization program agreed upon with
the IMF. In the medium- and long-term, economic prospects of Guatemala
should improve, and the economy might sustain a growth rate of three to
four percent, provided the authorities continue to carry out a
comprehensive development effort. The Government is about to complete
preparation of a 1984-87 development program and has sent the Bank a
statement of the main policies it intends to follow. These policies aim at
(i) strengthening private investment incentives and promoting labor
intensive production; (ii) stimulating financial savings and private
capital inflows; (iii) increasing public savings to enable public
enterprises to finance a larger part of their capital outlays from their
own resources; (iv) modernizing and diversifying industrial and
agricultural enterprises; (v) re-orienting incentives to favor
non-traditional exports to markets outside the CACM; and (vi) shifting away
from infrastructure investments, in favor of productive and social
sectors. The Governement is expected to use external debt capacity
prudently to address the problems in productive sectors and in a few main
social areas, in order to reactivate the economy, expand public services
for the urban and rural poor and reduce social tensions. Thus, if the
country continues to carry out economic programs in line with those of the
recent past, Guatemala is considered creditworthy for Bank lending. In
view of the country's pressing need for development finance and considering
the Government's progress and planned efforts to contain the public sector
deficit and to redirect expenditures to social services for low-income
groups, Guatemala's poverty-oriented development projects merit support
beyond their foreign exchange costs.



- 7 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
19.        Guatemala to date has received Bank loans totaling US$293.7
million (including US$20 million on third window terms) for 13 projects.
Of these, three were for education; four for power; two for telecommunica-
tions; two for highways; one for livestock development; and one for earth-
quake reconstruction. Seven Bank-financed projects have been completed in
Guatemala, three in electric power and one each in telecommunications,
education, livestock and highways. Performance audit reports have been
issued for two power projects, and the livestock, education and
telecommunications projects.   The performance audits conclude that project
objectives generally have been achieved; however, implementation has been
much slower than forecast during appraisal. Effectiveness of all Bank
loans has been delayed because of a lengthy ratification process. Most
projects now under implementation have also been delayed by the limited
administrative capacity of the institutions involved as well as weak
inter-agency coordination. However, disbursements of Bank loans have
reached a satisfactory pace in the past two years. Two large power
projects have accounted for the bulk of disbursements since 1978. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of
September 30, 1983.
20.        Bank financing for infrastructure projects has supported the
creation of more efficient public agencies. It also has been instrumental
in maintaining a Bank presence in the country through lending operations,
while continuing a dialogue with the authorities on the desirability and
implementation of a larger development effort. Bank lending for education
has more directly encouraged the undertaking of key development challenges
we believe the Government faces--such as expanding the provision of basic
services, both productive and social, to the rural and urban poor, and
supporting the formation of a modern industrial private sector--with the
objective of promoting economic diversification and easing the growing
social tensions which have characterized Guatemala's recent past.
Encouraging progress has been made in the last two years in the Bank's
dialogue on sectoral and project issues.
21.        IFC has made three investments in Guatemala.  The first, a
US$200,000 loan in 1958 for a flour mill, has been fully repaid. The
second, a loan of US$15.0 million to Exploraciones y Explotaciones Mineras
Izabal, S.A. (EXMIBAL), a company established in Guatemala to exploit the
nickel ore deposit at Lake Izabal in eastern Guatemala, was approved in
July, 1973. After some initial delays in finalizing the project design and
in arranging additional financing made necessary by substantial cost over-
runs, the plant began operations in mid-1977. The third was a loan of US$3
million to Cementos Progreso S.A. (formerly Cementos Novella S.A.), a
Guatemalan enterprise, to help finance an expansion of its existing cement
production facilities. The expansion was completed and commercial
operations started in 1979.



-8-
22.       The pipeline of projects for Bank consideration has improved over
the last two years. A Basic Education Project to assist in textbook
development, construction of primary schools in poor urban areas and
education planning was approved by the Board in June 1983. A Power
Distribution Project has been appraised; it includes measures for the
rationalization and strengthening of the institutional framework of the
energy sector. The Government has requested Bank assistance in preparing
projects in the fields of low-cost housing, increasing productivity of
small farmers, water supply and export diversification, and in
slrengthening the country's ability to plan and carry out public investment
projects.Negotiations for a Telecommunications Project have been completed;
co-financing from suppliers has been obtained through international bidding
procedures, and the project is expected to be submitted for Board
consideration shortly.  The Government has requested Bank assistance in
preparing projects in the fields of low-cost housing, increasing
productivity of small farmers, water supply and export diversification, and
in strengthening the country's ability to plan and carry out public
investment projects.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Industrial Policies and the CACM.
23.       Exports of manufactured goods have been a major stimulant to
industrial development in Guatemala. Total manufactured exports nearly
doubled from 1977 to US$322 million in 1980, with their share of total
exports increasing from 15 percent in 1977 to 21 percent in 1980. Most
important in 1980 were chemicals (US$111.5 million), followed by food,
beverages and tobacco (US$50.6 million), metal products and machinery
(US$32.5 million), textile products (US$24.4 million), rubber goods
(JS$23.1 million), paper products (US$21.4 million) and non-metallic
minerals (US$20.4 million).
24.       Central American trade played an important role in the develop-
ment of the industrial sector-through the framework of the CACM, as most of
Guatemala's manufactured exports went to Central America. The CACM,
created in 1961 by the five Central American countries, provided a free
trade area for regionally manufactured goods through a common external
tariff, a free trade convention, and a common system of incentives for
industrial investment comprising tariff exemptions on imported inputs and
capital goods from outside the CACM and income tax exemptions. The CACM
made it possible for many firms to achieve economies of scale and to
contribute to an expansion in employment. However, high protection for
some consumer goods discouraged their producers from attaining
i:nternational competitiveness.



- 9 -
25.       In the mid-seventies the small size of the CACM became an
obstacle to the further development of regional industry. Opportunities
for investment in new activities were exhausted, and growth of the
manufacturing sector was limited to increases in demand for existing
products. Obstacles to free trade became common, as governments tried to
protect some industries against regional competition.
26.       The CACM limitations have been aggravated over the last three
years by the world-wide recession, the drop in prices and revenues for all
major commodities exported by Central America (coffee, cotton and sugar)
and political troubles affecting the region. Depressed proceeds from
traditional exports of all members of the CACM caused a substantial
reduction in the purchasing power of the population. The shortage of
foreign exchange was made more serious by net capital outflows in 1980-82
and the drying up of foreign bank and suppliers' credits. Intraregional
trade decreased by about five percent in 1982 and contracted further in
1983. Prospects for the regional market are likely to remain limited in
the future.
27.       Faced by the growing limitations of the CACM, the Guatemalan Gov-
ernment, in the early 1970s, became interested in promoting exports outside
the region. The Government established a public export promotion agency,
the Guatemalan Export Promotion Center (GUATEXPRO), which focussed on stim-
ulating non-traditional Guatemalan exports outside the CACM. Some positive
results were achieved although the share of such exports in 1981 (estimated
at US$65 million or 18 percent of total manufactured exports) was still
low. In 1983, the Government merged the functions of GUATEXPRO with those
of the Department for Export Promotion of the Ministry of Economy with the
objective of closer coordination of export support policies.
28.       Diversification efforts are presently constrained mainly by the
scarcity of foreign exchange to import raw materials and equipment. This
hampers industrial production for new export markets; capacity utilization,
which had grown during 1978-1980, dropped in 1981-82. A US$60 million loan
made by the IDB in November 1983 is expected to help alleviate the shortage
of industrial inputs. However, scarcity of foreign exchange also hinders
the conversion of existing plants to production for new markets, the
starting up of new lines of production and the renewal of existing plants
which have deteriorated because of postponed maintenance and repairs.
Manufacturing gross investment is estimated to have declined by about 25
percent in real terms from high levels in 1978 to1981. Part of the decline
can be explained by a "wait-and-see" attitude of some investors due to the
uncertainties affecting Central America, but a major constraint is the
availability of foreign exchange. A shift to a more normal level of
investment can be expected to begin in 1984 if the foreign exchange
constraint is eased.
Export Development Strategy and Outlook
29.       The Government recognizes that a coordinated and well-planned
export drive is essential to enhance Guatemala's export prospects in the
medium- and long-term. Only in this way can Guatemala achieve the



- 10 -
relatively high level of export growth required for further economic
development. The reduced purchasing power of the CACM and its depressing
effect on capacity utilization of industrial plants are powerful stimulants
to encourage exporters to reorient Guatemala's industrial development from
regional import substitution to exports for third markets.
30.       The Government has decided to introduce policy improvements to
reduce and gradually eliminate existing disincentives for exports outside
the CACM to encourage increased productivity and domestic value added, as
well as to assist exporters in the opening up of new markets for
non-traditional exports (i.e., all exports except coffee, cotton, sugar,
bananas and beef). To this end, the Government has decided: (i) to give
priority to non-traditional exports in the phasing out of exchange controls
and import restrictions; (ii) to revise export incentives, including a
reshaping of tariff policies to rationalize the current uneven effective
protection for industrial products; and (iii) to increase technical
assistance to exporters concerned with the promotion and development of
non-traditional exports. Details of the Government's current policy
framework for industry are given in paras. 31 through 35 below. Measures
which would be implemented in these areas under the proposed project are
indicated in para. 48.
31.       The exchange restrictions which were introduced in 1980, and were
strengthened in November, 1982, set a ceiling for the allocation of foreign
exchange to most industrial inputs at 50-70 percent of the 1981 level.
These restrictions hampered industrial production and exports, as
inventories were drawn down and new inputs had to be imported.
32.       Within the framework of the stabilization program and the stand-
by arrangement with the IMF, the Government is committed to phase out grad-
ually the exchange controls and import restrictions before the end of
1984. The Government took a first step in this direction in January, 1983,
by permitting exemptions from import restrictions for enterprises exporting
at least half of their production outside the CACM. At the end of 1983,
the Government increased the allocations of foreign exchange to most
industrial inputs to 70 percent and plans further increases in mid-1984
within the framework of the consultations with the IMF under the stand-by
arrangement.
33.      Under the present export incentive system, the protection offered
by the CACM tariff is unevenly distributed and is biased against exports to
third countries of products with high domestic or CACM input content.
While intermediate goods not produced in the region can be imported free of
duty, intermediate goods produced in the region receive substantial
protection, and producers using the latter as inputs face higher costs than
their competitors in international markets.
34.       To compensate for the anti-export bias , the Government
introduced measures in the early seventies including, primarily, a
"drawback" mechanism--which allows exporters to be reimbursed for import
duties on inputs used in the production of their exports to markets outside
the CACM--reserved to enterprises outside the capital city. In 1982, the



- 11 -
Government extended the mechanism to include enterprises located in the
capital. The tax package of August 1983 includes additional measures in
support of exports (para. 14, above). Nevertheless, complementary measures
are needed to provide the incentive required to increase exports,
particularly a stronger effort to assist potential exporters for market
development of specific products, as well as to strengthen the capacity of
BG and participating financial intermediaries to appraise and supervise
export projects.
35.       A revised common external tariff for the CACM has been proposed
recently by the Secretariat for Central American Economic Integration
(SIECA). The proposal incorporates improvements in the fields of exonera-
tions, ad valorem taxation of imports and nomenclature. The Government is
aware of the need to rationalize and reduce protection, and is prepared to
revise the common external tariff accordingly, in coordination with the
other governments of the region.
36.      An export diversification effort by the private sector with strong
support from the Government is likely to succeed, considering the dynamism
that Guatemala's private industries and banks have shown in the past. This
effort will require foreign exchange financing of (i) technical assistance
to help exporters with market development and to strengthen the capacity of
BG and the financial intermediaries to evaluate projects, and (ii)
investments to restructure and modernize production facilities. The
proposed project would help meet these needs.
Industrial Finance
37.       The Central Bank (BG) was established in 1945 with responsibility
for formulating and implementing monetary policy, ensuring the efficient
operation of the banking system, and managing Guatemala's international
reserves. BG is well regarded inside and outside Guatemala as a
professional, well-managed and adequately staffed organization. Under the
Bank's Livestock Development Project (Loan 722-GU, approved in FY71) a
special fund was created in BG for the discounting of livestock subprojects
presented by qualifying financial intermediaries. BG has also managed
other funds and export credit lines extended by other governments.
38.       Among institutions providing financing to industry are four
private financieras, Financiera Guatemalteca S.A. (FIGSA), Financiera
Industrial y Agropecuaria S.A. (FIASA), Financiera Industrial S.A. (FISA),
and Financiera de Inversion; 14 commercial banks (including one official
and one semi-official bank, ten Guatemalan private banks and twoforeign
banks); and the state-owned Corporacion Financiera Nacional (CORFINA).
39.       The objective of the financieras is to invest in, promote and
channel domestic and foreign resources to industrial, agricultural and
livestock enterprises. Financieras can only lend for a minimum of three
years to investment subprojects and are subject to appropriate reserve
requirements on their obligations. Like commercial banks, they cannot
grant loans to a single firm for more than 20 percent of their equity,



- 12 -
nor, as a rule, participate for more than 25 percent in the paid-in-capital
of any single enterprise. In 1983, financieras held 5.8 percent of the
banking system's assets of US$2.6 billion in comparison to 2.7 percent at
the end of 1975. Financieras' assets increased in nominal terms by 23
percent on average p.a. during 1975-1983, while their industrial portfolio
increased at double this rate. Financieras' portfolio in arrears (as
percentage of total portfolio) was 3.9 percent at the end of 1981 and
increased to 8.0 percent in 1983. This level is expected to decrease, as
BG is planning to provide temporary relief of liquidity problems to sound
enterprises through special rediscount facilities. Their return on equity
was more than 34 percent in 1982 and 24 percent in 1983.
40.       The fourteen commercial banks account for 85 percent of the
banking system's assets. Their loan portfolios--mostly short-term loans of
up to one year--grew from US$385 million in 1975 to US$1.2 billion in
1982. Loans are concentrated in industry (34 percent), commerce (21
percent), and agriculture (16 percent). Commercial banks' equity increased
from US$56 million in 1975 to US$147 million in 1983, as the maximum
earning assets/equity ratio of 10:1 required them to raise capital to keep
pace with their expanding operations.
41.       CORFINA was created in 1972 as an autonomous government entity
with responsibility for promoting the development of industry, mining and
tourism, by sponsoring new enterprises, granting long-term loans and
providing technical assistance. CORFINA started operations in 1974, mainly
focussing on medium- and large-scale enterprises. By the end of 1982,
CORFINA's assets amounted to US$313 million (about 12.2 percent of banking
system assets) of which US$166 million was invested (including equity of
US$17 million and loans of US$149 million) in 16 projects promoted by
CORFINA itself. Of these projects, nine are in operation, but over half
are incurring losses. The other seven require additional investments of
about US$45.0 million before they can commence operations.
Financing of Industry
42.       Internally generated resources have traditionally been the major
source of funds for the financing of industrial enterprises. They provided
around 45 percent of total resources, while bank loans provided about 23
percent and other sources 32 percent. Only about one-third of borrowing is
long-term. Larger firms, overall, have had easier access to long-term
credit than smaller firms; they have been able to rely increasingly on
borrowings to finance their needs, including resources from abroad.
43.       During 1975-83, over one-third of total credit from the banking
system was channeled to industry; industrial credit grew by about 14
percent p.a. While commercial banks have been the main source of financing
to industry, the private financieras and CORFINA have been practically the
only sources of medium- and long-term credit. For the next several years,
CORFINA's lending is expected to be limited because of serious portfolio
problems, and the private financieras are expected to be the main source of
industrial term lending.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
44.       A staff Appraisal Report entitled  Industrial Credit Project",
No. 4390b-GU, dated January 26, 1984, is being distributed separately to
the Executive Directors. Annex III of the President's Report contains a
timetable of events in processing the proposed project and a description of
the special conditions of the proposed loan. The project was appraised in
December, 1982. Negotiations were held in Washington during the week of
May 9-17, 1983.
Proposed Objectives and Description
45.       The proposed project would be the first Industrial Credit project
to be financed by the Bank in Guatemala. The proposed loan would support
the Government's strategy (paras. 29-30 above) to promote non-traditional
industrial exports outside the CACM during a time of severe foreign
exchange constraints, for the growth of industry by: (i) providing
technical assistance to encourage producers of non-traditional products to
export to markets outside the CACM; to strengthen the Government's export
promotion policy framework and strategy; and to increase the capacity of BG
and participating financial intermediaries to prepare, appraise and
supervise projects; and (ii) providing medium- and long-term credit and
foreign exchange to medium andsmaller enterprises to finance the fixed
assets and related permanent working capital needs of financially and
economically sound investment subprojects for industrial rehabilitation,
reconversion or expansion.
46.       By providing enterprises with technical assistance, credit and
foreign exchange, the proposed loan is expected to facilitate the
modernization and reorientation of export industries towards markets
outside Central America, thus generating new employment, income and a more
rapid expansion of output and non-traditional exports than might otherwise
be possible. Manufacturing, agroindustrial, and mining enterprises would
be eligible to participate.
Institutional Structure
47.       A Project Unit would be established by BG to carry out the
proposed project (Section 2.02(a) of the draft Project Agreement) and would
be assisted by consultants as necessary (Section 2.03 of the draft Project
Agreement). Its operations would be governed by a Statement of Operating
Policies and Procedures, supplemented by a Credit Manual covering its
investment financing operation; these documents specify, among other
things: (i) financing objectives; (ii) the type of subprojects that would
be financed; (iii) the terms and limits of financing; (iv) the criteria for
subproject approval; (v) the responsibility of financial intermediaries;
and (vi) guidelines for subproject appraisal and supervision. Their
content has been agreed upon during negotiations. Their adoption by BG's
Board of Directors would be a condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01(c)
of the Loan Agreement). The unit would have its own full-time staff
(Section 2.02 (b) and (c) of the draft Project Agreement), which would
include a manager responsible for implementing the project.



- 14 -
Appointment of the manager would be a condition of effectiveness (Section
6.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). Each eligible investment subproject
would require approval by BG's Credit Committee, based on an appropriate
Iechnical, economic and financial justification (para. 52), prior to
requesting authorization to withdraw. Financial accounting would be
handled by the appropriate sections of BG.
Technical Assistance Component
48.       The project's technical assistance component (US$2.0 million)
would focus on directly assisting exporters of non-traditional products to
develop new markets outside of the Central American Region; aiding the
Government in strengthening its export promotion system; and training staff
of the Project Unit and participating financial intermediaries in the
preparation, appraisal, and supervision of subprojects. Under the
direction of the Project Unit, technical assistance in market development
would be provided to potential exporters to enable them to determine the
export potential of specific products, to identify product quality and
design standards required in markets outside the CACM, and to develop test
marketing and promotional strategies for specific markets. The Government
would be assisted in developing a viable export promotion system through a
review of the existing system of export incentives, institutional framework
and financial mechanisms. Expertise would be provided to study: (i)
appropriate levels of effective protection of individual industrial
products; (ii) alternatives for providing incentives to exporters,
including measures which would compensate for the anti-export bias of the
present system (para. 33); (iii) ways of widening the range of services
available to exporters; and (iv) ways to improve and expand the existing
financial mechanisms for exporters. Project Unit and financial
intermediary staff would receive training in project evaluation and
supervision. The Project Unit would also receive assistance in carrying
out a study of possible ways of stimulating and supporting increases in the
productivity of small-scale enterprises, focussing on policy and other
constraints and the means of eliminating them.
49.       Technical assistance and training would total about 165
man-months of consulting services at an estimated average cost of US$12,120
per man-month, including administrative overhead, salaries, international
travel and subsistence. To finance this cost, the Borrower would make
available to BG US$2.0 million of the loan proceeds for technical
assistance, comprising: (i) US$625,000 on a non-reimbursable basis, to
finance training and policy studies to be carried out by government
agencies; and (ii) US$1,375,000 on the same terms as the Bank loan and with
an annual interest rate of up to the interest rate payable on the Bank
loan, for onlending through participating financial intermediaries to
enterprises in Quetzales on terms of up to five years including two years
grace, at the same interest rate payable by BG to the Borrower plus a one
percent spread for the financial intermediaries, to assist the enterprises
in developing non-traditional industrial exports outside the CACM. If the
demand for such subloans is unsatisfactory, the Borrower could charge a
slightly lower rate.



- 15 -
Investment Component
50.       The investment component of the project would assist industrial
firms to modernize, rehabilitate, restructure or expand existing production
capacity or establish new plants, provided that the firms are or will
become internationally competitive. Taking into account conservative
estimates of the private banking sector, as well as the level of imports of
capital goods to industry, an investment demand of about US$125.0 million
p.a. for imports of machinery and equipment may be expected over the next
two to three years. About one-third of this amount, or US$40 million p.a.,
is expected to be financed through the financial system. This would
include about US$18 million under the proposed project. The remaining
US$22 million would be met by commercial banks. Suppliers' credits,
private sources, bilateral export lines of credit administered by BG, and
in a few cases direct foreign loans are expected to cover the balance of
the investment demand for imports. The total cost of investments under the
project, including incremental permanent working capital needs, is expected
to amount to about US$29 million, of which the Bank would finance US$17.9
million equivalent, amounting to the expected foreign exchange cost.
Participating financial institutions, project sponsors and BG would
contribute the balance of about US$11 million equivalent. The project
would facilitate the access to credit of small-scale enterprises (i.e.,
with total assets--excluding land--of less than US$250,000 equivalent),
which account for over two-thirds of the number of firms, by providing
additional inducements for banks to lend to such firms in the form of a
larger spread (para. 52).
51.       The financieras have the orientation and staff necessary to help
prepare and evaluate investment subprojects and would account for most of
this type of lending. The two financieras which have been in operation for
over a decade, FIASA and FIGSA, are expected to be the most important
intermediaries using Bank funds. Together with FISA and Financiera de
Inversion, the two newer Guatemalan financieras, they are expected to
account for over three-fourths of the utilization of the investment
component. It is not anticipated that CORFINA (para. 43, above) could meet
the critera for participation in the project (para. 54, below). Some of
the more dynamic commercial banks are expected to participate actively in
the project and to account for the other one-fourth. With appropriate
training, commercial bank staff can be expected to become proficient in
subproject evaluation and supervision procedures. To encourage as many
financial institutions as possible to participate, no more than US$5
million of the proceeds of the loan could be committed by any single
intermediary. The adequacy of this requirement would be reviewed not later
than September 30, 1985 (Section B(c) of the Schedule to the draft Project
Agreement).
52.       The first five investment subprojects processed by the Project
Unit would require the Bank's approval regardless of subloan size.
Thereafter, Bank approval would be required only for investment subloans
above US$200,000. This procedure is expected to result in a review by the
Bank of 25-30 subprojects covering about one-half of the investment
component. The Borrower would onlend to BG US$17.9 million, at the same



- 16 -
interest rate, terms and grace period as for the proposed Bank loan. The
Borrower would bear the cross-currency exchange risk with the US Dollar. BG
woDuld onlend an equivalent amount in Quetzales to medium-sized and
snall-scale enterprises. The interest rate to the enterprises would be equal
to the Bank's variable interest rates plus (i) a spread to BG of one
percentage point for small-scale enterprises and two percentage points for
medium-scale enterprises and (ii) spreads to financial intermediaries of up
t:o four percentage points for small-scale enterprises and three percentage
points for medium-scale enterprises. These rates would be positive in real
terms (para. 55). The terms for investment subloans would be up to 12 years,
wit:h up to three years of grace, based on cash flow projections for each
subproject. BG would bear the exchange risk between the US Dollar and the
Quetzal; the spread for BG would cover its operating costs for the subloans
andt the exchange risk.
Project Cost and Financing Plan
53.       The total financing requirements of the project, including price
contingencies, are expected to amount to US$32 million, of which the Bank
urould finance US$20.0 million, or 63 percent, equivalent to the expected
foreign exchange cost involved. Participating financial institutions would
pirovide US$6.5 million equivalent (20 percent of the total), project
sponsors, US$4.5 million (14 percent); and BG, US$1.0 million equivalent (3
percent). The proposed loan of US$20.0 million, including a front-end fee of
aboDut US$0.1 million, would be made to the Republic of Guatemala for
on-lending to BG. Execution of a Subsidiary Agreement between the Borrower
and BG satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of effectiveness
(Section 6.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). BG would channel the proceeds
of the loan to industrial borrowers, through financial intermediaries that
meet BG's conditions for participation.  The loan would be repaid in equal
Seni-annual principal repayments over a fixed 17-year term, including four
yeatrs of grace.
Loan Conditions
54'.      Intermediaries would be required to sign participation agreements
with BG, which would detail the intermediariest responsibility to: (i)
maintain a sound financial condition; (ii) appraise subprojects in accordance
with BG guidelines; (iii) supervise subprojects to ensure that resources have
been actually used for the goods and services to be financed under the
subloans and that subprojects have been progressing on schedule; (iv) adhere
to terms of lending and repayment of subloans; (v) ensure that procurement
and disbursement provisions are met; (vi) maintain adequate records on
Bank-financed sub-projects; and (vii) provide the Project Unit and the Bank
with periodic reports on subprojects financed and under study. As a
condition for loan effectiveness, BG would have to enter into participation
agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, with at least three intermediaries
(Section 6.01(d) of the draft Loan Agreement). To avoid concentration of
investment financing, relending of Bank funds for investment sub-projects to
any single enterprise or its subsidiary would be limited to US$1.5 million.



-17-
This requirement could be waived provided that (i) the firm would produce
non-traditional exports and would export at least 50 percent of its output to
non-CACM markets, and (ii) financing required over this limit would be
essential if the firm were to meet its export goals. A lower limit of
US$10,000 would also be established for investment financing. Investment
subloans of over US$200,000 would need to be approved by the Bank and include
a calculation of the economic rate of return of the subproject.
55.       Based upon the Bank's prevailing interest rate, final rates to en-
terprises would be around 15 percent for investment subloans, and around 11
percent for technical assistance subloans. As inflation declined to about 6
percent in 1982-83 and is expected to continue at low levels, the proposed
rates are likely to remain positive in real terms. The interest rate
structure of the project would be reviewed no later than August 31, 1985 and
annually thereafter (Section 2.05(a) of the draft Project Agreement). The
criteria used to conduct such annual review would inter alia take into
account the rate of inflation, the fiscal deficit and the balance of payments
situation. The surplus of repayments to BG over repayments due to the Bank
would be relent by BG for purposes consistent with those of the project
(Section 2.04(b) of the draft Project Agreement). Agreement was reached
during negotiations that, as a condition of effectiveness, the Government
would take steps to ensure that the imported inputs to be used in investment
and technical assistance subprojects financed under the project are exempted
from import restrictions (para 32, above; Section 6.01(e) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Procurement
56.       The proceeds of the loan would finance the foreign exchange costs
of imported and locally procured equipment, materials, civil works and servi-
ces. No purchase contracts are expected to exceed US$750,000 equivalent.
Consulting services for subprojects or technical assistance for the project
would be open to international recruitment and would be selected in accord-
ance with Bank guidelines for the selection of consultants. For investment
subloans, participating intermediaries would satisfy themselves that procured
items are suitable for the respective subprojects and reasonably priced, and
that the beneficiaries are purchasing from the most advantageous source. All
subproject appraisals would include a discussion of procurement procedures
used, responses received, prices quoted and criteria for selection of
suppliers.



- 18 -
Commitment and Disbursement
57.       The final date for submission of investment subprojects would be
June 30 1986, (Section 3.02(c) of draft Project Agreement) and the closing
date for disbursements December 31, 1987. The Bank would disburse for (i)
100 percent of documented foreign expenditures for imported machinery,
equipment, raw material inventories and services; (ii) 60 percent of local
expenditures for locally procured goods purchased off-the-shelf, representing
the average foreign exchange component; (iii) 40 percent of investments in
industrial buildings and related civil works representing the average foreign
exchange component; and (iv) 100 percent of expenditures for the technical
assistance component of the project. Full documentation would be required
based on an approved list of goods and services for every investment
subproject. Since the two-tier system involving BG and the financial
intermediaries requires a longer time for processing of subprojects than is
usual for single-tier loans, disbursements for investment subloans would be
made for expenditures incurred up to 180 days prior to the receipt by the
Bank of the particular subloan request.
Accounting, Auditing and Reports
58.       BG would maintain separate project accounts for subproject
financing, in accordance with accounting principles consistently applied and
in a form satisfactory to the Bank. The project accounts would be audited
annually by Guatemala's Superintendency of Banks or by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. The audit report would express an opinion as to the
reliability of the statements of expenditures to support claims for
disbursements; specifically, whether such claims are supported by adequate
documentation and reflect properly the expenditures eligible for financing
under the loan agreement, and the adequacy of corresponding internal
controls. The annual audit report, in a scope and format satisfactory to the
Bank, would be submitted to the Bank not later than four months after the end
of each BG fiscal year.
Project Benefits and Risks
59.       The proposed project through technical assistance and investment
financing would help the Guatemalan Government to support the development of
non-traditional exports outside the CACM, which are likely to be the most
dynamic element of industrial growth in the medium and long-term. It would
ease the problems faced by industrial firms in dealing with the lack of
foreign exchange resources for the rehabilitation, reorientation and
expansion of their production facilities. It would help enterprises increase
non-traditional exports by providing technical assistance for market
development of specific products. Moreover, the proposed project would
assist the Government in studying the most appropriate means of developing
the related policy framework. The project is also expected to contribute to
the institutional development of the financial system. It would focus on



- 19 -
widening financial intermediation and supporting BG's efforts to build up
subproject appraisal and supervision capabilities of participating
intermediaries. Thus the project would help create more effective mechanisms
for financing export production for markets outside the CACM and longer-term
industrial investments. It would facilitate the access to credit of
small-scale enterprises and would promote the study of ways to increase their
productivity.
60.       Under the project, some 60-80 investment subprojects would be
financed, involving total investment costs of about US$28.9 million, and
focussing on a wide range of small- and medium-sized enterprises. The
investment subprojects to be financed are expected to have a substantial
employment impact, generating a total of about 1,500-1600 new jobs, at an
average total fixed investment cost per job of about US$20,000 in 1983
prices. Based on the financieras' subproject pipeline, the bulk of the
financing is expected to go to the food, beverage and tobacco, chemicals,
clothing, metal-mechanics, and wood products subsectors.
61.       As conceived, the proposed loan's principal risk is slower than
expected disbursement due to lags in improved export performance stemming
from slow growth in world trade coupled with difficulties in opening new
export markets. In addition, disbursements could be delayed by start-up
difficulties in putting into operation new institutional arrangements. This
risk would be considerably reduced by rapid implementation of the technical
assistance and training components. The generally unsettled situation in
Central America could also delay some investment decisions. However, this
risk was taken into account in the definition of the loan amount. To
reduce the risks further, the Bank intends to closely supervise the initial
start-up of the project unit in BG.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Guatemala and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Banco de Guatemala,
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. The most important features and special conditions of the draft
Loan Agreement and the draft Project Agreement have been included in Part IV
and are summarized in Section III of Annex III of this Report. The following
are special conditions of effectiveness of the Loan and Project Agreements:



- 20 -
(i) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and BG has been
executed; (ii) that the manager of the Project Unit has been appointed, and
the Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures and the Credit Manual have
been approved by BG; (iii) that BG has entered into Participation Agreements
-with at least three participating intermediaries; and (iv) that the Borrower
has established procedures to exempt the imported inputs to be used in
investment and technical assistance sub-projects financed under the proposed
project from import restrictions.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Airticles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
by Ernst Stern
Attachments
lWashington, D.C.
,January 26, 1984



ANNEX I
-21-                                   Page 1 of6
T A B L E  3A                                          PAGE I
CUATE4ALA                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
GUATEMALA                               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEICHTED AVERAGES) Ia
MOST                        (HOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
/RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960-b      1970    ESTIMATb-    LAT. AMERICA & CARIB                 EUROPE
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. Wt)
TOTAL                                 108.9        108.9        108.9
AGRICULTURAL                           24.8         24.8         27.0
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     260.0        430.0       1140.0               2088.2                    2453.6
ENERGY CONSUlFTrION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        180.0        234.0        308.0              1407.6                     1580.8
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YFAR (THOUSANDS)    3966.0         5353.0       7477.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)          33.0         35.7         39.4                 65.9                      47.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                 12.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                   25.0
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                  2120
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          36.4         49.2         66.7                35.6                       82.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRE. LAND              159.9        215.7        268.6                93.2                      157.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (Z)
0-14 YRS                            46.2         45.7         43.0                40.1                       31.9
15-64 YRS                -           51.1         51.6         53.9                55.8                       60.9
65 AND ABOVE                          2.7          2.7          3.0                 4.1                        7.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 2.9          3.0          3.0                 2.3                        1.6
URBAN                                 3.7          3.8          3.9                 3.7                         3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)           48.3         44.1         39.1                31.5                       25.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)           18.5         13.9         10.3                  8.1                        9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.4          3.1          2.6                 2.0                        1.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)              .,         21.2         19.8
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..          7.0         18.0/c
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                          93.0        101.0        116.0               113.0                      108.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (Z OF REQUIREMENTS)         96.0         94.0         93.0               111.3                      129.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             60.0         57.0         55.0                67.9                       92.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           21.0         20.0         19.0/d              34.1                       34.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE            10.4          9.2          5.2                  5.3                      10.4
HElALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)          47.2         52.9         58.8                64.6                       67.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)          91.9         87.1         65.9                62.6                       71.4
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                  *          38.0         40.0/e              64.8
URBAN                                  ,,         88.0         87.07e              77.8
RURAL                                   .         12.0         14.07;              44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   .           ..         25.0/e              54.6
URBAN                                   ..          ..         40.07Te             69.8
RURAL                                  *          11.0         17.0/e              29.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             4420.0/f    3730.0        8600.0              1776.0                     1094.8
POP. PER NURSING PERSON              9040.0/f    1260.0        1620.0              1012.2                      762.5
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               380.0        470.0        520.0&             477.0                      334.0
URBAN                               190.0/f      210.0           ..               667.5                      216.0
RU'RAL                                 ..           ..           ..              1921.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BE)               ..        19.6           ..                27.2                       20.0
HOUS ING
AVERAGP SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 5.2/i 51 O/
URBAN                                 5.27?        4.9
RURAL                                 5.37T        5.t..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                 2.6/i        2.2/j
URBAN                                 1.97?        1.6
RUtRAL                                3.17?        2. 77          .
ACCESS TO ELECT. (% OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                22.0/i       28.5/          ..
URBAN                                56.07i       67.8..
RURAL                                 4.60/i       5.4..
_- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _ -_ _ -_ _   _ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ -



ANNEX I
- 22 -                                         Page 2 of 6
T A B L E  3A                                         PAGE 2
GUATEMALA                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
GUATEMALA                               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
HOST                       (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
lb  RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCGQE
1960-       1970-  ESTIMATE-    LAT. AMERICA & CARIB                 EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                    45.0         57.0         69.0               105.0                     102.2
MALE                     50.0        62.0         74.0               106.3                     107.2
FEMALE                   39.0        51.0         63.0               103.6                      97.9
SECONDARY: TOTAL                     7.0          8.0         16.0                40.0                      56.5
MALE                      8.0         9.0         17.0                38.6                      63.4
FEMALE                    6.0          8.0        15.0                41.2                      48.9
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)           18.6         15.0         19.0                34.0                  '   22.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             30.0         36.0         34.0                30.7                      24.7
SECONDARY                            8.0         14.0        20.0                 16.7                      22.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (2)                31.5        46.1L         ..                79.5                      69.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGFR CARS/THOUSAND POP             6.6         8.0         13.2/c              45.6                      52.9
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP          53.0         41.1         39.8               228.2                     165.5
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP               8.1        13.5         24.1               108.3                     124.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION              21.5         26.7         12.9                64.1                      96.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA        2.3/f        2.0/k        1.4                 2.9                       2.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           1237.0       1625.0      2291.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    12.6         12.9         14.2                24.8                      34.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               66.7         61.0         55.0                31.3                      40.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  14.4         17.3        20.5                23.9                       23.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               31.2         30.4         30.6                31.3                      42.0
MALE                                53.9         52.2         51.9                49.8                      55.2
FEMALE                                7.9         7.9          8.8                14.8                      29.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.6         1.6          1.5                 1.4                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         35.0/1         ..
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..         60.07. 
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         5.0 oT
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..        13.071         .
POVWR?t TARGT GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..       230.0/d             289.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..        160.071             184.5
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        231.0/d             519.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..        141.071            372.1                      409.0
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOMF, LEVEL (Z)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         21.0/d
RURAL                                 ..           ..        25.07..
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1978; Id 1977; /e 1976; /f 1962; /g 1975; /h 1958; /i 1964; /j 1973; /k 1968; /1 Partial survey of urban areas only.
May 1983



ANEX I
- 23 -                                                                             Page 3 of 6
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL Ih'ICATORS
Notes: Ainhoogh the data art Arose from nourcet generalLy judged the noet aathoritatioe and vettohie, lteshould also be noted that they oay tot be Internatienatly
comparable because  of  the lack of  -randard-eed defititno  sod coocepts used hy different otUoteIle  Intoolecting the dat-.  The data ace, notetheleF-, aseful em
demo  bOe orderm  of eagoloode, indicate tretnd, and t1rat-teriee certain major differeocet bet=eencountries
The refereoce groope are (l) the sati country groop of the sobjact country atd (2) a countFy groop it.h -o-e=ht higher avcrage ijcose that the coontry group Of the
mobject coantry p(ecept for "b gh Intone'  Oil Exporters" group inect "Middle Intone North Alrica and Middle East t  Ichosen bhepseo of stronger mocto-colearal
affinitic).  In the reiherce group  data the averagen are popolation meighted arithmetIc teats for oath lndicotor and thoac only ohen sajority of the coa rieese ti    a
groop has data  for that indltnPor.  Since the cooeraoe of coancie   omong the ladIcatorm depends op tho at..      atL. ilIy of data med ia no: utiform, caution mutt he
exerci_ed io reloting averages of one indicstor to anotherh  Tbe se avcage  are only astful to costarind tht valor of one  ndicaotor  at a time smoog the coutry and
Ieferetce groupa.
AEEA (thousand tq,.1l)                                                                             Population per Physiciac - Popolotion dioided by noobee of peatloting
Total - Total surface aces co-peiting laod ares and inlond vaoers; 1960,                           physLctans qualifled  fram a nedinol tchool at _-ieersity lee.l
1970 and 1910 data                                                                            Populatiot per Nurniog Peroen - Popolatiot diAided by osober of peacticitg
Agei-ultural - Etateaso of agricultural aeeausod temporarip or pe-ra-ettly                        sate and fetale graduate aursees, assstant n-rmes, practical earese  and
for ceopt, pa' t       -re k, n et and Aitchet gardeot or to lie fallovi 1980,                   nursing oaxll artrs
1910 and 1980 data.                                                                           fopPlaclot ptr Mospital Red - total, oebat, and reral - PopoLastoo (total,
urhat, and retail dtvided by thir cespective  mnuber of hospital beds
GNP PER CAPITA (0001 - GNP per cap'-to  estoatet at current oarker pricet,                           apalabhle in public and peicate geonral and speciaited hospital and
catcalated by ta=e convert ion nethod a_ World gank dtlas (199-9 esl;                               ehoh tt        eterAll.a179-81 basis)  oehabilitatienre eatahtist- eoth   pe nently mt-fed
1960, 1970, and 1981 data,                                                                        by at least one physictat   Estabtishtetts proding prltoipsily castodisl
care are tot included.  Rural hospitalo, ho Ietee, Inctlde hesith aed
h1011 CONSUMPTION' PCi CAPITA - AnnpFI appa rent consu=ption of cosnaridal                          oedipal  eenters tot permanently staffed by a phytician (hot hy a sediosi
priosep eoergy (coal scd  lignite  ptroleat, notnral gas sod hydro-,  nulear                        ensdtoot, torte, mid=ife, etc.) shinh offer it-patitnt acrosmodatise and
and geoth eral electrictty) yt  kilogro=s of coal eqaipaIlno  per capit.;                          peoide P limited range of medital fci1ities.   F-or statitical parposas
19h 7, 1910, snd 1980 data.                                                                       urban hopitals Include kHOs prtonlpul/groeral hospital, and rural
hompicalo, local or coral hosplitals nPd medical atd eateei ty teters
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                                       penialteed bosplole are inchlded ooly cnd or total.
Total Pooolotion, Hid-Year I thoclands) - At of July I; 1960, 1970, and 19ii                     Adtes<iots per horh tol Wed - Total to=her of admissiots toor discharges
data.                                                                                            fra iotpitals diaided by tho na-ber ot beds,
UbOat Poputation (percent of total) - hatlit of urhan so total popouitienI
ditfereot defioittons of orb an areas toay aeffect co=parahility oh data                    HOUSING
among coaotriet; 1960, 1970, and 1981 data.                                                   Aerage Witef nouehold (rereont pee household) - total, urban, and clfal
fopolutiot Projectiats                                                                            - A hoanehold coosists of a group of lediveiduals =ho share liviog qaarters
population in year 2000 - Correne popalathon peojectioot aee babed on 1910                      sod their tain neals.  A boerder or lodger say or may eat be i_tiodsd in
total populatton by age and niet and their =oetIlity and fertility                            the household for  -tatistical p- rp1sen
ates.  Projectino  paraeehers foe nortallty eates comprise of three                         A           berago tasber of  persoos per rIoo- total, orbhu, and rural average n=er
leaves aen=iog llfc eapecno- y at birth in.rea.Ing =ith cootrys pop                           of pereots per room  it all uban, aed rartl ocaupied cotventionag
capote bnct=e eIel, and female  life expetnancy stabilietNg at 77.5                           d        .el.lnge, t.syectinely   Dwlaeings eonlode not-per.a.ent structares sod
years.  The yatoneters for tertiitf rate also ha-e three levels                              ou-nocpied parte
asieg decline Io fertiliny according to  nco=e leve Iad past fo=ify                         Accesn to Electricity (percent of  d-elihge) - total, urhan, and raral -
planog prrfo=aance   gath coonery is then assigted one of theme tine                          Convettional  seltlegs  ich electricity it lihing quarters at percen
cobnih tions of toenaity and tertilty trends for proj-ctoo p           -r-ones               of tntal, urban, and rotal dccltin g  respacteely.
St .ttoosry populstion - Io  a stationacy popnlatlon there  is no grovth
tince the birth  eate is equal to the death rate, and alno the age                        EDUCATION
structurere=ainotconstant. This In och-eved only after tertilite  eaten                     Adjusted Etroliment ROotio
decline so the teplacen_nt leoel of cnit net reerodoction Face, when                          Pritue. .cho.l - total, vale and fetale-OGross totol, male sod female
e;ach generatIon of soee replacen iselIf exscnly.  The otatioosry                               enrolltent of all ages at thu frimary local as percentages of respectine
populatiloo t siean       tesiated at the heies of the proj ected character-                    prorury ochool-age populottn  nontally ifloudes children aged 6-Il
istins of the popalaobon it the yeor 2000, ond the rate of decline of                           years hat adjiuted for differen  leogtth  ot pritiary edosJiton; for
fertllnty ratetto replacosenhlevel.                                                             pcuntriosovith uni-e l o   educationetraltent  Ye exceed ID0 perceRt
Yeor stationary poplatlonit t  reached - The year ohen etationary                                  sincme s  ppile are belo= or abate the official shool age.
opoplatiot siie 1ll he reached.                                                               Wecondoryc hool - total,  ale atd finsle - Coepated asaovesecodary
poeulation Dehsity                                                                                   educahtion reqalretsah  least four years of approved peimary instroction;
Per sq  ks-Hid-year populatiot  ne                 ' squore hiloneter (100 hbectres) of            peonides general, hocational, ot teachee trairtog inttructions for
total areal 1960, 1970, atd 1911 data.                                                          puptl uso alip of  12 to 1? years of ag;  ,correspondencecourseare
Per nq  h=  ogricoituoel lsed -    Ho_puted us above for agriculhural land                         generalty excludod
enly; 1960, 1910 atd 1980 data                                                              Wocational etroliceot (percent of secotdary) - Vocational inseitatiots
Popolation Age h            9ructare [perenot) - Children (0-14 year-), =orking-sge (15-           ign..de technicol, indoatrial, or other prora=sn=hich opeeate indepetd-
h4years), atd retlrod(6  yearsnd over) as percetagesof  d-yeaf ently ora deparVtent  ofasecondarylinsitutions.
poyltaiPor; 1960, 1910, and 1991 data.                                                        ropol-ceacher ratlo - ren_ry, sod secoodory - Total ostdents enrolled in
Popalatiol irooth Rate (percent) - total - Atonal gcoach raten of total nod-                      pri=ary and tecondary locels divided by nu=bers of teachers it the cor-
Fese population for 1970-il, 1960-0, and 191W-8i.                                               responding levrel
PopulationGrovthate (percent) -urban-Anntal grovth ratesofurban                                 Adult lltacy rate r -Prcenc - Literate adults (ableoread andvrite) as
populstions for 19.0-hI, 1960-70, end 1970-81                                                   a percentage of tonal adult popolation oged 15 yeaes sod over
Crade  t       _rnh Rate leer tnousand) - Aytnai lite birthsf per thoatand of old-
year popolation; 1960, 1010, and 1981 dana,                                                 CONSXP0I`O
Crade reath gate (rer thousand) - Arnual deaths per thousand of mid-year                        Passenger Cars (rer thousand copoplation  - Passengee oars comprise =otoe
population  1960, 1970, atd 1981 data,                                                          tees nretgng loo  that eaght pernons; enclodes  sshutanes, herseseatd
Gross Reproduction Rate-IAverage oumber of daoghters aoman  dill beer in                          military aehicles
her norral reprodsctive  period if oh e experiences preeent ago-opeclilc                      cadio neceivers (per thousatd poputatio) - Adl  types of receioern tot radio
fertilicy ratmi usuanl ly fine-f ear averagen ending In 1960, 1910, sod                         hroadcasts to general pabioc ptr thoosand of poputatloe; excludes ate
fool.                                                                                           licenned recoivero to countcies  and in ye yrs oten registrotion or eadin
Family Planning- Atceptors , Antoal lthoasandsl - Anouai noobee of accephoes                       toet  =as inoetfect; data fur recent years naay note is aopsrshle store mete
of birth-conntol de1ice  ander aun pices of national fod Ply plptig                             countrien abolished 1 icetsingi
peogeun.                                                                                      TY Receinern  ( per thuonsand popalanlot) - TV receivoers for hroadcast to
fpaily Planniog - Users (petcent of nurried woneof - Pertentage of norriod                        geteral public per thoosand populetion, enxcodee onliceosed TV receivers
==nof child-hesring age (l5-44 ycars) vho one birth-control drvicesnto                       In onotri en and 0in years ohen regintration of TO sets vaso in effect.
alltrarnied ooaenfintureuge gruup.                                                            NcoosntDr Ctrccol.toon (pertononocnd ;puplaeonnl- Shovstche averuge
FGOD ANW OOT RITtOei                                                                                 ccrnuo ion of  dallo godrrul interest notewpaper", defined as a periodical
Index of Food Prodoctino  per Capita (1969-7i=ifP1 - Intex o  pee coput                           foOl ancont deunerd prlnanily to  rcoroung aenoral nea, It Is h        otoidered
annual production of all food cao=odletes   Peodochoot excludes need and                         to he "danly" if he appears at least foot timesmaoeek.
feed end is soncaleodar year hatsis   luntodities c00cr pei=ary goods (t.g.                   Cinema Annoal Attendance pee Capits pee YeaF -Based on the nanher of
sugarcane inotead of saugr) ohich see adlible and contain notrientso (e gi                      t uckets sold dorilog  hth  year, includitg odoestiots to Artive-in cine=aF med
coffee and tea are  eonluded)   aggregate prodanio  of each coantry io                          noille units,
based 00 natioral average prodacer prico oo ighto; 19n6-65, 1970, and 19hi
data                                                                                        LAdOR FORCE
Per caplita supply at caloriee (percont of requicements) - Canyaned feat                        T tal LRbor Porte (thousands) - fonooicolly actine perrons  inoclodiog armd
energy oqoivalent of net food saypiet  000ilable it countcy per copita per                     fortes and ateoplayed but excluding  oonrelvee, students , met., covering
daf.  Wvailabte supplies co=prie do -estic prodctt1ot, i=ports lena                              population of oil ages.  Defintione  to varioum  casotries are not
eoportt, and changesintstock.  Net sopploen etc lade aoi=al fetd , needs,                       pomparahlei 1980, 1910 and 198i daeta
q2notitlea uned in food proccssing, and lonses in distrihotiot.                                 Female (peeceet) - fnale lahor force at perceotaje ot total lshor forte
Require=entseaee emttooted  by FAO hosed 00 phyniologicat needs for nor=ol                      agrinaleore (peccert)I - Lahor foece On esaring, forestry, hoot sog mod
activity aod health considering etoiroosontal temperature, hody eetghio,                           fimhiog us percertoge of total lahor force; 1980, 1970 aod 19f1 data.
age cod nex distrihuhion of popalatiot, and alioting 10 yercent for vasti                       Ints try (percent) - Labor forte ho eioltg. nonstruction, esoofactori=
at bousehold lintel; 1961-ho, 1900 and 1980 data,                                                  and electricity, eater and gos at percentage of total tahor force; i960,
Per capita sopply of protein (grant per dayf - ProtelP  content of per capice                        1910 atd 1981 data
ottonopply 0f food pee day.  tot supply of food it defined 00 aohvne                          Parfic iration late (percent) - notoo, male, ond fesls - Perticipstion me
ceqairoeoeto for oil couetresn ettablished by USDA prooide for mitisut                          activityratmnesrcosputed as total, tale, and female labor force am
alloPancen nf hO gra=s of total  protein  per day apd 20 graIn of ani=ai tod                    perce--ages of total, male and fe2ole popolatioo of all a dgs retpectively
paine protein, of  hiph 10 irasn should he onisol protein   Thete                              I19h0, 1970, and 1981 doa,  These are booed on ILO5 participation rtees
staodards are lacer than ChoSe of 75 grams of total proteitoond 13 gFams                        ref leccing a ge-set stFucture of the poputation, and long time trend.  A
of anhnal protein as ano avrage for the  ord, proyosd if POia the                               tea etitate  arefo        a      ls
Third World Food Survef; 1961-65, i970 ond 1980 date.                                         Economtc D pondency Rtoio - Ratio of populstion under lb sod 60 mod over ro
Per naplto protein supply frot anioal and pulse - Proteinosupply of food                          the tonol labor force.
decivod from antoolo antd pulnes inogrsao per day; 1961-65, 19i0 atd 1977
dana.                                                                                       INCo OH  lnYIeteTIWn
Choild (egen I-WI leach kante (per thoatand) - Antual deathn peFothounand ho                    Percentage of Privote locate (both in cash aod kind) - Receined hy ritcheso 
age group 1-0 years, to children in this ago group; far most deoeloping                          percent, riches: 20 portent, pecrest 20 percent, and poorest 80 pecent of
countries duta dentved feom loPe tahlen; 1960, 1900 and i9Wi dons.                              households.
HEALT'd                                                                                         POVERTY T(AgET GROUPy
Life Cope ctancy at Birth (years)I - Average nunher of yearn of life retaining                  The toil ooing encimeteo are 0007 approolnate nRunoems of poverty levels,* sod
at hirtch   1960, 1970 aod 1981 data,                                                           should be pone-proted alth conderable cIation
Iofant Nortalite lane (reF tboosand)I - Antual dooths of Anfantteunder 000                      totinaned Ahsoluto Poveraty Ittone Level (USS per capita) - orian and rural -
year of age per thousand livo hirths; 1960, 19710 f in 191 data                                 Absolute poverty Incose te.el is that inRooe level helo= ehini a minital
Access of Safe Water (prerceot of poplulaion  - total, urban, and coral -                          nuteiticoally adeqo to diet plot enneno al too-food reguiemoesos is oat
bomber of people liotala urhat, and rural) =ioh reasonable access rto sae                       -ffordohe
eateso spply (includes treacod surface etanero or ontreated hot                               barinaDted Reiative Poverty Inco=e Lenel (IS) corcapita) - urhan and rur.I -
unconta=inoted va0cr each at that fran protacted boroholem, eprings, and                        gural relatioe poverty itoote leoel in one-third of average peer cpita
smoitacysvelis) as prercentages of their reopeceive populations .In 00                          personal focone of the country.  Urhan level is derived from  tie rural
urhanoareseapuhlic foontain or standpost located eno =ore thac 200 aecerm                       level octh adjootoont for higoer nose of living in cebantateas
frof a hoa e toy be coneidered ao  being  nitledi roasonabin acces of that                    Esttoatod Population telos Absolute Ponerty Income Lenel (trtent) -aurhat
bouse.  Inraralareosreonableoccessaould i=ply thot the bouteolfe or                             end focal - Perce  of populationt (ueban and rural) who are 5sbmoate
re=ehrreofonheOopuooold donot havemonspend a dopropocttirtae part of                            poor.
tOe day in fetching the family s                                                                   Fatec needs
Access to Pocreta Distposh (rercent of population) - tonal, urban, and
rursl -.. ider of people (ttal  urban, andrural) servedF b o              bcreta
disposal aso percenoagen of thoir respective popuastiones locreto disposal
osy boniode che collection and dinponoh  si th or sithoan treoatent , of                                                             Ccononin and Social DR0a Ibisbgon
bhost etereta and sastoe-atar iF ooter-horte nystems or the use of pit                                                          Econodic Anolysisn and Prajectiooa tieparosent
prid vesand si ilpr iostal lotions.                                                                                                                Hay 19g3



-24-                                                                             ANNEX I
P.polintio:: 7.5 illito  (atd-1982)                                                                                                                                                   Pge 4 of 6
GDP Per CapOte (1981) US81080
Asmt
Million US5                                      Share of GDP At HMrket Prices (;)                                     Average Annwol Inre,se (2)
Iodi.ctor                               (at orrent                                            (at torreot prices)f/                                                  (constaot price,)
prices)
1982                 1970              1975             1980              1981             1982             1970-75           1975-80          1981-86
Nation l Arcounts
Gro,s D-xestic Product                   8846                 100.0             100.0            100.0             100.0            100.0                5.6               5.7              0.3
Agric,tote                             2247                  27.6              28.2             25.4              25.3b/           25.7b/              6.2               3.5               1.1
Irduatry                                1859                 18.7              18.5             21.5              2].40/           20.7T/              5.7               9.0             -2.3
Ser-A-es                               4740                  53.6              53.3             53.1              53.3/            53.6b/              4.9               5.6              0.9
Comeuapiion                              7826                  86.5              85.7             87.0              89.2             87.9                4.5               6.0             -1.5
Gr-e, Tooe,ta,ot                          1214                 12.8              16.1             15.9              17.4             15.7                5.5               5.3              1.4
GENporta  0F9                             1318                 19.1              21.7             21.8              16.8              14.6               8.9               4.4              0.5
Iaport., G9PS                             1634                 18.4             23.5              24.8              23.4             18.2                4.3              5.1              -5.0
Cror National Sa-inga                       98                 12.4              14.4             13.6               9.8             10.8                6.8               4.8             11.4
1978                 1979                1980               1981                1982
Pricco
GOP Deflator                                   100.0                 108.6               119.5              130.2               138.5
Exchange Rgte                                     1.0                  1.0                 1.0                1.0                 1.0
Ep-Ort price i.de0                             100.0                 103.0               115.8              114.1               li4.2
ITport prtice i.de                             100.0                 116.6               140.2              150.7               159.7
Tre,- of trade Coda,                           100.0                  88.3                82.6               75.7                71.5
Coepoaitioa of Merchandiae Trade (2)                         Average Annu-l I-or a..  (2)
(at c-r-rt prices)                                        (roostact price,)
1970               1975                1980               1985               1972-75            1975-80            1981-86
E.porto                                           100.0              100.0               100.0              100.0                  7.3                6.2               -4.3
Prtiary                                         63.9                68.8               67.3                65.1                  8.7                2.0               -6.1
Nl..fact-re.                                    36.1                31.2                32.7               34.9                  4.5               13.0                0.1
IOporta                                          100.0               100.0              100.0               100.0                  3.6                2.5               -4.3
F'od                                             8.5                 8.5                6.9                 8.2               -11.4                12.3                2.2
Petrlaoeu                                         5.1               14.0               21.2                17.5               -10.6                12.9              -5.8
Slachitery                                      27.4                29.5                23.7               14.3                 15.6                7.1              -13.0
(ther,                                          59.0                49.0               48.2                60.0                  6.5               -3.0               -2.4
Ao Z of CDP
1970             1975              1980              1981               1982
Public Floarce
C-re- Re evenues                                              11.8              12.5             14.5              13.9              13.1
Cureot Expeedittre                                            10.7              10.2             12.9              12.9              12.4
Sorplo (i) or defIcit (-)                                      1.1               2.3              1.6               1.0               0.7
Capital Etpeoditore                                            3.1               3.5              7.4               8.6               6.5
Foreign Ftoacting                                              1.4               0.8              2.0               2.0               1.7
Actwal                 Projected
1970-75          1975-dO           1981-96
Other Indicator,
GNP Gros,th Rate (Z)                                           5.6               6.0              0.1
GNP Par Capita Groteh Rate (Z)                                 2.6               2.7             -2.7
lectrticity consaoption grtb rate (2
ICOF                                                           3.0              3.4              14.4_/
Margiaai S-vings Rgte                                          0.01              0.11             0.11
I=port Elaastiity                                              0.7              0.8             -18.6
*/ At rixt pricea; copooeta are eapressed at factor cot aed -y cot *dd due to the eaciaaioi  of tet iadirect ta   ad echeidies.
_/ Thea. peaca at constant pricea.
1 ICOR vW,IWe is for 1982-86, snce the constant price value of GDP is 1at the ase in 1981 and 1986.



-25-                                         ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
Population: 7.5 million (mid-1982)    GUATEMALA:  BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL, AND DEBT
GNP Per Capita (1981) US$1,140                     (Millions of US$ at Current Prices)
Actual                              Estimated      Projected
1978            1980           1981            1982           1983           1984
Balance of Payments
Exports of Goods and NFS                        1282.1          1721.5         1454.2          1317.9         1218.3         1362.1
Goods F.O.B.                                  1092.4          1519.8         1299.1         1199.6          1135.3         1266.7
Non-Factor Services                            189.7           201.7          155.1          118.3            83.0           95.4
Imports of Goods and NFS                        1647.9          1951.9         2024.4         1621.8          1361.5         1490.6
Goods C.I.F.                                  1390.6          1598.2         1673.6          1387.7         1181.5         1291.7
Non-Factor Services                            257.3           353.7          350.9          234.1           180.0          198.9
Net Exports of Goods and NFS                    -365.8          -230.4         -570.2         -320.9          -143.2         -128.5
Net Factor Income                                -12.0           -55.8          -85.4         -117.0          -147.5         -168.9
Net Transfers                                    115.6           109.8            90.9           64.8           42.7           46.3
Current Account Balance                         -262.2          -176.4         -564.7         -373.1          -248.0         -251.1
Direct Foreign Investment (Net)                  119.6           110.7          127.1            86.6           60.0           60.0
MLT Loans (Net)                                   86.3           122.2          260.9           310.0          160.0          232.0
Disbursements                                     96.7           137.4          283.4           343.6          217.9          331.8
Amortization                                     -10.4           -15.2          -22.5           -33.6          -57.8          -99.7
Other Capital                                    131.9          -425.5         -163.9          -28.0           -11.1          -16.0
Change in Net Reserves                           -75.6           369.0          340.6            51.5           39.1          -24.9
(- = increase)
International Reserves, Net                      733.1           364.1           23.5          -28.0           -67.1          -42.2
Reserves as Months of Imports                      5.3             2.2             0.1           -0.2           -0.6           -0.3
External Capital & Debts
Official grants                                    -               -               -              -
Gross disbursements                               96.7           137.4          283.4           343.6
Concessional Loans                              42.9            58.7           48.2           40.6
DAC                                           2.8              5.7            7.4           14.2
OPEC                                          -               17.4            -              -
IDA
Other                                        40.1             35.6           40.8           26.4
Non-Concessional Loans                          53.8            78.7          235.2          303.0
Official Export Credits                      19.2             24.6          120.2          177.8
IBRD                                         17.8             34.9           31.5           17.2
Others Multilateral                          15.7              6.4           29.5           65.0
Private                                        1.1            12.8           54.0           43.0
External Debt
Debt Outstanding and Disbursed                   304.0           549.0          809.5          1119.4
Official                                     297.4            533.9          742.2         1009.1
Private                                         6.6            15.1           67.3          110.3
Undisbursed Debt                                 440.6           501.4          574.1          391.0



- 26 -
Annex I
Page 6 of 6
OFFICIAL LENDING BY MAJOR LENDERS AND SECTORS, 1973-82
(In Millions of Constant FY83 US Dollars a/)
IBRD      IDB       CABEI       AID      TOTAL
Transport                      20.0       52.7      36.9        ---      109.6
Power                         169.4     234.5       91.6       10.5      506.0
Education                      49.8       56.7        1.5      21.5      129.5
Health                          ---      203.3       ---        5.9      209.2
Housing                        29.7       29.8      50.9       11.9      122.3
Agriculture                     ---       79.5       8.3       40.6      128.4
Manufacturing                   ---      28.0        9.3        7.4       44.7
Water and Sewerage              ---        ---       7.8        ---        7.8
Telecommunications             41.1       ---        9.8        ---       50.9
Others                          ---       ---       44.3       10.0       54.3
TOTAL                    310.0      684.5      260.4      107.8   1,362.7
a/  IBRD commitment deflator used for price adjustments.
SOURCES:  World Bank Statement of Loans.
USAID: Status of Loan Agreements.
IDB: Status of Approved Loans.
CABEI Anuario Estadistico 1961/62-1979/80.
Ministry of Finance, Guatemala.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUATEMALA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS I/ (Net of cancellations)
As of September 30, 19J3.
Loan or
Credit    Year    Borrower               Purpose             Bank    Undisbursed
No.                                                         (US$ millions)
Eight loans fully disbursed.                                 141.5
1104     1975   GUATEL            Telecommunications            26.0      2.5
1212     1976   Government        Education                     14.5      3.3
1314     1976   Government        Earthquake Reconstruction,   4.2        0.3
Education and Port
1605     1978   INDE              Power                         72.0      4.6
1846     1980   Government        Highways                      17.0    15.4
23282/   1983   Government        Basic Education               18.5    18.5
Total                                                 293.7
of which has been repaid                             57.2
Total now outstanding                                 236.5
Amount sold                     5.8
of which has been repaid    5.8                        -       -
Total now held by Bank                                236.5
Total undisbursed                                              44.6
1/ Including exchange adjustments.
2/ Not yet effective.



-28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of September 30, 1983.)
Year            Obligor                Type of Business   Loan   Equity   Total
(US$ millions)
1959   Industria Harinera                Flour mill           0.20      -      0.20
Guatemalteca, S.A.
1974   Exploraciones y Explotaciones   Mining and Pro-    15.00         -     15.00
Mineras Izabal, S.A.              cessing of Nickel
1977   Cementos Progreso, S.A.           Cement               3.00      -      3.00
Total gross commitments                           18.20     -      18.20
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                            14.15     -      14.15
Total now held by IFC                              4.05     -       4.05
Total undisbursed                                   -       -        -



-29 -
ANNEX III
GUATEMALA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Elements
(a)   Time taken to prepare project: 5 months
(b)   Agency which prepared project: Banco de Guatemala
(c)   First presentation to Bank: June 1982
(d)   Departure of Appraisal Mission: November 29, 1982
(e)   Completion of Negotiations: May 17, 1983
(f)   Estimated Loan Effectiveness: June 30, 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(i)   adequacy of onlending rates to subborrowers would be reviewed an-
nually (para. 55); and
Prior to loan effectiveness:
(i)   the Subsidiary Agreement between the Borrower and BG would be
executed (para. 53);
(ii)   BG would appoint the Project Unit manager (para. 47); and adopt a
Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures and a Credit
Manual satisfactory to the Bank (para. 47); and
(iii)   at least three financial intermediaries sign satisfactory parti-
cipation agreements with BG (para. 54).
(iv)   The Borrower has established procedures satisfactory to the Bank
to exempt imported inputs to be used in investment and technical
assistance sub-projects from import restrictions (para. 55).






IB RDH11659Ri
:8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. SLPL aAA.8.:   
.-GUATEMALA                                                                  -%i
.  -   ,  ~,   -   -i .                                b                                                                                 r
-   -.              *TtS                                                                                       +  Do _gua              
-etOS -OICLO- MeTP                     B  E  L I Z  E
'   .fIttQ.r  . AO,*~~..   moO  e sCnrmeAorC f 
-      0      4.        00     so                                         L. L bt
5osr>.c -5 '7 edleroooor MsrelchsUnso B 5555S7 05d
m E x I c 0~I 
N.ft.         8    .          .         _    s    }         ~ = 9              i        :  
M...C                                                                   ..                                                                                         BARR/
.~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ o M   z        $8 . ote . sao                                                                                 Sa dop Lo Lj2 betd SnFrnrc 
D--.                                                                                    S.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  AA F0horsnr
ELOJOESTOR                         p~
: AC;F!C ,CEAN _                                                                                                                    PAC 2 r*EPO .E
.;  '-r.                                                SALrfE                      -  -..
I  NICAPAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANM 
M  E- X t <        MAATENANO                ANT^
+ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~t                                                                                                                        CUOAerin  C
,/   \   L                                              cosANTr/                                     c         LAI<E~~~~~TL
y /    \   OUEZALTENANGO2r ZuSALVADO
AC/  RTENANGO  ANnGUA / S e9+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AN



