OFFICIAL         LOAN NUMBER 2383 GU
DOCUMENTS
Project Agreement
(Industrial Credit Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO DE GUATEMALA
Dated   e           2               , 1984


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2383 GU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated             01L4 -  1-      , 1984, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and BANCO DE GUATEMALA (hereinafter called
BG).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Guatemala (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Bor-
rower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty
million dollars ($20,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that BG agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter
set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and BG, the proceeds of the Loan provided for under
the Loan Agreement will be made available to BG on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS BG, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE 1i
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 2.01. BG shall carry out the Project in accordance
with sound financial standards and practices, with qualified
management and personnel, and in accordance with the Statement of


﻿- 2 -
Operating Policies and Procedures and the Credit Manual.
Section 2.02. BG shall:
(a) maintain, until completion of the Project, the Project
Unit;
(b) provide such Project Unit, promptly as needed, such
qualified and experienced staff, facilities, funds and other
resources as shall be required for the efficient management and
operation of the Project;
(c) employ in the Project Unit, until completion of the
Project, a sub-iefe, who shall be responsible for the execution
of the Project; and
(d) furnish to the Bank for approval the terms of reference
of such sub-jefe.
Section 2.03. In order to assist BG in the carrying out of
the Project, BG shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank; such consultants to be selected in accor-
dance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" pub-
lished by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 2.04. (a) BG shall make Subsidiary Loans to Parti-
cipating Intermediaries that have made Investment Sub-loans or
Technical Assistance Sub-loans in accordance with the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement, the Statement of Operational
Policies and Procedures and the Credit Manual.
(b) BG shall use the proceeds accrued to it from the repay-
ment of the principal of Subsidiary Loans for further relending,
under the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement for
Subsidiary Loans, to each Participating Intermediary that has
made Investment Sub-loans or Technical Assistance Sub-loans.
Section 2.05. (a) By August 31, 1985 and annually there-
after until the completion of the Project, BG shall review with
the Bank, the adequacy of interest rates to be charged to each
Participating Intermediary and to Investment Enterprises during
the succeeding twelve-month period.


﻿- 3 -
(b) BG shall, in light of the review in (a) hereof, revise
such interest rates in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.06. BG shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Bank shall other-
wise agree, BG shall not take or concur in any action which would
have the affect of amending, abroga-ing, assigning or waiving the
Susidiary Agreement or any provisioi. thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) BG shall furnish to the Bank, at regular
intervals, all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects,
the Investment Sub-loans, the Technical Assistance Sub-loans and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from the foregoing.
(b) BG shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of
the Project and the Investment Projects, to identify the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and to
disclose their use in the Project and in the Investment Projects.
(c) Within six months following the last withdrawal from
the Loan Account in respect of the Investment Sub-loans or by
such later date as the Bank shall request, BG shall prepare and
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Investment Projects, their costs and the
benefits derived and to be derived from them, the performance by
BG and the Bank of their respective obligations under this
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 2.08. (a) BG shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) BG shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by BG of its obligations under this Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE III
Investment Financing
Section 3.01. Investment Sub-loans shall be made on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank which shall include,
inter alia, the terms and conditions set forth in paragraph A of
the Schedule to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amenaded
from time to time. The Participating Intermediaries which shall
make such Investment Sub-loans shall be eligible to receive
Subsidiary Loans from BG on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank which shall include, inter alia, the terms and condi-
tions set forth in paragraph B of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) When presenting an Investment Sub-loan
(other than a free-limit Investment Sub-loan) to the Bank for
approval, BG shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form
satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of the
Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project,
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and its economic rate
of return; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the Invest-
ment Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization of the
Investment Sub-loan and the procurement procedures to be used by
the Investment Enterprise; and (iii) such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Each request by BG for authorization to make with-
drawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
Investment Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a summary description of
the Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) the terms and conditions of
the Investment Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization
therefor and the procurement procedures to be used by the
Investment Enterprise.
(c) Except as the Bank and BG shall otherwise agree,
applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of
paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented to the
Bank on or before June 30, 1986.


﻿- 5 -
ARTICLE IV
Technical Assistance
Section 4.01. In carrying out Part B of the Project, BG
shall, not later than September 30, 1984, establish a training
program, satisfactory to the Bank, for BG's staff and for each
Participating Intermediary's staff, and shall carry out such
program in accordance with a schedule acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.02. In carrying out Part C of the Project, each
Participating Intermediary shall make Technical Assistance Sub-
loans to enterprises producing Non-traditional Goods on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank which shall include, inter
alia, the terms and conditions set forth in paragraph C of the
Schedule to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time. Each Participating Intermediary that shall make
such Technical Assistance Sub-loans shall be eligible to. receive
Subsidiary Loans from BG on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank which shall include, inter alia, the terms and condi-
tions set forth in paragraph B of the Schedule to this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) BG shall: (i) maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operation, resources and expenditures
in respect of the Project; (ii) cause each Participating Inter-
mediary to maintain separate accounts for purposes of Part A of
the Project; and (iii) open on its books Project Accounts in
order to maintain records adequate to reflect the operations,
receipts and payments for or in connection with the carrying out
of the Project and the use of the proceeds of the Loan, all in
accordance with consistently maintained, sound accounting prac-
tices, including, without limitation to the foregoing, separate
accounts reflecting all expenditures on account of which with-
drawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
(b) BG shall retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which


﻿-6-
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements   of  expenditure,   and   shall  enable   the   Bank's
representatives to examine such records.
Section 5.02. BG shall:
(a) have the accounts referred to in Section 5.01 (a) of
this Agreement, and financial statements related to such accounts
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and statements
of sources and application of funds) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank;
(b) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such year:
(i) certified copies of such accounts and financial statements
for such year as so audited; and (ii) the report of such audit by
said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
have reasonably requested, including, without limitation to the
foregoing, separate opinions by said auditors in respect of the
expenditures and records referred to in Section 5.01 (b) of this
Agreement, as to whether the proceeds of the Loan made available
to it and withdrawn from the Loan Account on the basis of state-
ments of expenditure have been used for the purpose for which
they were provided; and
(c) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
said accounts, financial statements, records and expenditures, as
well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effec-
tive.
Section 6.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of BG thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify BG thereof.


﻿- 7 -
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the -party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For BG:
Banco de Guatemala
7a Avenida 22-01, Zona 1
Guatemala City
Guatemala
Cable address:                     Telex:
GUATEBANCO                         5231
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this


﻿-8-
Agreement on behalf of BG, or by BG on behalf of the Borrower
under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by BG's
President or such other person or persons as such President
shall designate in writing, and the President shall furnish to
the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authen-
ticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 7.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
sec&   -q--     Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO DE GUATEMALA
By IA-i
Authorized Representative


﻿SCHEDULE
Lending Terms and Conditions
A.   Terms and Conditions Applicable to Investment Sub-loans:
(Section 3.01 of this Agreement)
(a) Investment Sub-loans will be made and will be repayable
in Quetzales.
(b) Interest on Investment Sub-loans will be payable at a
rate of not less than t'he annual interest rate appli-
cable to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Loan
Agreement plus up to 5 percentage points on the princi-
pal amount of the Investment Sub-loan disbursed and
outstanding from time to time.
(c) Investment Sub-loans will finance up to seventy-five
percent of the cost of the Investment Project of a new
Investment Enterprise or up to ninety percent of the
cost of the Investment Project in the case of moderni-
zation or expansion of an existing Investment Enter-
prise.
(d) Investment Sub-loans to an Investment Enterprise, in-
cluding its Subsidiaries, will not exceed, in the
aggregate, the equivalent of $1,500,000 except that an
Investment Enterprise producing Non-traditional Goods
and exporting at least fifty percent of its production
to countries outside CACM may be eligible for Invest-
ment Sub-loans exceeding such limit where such Invest-
ment Enterprise could not meet its export goals with
Investment Sub-loans below $1,500,000 equivalent.
(e) The amortization schedule applicable to each Investment
Sub-loan will provide for an appropriate period of
grace but not more than 3 years, and: (i) will not
extend beyond 12 years from the date of approval of
such Investment Sub-loan by the Bank, or in the case of
a free-limit Investment Sub-loan, of authorization by
the Bank to make withdrawals from the Loan Account in
respect thereof; and (ii) will provide for approximate-
ly equal semiannual, or more frequent, aggregate pay-
ments of principal and interest or approximately equal
semiannual, or more frequent, payments of principal.


﻿- 10 -
(f) The Investment Enterprise will carry out the Invest-
ment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound technical, financial and mana-
gerial standards and will maintain adequate records.
(g) The goods and services to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan will be purchased at a reasoi.able
price, also taking into account other relevant factors
such as time of delivery, and efficiency and reliabi-
lity of the goods, and availability of maintenance
facilities and spare parts theref or, and, in the case
of services, their quality and the competence of the
parties rendering them; such goods and services to be
used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment
Project.
(h) The Participating Intermediary will have the right to
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Bank and BG if the Bank will so request, such goods
and the sites, works, plants and construction included
in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and
any relevant records and documents.
(i) The Investment Enterprise will insure or make adequate
provision for the insurance of the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of Investment Sub-loans
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transport-
ation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation; any indemnity thereunder to be made pay-
able in a currency freely usable by the Investment
Enterprise to replace or repair such goods.
(j) The Participating Intermediary will have the right to
obtain all such information as BG shall reasonably
request relating to paragraphs (f) through (i) above
and to the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Investment Enterprise and the benefits
to be derived from the Investment Project.
(k) The Participating Intermediary will have the right to
suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enter-
prise to use the proceeds of the Investment Sub-loan,
upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform
its obligations under its contract with the Participat-
ing Intermediary.


﻿- 11 -
B.   Terms and Conditions Applicable to Subsidiary Loans:
(Section 2.04 of this Agreement)
(a) Subsidiary Loans will finance up to ninety percent of
Investment Sub-loans and one hundred percent of Techni-
cal Assistance Sub-loans made.
(b) Subsidiary Loans will be repayable in Quetzales.
(c) The aggregate amount of Subsidiary Loans to any Parti-
cipating Intermediary will not exceed the equivalent of
$5,000,000, the adequacy of this limit to be reviewed
by the Bank and BG not later than September 30, 1985.
(d) Interest on the principal amount of Subsidiary Loans
financing: (i) Investment Sub-loans (other than Invest-
ment Sub-loans made to Small Investment Enterprises),
disbursed and outstanding from time to time, will be
payable at a rate of not less than the annual interest
rate applicable to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.06 of
the Loan Agreement plus two percentage points; (ii)
Investment Sub-loans made to Small Investment Enter-
prises, disbursed and outstanding from time to time,
will be payable at a rate of not less than the annual
interest rate applicable to the Loan pursuant to Sec-
tion 2.06 of the Loan Agreement plus one percentage
point; and (iii) Technical Assistance Sub-loans dis-
bursed and outstanding from time to time, will be pay-
able at a rate up to the rate applicable to the Loan
pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Loan Agreement.
(e) If an Investment Sub-loan or a Technical Assistance
Sub-loan or any part thereof is repaid to the Partici-
pating Intermediary in advance of maturity, or if an
Investment Sub-loan or any part thereof is sold, trans-
ferred, assigned or otherwise disposed of for value by
the   Participating  Intermediary,   the  Participating
Intermediary will promptly repay to BG the amount of
the Subsidiary Loan corresponding to the Investment
Sub-loans or parts thereof so repaid in advance or dis-
posed of for value.


﻿- 12 -
(f) The Participating Intermediary will obtain from the
Investment Enterprise or enterprises that are benefici-
aries of Technical Assistance Sub-loans by written con-
tract or other appropriate legal means, rights adequate
to protect the interests of the Bank, BG and the Parti-
cipating Intermediary.
(g) BG will cause each Participating Intermediary to exer-
cise its rights in relation to each Investment Project
in such manner as to: (i) protect the interest of the
Bank and BG; (ii) comply with its obligations in re-
spect of the corresponding Investment Sub-loan; and
(iii) achieve the purposes of Part A of the Project.
C.   Terms and Conditions Applicable to Technical
Assistance Sub-loans:
(Section 5.04 of this Agreement)
(a) Technical Assistance Sub-loans will be made to enter-
prises producing Non-traditional Goods.
(b) Technical Assistance Sub-loans will finance one hundred
percent of the reasonable cost of consultants' ser-
vices.
(c) Technical Assistance Sub-loans will be made and will be
repayable in Quetzales.
Cd) Interest on Technical Assistance Sub-loans will be pay-
able at a rate up to the rate applicable to the Loan
pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Loan Agreement plus one
percentage point.
(e) Technical Assistance Sub-loans will be repayable over a
period of five years and will have a period of grace of
not more than two years.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  27      day of    ,l- ,1981.
FOR SECRETARY


