E467
May 2001
Baltic Sea Regional Project
Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Russian Federation
Environmental Management Plan
i FILE COPY 



BALTIC SEA REGIONAL PROJECT
Environmental Management Plan
A.    OVERVIEW
1. Introduction. The development objective of the Baltic Sea Regional Project (BSRP) is to facilitate
the restoration of a sustainable ecosystem, improve coastal zone managemnent and reduce agricultural
non-point source pollution through the introduction of ecosystem-based approaches for land, coastal
and open sea environmenLai management. T he Project focuses on environmentai restoration and
supports a series of complementary measures to improve environmental management in agriculture,
the coastal zone and the open sea environment. Project activities will have positive environmental
impacts on the Baltic Sea. The BSRP-Environmental Management Plan (EMP) summarizes the
recommended design measures, construction supervision methods and monitoring actions to
minimize and/or avoid the potential short-and long-term impacts of activities under Components 1
and 2. It identifies environmental impacts related to the construction of small-scale civil works for on-
farm nutrient management, installation of monitoring stations, and ecosystem restoration.
2. Project Components. The purpose of the BSRP is to ensure that, by year 2006, an ecosystem-based
approach for sustainable use of Baltic Sea resources has been demonstrated at the field level and is
being adopted for management actions by cooperating international bodies, national governments,
local organizations and NGOs. Field level activities will be undertaken in the recipient countries-
Estonia, Latvia. Lithuania. Poland, and the Kaliningrad Oblast and Leningrad Oblast in the Russian
Federation. The Project has four components for which a limited number of Component activities will
have environmental impacts. identified in Table A, Mitigation, and Monitoring Actions. The Project's
Components include:
Component 1-Large Varine Ecosystem Management Activities
Activity 1 - Strengthening Institutional and Technical Capacity
Activity 2 - Operationalize Monitoring and Assessment Surveys in the Eastern Baltic Sea
Activity 3 - Cooperative Local and Regional Ecosystem Evaluations and Assessments
Activity 4 - Demonstration Activities.
Component 2 Land and Coastal Management Activities
Activity 1 - Agricultural Interventions
Activity 2 - Monitoring and Assessment of Non-Point Source Pollution
Activity 3 - Land-Based Coastal Zone Management
Activity 4 - Baltic Sea Regional Environmental Assessment Network (RAN).
Component 3-Instititional Strengthening and Regional Capacity Building
Activity 1 - Regional Capacity Building
Activity 2 - Regional Socioeconomic Assessment.
Component 4-Project Management
Activity 1 - Project Management.
B.    ENVIRONMEINTAL REVIEW
3. Administrative and Legal Framework. With the support of the Global Environment Facility (GEF),
UTNDP and the World Bank. Project activities will assist the recipient countries in implementing the
Helsinki Convention; other international agreements; and national policies and legislation. The



Helsinki Commission (HELCOM), in coordination and cooperation with the International Baltic Sea
Fisheries Commission (IBSFC) and International Council for the Exploration of the Sea (ICES), is
the Executing Agency. The Project Management Unit (PMU) will be based at HELCOM. Project
activities support what is a long-term process for restoration of the ecological balance of the Baltic
Sea, which is the goal of the "Baltic Sea Joint Comprehensive Environmental Action Program (JCP)"
prepared under the coordination of HELCOM by a broad based multi-national task force. The JCP
was adopted as the strategic action program for the region by the Ministers of Environment in 1992
and was updated and strengthened in 1998. HELCOM prepares assessments of transboundary trends
and impacts in the form of Pollution Load Compilations and Periodic Assessments. which support
implementation of the JCP.
4. Regional Cooperation and Participation in Conventions. The close cooperation the three
coordinating international bodies, HELCOM, IBSFC and ICES, will ensure that national and local
stakeholders from the recipient countries can make significant contributions to meet Project
objectives. Within the framework of individual national environmental policies, the recipient
countries are responsible to meet their commitment to the Helsinki Convention. The BSRP will also
support Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, and Poland in meeting their obligations under the European Union
accession process.
5. Environrmental and Social Review Process. The Project will support a series of complementary
measures to improve environmental management in agriculture. the coastal zone. and open sea
environment. It will focus on supporting measures designed to promote the sustainable use of land,
coastal and open sea resources through an ecosystem based approach to management to reduce non-
point source pollution from agriculture; improve coastal zone management: and adopt an integrated
approach to the management of marine resources.
6. Following the guidelines of World Bank Operational Policy 4.01. "Environmental Assessment, the
overall environmental screening category for the Project is "B". Project components have been
categorized as follows:
(a)    Component 1-Large Marine Ecosystem Management Activities - Environmental screening
category "B" - will focus on sustainable management of living coastal and marine resources -
anticipated to include limited interim disturbances from ecosystem restoration;
(b)    Component 2-Land and Coastal Management Activities - Environmental screening category
"B" - will implement actions for improved management of agricultural and coastal resources
- anticipated to include short-term impacts from construction of environmentally responsible
farm installations;
(c)    Component 3-Instinitional Strengthening and Regional Capacit. Building - Environmental
screening category "C" - will focus on institutional strengthening and capacity building; and
(d)    Component 4-Project Management - Environmental screening category "C" - will focus only
on Project management, reporting, and evaluation measures.
7. Building on the approach used in the Rural Environmental Protection Project in Poland, the Project
provides funds to include a systematic social assessment process to evaluate the social impacts from
component activities on a "rolling basis" during Project implementation. This is complemented by an
outreach program to obtain input from cooperating parties and beneficiaries that can be used to
develop potential modifications to the Project design as needed.
2



8. Site Visits and Field Based Reviews. The Project engages a range of stakeholders and beneficiaries
in the preparation and implementation process. Many of these parties have previously been involved
in a number of activities related to environmental management in the Baltic Sea region. The
preparation process included a large number of site visits, regional technical meetings and national
and local workshops. In addition, a regional conference was held to review the experience with
management of transboundary waters in the Baltic Sea Region that resulted in the "Vilnius
Recommendations." Issued by the Government of Germany and the World Bank in cooperation with
HELCOM and the Govermment of Lithuania.
9. Local technical and fisheries institutions that participate in HELCOM/IBSFCIICES activities are
familiar with current living marine resource management issues and these institutions have been
actively engaged in defining Project activities for Component 1. Discussions with counterpart
stakeholders concluded that there are only limited environmental impacts associated with ecosystem
restoration and no significant impacts with the operation and maintenance of scientific equipment. It
was recognized that a limited amount of wastes will be generated by laboratories conducting project
related analytical work.
10. Local rural communities who have been involved in the Baltic Agriculture Run-off Action Program
(BAAP) provided lessons learned and recommendations on Project modifications. Local BAAP
extension services are actively engaged in the farm communities, and can provide insights on Project
implementation. These extension services coordinate training programs, workshops and community
outreach activities and provide technical assistance for environmental investments. Farmers and
advisory organizations already involved in the BAAP demonstration projects understand the
environmental issues associated with small-scale civil works for on-farm improvements. the
installation of environmentally responsible farm practices, and monitoring stations. and are engaged
with local authorities and Xwith the farm communities. The coastal communities where the
demonstration activities are proposed have already participated in locally based coastal zone planning
and management studies undertaken in the context of the JCP by the World Wild Fund for Nature
(NVWF) and other parties.
C.    POTENTIAL IMPACTS
Potential Environmental Impacts
11. As -late as 1950 the Baltic Sea was still regarded as environmentally "healthy"; its ecological
deterioration has been caused in recent years by an increase of point source industrial and non-point
source agricultural pollutants. degradation of the coastal zone and non-sustainable use of living
marine resources. Its natural vulnerabilities have been seriously aggravated by anthropogenic causes
of environmental change and degradation. These problems of the Baltic Sea are ransiboundary in
nature. and difficult to address on an individual country basis. Through demonstration activities, the
Project will provide opportunities for environmental, socio-economic and health improvements and
benefits in the Baltic Sea catchment area, coastal waters and open sea. The Project may have some
short-term environmental impacts from construction of farm improvement features, stream
restoration, and wetland restoration. Mitigation measures will be in place to reduce and minimize
anticipated environmental impacts during Project implementation. Table A identifies the planned
mitigation measures.
Other Issues
12. Parks and Protected Areas. The status of parks and protected areas has been reviewed by the WWF
which has served as a member of the Project preparation team. Target demonstration activities in the
3



coastal zone will enhance public awareness of natural resources and environmental management in
the parks. Protected areas and parks will not be in danger from the Project. The Project will introduce
better management practices to enhance biodiversity and natural resources.
D.    ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES
13. The proposed Project design was selected on the grounds that it provides for a regional integrated
approach to addressing the land, coastal and open sea issues while achieving JCP priorities.
Component 1 is designed to provide linkages with existing regional programs and initiatives and to
meet Helsinki Convention obligations, while Component 2 builds on and expands the successful pilot
demonstrations begun under the BAAP, and complements the GEF supported Rural Environmental
Protection Project in Poland. It also supports implementation of the coastal management plans
developed by the HELCOM Project Implementation Task Force (PITE) Working Group for
Management Plans for Coastal Lagoons and Wetlands (MLW). Component 3 is critical to facilitate
the strengthening of regional and local capacity. The other design altematives reviewed and rejected
included individual national programs, curative investment programs, and sector specific programs.
Each of these design altematives was reviewed and determined to not have the integrated and holistic
approach as defined by the BSRP.
E.    SOCIAL ASPECTS
14. Access to Emplovment. The Project preparation process identified one social issue within the
Project, which is access to employment by local residents in the demonstration activity areas. This
issue has been included in the EMP to facilitate its integration into the mitigation measures and
monitoring actions. The Project's secondary objective is to support sustainable economic growth in
coastal communities. It is anticipated to have a positive impact on local poverty reduction through
local employment opportunities and to improve socioeconomic conditions in the fanming, fishing and
coastal communities.
15. The field review indicated that within the Project period there would be increased access to
employment. This is a local and regional benefit to the fishing, farming and coastal communities. The
Project Implementation and Procurement Plan (PIP/PPP) has conditions for contracts for proposed
civil works, and for realistic types of employment opportunities. Measures will be taken to increase
the skill and knowledge base for construction and mitigation techniques. As part of local capacity
building efforts, training will be conducted with local contractors on safe and environmentally
responsible construction techniques and procedures to ensure continued use after the Project is
completed.
F.    hlITIGATION MlEASURES
16. Overview. The preparation of the EMP fulfils the requirements of the safeguard policies consistent
with World Bank OP 4.01. BP 4.01, GP 4.01 on "Environmental Assessment" for Category "B"
projects. The EMP identifies the process to mitigate potential construction and operational impacts
and summarizes proposed interventions, environmental design measures, and construction
supervision methods to minimize and/or avoid the limited potential adverse impacts associated with
Components 1 and 2 construction and restoration activities. Table A summarizes the activities,
mitigation issues and measures to be taken, and the monitoring and supervisory responsibilities.
Specific measures to reduce potential construction impacts are part of the Project and will be outlined
in activity-specific management plans prepared as part of project implementation. The mitigation
efforts include the (a) preparation of management plans with mitigation measures to reduce
4



environmental impacts, (b) contractor efforts to reduce environmental impacts, and (c) use of
archeological "chance find" procedures.
(a)    Preparation of Management Plans
(i)    As part of the implementation process, the Project provides support for preparation and
implementation of site specific environmental management plans. These include the
preparation of
* Salmon river restoration action plans (SRRAP);
*  Habitat restoration plans (HRP) for coastal waters,
* Integrated coastal zone management plans (ICZM); and
*  Farm environmental management plans.
Environmental management plans will be prepared for putting in place environmentally
responsible farm installations at demonstration farm sites. All plans will undergo formal
review and approval by national andlor local authorities as required.
The management plans for the proposed farm installations, and coastal habitat. lake,
wetland and stream restoration will identify mitigation measures specific to the
geographic and ecological conditions to enhance aquatic, wetland and terrestrial habitats.
The plans will provide a mechanism for the Project implementation organizations to
communicate effectively with contractors and resource agency personnel regarding issues
pertaining to mitigation measures and farm installations, and identifv trainring for
contractors responsible for construction and maintenance of farm installations and
restorations. The Agricultural Advisory Services (AAS) will train contractors to take
precautions during construction activities under Component 2.
(ii)    Minimization of Impacts. Particular emphasis will be placed on scheduling activities to
minimize impacts on flora and fauna, specifically during the fish-spawning season and in
sensitive habitats. Erosion control mitigation measures, proposed ecosystem restoration
and farm management plans will comply with national environmental policies (standards
and permits) and are designed to conform to accepted engineering and environmental
standards.
(iii)   Designi Specificatiorns. Design specifications for mitigation measures will be provided to
contractors. This includes best management practices (BMP) for installation. inspection,
maintenance. erosion prevention and sediment control, such as:
*  Guidelines for design and construction (e.g. size, depth, soil properties. drainage
network) of manure pads, slurry tanks, and other nutrient recycling structures for
farm installations;
*  Guidelines and design specifications for construction of in-stream monitoring stations
to include appropriate erosion and sediment control measures to reduce construction
impacts (e.g. silt fences, drainage bypasses, biostabilization blankets and eco-
techniques for stream bank restoration); and
5



* Design guidelines for ecosystem and stream restoration to include erosion and silt
control mitigation measures and eco-engineering techniques (e.g. erosion control silt
fences, drainage bypasses, and bio-stabilization blankets).
(b)    Contractor Requirements to Minimize Environmental Impacts. The EMP supports specific
measures to rnitigate potential construction and operation period impacts and to address safety
issues. Individual management plans will provide guidelines and actions to mitigate potential
environmental impacts, through instructions to design engineers and construction contractors to
undertake certain actions on a site-specific basis. Contractors will be required to provide and
maintain equipment with proper noise abatement controls. Specific provisions should be included
in construction contracts to mandate the use of health and safety measures to minimize accidents
during the construction and post-construction process. The contractor will be responsible for
proper installation. inspections and maintenance. Appropriate bidding documents for construction
will be prepared to support the environmental management plan.
(c)    Archeological "Chance Find" Procedures. Provisions will be included in contracting document
should archeological "chance finds" be encountered during the course of construction or
mitigation activities: these provisions will follow procedures accepted by the national andlor local
authorities responsible for archeological and historical sites and materials.
G.    MONITORING ACTIVITIES
17. Monitoring activities are part of the Project and include development of an integrated. regional, long-
term environmental monitoring system for land and coastal activities. Monitoring of the mitigation
activities as outlined in the ENIP will consist of Project supervision and preparation of. and
compliance with a Project monitoring and evaluation plan.
18. Monitoring and Evaluation. The Project supports development of an integrated. regional, long-term
environmental monitoring system for land and coastal activities. In general, the coastal near shore
activities and monitoring network will correlate with land-based coastal and associated demonstration
activities supported under Component 2. The monitoring network established as part of the Project
will be linked with the local monitoring networks, and the existing ICES open sea-monitoring
network. The land-based monitoring activities will link with existing national watershed monitoring
networks. A coastal monitoring network will be established to integrate land-based networks with the
BELCOM and ICES networks and monitoring networks established in Germany and the Nordic
countries. As part of Project efforts, emphasis will be placed on cost-effective integration of linkages
with existing monitoring networks. The following tasks and responsibilities will be part of the
monitoring and evaluation process.
(a)    Sutpervision. The Component Coordinators will supervise the monitoring and evaluation of
project activities. Focusing on mitigation actions, priority will be placed on monitoring of
baseline water property parameters and water quality parameters for which nutrients will be the
primary paramneters. however parameters will be adapted to address the specific conditions of the
demonstration watershed and downstream coastal waters.
(b)    Infornation Collection. Data will be collected and analyzed by internationally accepted
standards, for which guidelines will be prepared and agreed upon. Component 1 Technical
Coordination Centers will liaise with Component 2 Local Implementation Units (LIUs) for
consistent procedures and quality assurance. This will include but not be limited to on-site field
measurements. data collection, transport and storage of samples, methods for assuring quality of
6



laboratory tests, and control of data recording and analysis. Special attention will be given to
measures for inter-calibration of sampling equipment and laboratory equipment.
(c)    Reporting and Evaluation. A reporting and evaluation system will be established under the
supervision of HELCOM. On a local level, for Component 1, an institutional network using the
technical Coordination Centers will work directly with the Component 1 Advisor and
Coordinator. For Component 2, the LIUs will work directly with the Component 2 Coordinator,
and the AAS.
(d)    Social Assessment. The Project includes a systematic social assessment to evaluate social impacts
from the component activities and outreach program, to provide potential modifications to the
Project design as needed. The social assessment also will monitor and evaluate the technical
assistance provided to local stakeholders and anticipated impacts from tourism development.
H.    INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
19. Institutional Strengthening. Component 3 provides support for institutional strengthening and
capacity building measures necessary for the implementation of the ecosystem management approach
promoted by the Project. Successful implementation of the Project requires the strengthening of the
regional and local institutional capacity to supervise the construction and maintenance of the
installations and restoration activities. The Component's primary objective is to strengthen regional
and local capacity to successfully utilize outputs and recommendations from Component 1 and
Component 2 activities for sustainable ecosystem-based management.
20. Environrmental Management and Training. The PMU together with the Component Coordinators
will work with the local counterparts at the technical Coordination Center, the LIUs. and AASs to
provide training as needed in aspects of environmental management of land-coastal-open sea
activities.
1.    ESTIMATED COST AND INIPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
21. The management plans supported by the Project are the basis for responsible environmental
management and planning. The costs for the implementation of the mitigation measures in the EMP
are integrated into the Project budget. The PIP/PPP, prepared by HELCOM. IBSFC. ICES, and
cooperating countries, describes in detail the Project implementation plan.
J.     REPORTING AND SUPERVISION.
22. Reporting. The Project will establish a Management Information System (MIS) and comply with the
World Bank guidelines for project reporting and supervision. The Bank together with HIELCOM will
agree upon reporting requirements for project management reports (PMR). The reports will make
note of implementation of the EMP, note any cases of non-compliance and provide guidance on the
actions to be taken.
23. Supervision. The Project includes provisions for the participation of Bank environmental and social
staff in supervision missions, as appropriate, to review progress in the implementation of the EMP.
The performance of the Executing Agency in these activities under the Project will be a standard
element of supervision reports including the Mid-Term Review and the Implementation Completion
Report.
7



K.    DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION
24. Consultations have been undertaken with a wide range of regional stakeholders, including NGOs at
the regional, national and local level, during project preparation and will expand during project
implementation. The EMP has been made available to the public through the Info-Shop at the World
Bank, at the cooperating institutions-HELCOM (Helsinki), IBSFC (Warsaw) and ICES
(Copenhagen) and through the Ministries of Environment of the cooperating national governments
(Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania. Poland and the Russian Federation). It is also available at the World Bank
offices in these countries.
8



Table A. Baltic Sea Regional Project - EInvironimental Mitigation and Monitorinig Activities
COMIPONENT                      1 PHASEI                ISSUle                 Ml TITAION MEASURE                            MONITORING                          RESIPONSIBLE
ACTVITIES                            _T                                                                                                                          INSITU_T_ION
COMP~ONENT 1 - LARGE MARINE ECOSYSTFM AcTIVITIES
Activity 4 Demonstration Activities
Sub-activity 4 (a)    Task 2 Prepare   Mitigation       Prepare Iliabitat Restoration    Th1e I IRP will in Clude both tihe  WhlatJ: stanidaid water quality and       Super-vision by PMU
Coastal Spawning    Ilabitat                            Plans (HRP)                    design and plan lor coalstal water    ecological paramiieits ilrom1 short-termii  together with Coomponent
Habitat              Restoration                                                       habilat restorationi and mitigation    construction imnpacts to senisitive habitats.   I Coordinator
Restoration          Plans                                                             specificat ions, whliicl will       impacts to submergcd vegetation ioinal
incorporate use o lBMPs during      spawning areas
coastal water habilat restorationi  Where: target sites to optimize 1ish
constrctioln to reduce siltation    spawnin1g
and eC-oSioI.
Task 3: Restore   Construction    Minimal short-term              The HRPs will specify timing of    Wheni: baseline monitorinig for pre-
habitats                          disturbances, of coastal        plantings and bottom bed re-        restoration, and restoration conducted
waters from habitat from       construction to minimize            after spawning season with yearly post-
plantings and clean-up, no     disturbance of bottom sediments    restoration monitoring
long-term disturbances         and existing spawning sites         flow: monitoring surveys completed by
boat and diving surveys
Task 4:           Monitoring      Refer to Monitoring column    The HRP will outline a short-term    Why: monitoring survey will track pre-
Monitor                                                           and long-term monitoring            and post-restoration impacts and benefits
restored sites                                                    schedule_c
Sub-activity 4 (b)    Task 3: Prepare   Mitigatioln    lPrepare Salmon River            lhe SRRAIA  will iinclude both lhe    Wlhet: stanidar-d water quality and eco-  Super visioii by IPMU
Salmon River         Salmon River                       Restoration Action Plan        design and plan lor salmon river    parameteis flioi short-terni restoration    together with Comiiponent
Restoration          Restoration                        (SRRAP)                        restoration and mitigation          impacts to stream habitats, impacts to      I Coordinator
Action Plan                                                       speci licationis, whichi will       submer-ged vegetationi, and spawning
(SRRAP)                                                           incorporate use of appropr-iate     areas
eco-enginieeririg and BMPs dui-iig
stream restoration construction to    Whlere: targeted sites to optimize sahl on
reduce erosioni and siltation.      spawniing
Task 6: Restore   Construction    Minimal short-term in           The SRRAP will specify timing
segments ol the                   stream bottom sedimcnt         lbrl restoratioln and mitigatioln    Wlherl: baselinie moniitor-inig Iol- ple-
Parnu River in                    disturbances from stream        measures to miniimize in-steam      restoration, and restoration coniducteCd
Estonia                           restoration, n0o lbg-termn     disttirm  ances, whicli will includ(le    illelr spawnling seasonl, wilh qualltelrly
distlrballees                 ulse ol apploplialle eco             p)ost-lestorautioil ionllitolilig
eligilueerinug alid ItMI's durr inrg
streari restorat ion construrctiion It)   fHow: in -stnearell monliotolilg nletwolk with
reduce erosion and siltation.       stationary equipmenit and field samples



Task 7: Restore   Construction    Short-term in stream bottom      The SRRAP will specify timing
segments of a                      sediment disturbances from      for restoration and mitigation      Why: monitoring survey will track pre-
selected                           stream restoration, no long-    measures to minimize in-stream      and post-restoration impacts and benefits
Latvian river                      term disturbances              disturbances, which will include
use of appropriate eco-
enginieering and liMPls duling
streamit restoralioml (olts\itiICtioii Io
..... ....  .e..  oio   iRin     sill;liotll.
COMPONEN'I'                     I'ASE                    ISSU1                  N MTl'IG(A'l'T()N MhEAStJlill                  MONITORIN(G                         RESPONSIBLE
ACTVITIES                                                                                                                                                          INSI'FU'U'ION
Sub-activty 4(b)     Task 8: Rcstore   Construction      Minimal short-ter-m in         Thc SRRAP will specify timinlig
continued:           segments of'                        stream bottoin sedimenlt       ri restoration and msitigaltioni
Minija River in                    disturbances from stream        measures to minimize in-stream
Lithuania                          restoration, no long-term       disturbances, which will include
disturbances                   use of appropriate eco-
engineering and BMPs during
stream restoration construction to
reduce erosion and siltation.
Task 9:Monitor   Monitoring        Refer to Monitoring Column   The SRRAP will outline a short-
restored rivers                                                   term and long-term monitoring
______schedule
COMPONENT 2 LAND AND COASTAL MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES
Activity I Agricultural Interventions
Sub-activity I (b)    Task 1:           Construction    Minimal short-term              rhe Farm Management l'lans will   Wlhtl: stanldarid water quality ad nutrient    Supervision by PMU
demonstrating        Demonstrating                       disturbances from              specily timing and erosioni control   parameters lor short-terimi consti-LIction,  together witl Component
cost-effective       on-farm agri-                       construction of select         measur-es to reduice downstream ililpacts to upland wetlands and streamiis        2 Coordinator
nutrient recycling   environment                         environmentally responsible   impacts flroml coCnstrUction          and sensitive habitats
and retention        measures                            I:arm practices, no long-ter-mil   specilications, whichi will inci(le
technologies                                             disturbances                   use ol' appropriate IlMl's diimiig    lVWthre: downstream  for constructiot
f;arml installatioii coistrotictioni lo  sites
reduce erlosion and siltation.
'I'ask 2:         Constilicliol    Minimnal sholrt-terill in-     'I'ie Farmn Managemnit Planis will   lVIgti: hasel ine  onitoring for plie-
Construction                       stieam  disturhances fioini    specify tintinig and elosioll conltol   colisil ticlioll. tiil ilg and altelr spawnting
and restoration                    wetland restorationi, no long-  mneastire to reduce downstirealil   sealsoii, 1omltilt ly post-couisirtiction
of wetlands                        term disturbances              imnpacts lfro mu welland restoration,   ionitolri g.
whichi will incluide use ol'
appropriate BMPs to reduce           How: in-stream moniitor-inig network with
erosion and siltation.               stationary equipment and field samples



Task 3:             Construction       Prepare Farm Management            Farm Management Plans will                will be established as part of Comnponlent
Construction of                        Plans                              specify individualized mitigation         2 Activity 2 (see below)
naturally based                                                           measures durinig installationi of
purification                                                              purification system, whicih will          Whwyi monitoring survey will track pre-
system                                                                    include use of appropriate BMPs           and post- constirictioni imipacts and
_ ____________________j  ___________________    _________________________________   to   reduce   erosiont    and    siltatio i.  ,be etits                                                          I



COMPONENT                     PHASE                  ISSUE                  MITIGATION MEASURE                         MONITORING                        RESPONSIBLE
ACTYITIES                                                                                                                                                INSITUTION
Sub-activity I (c)    Task 1:        Mitigation      Prepare Farm Management    Farm Management Plans will                                                     Supervision by PMU
On-Farm             Assessing the                    Plans                         specify individualized mitigation                                           together with Component
Environmental       eligibility ol'                                               ineastiues lor cadil f1arml1                                                 2 Coordinator
Investments         on-farm                                                       installation, whichi will inzClude
environmental                                                 use ol' appropri ate IIMI Ps dii-iilg
investments                                                  Ifarmi in stallation conisli-tictioni to
reduce erlosionI and silllaion.
'I'ask 2: Assess   Miligatioll   Prepare Varim Mai tage nieuit   IFainn M atlage iuelnlt Planis will
Ifariner's                      Illans                        specify iindividi al lized niiitigaition
eligibility lor                                                neasuies lor each farmi
grant and/or                                                  installation, whicih will include
loan                                                          use of appropriate BMPs during
farm installation construction to
reduce erosion and siltation.
Activity 2 Monitoring and Assessment of Non-Point Source Pollution
Sub-activity 2 (a)    Task 1:        Monitoring      Refer to Monitoring column    Monitoring data collection         This sub-activity establishes the in-    Supervision by PMU
Catehment           Establish                                                      network and schedule will be       stream watershed-monitoring network for  together with Component
measurement         monitoring                                                     developed                          Component 2 Activity I construction and   2 Coordinator
programs            network in                                                                                        mitigation for environmentally
demonstration                                                                                    responsible farn investments. This
watersheds                                                                                       monitoring network will be coordinated
Task 2:          Monitoring      Refer to Monitoring column    Monitoring data collection        withi the coastal monliitoring activities
Develop data                                                   network and schedule will be
collection                                                     developed
program
Task 3: Collect   Monitoring     Refer to Monitorinig coluiminl   Moniloring dala collectioni
data                                                           network and scheduile will be
developed



