Report No. PID8450
Project Name                     Europe and Central Asia-Baltic Sea (GEF)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Other Environment
Project ID                       7EGE48795
Borrower(s)                      HELCOM
Implementing Agency
Address ESTONIA, LATVIA, LITHUANIA,
POLAND, RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Coordinated by: The World Bank,
Lithuania
Address: Vilniaus Str. 28, 2600 Vilnius
Lithuania
Contact Person: Inesis Kiskis
Tel: (370-2) 622-728
Fax: (370-5)212-68-29
Email: ikiskis@worldbank.org
HELCOM
Address: Katajanokanlaituri 6 B
SF-00160 Helsinki, Finland
Contact Person: Mieczyslaw Ostojski
Tel: (358-9)6220-2233
Fax: (358-9)6220-2239
Email: mostojski@helcom.fi
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                April 30, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date              February 5, 2002
Bank Approval Date               June 20, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
The recipient countries, as contracting parties of the Helsinki
Convention, are obligated to reduce point and non-point source pollution,
improve coastal zone management, and support sustainable fishery
practices, to restore over the long-term the ecological balance of the
Baltic Sea. To this end, they have established environmental policies and
priorities that support implementation of the Helsinki Convention and the
Baltic Sea Joint Comprehensive Environmental Action Program (JCP). Other
than the Russian Federation, the recipient country governments are
committed to moving into compliance with relevant EU directives as part of
the accession process.* The national governments recognize this Project as
a critical mechanism for supporting national programs and meeting the
regional obligation of improving environmental management of the Baltic
Sea. * This includes the European Union Nitrates Directive, Environment
Directives, and the Water Framework Directive.
2. Objectives
Project Development Objective. The development objective of the Baltic Sea
Regional Project is to create some preconditions for application of the



ecosystem approach in managing the Baltic Sea Large Marine Ecosystem in
order to increase the biological productivity of the Baltic Sea. The
Project's long-term goal is to provide the three Baltic Sea cooperating
international bodies - the Helsinki Commission (HELCOM), the International
Baltic Sea Fisheries Commission (IBSFC) and the International Council for
the Exploration of the Sea (ICES) - and the recipient countries with
management tools for sustainable agricultural, coastal and open sea
management, while improving social and economic benefits for the farming,
coastal and fishing communities. Global Environmental Goal. The Project's
global environmental objective is to facilitate the restoration of
ecosystems, improve coastal zone management and reduce agricultural
non-point source pollution through the introduction of ecosystem-based
approaches in selected localities for land, coastal and open sea
environmental management in five recipient countries. Project activities
support implementation of the Baltic Sea Joint Comprehensive Environmental
Action Program (JCP), developed by the Helsinki Commission. The JCP
provides the basis for the Project, which is fully consistent with GEF
Operational Program Number 9 (OP-9), "Integrated Land and Water Multiple
Focal Area Operational Program."* The objective of OP-9 is to support
"better land and water resource management practices on an area wide
basis." The Project provides opportunities for the GEF to be a "catalyst
for action to bring about the successful integration of improved land and
water resource management practices on an area wide basis while providing
preventive measures to address threats rather than remedial measures." The
Project has a regional focus, involving local communities and
stakeholders; its biodiversity considerations focus on "prevention of
damage to threatened waters." As part of an integrated approach, Project
activities will support linkages with activities of the cooperating
countries, international financial institutions, European Union, bilateral
donors and NGOs.Removing Barriers for Transboundary Management. Designed
within the context of the Large Marine Ecosystem (LME) concept, the
Project includes activities for improving ecosystem health and
productivity, social and economic development, and provision of ecosystem
management tools for decision-makers to address transboundary issues
identified in Annex 11. The most important aspects of the Project are its
linkages between land-based activities, coastal zones and open sea
environments. The GEF funds, as incremental costs, will achieve global
environmental benefits by removing barriers to transboundary management of
land and open sea resources.Cooperation and Coordination. With the support
of the Global Environment Facility (GEF), and the World Bank, Project
activities will assist the recipient countries in implementing the
Helsinki Convention; other international agreements; and national policies
and legislation. It will also support Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and
Poland in meeting their obligations under the European Union accession
process. The Project provides the basis for strengthening cooperation
between the three international bodies -- HELCOM, IBSFC, ICES; recipient
country counterparts and other cooperating organizations. Preparation of
the Project has been coordinated with the Rural Environmental Protection
Project in Poland and the Global International Waters Assessment (GIWA),
which are both supported by GEF.* Global Environment Facility (April
1997). GEF Operational Programs.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The GEF's added value is to provide incentives for sustained operational
level cooperation among the three international bodies and financially
- 2-



support national and local governments and participating nongovernmental
organizations to address priority transboundary water problems in the
Baltic Sea ecosystem. The Project's regional approach, with GEF support,
contains provisions for making available financial resources to the
recipient countries; to meet the "incremental costs" to address
transboundary issues on an accelerated basis by buying down the costs for
actions by the recipient countries. GEF funds will specifically assist in
providing linkages and harmonizing national and local actions with
regional environmental objectives. The GEF is leveraging funds from
national and local governments, European Union, bilateral donors, NEFCO,
applied research foundations and WWF that contribute to more effective
regional coordination and cooperation. Without the combined regional
experience of the Bank, NEFCO and WWF, and the incremental resources of
the GEF, implementation of the Project would proceed at a slower pace and
would not fully benefit from integration, coordination and management
actions promoted by this Project. In addition, the GEF will support
small-scale investments in agriculture, coastal zone management and
fisheries management that may provide a framework for potential future
investments supported by national and local governments in cooperation
with the European Union, bilateral donors and international financial
institutions.
4. Description
The Project components are based on the Large Marine Ecosystem (LME)
concept and include integrated land, coastal and open sea activities to
strengthen the local and regional capacity to achieve sustainable
ecosystem management of the Baltic Sea resources. Sustainable management
will improve ecosystem health while providing social and economic benefits
to farming, coastal and fishing communities and sectors such as businesses
and tourism. The Project has four complementary components described
below. Annex 2 provides the Project description, identifies the management
and implementation responsibilities, Annex 2, Figure 1 illustrates the
project design; the Project's organizational structure is represented in
Figure 2, and Table C summarizes the Component activities, sub-activities
and tasks, and the proposed phases for component activities. Component 1
Large Marine Ecosystem Management Activities (US$5.62 million, or 46.5
percent of the total cost). The prevailing coastal and open sea water
management issues in the Baltic Sea are ecosystem impacts from
eutrophication and over fishing. Successful management of these issues
requires strengthened institutional and technical coordination of
information, resources and management activities at the regional and local
levels. While threats to the system and other transboundary issues have
been identified, current resource management policies and practices are
not holistic and ecosystem-based. To address these issues and meet
national obligations under the Helsinki Convention, the Component was
designed within an LME context with an ecosystem-based approach to
monitoring, assessment, and management of the Baltic Sea resources. The
component's primary objective is to introduce the principles and
demonstrate the application of the LME concept for Baltic Sea coastal and
open sea resources. Component activities are interdependent and will be
used jointly to overcome short-term sector-by-sector attempts to manage
resources and environments. Component 1 will introduce jointly planned and
implemented multi-national monitoring surveys that facilitate local
cooperation and coordination and use of innovative methodologies for
assessing the changing state of the ecosystem and development of effective
-3 -



strategies for the management of these shared resources. Component
activities provide the mechanisms to meet these objectives through
improving coastal and open sea monitoring and assessment practices,
understanding the carrying capacity of the coastal and open sea ecosystem,
promoting sustainable fishery practices, and supporting strengthened
regional management and local capacity. In coordination with the other
Project components, Component 1 will: (i) establish local and regional
administrative and organizational mechanisms, through the Coordination
Centers, for cooperative monitoring and assessment activities, (ii)
develop management tools through modeling and assessment to provide
proposals for ecosystem-based management of land, coastal zones and open
sea waters, and (iii) support cooperating countries to move toward
compliance with international agreements, regional priorities and national
policies, including the Helsinki Convention, Baltic 21, and EU
environmental and water management directives (Russian Federation
excluded). The Project will support activities in the coastal near shore
environment of the Eastern Baltic Sea and in selected adjacent sections of
the open sea environment. In general, the coastal near shore activities
and monitoring network will correlate with land-based coastal and
associated demonstration activities supported under Component 2.Component
2 - Land and Coastal Management Activities (US$4.49 million, or 44.0
percent of the total cost). Addressing land-based agricultural inputs to
coastal and open sea waters and improving coastal zone management are
critical for management of the Baltic Sea ecosystem. The JCP highlights
management of agriculture inputs and coastal areas of the Baltic as
priority issues. The agricultural element of the Component will (i) test
administrative and organizational mechanisms (regional and local) and
provide advice and support to the farming community; (ii) assess farmers'
interest in and willingness to pay for improving their environmental
management practices; (iii) assist farmers to lower both the risk and
barriers that currently hinder adoption of new practices; and (iv) provide
support for small-scale environmentally responsible agricultural
investments. The Project will partially finance investment costs for
on-farm environmental facilities, operating expenses of local
implementers, equipment recommended by the farm management plans, and
recurrent costs for local capacity building. The coastal zone management
element of the Component will (i) focus on the role that can be played by
local communities in sustainable management of coastal resources; (ii)
link activities in the demonstration watershed to activities being taken
on the coast; (iii) support implementation of previously prepared
management plans; and (iv) assist local communities to overcome barriers
to adoption of new planning and management methods in these sensitive
areas. The Project will partially finance costs for management activities,
small-scale investments and demonstration activities and selected costs
for local capacity building.Component 3 - Institutional Strengthening and
Regional Capacity Building. (US$0.15 million, or 1.2 percent of total
cost). During Phase 1, activities under Component 3 will be limited in
scope whereas they will expand significantly during Phases 2 and 3. The
Component's primary objective is to strengthen regional and local capacity
to successfully utilize outputs and recommendations from Component 1 and
Component 2 activities for sustainable ecosystem-based management. It will
include activities for (i) regional capacity building that will focus on
regional administrative, socioeconomic, and technical matters as they
pertain to management of Baltic Sea resources; (ii) targeted activities to
facilitate improved regional level coordination and cooperation between
- 4 -



HELCOM, IBSFC, ICES and regional stakeholders; (iii) support for improved
valuation of ecosystem goods and services though an evaluation of the
socioeconomic implications of reduced eutrophication on ecosystem
resources; (iv) a program to support training activities for
community-based groups and local NGOs; and (v) a regional public outreach
program.Component 4 - Project Management (US$1.36 million, or 11.2 percent
of total cost). Component costs are for local and regional Project
management, contracting procurement services, and costs for the social
assessment and required financial audits.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT $1.79
IBRD
IDA
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY $5.50
FINLAND, GOV. OF (EXCEPT FOR MIN.FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS) $1.00
US, GOV. OF $0.50
NORWAY: MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS $0.07
SWEDEN: SWEDISH INTL. DEV. COOPERATION AGENCY (SIDA) $2.28
FOREIGN MULTILATERAL INSTITUTIONS (UNIDENTIFIED) $0.98
Total Project Cost $12.12
6. Implementation
Project Coordination. HELCOM will serve as the executing agency for the
Project and will undertake this work in full coordination with IBSFC and
ICES. A Project Implementation Team (PIT) will be established in HELCOM
headquarters in Helsinki, comprising HELCOM's Executive Secretary, two
Professional Secretaries, the Financial Officer, and the two Component
Coordinators. To support the PIT, the services of a procurement consultant
and assistant financial officer will be contracted. The The Baltic Sea
Steering Group (BSSG) will be established and will provide broad-based
support for the implementation process. The BSSG will consist of members
from HELCOM, IBSFC, and ICES, senior level representatives of the
recipient countries, Baltic 21, UNDP, World Bank and WWF. The PIP/PPP will
provide TORs and details of the administrative and Project management
arrangements.Management of the Components. The following arrangements will
be used for management of the components included under the
Project:Component 1 - Large Marine Ecosystem Management Activities.
Component 1 will be implemented under the supervision of ICES, working
closely with IBSFC and HELCOM. The Component 1 Coordinator (C1C),
stationed in ICES, Copenhagen, will be responsible for overall management
of Component 1 and will supervise the implementation of Project-supported
activities. The ClC will be responsible for day-to-day Project management
and administration, and will work directly with the Local Project Managers
(LPMs) at the Data Coordination Centers. The LPMs will be responsible for
day-to-day implementation in their respective countries. The PIP/PPP will
provide TORs for the ClC and LPM/Coordination Centers.Component 2 - Land
and Coastal Management Activities. Component 2 will be implemented under
the supervision of HELCOM, by the SLU and WWF.Agricultural Activities. The
Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences (SLU) will manage the
- 5-



agricultural activities under this component on behalf of HELCOM. The SLU
will provide a Component 2 Coordinator (C2C), stationed in Uppsala who
will be responsible for overall management of Component 2 and will work
with existing field structures established under the Swedish supported
BAAP Project and the Rural Environmental Protection Project in Poland. An
LIU will operate in each country and will be responsible for day-to-day
Project implementation and administration. The LIUs will be staffed with a
unit manager, accountant, technical specialists, and agricultural
advisors. The PIP/PPP will provide TORs for the C2C, and the
LIUs.Agri-environmental Interventions. HELCOM will contract the Nordic
Environmental Finance Coproration (NEFCO) to jointly finance pilot scale
investments in eligible farms. A total of USD 700,000 of GEF funds has
been allocated to support agri-environmental interventions. The LIUs will
market the investment scheme among the farmers. Eligible farmers will be
invited to attend special agri-environmental and economic courses offered
through the local Agricultural Advisory Services (AAS). As a result of
these courses, the participating farmers will prepare a business plan
which they will present to NEFCO for financing. NEFCO may approve the
submitted plans or reject them. If approved, the GEF money will be used to
soften the NEFCO loans so that farmers can repay it over a 10 year period.
Total cost of a single sub-project (NEFCO loan+GEF grant) should not
exceed USD 200,000 equivalent, and the maximum amount of a GEF grant for
each sub-project shall not exceed the equivalent of USD 20,000. All funds
(GEF and NEFCO) will be paid to contractors/suppliers directly. The LIU
staff will supervise implementation progress of subprojects and will
report to NEFCO and HELCOM accordingly. More details on the selection of
subprojects and practical arrangements for implementation of subprojects
will be provided in the PIP/PPP.HELCOM will transfer funds in several
installments for agri-environmental investments to a subaccount held by
NEFCO. The installments will not exceed 15t of the total amount earmarked
for agri-environmental investment. HELCOM will replenish the GEF funds
when 80t of the original installment have been spent for subprojects. To
justify replenishment, NEFCO will provide HELCOM with proof of eligible
expenditures and loan committee decisions on allocation of the grant
portion for each specific project, contracts and invoices from
contractors/suppliers, and reports from LIUs on progress of works in the
field.Coastal Zone Management Activities. The coastal zone management
activities under Component 2 will be coordinated with Component 1 and
managed by the WWF, who will provide a coordinator to work with the Area
Task Teams, established in the demonstration areas during the earlier
HELCOM PITF MLW supported planning and management studies. The studies
will serve as the basis for implementation of these activities, and will
be coordinated by local governments, community based organizations and
nongovernmental organizations. The PIP/PPP will provide TORs for the
coordinator and local counterparts.Component 3 - Institutional
Strengthening and Regional Capacity Building. Component 3 will be managed
by HELCOM in cooperation with IBSFC and ICES. The BSSG will work with
these three institutions to review and disseminate information and
management tools developed under the Project.Component 4 - Project
Management. Component 4 will provide support for Project management by
HELCOM and the cooperating parties. This includes support for the PIT at
HELCOM and the various administrative services required for Project
reporting, procurement, disbursement and financial management. As noted
above, HELCOM will retain the services of qualified consultants, with
significant experience in Bank procedures, to assist with procurement and
- 6-



disbursement actions. The consultants will undertake preparation of the
bidding documents and review of bids for civil works and equipment, and
preparation of terms of reference for services and facilitate evaluations
and support HELCOM in negotiations.Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
Requirements. The Project will comply with the "Guidelines for Financial
Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank." The Bank
together with HELCOM will agree upon reporting requirements for Financial
Monitoring Reports (FMR). Project progress will be reported through
annual, semi-annual and quarterly Project progress reports. An
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) will be prepared within six months
of Project completion. The Project will be consistent with the provisions
of the World Bank, updated financial management requirements. HELCOM's
financial management capacity assessment and an up front agreement on
accounting and auditing procedures that are acceptable to the Bank were
reached in May 2000 with HELCOM. These were reviewed once again during the
appraisal mission. This agreement includes a time-bound action plan to
address financial management issues and a reporting system that fully
complies with the updated financial management requirements. The HELCOM
entity accounts will be audited by Finnish State Auditor's office, based
on HELCOM's Headquarter's Agreement with Finnish Government. The Project
and Special Account will be audited by competitively selected auditing
firm with qualifications acceptable to Bank and in accordance with terms
of reference acceptable to Bank. The PIP/PPP will detail the relevant Bank
policies and requirements.Project Monitoring and Evaluation. HELCOM will
report to the Bank and be responsible for ensuring that all GEF funded
activities are carried out in compliance with Project design and
contracts. The Project will comply with the required monitoring and
evaluation procedures as required for the Implementation Completion
Report. The evaluation will rely on both qualitative and quantitative
criteria using Bank guidelines, "Monitoring and Evaluation of Program
Impacts." Resources have been set aside to support the conduct of both
these evaluations by independent reviewers. The ICR for Phase 1 will
provide suggestions on possible improvement of the implementation plan and
steps that could be taken to ensure achievement of Project goals during
Phases 2 and 3. The Implementation Completion Report will be completed no
later than six months after the closure of the Project. The PIP/PPP will
detail the process for these reviews.
7. Sustainability
The Project will support a series of activities designed to promote the
sustainable use of land, coastal and open sea resources through an
ecosystem based approach to management. These activities support what is a
long-term process for restoration of the ecological balance of the Baltic
Sea, which is the goal of the JCP. Since these actions are management
focused, with investments being used to support management objectives, the
sustainability of the Project's interventions will rest upon the
willingness and ability of parties at the regional, national and local
level to adopt new approaches to environmental management, which are more
preventive than curative in nature. The Project has been designed to
accelerate the rate at which new management approaches are adopted and put
into use in the Baltic Sea region; while the transition costs for these
new approaches is significant, over the medium and long term these
interventions should be institutionally, technically and financially
sustainable by the three cooperating international bodies and the
participating countries. In the case of the accession countries, some of
- 7-



these costs may be assumed by the various programs of the European Union.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Lessons learned in the region, including those from GEF projects * were
considered during Project preparation. A reviews of "lessons learned"
prepared for the first phase of the JCP and development of Baltic 21
identified three key measures as critical to the success of activities at
the regional, national and local level: (i) sustained political and public
commitment to the long-term objectives of the program; (ii) a "shared
vision" provided through a commonly prepared "strategic action program" or
similar document; and (iii) a broad based partnership to support
implementation of the agreed "preventive" and "curative" actions. It has
been recognized that the major challenge facing all regional environmental
programs/projects is translating plans into action. At the operation
level, the key lessons learned by the donors and recipient countries that
have worked in the region on agricultural and environment projects
include:Long-term commitment is required from the recipient countries to
address the regional issues.The recipient and cooperating countries are
members of HELCOM, and have a demonstrated record of taking actions to
meet their commitments under the Helsinki Convention.All participants must
have a shared understanding of the goals necessary to address the
issues.The three cooperating international bodies and representatives of
the recipient countries have actively participated in the Project
preparation process and in the previous activities related to
implementation of the JCP.Linkages with other ongoing activities are
necessary to optimize benefits for the recipient countries.The Project
design builds on BAAP project activities, and links with GEF, EU, and Bank
projects where appropriate. Special measures will be used for coordination
with the Rural Environmental Protection Project in Poland and the Baltic
Sea pilot activities supported by GIWA.Capacity building is critical for
innovative and effective decision-making and management.The Project
objective is to build regional, national and local capacity to strengthen
the decision making process for sustainable ecosystem-based management of
the Baltic Sea resources.Consistent procedures are needed to evaluate and
monitor transboundary issues. The Project supports upgrading of the
quality of the systems used by HELCOM, IBSFC and ICES to evaluate, assess
and monitor transboundary environmental conditions in the Baltic Sea.
These systems will be used by regional, national and local organizations
for more effective environmental management. The PIP/PPP will detail the
monitoring and evaluation process, which addresses transboundary
issues.The project design considers the cost-effectiveness and
affordability of project activities.The activities for Component 1 focus
on streamlining current practices and optimizing more cost-effective
monitoring and assessment processes. Experience from BAAP activities for
agricultural management and previous Bank and WWF supported coastal zone
management activities confirms that the proposed activities are
cost-effective. In addition, the Bank's experience in the region has
generated important lessons for Project design and implementation
mechanisms. These include: Project design must consider and include
lessons learned from similar rural development and environmental
management projects in the region.Design of the Project has benefited from
the experience gained to date in implementation of a series of rural
development and environmental management projects that have been supported
by the Bank over the last decade in the Baltic Sea region. The design has
also benefited from lessons from the Swedish funded BAAP Phase I that
- 8 -



addressed management of agricultural run-off at the regional level, as
well as related national level activities supported by the European Union,
Denmark, Finland, Netherlands, Norway and United States. It also included
examination of lessons learned in coastal zone management from previous
European Union, WWF and Bank supported activities in the region.Mutual
understanding and agreement is needed between the donors and local
counterparts on project process and expectations.The Project Core Group
has used a consultation process involving representatives from the
recipient countries and donor community who have been involved in Project
design and preparation, including participation in regional workshops.
Project preparation included a regional meeting to review transboundary
water management issues in the region, a regional workshop on living
marine resources management, and a regional workshop on management of
non-point source pollution from agriculture. A study tour was also made to
Poland to review the experience and management of the Rural Environmental
Protection Project.Project goals and activities must be clearly defined in
addressing the issues.The transboundary and priority issues were
identified in the JCP process, which helped in defining the Project
objective and supporting component activities. The goals and activities
have been developed through an interactive process that has included
extensive regional workshops as well as meetings at the national and local
level. The Project builds upon earlier activities supported by HELCOM in
the context of implementation of the JCP.A clear project framework is
necessary for successful implementation.The Project design supports the
current development for ecosystem-based approach to management and is
consistent with the LME concept for sustainable ecosystem-based management
and the activities under the components have been divided in a manner to
allow for effective management, supervision and monitoring. The PIP/PPP
will clearly outline the implementation process for successful
implementation.The procurement and disbursement procedures are clearly
understood by the regional partners and recipient countries early in the
project process. The procurement needs are clearly identified, and HELCOM
will subcontract an independent firm with experience in Bank procurement
and disbursement procedures. Basic training on procurement and
disbursement procedures will be provided by the consultant to Project
managers and local counterparts early in the Project implementation
process and supplemental training will be provided as necessary.Capacity
building, assessing community needs, and working with the community to
raise public awareness can assure product quality.The focus of the Project
is on building capacity for the use of ecosystem based management for the
Baltic Sea at the regional level and at the same time strengthening
capacity at the national and local level to better manage environmental
dimensions of agriculture, coastal zones and fisheries. Previous work
under the JCP, especially in agriculture and coastal zone management, has
been based on extensive consultations with communities to identify their
goals and needs. Social assessment work to be conducted during the Project
will facilitate further consultations and improve the targeting of
interventions. All Project supported activities will include specific
provisions for public awareness activities for decision makers as well as
farming, coastal and fishing communities.It is important to have political
support to establish a strong, functional institutional infrastructure.The
recipient countries are all members of HELCOM and are committed to meeting
their obligations under the Helsinki Convention. At the regional, national
and local level throughout the region, there is strong political and
public support for measures to improve environmental management and to
-9-



take actions to restore the ecological balance of the Baltic Sea. The
Project builds upon the long established institutional infrastructure of
HELCOM, IBSFC and ICES, which complements existing national and local
institutions. All activities build upon existing networks established by
the three cooperating international bodies in undertaking their work, as
well as on the BAAP agricultural network and the WWF coastal zone
management network.* Summary Report -- Study of GEF Project Lessons,
January 1998; HELCOM - Baltic Sea Joint Comprehensive Environmental Action
Programme: Background Document on Recommendations for Updating and
Strengthening, December 1998; and Baltic 21 - "Financing The Baltic 21: An
Overview." August 1998.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The Project will support a series of complementary
measures to improve environmental management in agriculture, the coastal
zone and open sea environment. It will focus on supporting measures to
reduce non-point source pollution from agriculture; improve coastal zone
management; and adopt an integrated approach to the management of marine
resources. The overall environmental screening category for the Project is
"B" and a "freestanding" Environmental Management Plan (EMP) has been
prepared as an element of the design process. The Project components have
been categorized as follows: (i) Component 1 - environmental screening
category "B" due to focus on sustainable management of living marine
resources; (ii) Component 2 - environmental screening category "B" due to
actions for improved management of agricultural and coastal resources;
(iii) Component 3 - environmental screening category "C" since the focus
is on institutional strengthening and capacity building; and (iv)
Component 4 - environmental screening category "C" since the focus is only
on Project management, reporting and evaluation measures. The EMP and
PIP/PPP will specify mitigation and monitoring measures that will be in
place to minimize impacts and include specific measures for Component 1,
which include application of new monitoring, assessment and management
measures; and for Component 2, which include adoption of guidelines for
design construction of manure pads, slurry tanks and the use of their
contents, and guidelines for nutrient retention and wetland restoration.
Preparation of the Project has been based on regional, national and local
level consultations that are reviewed in Annex 12 of the Project Appraisal
Document. The EMP has been made available in the InfoShop and recipient
countries prior to the appraisal.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Inesis Kiskis
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 370 2 622728
Fax: 370 5 2123615
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
- 10 -



The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 11 -



