Report No. 24077
Report No: I048795 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 04/30/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA         Project ID: P048795
Project: BALTIC SEA (GEF)        Task Team Leader: Inesis Kiskis
Authorized to Appraise Date: February 5, 2002     IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: June 20, 2002     IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: ECSSD     Sector: VY - Other Environment
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The Baltic Sea Regional Project - Phase 1, is first stage of the proposed
three phase program. If successful, and if funds are available, the
participating countries- Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and Russian
Federation - intend to implement two other phases. The development
objective of the BSRP - Phase 1 is to create some preconditions for
application of the ecosystem approach in managing the Baltic Sea Large
Marine Ecosystem, as well as for the increase of the biological
productivity of the Baltic Sea. The long term objective of all three BSRP
phases is to facilitate the restoration of sustainable ecosystems, improve
coastal zone management and reduce agricultural non-point source pollution
through   introduction of ecosystem-based approaches in selected
localities for land, coastal and open sea environmental management. This
ISDS covers Phase 1 and will be updated for Phases 2 and 3 as they are
developed and presented to the Board of the Bank.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The BSRP - Phase 1 includes four complementary components:
Component 1 - Large Marine Ecosystem Management Activities (US$5.62)
Activity 1 - Strengthening Institutional and Technical Capacity. This
component will support the following: (a) Strengthing of Institutional
Capacity of Coordination Centers - specialized centers in involved in
project activities: Fisheries Coordination Center, Productivity Parameters
Coordination Center, Environmental Health Parameters Coordination Center,
and a GIS-Data Coordination Center; (b) Regional Training and Workshops to
Strengthen Technical Capacity - training and workshops will strengthen
technical capacity and will coordinate and link the activities under the
component with technical aspects of other regional programs; (c)
Coastal-Near Shore Activities - planning and coordination of coastal
monitoring surveys in the eastern Baltic Sea to fill the gaps for
fisheries and environmental parameters, as mandated by work programs of
HELCOM and ICES; and (d) Open Sea Activities - planning and coordination
of open sea monitoring surveys that will calibrate between vessels for
regional efficiency and cost-effectiveness. This activity will expand the
geographic coverage of open sea activities in the eastern Baltic Sea to



reinforce the current ICES monitoring network and fill gaps in both
fisheries and environmental data needed by ICES, HELCOM and their member
countries.
Activity 2 - Operationalize Monitoring and Assessment Surveys in the
Eastern Baltic Sea. Activity 2 will be planned in Phase 1 and fully
commence in Phase 2 of the BSRP. Phase 1 will support procurement of
necessary technical equipment for coastal and open sea monitoring surveys
and execution of the surveys as coordinated and planned during Activity 1.
These will include: (a) Coastal Near Shore Monitoring Surveys - coastal
fish, productivity and ecosystem health parameters will be monitored and
data collected as required by the HELCOM/COMBINE monitoring program. Data
will be collected based on ICES standards; (b) Joint Open Sea Monitoring
Survey - joint open sea surveys will parallel efforts in the coastal
waters, but will include a multi-national technical team to conduct joint
open sea surveys that combine monitoring of fish, productivity and
ecosystem health parameters from research vessels; (c) Ships of
Opportunity (SOOPs) - data from ferries and cutters will be obtained from
equipment leased on board and the crew will be trained for data
collection. Data will be collected based on ICES standards; and (d) Data
Collection from Commercial Fishing Vessel - data from commercial fishing
vessels will be obtained from landings and logbooks, and landings
statistics from commercial fishing vessels in accordance with ICES
standards.
Activity 3 - Cooperative Local and Regional Ecosystem Evaluations and
Assessments. Activity 3 will commence in Phase 1; however, most of the
activities will be carried out in Phases 2 and 3. Emphasis will be given
to use of information collected from Component 1 and Component 2. The
following activites will be undertaken: (a) Evaluation and Assessment of
Component 1 Information - evaluation and assessment of data collected in
monitoring surveys under Component 1; the assessments will be used to
formulate advice for IBSFC and HELCOM, and propose ecosystem-based
management tools; and (b) Economic Evaluation of Component Activities (in
coordination with Component 2) - this supports socio-economic assessments
to promote sustainable ecosystem-based management tools to improve
economic benefits from living marine resources. The coordinated joint
assessment effort will support local authorities' decision-making capacity
for integrated coastal resource management.
Activity 4 - Demonstration Activities. Demonstration activities will
illustrate a range of possible cost-effective measures to improve and
restore the coastal ecosystem while building local capacity of coastal
communities. Preparation for demonstration activities will begin during
Phase land the activities will continue through Phases 2 and 3. Planned
activities for Phase 1 include include: (a) Salmon River Restoration -
supports recommendations in the Salmon Action Plan (SAP) of the IBSFC to
restore critical segments of selected rivers to allow natural spawning and
long-term sustainability of salmon recruitment; (b) Multiple-Marine
Ecological Disturbances (MMED) Predictive Tools for Management - testing
of a predictive model which permits to examine and understand multiple
ecological disturbances in the Baltic Sea; and (c) Use of Ecosystem Based
Assessments for the Baltic Sea - using data genrated by tge Project,
prepare plans to increase and sustain fishery yields and biological
productivity of the Baltic Sea Large Marine Ecosystem (LME).
- 2 -



Component 2 - Land and Coastal Management Activities (US$ 4.49)
This component will build on the Swedish funded Baltic Agricultural
Run-off Action Program (BAAP) activities. It includes:
Activity 1 - Agricultural Interventions. This activity will support: (a)
Local Agri-Environmental Capacity Building - it will involve the
participating groups of farmers, agricultural advisory organizations and
local authorities, using national Codes of Good Agricultural Practices as
the guiding tool. Use of these codes is one of the major environmental
commitments undertaken by the countries in accession to the EU; (b) Local
Agri-Environmental Capacity Building - farmers in the watersheds will be
invited to participate in education and training activities to improve
sustainable farm management. Training activities will provide farmers with
potential investment support through grants from GEF funding combined with
credits through cooperation with the Nordic Environment Finance
Corporation (NEFCO); (c) Demonstrating Cost-Effective Nutrient Recycling
and Retention Technologies - a select number of on-farm,
agri-environmental demonstration practices will be established, including
construction and restoration of wetlands for nutrient retention; and (d)
Agri-Environmental Credit Schemes (AgECS) - agri-environmental practices
will be promoted and eligible on-farm investments will be installed for
nutrient re-circulation; such investments include manure pads and slurry
storage etc, equipment for manure and urine spreading and technology for
seeding and soil preparation. The GEF grant and/or NEFCO credit will be
complemented by in-kind contributions in materials and labor by the farmer
or agricultural company.
Activity 2 - Monitoring and Assessment of Non-Point Source Pollution. This
activity will monitor nutrient loads from agriculture and will help to
fill gaps in national monitoring programs and assist in meeting the
country's commitment to EU and Helsinki Convention obligations.
Development of the monitoring system will be coordinated with the Rural
Environment Protection Project in Poland. It will support: (a) Catchment
Measurement Programs - catchment measurement programs will evaluate loads
of nutrients to surface waters from representative agricultural areas, and
leaching of nutrients to shallow groundwater in representative
agricultural areas; (b) Effects of Specific Demonstration Activities -
specific demonstration activities will show governments and farmers the
efficiency of various nutrient reduction measures and monitoring of plot
demonstration activities; (c) Agricultural Hot-Spots and Contamination of
Drinking Water in Shallow Farm Wells - this will assess, at selected
sites, the extent and causes of contamination of drinking water in farm
wells, including monitoring of contamination in farm wells and surface and
groundwater; and (d) Modeling of Nutrient Loads in the Berze-Lielupe Basin
- a comprehensive series of actions for training personnel and upgrading
modeling capacity will be supported under this activity targeted in the
Berze-Lielupe demonstration watershed.
Activity 3 - Land-Based Coastal Zone Management. The integrated coastal
zone management (ICZM) activities will assist local communities in
improving their management of coastal zones. This activity builds upon the
work of the HELCOM Working Group on Coastal Lagoons and Wetlands (HELCOM -
PITF MLW) that was coordinated by the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF). A
social assessment process will be used to provide guidance to optimize
local community involvement and benefits so that local communities use
-3 -



natural and economic resources more efficiently, improve their livelihood,
and conserve biodiversity. An outreach program will expand these
activities to other coastal communities. Preliminary activities will
commence during Phase 1, and continue through Phases 2 and 3. Sites for
activities include: (a) ICZM Vcinameri/Matsalu and Pcrnu Bay/Kihnu Island
(Sites 1 and 2) - in coordination with Component 1 and through local
capacity building and training, this will build ecologically based village
wastewater treatment systems on the island of Kihnu, restore Lake
Prcstevik-Voormsi and promote small-scale tourism investments; (b) ICZM
Engure/Kemeri(Lielupe-Gulf of Riga (Site 3) - the activity will establish
a local small business incubator in Mersrags, develop and distribute a
bi-annual local newsletter, and train fifteen local guides. In
coordination with Component 1, a socioeconomic benefits program for local
farmers and fishermen will be developed and implemented; (c) ICZM Kursiu
Lagoon/ Nemunas Delta (Site 4) - the activity will support development of
visitors facilities, recreational facilities, wetland restoration and
preparation of meadow management plans; and (d) ICZM Vistula
Lagoon/Kaliningrad Lagoon (Site 5) - activities will focus on low cost
efforts to strengthen stakeholder involvement and optimize use of
resources including a demonstration clean-up of a small catchment and
restoration of a pilot tributary river.
Activity 4 -Baltic Sea Regional Agri-Environment Assessment Network (RAN).
Agri-environmental and rural policies are under development in the region,
and this activity will link local field-level activities of the BSRP with
national authorities and decision-makers. These activities will commence
during Phase 1 through a series of workshops, and will combine field-level
activities under the project with development of agri-environment and
rural policies.
Component 3 - Institutional Strengthening and Regional Capacity Building
(US $ 0.15)
This Component supports local and regional capacity building and
institutional strengthening with an emphasis on regional/sub-regional
technical meetings and training activities. These activities will be
expanded in Phases 2 and 3.
Component 4 - Project Management (US 1.36)
The Component includes the project management activities and will cover
expenses for selected management costs.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The Baltic Sea ecosystem is a semi-enclosed water body connected with the
North Sea by narrow and shallow sounds that limit water exchange. Natural
fluctuations are characteristic of the Baltic Sea ecosystem; the water is
largely regulated by the sporadic inflows of saline and oxygen-rich North
Sea water and intermediate stagnation periods. Contaminants and nutrients
enter the Baltic Sea via river run-off, through atmospheric deposition;
and from human activities at sea. It is estimated that renewal of the
water of the Baltic Sea takes about 25-30 years. Although the Baltic Sea
ecosystem provides goods and services to 80 million people inhabiting its
shores and drainage basin, its full social and economic benefits are not
currently being realized. Contaminants, especially persistent chemicals
- 4 -



and other pollutants, remain in the Baltic Sea for a long time.
Transboundary threats to sustainable economic development include: (i)
degradation of water quality from point and non-point sources of
pollution; (ii) local degradation of the coastal zone from poor planning
and land use practices; (iii) reduced productivity from eutrophication and
harmful algal blooms in coastal and marine waters; (iv) unsustainable use
of fisheries; and (v) diseases in marine life associated with pollution
and emerging problems with introduced "alien" species.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: Comments: An Environmental Management Plan (EMP) has been
prepared as part of the project design process and reviewed with HELCOM,
IBSFC, ICES and the cooperating countries. Implementation of the EMP will
be an element of project supervision and reviewed in the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR). The applicability of OP/BP/GP 7.50 was reviewed
with the Legal Department of the World Bank, and it was deemed not to be
applicable to the proposed project.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Component 1 - Large Marine Ecosystem Management Activities. The potential
impacts from activities supported under Component 1 that will require
mitigation activities are:
Laboratory Wastes. The Component will support monitoring activities and
collection of samples and specimens under protocols established by ICES
for such activities in the North Atlantic, Baltic Sea and North Sea. These
samples and specimens will be collected in the open marine environment and
from near shore areas and transferred to participating laboratories for
analysis and examination. The primary impact from this Component will be
the generation of a limited amount of chemical and biological wastes from
the laboratories conducting project related analytical work. Potential
impacts from these materials are limited and will be managed through the
use of proper waste collection and disposal procedures that will be
overseen by the Component 1 Coordinator. The project preparation process
found that there would be no significant impacts associated with the
- 5-



operation and maintenance of scientific equipment used for data collection
and monitoring under the project. Field equipment used for data
collection, such as trawls and fyke nets, will be discarded in accordance
with current ICES procedures.
Salmon River Restoration. The Component will support the design and
implementation of demonstration activities for habitat restoration of
coastal rivers used by salmon for spawning. Activities will focus on a
combination of management measures and improvement of physical and
biological conditions in these areas through small-scale modifications
using ecological engineering approaches and biological improvements such
as plantings and site clean-up. Potential adverse impacts associated with
these activities concern physical and biological disturbances during the
implementation of the restoration measures. Impacts will include minimal
short-term in stream bottom sediment disturbances from stream restoration,
channel clearing/cleaning and re-establishment of traditional habitat
conditions. Activities will be undertaken consistent with management plans
prepared under the project and will be monitored by the Component 1
Coordinator and national and local authorities. The national and local
level environmental and fisheries institutions that participate in the
work of HELCOM, IBSFC and ICES are familiar with current living marine
resource management issues and these institutions have been actively
engaged in defining project activities for Component 1. Discussions with
national fisheries and aquatic biology scientific research institutes as
well as national authorities responsible for management of the environment
and living marine resources, concluded that there are only limited
environmental impacts associated with the proposed ecosystem restoration
activities planned to be supported by the project.
Component 2. The potential impacts from activities supported under
Component 2 that will require mitigation activities are:
Agricultural Interventions. The Component will support the design and
implementation of on-farm measures to reduce non-point source pollution
from agriculture. These activities will focus on implementation of Farm
Environmental Management Plans that will include a series of complementary
measures for better land management practices such as improved tillage,
manure spreading and re-establishment of grassland, combined with selected
investments to reduce run-off including the construction of manure pads,
restoration of wetlands and establishment of vegetative buffer zones along
stream courses. Potential adverse impacts associated with these activities
concern physical and biological disturbances during the construction
period for the manure pads and wetland restoration activities. These
impacts will be highly localized and primarily concern the need to control
erosion and sedimentation at the construction site and areas immediately
downstream. Activities will be undertaken consistent with management plans
prepared under the project and will be monitored by the Component 2
Coordinator, Local Implementation Units (LIUs) and national and local
authorities.
Monitoring and Assessment of Non-Point Sources. The Component will support
the implementation of a water quality monitoring system for non-point
sources of pollution. This will include the construction and operation of
a series of small water quality monitoring stations located adjacent to
watercourses in representative small watersheds. Potential adverse impacts
associated with these activities concern very small and highly localized
physical and biological disturbances during the construction of the
monitoring stations. These impacts primarily concern the need to control
erosion and sedimentation at the construction site and areas immediately
- 6 -



downstream. Project supported construction contracts will include measures
to reduce erosion and siltation. The Component 2 Coordinator and the LIUs
will undertake on-site monitoring during the construction of project
supported water quality monitoring stations. This will include site
specific monitoring to verify contractors are following mitigation
measures.
Land-Based Coastal Zone Management. The Component will support the
development and implementation of management plans for integrated coastal
zone management and wetland restoration. These activities will be
coordinated by the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) and focus on
implementation of management plans, prepared with the participation of
local communities, to improve land and water management practices, support
small-scale civil works and restore wetlands. The project will support
application of modern management practices to enhance biodiversity and
improved local management of natural resources. Potential adverse impacts
associated with these activities concern physical and biological
disturbances during the construction period for small-scale civil works
and wetland restoration activities. These impacts will be localized and
primarily concern the need to control erosion and sedimentation at the
construction site and areas immediately downstream. To address these
issues mitigation measures will be included in the design and construction
contracts and implementation of these provisions will be monitored on a
site specific basis. These activities will be undertaken consistent with
management plans prepared under the project and will be monitored by the
Component 2 Coordinator, LIUs and national and local authorities.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
The proposed project supports a complementary series of environmental
management measures to promote the adoption of an ecosystem approach to
the management of the open marine environment, coastal zone and watersheds
of the Baltic Sea. The activities supported under the project are small
scale and will include measures that will have cumulative positive
environmental impacts. The proposed actives are not anticipated to result
in any significant or irreversible adverse impacts.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
The proposed project is in environmental screening category "B" and does
not require the preparation of an analysis of alternatives.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
An EMP has been prepared for the project that provides both mitigation and
monitoring measures to address project related safeguard issues:
Mitigation Measures. The key mitigation measures included in the project
are as follows:
Management of Laboratory Wastes. Cooperating laboratories will use proper
chemical and biological waste collection and disposal measures that will
- 7 -



be consistent with those recommended by ICES. Field equipment used for
data collection will be disposed of in accordance with current ICES
procedures. A review will be conducted by the Component 1 Coordinator of
procedures used at each laboratory to confirm their consistency with these
procedures and modifications will be made as appropriate. The management
of laboratory wastes will be reviewed and reported on as an element of
project implementation activities by the Component 1 Coordinator.
Preparation of Management Plans. As part of the implementation process,
the project provides support for preparation and implementation of site
specific environmental management plans. These include the preparation of:
Salmon River Restoration Action Plans (SRRAP). The SRRAP will include the
design of salmon river restoration measures and identify associated
mitigation actions. The SRRAP will incorporate use of appropriate
eco-engineering approaches and management during stream restoration
activities to reduce erosion and siltation. It will contain site specific
guidelines concerning the timing for restoration and mitigation measures
to minimize in-steam disturbances, and recommendations for actions to be
taken during stream restoration activities to avoid habitat disturbance
and reduce erosion and siltation.
Farm Environmental Management Plans. The Farm Environmental Management
Plans will be prepared for each participating farm. These will specify
timing of construction and erosion control measures to reduce downstream
impacts from construction of manure pads and other structures. Contracts
will specify measures to be taken during construction to reduce erosion
and siltation.
Monitoring and Assessment of Non-Point Sources. A design has been prepared
for the water quality monitoring system and sites proposed for
construction of stations. Project supported construction contracts will
include measures to reduce erosion and siltation.
Integrated Coastal Zone Management Plans. Management Plans will be
prepared for each area included under this activity. These will provide a
framework for management of coastal resources and an active role for local
communities in decision making and benefit sharing. The management plans
will specify timing of the actions to be taken for these areas with regard
to new management practices, small-scale civil works, and change in land
use practices. The management plans will be formally reviewed and approved
by national and regional authorities. Management plans will address
potential construction impacts. Project supported construction contracts
will include measures to reduce erosion, siltation or damage to sensitive
habitats.
Contractor Requirements to Minimize Environmental Impacts. The EMP
supports specific measures to mitigate potential construction and
operation period impacts and to address safety issues. Individual
management plans will provide guidelines and actions to mitigate potential
environmental impacts, through instructions to design engineers and
construction contractors to undertake certain actions on a site specific
basis. Contractors will be required to provide and maintain equipment with
proper noise abatement controls. Specific provisions should be included in
construction contracts to mandate the use of health and safety measures to
minimize accidents during the construction and post-construction process.
Appropriate bidding documents for construction will be prepared to support
the EMP.
Archeological "Chance Find" Procedures. All cooperating countries have
cultural heritage laws and well developed institutions in this area.
Archaeological and historical site surveys exist at the county level for
- 8 -



many of the areas in which project activities will be undertaken. The
small-scale nature of the civil works and wetlands restoration activities
supported under the project allow them to be sited in a flexible manner
that can be used to avoid sites of archaeological or historical value.
Provisions will be included in contract documents to address archeological
"chance finds" should they be encountered during the course of
construction activities; these provisions will follow procedures accepted
by the national and/or local authorities responsible for archeological and
historical sites and materials.
Project Implementation Monitoring. The following project implementation
monitoring actions will be taken:
Component 1 - Activities 1 and 2. Management of Laboratory Wastes. The
Component 1 Coordinator and team will monitor the proper collection and
disposal of chemical and biological wastes from cooperating laboratories.
This will include the examination of laboratory records and review of
practices on-site and at the cooperating laboratories. These procedures
will also be monitored as an element of Bank supervision.
Component 1 - Activity 4. Salmon River Restoration. The Component 1
Coordinator and team will undertake on-site monitoring during the
implementation of project supported ecological engineering activities and
channel clearing/cleaning activities. This will include site specific
monitoring to verify contractors are following mitigation measures and
spot checks in adjacent areas and in water bodies influenced by the
management activities. Site specific monitoring will be conducted for
standard water quality and ecological parameters to evaluate short-term
restoration impacts to stream habitats, submerged vegetation and spawning
areas. Standardized observations will be made concerning stream morphology
and status of habitats before, during and after construction. Samples will
be collected to evaluate water quality, especially turbidity and suspended
materials and selected biological parameters. This will be complemented by
longer-term monitoring, in conjunction with spawning and post-spawning
seasons, to evaluate benefits from these interventions. The use of these
procedures will also be monitored as an element of Bank supervision.
Component 2 - Activity 1. Agricultural Interventions. The Component 2
Coordinator and the LIUs will undertake on-site monitoring during the
construction of project supported small-scale civil works and wetland
restoration activities. This will include site specific monitoring to
verify contractors are following mitigation measures and spot checks in
adjacent areas and in water bodies influenced by the management
activities. This will be complemented by baseline monitoring supported
under the project to assess pre-and post-project environmental conditions
and benefits from the interventions. This monitoring network will be
coordinated with the coastal zone monitoring activities described below.
The use of these procedures will also be monitored as an element of Bank
supervision.
Component 2 - Activity 2. Monitoring and Assessment of Non-Point Sources.
A design has been prepared for the water quality monitoring system and
sites proposed for construction of stations. Project supported
construction contracts will include measures to reduce erosion and
siltation. The Component 2 Coordinator and the LIUs will undertake on-site
monitoring during the construction of project supported water quality
monitoring stations. This will include site specific monitoring to verify
contractors are following mitigation measures. The use of these procedures
will also be monitored as an element of Bank supervision.
-9-



Component 2 - Activity 3. Land-Based Coastal Zone Management. The
Component 2 Coordinator and the LIUs will undertake on-site monitoring
during the construction of project supported small-scale civil works and
wetland restoration activities. This will include site specific monitoring
to verify contractors are following mitigation measures and spot checks in
adjacent areas and in water bodies influenced by the management
activities. This will be complemented by baseline monitoring supported
under the project to assess pre-and post-project environmental conditions
and benefits from these interventions. This monitoring network will be
coordinated with the agricultural monitoring activities described above.
The use of these procedures will also be monitored as an element of Bank
supervision.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
The safeguard policies have been disclosed in the cooperating countries as
part of the preparation process of the current project, as well as in
earlier Bank supported projects and as the result of safeguards briefings
and seminars conducted by Bank staff over the last 10 years. Information
concerning the application of Bank safeguard policies to the proposed
project has been provided in the EMP that has been distributed in all five
cooperating countries. The proposed project has been developed with
extensive participation of a diversity of stakeholders, including
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), at the regional, national and local
levels. A series of technical workshops at the regional, national and
local level have engaged stakeholders in the project design process and
development of the implementation plan. The preparation process has
included extensive meetings with members of the scientific community,
farmers, fishermen and residents of rural and coastal communities.
Discussions have been held with local governments, decentralized
environmental offices, extension agents and NGOs. In addition, as part of
the project preparation process, a major regional meeting was held to
review the experience and identify lessons learned from transboundary
water management in the Baltic Sea region. The findings from this meeting
were issued in the form of the "Vilnius Recommendations".
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
1 S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      5/21/2001        5/21/2001
- 10 -



Date of "in-country" disclosure          5/22/2001
Date of submission to InfoShop   5/22/2001        5/22/2001
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)       Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Inesis Kiskis   February 27, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Stephen F. Lintner/Person/World Bank     February
27, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Bernard Baratz   March 5, 2002
Sector Manager/Director:         Laura Tuck; Jane E. Holt         April 18, 2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 11 -



