                                Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR0000136




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                (IDA-3624)




                                  ON A

                                 CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.0 MILLION
                      (US$ 5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                 TO THE

                          REPUBLIC OF UGANDA

                                 FOR THE

     DECENTRALIZED SERVICES DELIVERY: A MAKERERE UNIVERSITY
                        TRAINING PILOT PROJECT




                               May 30, 2007




Human Development 1 (AFTH1)
Country Department 1
Africa Region

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective)

                      Currency Unit = USh
                    1.00 = US$ [US$0.00059]
                     US$ 1.00 = [USh1700]

                        FISCAL YEAR


            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ALGAF         Africa Local Government Action Forum
DCA           Development Credit Agreement
I@MAK.COM     Innovations at Makerere Committee
IDA           International Development Agency
LG            Local Government
LGDP          Local Governments Development Program
LIL           Learning & Innovations Loan
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
PAD           Project Appraisal Document
PDO           Project Development Objective
PEAP          Poverty Eradication Action Plan
UAAU          Urban Authorities Association of Uganda
ULGA          Uganda Local Government Association
UMI           Uganda Management Institute




                 Vice President: Obiageli katryn Ezekwesili
               Country Director: Judy M. O'Connor
                Sector Manager: Dzingai B. Mutumbuka
            Project Team Leader: Michael F. Crawford
              ICR Team Leader: Michael F. Crawford

                                                 Uganda
  Decentralized Services Delivery: A Makerere University Training Pilot Project




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 9
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 18
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 18
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 21
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 22
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 24
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 25
 Annex 2a. Component Outputs Contributing to Development Objectives .................. 25
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 41
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 50
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 51
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 53
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 54
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 62
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 64

MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                      Decentralized Service
                                                                      Delivery: A Makerere
Country:                Uganda                  Project Name:
                                                                      University Training
                                                                      Pilot Project
Project ID:             P074078                 L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-36240,IDA-3624A
ICR Date:               06/21/2007              ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                      GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     LIL                     Borrower:
                                                                      UGANDA
Original Total
                        XDR 4.0M                Disbursed Amount:     XDR 3.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
MOFPED; Makerere University
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
Rockefeller Foundation


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date              Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        09/26/2001    Effectiveness:         09/26/2002         09/26/2002
Appraisal:             01/21/2002    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              03/26/2002    Mid-term Review:                          07/26/2004
                                     Closing:               12/31/2005         12/31/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings                Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory           Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:       Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory           Performance:           Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators           (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry
                                                                     None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                          No                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Adult literacy/non-formal education                            50                50
Tertiary education                                             50                50


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Decentralization                                             Secondary        Secondary
Education for the knowledge economy                           Primary          Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili       Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:         Judy M. O'Connor                James W. Adams
Sector Manager:           Dzingai B. Mutumbuka             Dzingai B. Mutumbuka
Project Team Leader:      Michael F. Crawford              Preeti S. Ahuja
ICR Team Leader:          Michael F. Crawford
ICR Primary Author:       Hongyu Yang
                          John Daly



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The PDO and Key Performance Indicators are from the PAD and Development Credit
Agreement (DCA) Schedule 2 and 3.

  The objective of the project is to develop an effective and replicable mechanism for the
improvement of public service delivery at local government levels, through the
improvement and restructuring, of educational and other training services offered by
Makerere University and Partner Institutions.



                                             ii

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
No revisions were made.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value           Values (from       Revised          Achieved at
                                                 approval         Target         Completion or
                                                documents)        Values          Target Years
                Number of students participating in field internships in the six priority disciplines
Indicator 1 :   [health, agriculture, engineering, education, financial management, and
                governance] for decentralized local services.
Value                                                                          8,317 students
quantitative or 0                           300                                participated in
Qualitative)                                                                   internships
Date achieved 12/01/2002                    12/31/2005                         11/01/2006
Comments
(incl. %        2772% achievement.

achievement)

Indicator 2 :   Number of Local Government officials obtaining degrees in six priority areas and
                returning to their positions in local government.
                                                                               113 undergraduates
                                                                               trained,
                                            60 Undergraduates                  82 full time Masters
Value                                       trained and 20                     students, and 112
quantitative or 0 Local Government          Masters will have                  partial masters from
Qualitative)    officials sponsored.        completed                          local government
                                            training.                          have completed the
                                                                               training.

Date achieved 12/01/2002                    12/31/2005                         11/01/2006
Comments        188% % achievement for undergraduates;
(incl. %        410% achievement for Masters scholarships
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Demonstrably impact of project-sponsored policy research and formulation.
                                            10 faculty-based

Value                                       research projects

quantitative or not available               show                               18 completed.
Qualitative)                                demonstrably
                                            influence on
                                            government policy
Date achieved 12/01/2002                    12/31/2005                         11/01/2006
Comments        180% achievement.
(incl. %        These studies are expected to have short-and long-term impact at the individual,
achievement)    institutional and district levels.
                An integrated, cohesive capacity building program established, with well
Indicator 4 :   designed short term courses and degree programs aimed at strengthening
                decentralized public services delivery.


                                                  iii

Value
quantitative or 0                           1                                 1
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/01/2002                    12/31/2005                         11/01/2006
Comments        100% achieved. An effective capacity building system was established. Skills &
(incl. %        knowledge related to decentralization and teaching at university have been
achievement)    acquired, applied & have improved beneficiaries' job performance.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value            Values (from                       Achieved at
                                                 approval         Revised        Completion or
                                                documents)    Target Values      Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Uniform guidelines for internship programs produced and disseminated to
                internship supervisors.
                                                                              Impact of

Value                                       The guidelines                    guidelines

(quantitative   0                           were produced and                 evaluated after use

or Qualitative)                             disseminated                      by two cohorts of
                                                                              interns/internship
                                                                              supervisors
Date achieved 03/01/2002                    11/30/2004                         10/15/2006
Comments
(incl. %        100% achievement
achievement)

Indicator 2 :   Local government officials take full advantage of opportunities for studies in
                Master's and undergraduate programs to improve relevant skills.

                There were no LG            At least 50% of                   80% returned to LG

Value           officials were sponsored sponsored LG                         workforce, among

(quantitative   for fulltime study in       officials complete                them, 39%

or Qualitative) domestic universities       studies and return                promoted, 53%

                before.                     to their positions                remained same
                                                                              positions.
Date achieved 12/31/2002                    12/31/2005                         11/10/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 3 :   The return rate for LG officials completing their studies exceeded expectations
                by a large margin.
                                            15 Masters                        112 for Masters

Value                                       students and 10                   students and 18 for

(quantitative   not available               Ph.D students                     Ph.D students were

or Qualitative)                             sponsored to do                   sponsored to do
                                            decentralization                  decentralization
                                            research                          research.
Date achieved 12/31/2002                    10/15/2006                         11/10/2006
Comments        Masters: 747% achievement; Ph.D: 180% achievement.
(incl. %        Qualitative indicators for the importance and quality of the research were not


                                                 iv

achievement)   included, so the total value of the research can not be compared with that
               programmed.
Indicator 4 :  Preliminary M&E Report delivered; consolidation of lessons learned.
                                                                             Two draft reports
                                                                             delivered: an
                                                                             assessment of
                                                                             outcomes was
                                                                             delivered in
                                                                             February 2006; and
Value                                     Draft report                       an Impact of
(quantitative  0                                                             Outcome
or Qualitative)                           delivered                          Assessment Study
                                                                             was delivered and
                                                                             disseminated at the
                                                                             stakeholder
                                                                             workshop on
                                                                             November 25,
                                                                             2006.
Date achieved 12/31/2002                  06/30/2005                         11/25/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :  Number of partnerships operationalized with other tertiary institutions.
Value
(quantitative  3                           6                                 6
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2002                  12/31/2005                         12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %       100% achievement. There were partnerships established by formal written

achievement)   agreements between Makerere University and six partner universities.

Indicator 6 :  Decentralization training (including ALGAF courses) provided to stakeholders
               (academic, LG staff).

Value                                     800 LG staff and

(quantitative  n/a                        academic                           1266 trained.
or Qualitative)                           professionals
                                          trained
Date achieved 12/31/2002                  12/31/2005                         11/10/2006
Comments
(incl. %       1532% achievement.
achievement)

Indicator 7 :  New courses relevant to decentralization offered by Makerere University and
               partner institutions.
                                                                             18 courses were

Value                                                                        developed, and 11

(quantitative  n/a                         9 new courses                     more are under

or Qualitative)                                                              development and
                                                                             are expected to be
                                                                             completed.
Date achieved 12/31/2002                  12/31/2005                         11/10/2006


                                                v

Comments
(incl. %       322% achievement.
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                              Actual
 No.    Date ISR
        Archived             DO                 IP         Disbursements
                                                           (USD millions)
  1     07/10/2002        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             0.00
  2     02/27/2003        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             1.00
  3     12/01/2003        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             1.23
  4     05/27/2004        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             1.90
  5     11/29/2004        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             2.57
  6     05/04/2005        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             3.33
  7     11/08/2005        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             4.04
  8     05/11/2006        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             4.27
  9     11/15/2006        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             5.26



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                        vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

This project was designed when Uganda was involved in a shift of service delivery from central
to local governments. During the mid-1990s, the Ugandan Government introduced a
decentralization program which transferred responsibility for delivery of key services from
central government to local governments.                  Local government became responsible for
implementation of primary educational services, primary and secondary health services, feeder
roads, water and sanitation infrastructure, agricultural extension services, land administration and
surveying, and community development, inter alia. Central Government retained its
responsibility for overall coordination, planning, and standard setting.

Decentralization generated the need to build local government capacity. Local government had
to learn to administer the devolved government services, manage public resources, procure goods
and services, and work in a new administrative and political context. A study from 2000 ­
carried out in preparation for this project1- found local government lacked the capacity to
implement the new agenda. This study found that local government faced significant skills and
human capacity deficits. Local government had difficulty recruiting and keeping professional
staff, especially in areas such as health services and engineering.

As part of the strategy for Bank assistance to LG capacity (through the Bank-supported Local
Government Development Projects I and II, among others) was to provide critical skills training
to large numbers of local government officials as quickly as possible. The Ministry of Local
Government (MoLG) developed short-term training and skills development programs. These
programs emphasized financial management and public administration. Sectoral ministries
(health, education, etc.) also managed training programs reaching local government program
staff. The MoLG also instituted a system to measure local government capacity, and budgetary
incentives and sactions related to capacity. However, two gaps were noted in the training
approach. First, short-term courses were found not to be the best means to provide the
appropriate decision-making skills essential to successful local government.

At the outset of the project, Ugandan universities were often seen as isolated ivory towers with
little ability to meet social and economic demands through teaching and research. Makerere and
other universities were often criticized for producing graduates inadequately prepared to meet
requirements of the work force, especially the expanding needs of local government.
Linkages between higher education and local government ministries, and between higher
education and the Central Government ministries, were weak at the begining of this project. The
universities were seldom looked upon to develop innovations and technology for local service



1Makerere Institute for Social Research (MISR), "District Human Resource Demand Assessment" October, 2000,
Makerere University.




                                                        1

delivery, nor for information and analytic services for policy formulation or review. While
university degrees were seen as necessary qualifications for many local government jobs,
capacity development was not seen in terms of career development. Higher education was not
seen as an important source of training and educational services for current employees.

Before this project, Makerere University, with financial support from the Rockefeller Foundation,
initiated the design of a restructuring program that focused on the needs of decentralization. The
team of universities and Ugandan Government representatives designing this project believed
that higher education could play a broader and more important role. Higher education had to be
reformed and strengthened to adequately do so. Thus the Ugandan Government asked the World
Bank and the Rockefeller Foundation to support this innovation in capacity building of higher
education systems for the needs of local governments and the decentralization program. The
learning and innovation loan (LIL) was designed to address these issues.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

According to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), the objective was to develop an
effective and replicable mechanism for improvement of public service delivery at local
government levels, through the improvement and restructuring of educational and training
services offered by Makerere University and Partner Institutions.

The following are key performance indicators from Schedule 3 of the DCA:

    1. Not less than 9 new courses relevant to decentralization offered by Makerere University
        and partner institutions.
    2. Qualitative improvement in the breadth, academic value, substance, and practical utility
        of course content.
    3. Internship programs developed in not less than 10 disciplines relevant to the project.
    4. Several local governments involved in activities related to the project, in addition to the
        (5) pilot districts.
    5. Not less than 800 Makerere University and partner institution staff trained in areas
        relevant to the project.
    6. Establishment of an operational decentralization resource center at Makerere University.
    7. Not less than 300 Makerere University students undertaking or having completed project-
        supported internships.
    8. Not less than 60 local government staff trained by Makerere University and partner
        institutions at undergraduate level.
    9. Not less than 20 local government staff trained by Makerere University and Partner
        Institutions at the graduate level.
    10. Airing of educational and informational radio programs in the 5 pilot districts and beyond.
    11. Not less than 10 faculty-based research activities on decentralization completed.
    12. Not less than 15 Masters-level research activities on decentralization undertaken.
    13. Not less than 10 PhD activities undertaken.
    14. Not less than 3 successful operating partnerships between Makerere University and partner
        institutions.


                                                    2

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

No revisions were made.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as
captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from
the project)

Staff in those local government districts selected for training, especially those who were
sponsored to enroll in full-time undergraduate and Master's degree programs, were primary
beneficiaries. Staff in the pilot local government units who participated in the shorter-term
courses also benefited.     Direct beneficiaries also include Makerere University and partner
institutions (Mbarara University of Science and Technology, The Islamic University in Uganda,
Nkumba University, Uganda Martyrs University, Uganda Christian University, and the Uganda
Management Institute); graduate students and faculty who received related research grants;
faculty who received grants for curriculum development; and students who participated in
expanded and enhanced field internship programs. Other indirect beneficiaries included faculty
and students in the participating universities in the priority areas of agriculture, education,
engineering, financial management/administration, health, and governance/ethics.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

This project had four components with total cost of US$11 million (IDA: US$5.0 million;
Rockefeller Foundation: US$5.0 million; GoU: US$1.0 million).

Component I. Enhanced Academic Institutional Capacity.               This component aimed at
strengthening the capacity of Makerere University and partner institutions to respond to the
human capacity and research needs of decentralization within Uganda. Specifically through (i)
staff development; (ii) sustained academic decision making; (iii) internship programs designed to
give students more practical experience in areas (agriculture, education, engineering, financial
management/administration, health, and governance) that related to LG service delivery; and (iv)
improved project management.

Component II. Pilot Support to Local Government Capacity Building by Universities. The
objective of this component was to design and deliver pilot training courses and programs in
selected local governments in the priority subject areas. The objective would be achieved
through the following activities: (i) funding curriculum development of courses aimed at LG
officials, university faculty, staff and students; (ii) providing funds to recognize and support
innovative work related to decentralization in pilot districts; (iii) providing full-time degree
programs for undergraduate and Masters training for selected LG officials from the pilot districts,
who were to return to their local governments after completing their degrees, and workshops,
short-term courses for other LG officials; and (iv) strengthening capacity in the planning units of
the pilot districts.




                                                 3

Component III. Enhanced Decentralization Policy Research and Formulation Capacity.
The component was aimed at strengthening capacity of Makerere University and partner
institutions in research and policy formulation in the area of decentralization. The specific
activities in this component were: (i) providing study tours to acquaint Ugandans with thought
leaders and practitioners of decentralized LG service delivery; (ii) providing research funds for
students to stimulate research on decentralization among Masters and PhD students; (iii) building
research capacity in faculties by funding faculty research.

Component IV. Monitoring and Evaluation. The effort was intended to draw lessons from the
project experimentation and to improve performance along the way. It focused on two levels of
monitoring and evaluation (M&E): general performance monitoring and learning from the pilots.

1.6 Revised Components

No revisions were made.

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

The project closing date was extended from December 31, 2005, to December 31, 2006. The
extension was requested by the Borrower to enable the project to expand the scope of old
activities using project savings and additional support from the Rockefeller Foundation.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their mitigations
identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

This project was not assessed by QAG for Quality at Entry.
ICR rating for Quality at Entry: Moderately Satisfactory.

Sound Diagnosis of Problem to be Addressed by Project design. The project team used findings
and diagnosis from a study by Ugandan universities and government leaders on staff capacity
building for LG staff. The principle finding in that study was that there was widespread scarcity
of advanced skills required to implement the Government's decentralization program. Project
design benefited from the support and experience of the Rockefeller Foundation, which had a
long working history with Makerere University. The Central Government and the Bank team
also thoroughly understood the needs of local governments and universities. The project design
included experimentation which was appropriate for a learning and innovation loan (LIL).

Lessons from the Bank portfolio in Uganda and other regions, and programs by other donors
were taken into consideration. Specifically, lessons were utilized on: sustainability of capacity
building; practical and focused internship programs; and involving other tertiary institutions to
help decentralized service delivery, in addition to Makerere University.



                                                    4

The Central Government and university's commitment was high. Senior officials from the
Ministry of Finance devoted time and worked with the project preparation team. University
officials were involved at every stage of the project preparation. A team of Ugandans, who were
involved in project design, created the "Innovations at Makerere Committee" [abbreviate to
I@Mak.com]. It consisted of leaders from tertiary institutions and central and local government
officials. The committee met regularly to provide input into project design and discuss issues of
implementation. This demonstrated a real ownership of the project. (The I@Mak Committee
would continue under implementation, and be a significant factor in mainstreaming project
outcomes and lessons.) The secretariat of the committee was the project implementing unit.

Some weaknesses of the project design. The statement of the project development objectives
differed between the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA). The project development objective in the PAD was unclear and not succinct;
the one in the DCA was clearer. The wording of the project description was too general, making
it difficult to understand what the components and subcomponents were actually to do. Perhaps
more importantly, the PAD omitted specific guidance on "where to draw the line" between
activities that promoted capacity for improved local government service delivery versus those
that promoted university capacity in general (without reference to local government). During
implementation, it proved difficult for implementers to balance these two goals.

Furthermore, the description and organization of the activities in components and
subcomponents was suboptimal. The terminology for project activities was ambiguous: in some
cases, different activities were given the same name. In other cases, activities that were
essentially the same were given different names. For example, the term "short courses" referred
to at least three separate activities. Second, related activities were spread across different
components with no clear rationale. In the most obvious example, the decision-making process
for review of grant-funding ("sustained academic decision making") was in component one,
while the grant-funded activities themselves were in components two and three.                  This
imprecision led to significant difficulties for the project secretariat to explain the details of the
project to other stakeholders.

Focus on Outputs in PDO's and Underestimation of difficulties of baseline study for the
monitoring and evaluation. The LIL was designed to test whether universities could contribute
to local government capacity, but the indicators sought to measure only outputs. The parts of
M&E design that were to establish baselines in LG capacity and university capacity
underestimated how difficult it would be to actually make these measurements. In fact, no
indicators were chosen that sought to measure impact. Only during implementation was this
short-coming noticed. It was partially remedied by a re-designed outcome assessment. The
findings of the outcome assessment were produced, however, too late to help guide
implementation.

It is important to note that the development objective was to create a mechanism through which
universities could improve local government capacity; it was not to directly improve service
delivery at the local government level. Project design was correct in not seeking indicators of
improvements in local government service delivery because: (i) the time frames for capacity to
be developed and utilized extend beyond the implementation period (LG officials only



                                                 5

completed their training and returned to their positions in the last year of implementation, for
instance); (ii) controlling for the effects of other variables on service delivery would have proven
extremely difficult.

The outcome assessment done after the mid-term review provided various measures of the extent
to which human capacity in the districts had been improved in the district, especially through
interviews of supervisor of staff who received training. These shed light on the extent of changes
to capacity and professional responsibility.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions taken,
as applicable)

ICR Rating: Satisfactory

Overall, implementation was Satisfactory. The project was never at risk during implementation.
The project implementation unit (I@MAK.COM secretariat) was energetic and diligent
throughout and achieved a high profile and respected reputation with all stakeholders. The
I@MAK.COM secretariat was carefully integrated with the administration of Makerere
University and with Central Government at various levels. I@MAK.COM itself acted as a
steering committee and had exemplary representation at nearly 50 multi-day meetings during the
implementation period. It reallocated the budget to several activities in the local context and to
allow more student beneficiaries to participate in the project. As a result of these changes, more
activities were carried out than originally planned for the project.

The secretariat was successful in collecting data on the many hundreds of individually funded
activities (and thousands of students), but was less successful in organizing this data and utilizing
it for managing activities. In spite of contracting difficulties for monitoring and evaluation
(discussed in section 7.3), most project activities were carried out on time and the most important
outcomes and outputs exceeded the original targets (see Annex 4 for more details).

The mid-term review was carried out successfully. The review recommended that the focus shift
from activity implementation to achieving success in M&E and learning lessons from the project.
The recommendation was adopted by I@MAK.COM and the committee and secretariat made
tremendous efforts to make the outcome study happen and to focus more on success with
measurement of project outcome and impact.

In project financial management, the unique arrangement for separating special accounts for both
co-financers (The World Bank and the Rockefeller Foundation) made the financial management
more challenging than it otherwise should have been. At the recommendation from the Bank,
I@MAK made efforts to improve the clarity of the financial reports by disaggregating the
expenditure for the co-financiers.




                                                   6

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

ICR Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

M&E design. M&E design underestimated the complexity of measuring improvements of local
government staff capacity and the improvement of university capacity to support LG. Successful
steps were taken to remedy the initial M&E problems--including an assessment involving 578
field interviews with project beneficiaries and key informants--but the resulting evaluation
information only became available late in the implementation period (M&E design was also
discussed in section 7.1).

M&E implementation.       The experiences with monitoring versus evaluation are examined
separately:

    · Monitoring. Monitoring of outcomes of individual activities was done comprehensively
       throughout the project, despite delay in development of a computerized monitoring
       system. There was extensive reporting of participant satisfaction with project-funded
       courses. Various grant-funded efforts (such as research and curriculum development)
       were divided into phases. Each phase had an ex ante review by I@MAK.COM; each
       funded phase had an ex post review before the next phase was funded. Curricula
       underwent extensive reviews by faculty organizations before approvals of reforms and
       innovations. Normal academic processes assured acceptable performance of the project-
       funded students taking academic courses, as well as for those doing project-funded
       research. Similarly, those teaching short courses received feedback from the participant
       surveys. I@MAK.COM emphasized a traditional approach to overall program
       management rather than approaches based on quantitative and qualitative M&E data.
       I@MAK.COM monitored large portions of the program carefully, especially those
       involving grant-funded activities.

    · Evaluation. The evaluation was ultimately reasonably successful but came late in the
       project. There were two failed initial attempts to produce baselines using consulting
       firms.   In both cases, the firms were selected using standard Bank procurement
       procedures. The selected firms were able to convince the selection committees of their
       capacity to carry out the assignment, but while executing the assignment it became clear
       that the needs of the assignment exceed the firms' capacities. In both cases the firms, in
       question agreed to cancellation of the contract. Meanwhile, the top international firms,
       which arguably had the capacity to complete the assignment, showed no interest in
       submitting proposals. A third attempt with a reduced scope of work and alternative
       approach ultimately worked. I@MAK.COM successfully negotiated with a competent
       team that recovered or reconstructed baseline and comparative data. The contractor
       reported on project outputs and conducted a major survey of beneficiaries, including 578
       field interviews. The project ended with a comprehensive understanding of outcomes and
       some information on impact. However, the early failure to find M&E contractors meant
       that information on capacity development was not available to fully evaluate the pilots or
       to guide management decision-making from year to year during project implementation.




                                               7

M&E utilization. The project concluded with stakeholder workshops to evaluate the lessons
learned and with in-depth discussions with I@MAK.COM and Government officials regarding
outcomes and impacts. These discussions were informed by detailed quantitative and qualitative
data and a comprehensive beneficiary assessment. However, as stated above, it was only during
the second half of the project that M&E data began to inform decision-making, and only during
the final year that it did so substantially.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

The project did not trigger safeguard policies and was tagged "category C" for environment.

ICR Rating: Satisfactory
Financial management compliance was Satisfactory throughout the project. Shortcomings were
noted during supervision in the level of disaggregation of expenditure detailed in financial
management reports. These were addressed by the project secretariat.               The project had a
satisfactory rating for procurement throughout implementation.            However, procurement for
computers for the project-financed Resource Center at Makerere University was very late.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by present
operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional capacity, and
next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

Institutional capacity has been built to the point where many effects of the project will continue
even without a specific follow on project for universities. Eighty percent (80%) of local
government officials who completed degrees under the project have returned to their position
and are working toward provision of improved service delivery.                Knowledge about local
government challenges, and, more importantly, willingness to make this an object of research
and training has increased within universities. The formal conversion of the Innovations at
Makerere Committee from a project entity to a subcommittee of the Makerere University Faculty
Senate testifies to the significant change in attitude among university faculty about the need for
relevance in research and teaching. The establishment of similar committees in the main partner
universities also attests to these attitudinal and behavioral changes, demonstrating a strong
ownership and a major attention to sustainability that the project has fostered.             Internship
programs have come to be seen as a key element in connecting classroom work to "real world"
relevance and are in high demand by students. These programs are expected to continue at
Makerere and partner institutions.

Consistent with its policy of preference for budget support from donors, the Government of
Uganda did not request a follow-on project to this learning and innovation loan. But the lessons
learned from this LIL have been taken into consideration in the Bank's Uganda Joint Assistance
Strategy. More importantly, long-term university training will be included in the World Bank's
Local Government Development Project III, as a direct result of the experience of this LIL. The
program has influenced how universities solicit and use funds from other donors, and has
positively influenced the Bank supported Millennium Science Initiative Project to further fund
university-based research and training relevant to the national development agenda.


                                                     8

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The project objectives and design are consistent with the current Uganda Country Assistance
Strategy. They are relevant to the Government's Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP) and to
the Bank's (with other development partners) Uganda Joint Assistance Strategy. Strengthening
governance and creation of local government capacity are important for achieving the PEAP's
overarching strategic results. There remains a long-term need and opportunity to build the human
resource base in local government. The strength of the knowledge base for dealing with health,
engineering, education, social services, and government administration requires further
development through research; the higher education system will remain a critical factor in
determining the effectiveness of service delivery. Moreover, with a learning and innovation loan,
this project provides useful information for the World Bank and donor community, as well as the
Government of Uganda.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on outputs in
Annex 2)

ICR rating: Satisfactory
The achievement of the project objectives is rated Satisfactory based on the following outcomes:

     · A mechanism was developed to strengthen the skills and competencies of those
         responsible for public service delivery and management. The mechanism contributed to
         staff capacity in pilot local governments, as measured by: (i) a large number of local
         government officials trained in the priority areas that relevant to their jobs; (ii) improved
         skills for local government officials; (iii) improved quality of work of returned LG
         officials; and (iv) a high percentage of students returned to their duty stations after long
         term training.

     · Improved capacity of Makerere University and other partner institutions, to design and
         deliver training and research, as measured by: (i) curricula and internship programs
         developed and/or revised to improve relevance to local government; (ii) significant
         number of research projects relevant to decentralization conducted by faculty and
         graduate students; (iii) establishment of partnerships between Makerere University and
         other tertiary institutions in Uganda to deliver training courses to LG effectively.


Local Governments now employ more people with undergraduate and Masters degrees than
when this project started; there is both a stronger demand for and a better supply for LG
professional positions. The government of Uganda, with the support of the World Bank and other
donors, has strengthened LG including by defining standards for key positions requiring
university degrees; incentives and sanctions have been institutionalized to encourage compliance
with those standards. As a direct result of this project, seven of the most important universities in
Uganda are producing students better motivated and better prepared to accept these positions in



                                                    9

LG. As described below, curricula have been improved, internship programs have been created
or strengthened, and faculty members brought to better understand the needs that their students
will have when employed in LG. The government has also qualified many short courses for skills
training of LG staff and provided incentives for LGs to support such staff training, while under
this project many short courses have been developed and offered. In addition, the link between
government and higher education for research and service has improved because of the project.
The long-term training provided to nearly 200 LG staff in pilot districts ameliorated the
dislocations of the LG reform process, since many trainees would have lost their jobs under the
new standards had they not obtained their degrees.

Developed an Effective and Replicable Mechanism for Strengthening Local Government Capacity

Long-term Training to Build Capacity for Local Governments. The project sported LG staff
with fellowships for undergraduates training program and fellowships for Graduates Students
(Fulltime masters) in the priority areas of health, engineering, financial management, governance
and ethics, agriculture, and education. A total 113 LG staff benefited from the undergraduate
study and 82 from the Masters program. Both figures exceeded the original targets (table 1). By
the project completion in December 2006, 68% have completed their study. 80% of them
returned to LG workforce; 39% were promoted, and 53% remained in the same positions.

The assessment of the beneficiaries' and their supervisors' reveals that the training program was
largely successful. 74% the students reported that the training had improved their skills. 53%
stated that they had been empowered with knowledge, and 36% mentioned improved quality of
work. Moreover, 98% of the supervisors said they had observed some new skill in the graduates
which they could confidently attribute to the training received.

Evidence from the students who have completed their studies showed that the training received
imparted valuable and relevant skills for service delivery in local governments. This was
substantiated by the immediate supervisors that were interviewed during the outcome assessment
study. The skills imparted cover areas such as financial management and accountability; data
collection, analysis, interpretation, ICT skills, communication, agricultural production, training
and research.

The high percentage of LG staff who returned to their position (80%) in this project refuted fears
that the trainees would not return to local government. The ICR team believes that improving the
professional qualifications of LG staff will enhance the LG capacity to deliver and manage
services, will help sustain government decentralization reform, and will eventually benefit the
local communities.

Strengthened Institutional Capacity at Makerere University and Partner Institutions.

The project financed a recurring graduate-level course in the Principles of Decentralization for
LG staff and academics to better understand the implication of government policy for service
delivery. The project also financed pedagogical workshops to assure that faculty understood
governmental decentralization and improved teaching skills. Of the 1,135 attendees of the
Principles of Decentralization course, 55% were from academic institutions, 40% were from
local governments, and 5% from central government. The majority of the participants in the two


                                                 10

courses indicated that they applied the skills and knowledge acquired; (80% of participants for
the Decentralization course and 94% for the Pedagogical workshops). The Outcome Assessment
Study findings indicated that application of the knowledge and skills acquired from the training
contributed to improved performance of a large number of beneficiaries. Up to 72% and 92% of
the Decentralization course and pedagogical workshops respondents respectively, indicated that
their performance improved following the application of the knowledge and skills obtained from
the training. In short, evidence from the outcome assessment study suggests that the skills and
knowledge related to decentralization and teaching at university have been acquired, applied and
have improved the job performance of some of the participants.

A total of 64 new course development activities were undertaken to improve the curriculum. Of
these, 32 completed all four development stages developed by I@MAK.COM. The courses
developed were aimed variously at LG officials, university staff, faculty, and students (See
Annex 4). Revised and/or new curricula have led to a shift from the traditional equipping of
university graduates with theoretical knowledge to experiential learning, in which teaching and
learning are conducted in meaningful contexts. Most impressive was the revision of the training
approach in the health faculties to a problem based approach, involving extensive field
assignments for the medical, nursing, dental and other students. Innovations under this project
were practically-oriented and responsive to pressing community needs. At project completion,
most of the developed programs are still going through the process of approval, from department
to full faculty senate.

Internship Training: The project developed or improved internship programs in 25 disciplines. A
total of 8,317 students participated in project sponsored field attachments of 60 to 70 days each.
The Outcome Assessment Study by independent consultants shows that the most significant
benefits to students have been more acquisition of practical skills and application of classroom
theories in real world practice. Other important benefits and impacts of the Internship program
include exposure to the work environment, learning interpersonal skills and acquiring knowledge.
Students reported that obtaining hands-on experience is the distinguishing characteristic of the
internship program innovated under this project. The internship training program has met the
students' expectations, which included learning new skills, understanding the people, learning to
live independently, putting theory into practice, gaining confidence, learning communication
skills and understanding how the districts are managed were met. From the perspective of the
academic staff, the internship program has contributed to positive changes in the participating
facilities and the University in general.

The Outcome Assessment Study indicated that research on decentralization was successful both
quantitatively and qualitatively. 116 fellowship research projects were awarded to conduct
research relevant to decentralization. Of them, 66 were completed by the time of project
completion.      Research topics were very relevant to key development issues such LG
effectiveness in primary school management, factors influencing use of antenatal care,
effectiveness of agricultural outreach programs, or management innovations for LG planning.
(Annex 4c contains the complete titles of all research projects for faculty as well as PhD and
Masters students). The projects that have been supported have promising short- and long-term
impacts at the individual, institutional and district levels. The findings of the research have found




                                                  11

immediate application in terms of policy formulation, improvements in research and training
programs.

The table below shows quantifiable key performance indicators, which were fully met or exceed
the original targets.

Quantifiable performance indicator     DCA target          Actual achieved        % of target
New courses relevant to                    9                      32                 356
   decentralization
Internship program in disciplines          10               25 disciplines           250
                                                            in 12 faculties
Academic staff trained in                 800                   1,266                158
   decentralization
Number of students participating in       300                   8,317               2,772
   the internship program
Local government staff given               60                    113                 188
   undergraduate training
Local government staff given full-         20                     82                 410
   time Masters training
Decentralization Masters students          15                    112                 747
   research sponsored
Decentralization PhD students              10                     18                 180
   research sponsored
Decentralization research by faculty   10 projects       16 published outputs        180
Partnerships with other universities       3                      6                  200



Achievement of Development Objectives by Component:

Component I, Equipping Makerere University and its partners to provide relevant skills and
competencies; and fostering collaboration among key partners.
The overall success in strengthening university capacity was due to interaction of effects from
the aggregate of activities described above, rather than tied to single specific innovations. The
"package" of activities helped strengthen Makerere and its six partner universities (Mbarara
University of Science and Technology, The Islamic University in Uganda, Nkumba University,
Uganda Martyrs University, Uganda Christian University, and the Uganda Management
Institute), and increased the quality and relevance of training through a combination of improved
research, curriculum review, more practical training for students, and direct scholarships for LG
staff at universities. Notably, the graduates of these universities are now, and are likely in the
future, to be better motivated and more competent to fill jobs in local government, which is
currently the largest employer of university graduates in Uganda.

Project support has helped retain senior university faculty. The preparation of grant proposals for
curriculum development and research benefited the recipient departments. The faculty members
in the field supervising the 8,317 student interns had a dramatic impact on their respective
departments; those faculty members saw local conditions firsthand and saw the problems that
their students were confronting in adapting their education to local needs. The supported
graduate research increased the numbers of qualified people available for faculty posts and the
support for staff research increased the qualifications of on-board staff. I@MAK.COM involved



                                                  12

university leadership extensively and had regular meetings with government officials to discuss
reforms and national needs. Partnerships were established and institutionalized among
universities. Strong linkages were forged between universities and Central and local government.

Component II, Supporting capacity building interventions on a pilot scale in selected local
governments.
The project targeted eight pilot Ugandan districts--Arua, Kampala, Mbale, Mbarara, Ntungamo,
Rakai, Sironko, and Yumbe. The project demonstrated that long-term training can successfully
be given to selected local government officials, eventually strengthening their home units. It has
also demonstrated that university-designed and -delivered short courses on decentralization and
service delivery could be used effectively by local government officials. The universities
successfully developed appropriate, well-designed short courses and implemented degree
programs that strengthen the skills and capacity of the beneficiary local government staff
members. The project has demonstrated nationally that university long- and short-term training
works. Districts have asked that the program be expanded nationally.

The Ministry of Local Government, in parallel with this project, put in place policies that require
local governments to fill key staff positions with university-trained personnel. MoLG is annually
judging district government capacity and increasing or decreasing annual fund transfers
according to the results. It has also established a system by which local governments can contract
for training and educational services from authorized providers, including Makerere and its
partner institutions. Thus both the supply and the demand for university trained people in local
government and for on-the job skills training have been enhanced. The improved demand for
and supply of university trained people and university based skills training has achieved the
Follow-On Development Objective of the project ­ to strengthen analytical, managerial and
implementation capacity of local government in Uganda.

Component III, Supporting research and policy formulation capacity related to
decentralization.
The research program was successful. Its full impact may not be fully appreciated without a
follow-up study some years after the project ends.

Quantity. Significant research was funded, with projects numbering far beyond the original
targets. I@MAK.COM recognized that the original funding levels exceeded the usual amounts
available per student, and reprogrammed to fund more projects at a lower amount per project.
The 116 Masters-level research grants were funded at US$3,500 each. The 18 PhD-level
research grants were funded at US$35,000 per student (US$5,000 to develop the proposal and be
fully registered and then $30,000 to facilitate the research). 15 staff research projects are
underway or completed with I@MAK.COM funding while another 33 had some planning
support. The I@MAK.COM has begun to establish capacity to carry out policy research in six
faculties (pilot disciplines), responding to a need articulated by both government and universities.
The 82 students with local government Masters scholarships also conducted research for their
degrees. So too did students as a result of curriculum changes, such as the teams in the
community-based education and service program of the health faculty who have done studies on
local health problems and services.




                                                  13

Relevance to local government. The research was relevant to decentralization and decentralized
service delivery. In some cases it focused directly on the process of decentralization of
government services. Other research focused on service delivery or on the development of
technologies or knowledge that could be used in the delivery of local health, education,
engineering, community development, or other services. The involvement of local government
representatives in the pre-funding review process prior to research helped assure this relevance.

Quality. In the case of research done by faculty, the extensive ex ante review and review of
intermediate results prior to funding later phases helped assure quality. It has been reported that
expert advice in the process helped improve quality. Some of the research accomplished under
the project has received awards, suggesting again that high quality was achieved.

Efficiency. More research projects were funded than had been planned with no increase in
budget. Recipients of the research grants, many of whom would have attempted their projects
even without I@MAK.COM funding, were able to complete the research more expeditiously as a
result of the funding. There was however some delay in disbursements of funds.

Dissemination of research results. The follow-up study notes that little dissemination of student
research had occurred, in part because much of that research had not been completed at the time
of the follow up. The beneficiary follow-up study reported some progress in regard to staff
research. Out of the 11 individuals interviewed, 7 had clearly defined mechanisms through which
they had disseminated their research findings, including workshops/seminars for the local
government, line ministry, and publications in refereed journals.

Component IV, Strengthening project coordination, management, monitoring and evaluation.
The Implementing Unit under I@MAK.COM coordinated all stakeholders and managed
financial and procurement activities of the project. Compliance with the World Bank procedures
was satisfactory during project implementation. The university gained experience in monitoring
and evaluation, coordination, and management as a result of its administering of I@MAK.COM.
Many who worked in the secretariat or as evaluation contractors have permanent university posts.
A close coordination between the project and the planning office of Makerere University
developed and helped to strengthen the planning office.

The institutionalization of I@MAK.COM is a significant result. The committee met 66 times, 27
of which were during project preparation. It represents a major departure in higher education in
that non-academics (from the local government community) were fully involved in academic
decision-making. I@MAK.COM was established as a task committee by the Faculty Senate of
Makerere University, and then as a permanent committee, dealing with innovations to make the
University more relevant to national needs. I@MAK.COM secretariat will remain in place at the
end of the project. Comparable offices for innovation are being created in partner universities.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost, and
comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

The project exceeded most of its targets within budget. The I@MAK.COM decided that
subsidies for research were more than those offered in comparable Ugandan programs and


                                                 14

reduced the offer, thereby increasing the number of research grants that could be funded with the
available budget.

The project trained a significant number of LG officials (80% of whom returned to their
positions). Estimating benefits from training of health professionals, engineers, educators, and
government managers cannot be done by simply measuring earning streams. These professionals
typically are involved in the production of public goods; social benefits from their work may
greatly exceed their remuneration. Cost-benefit analysis was considered beyond the scope of this
ICR.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)

ICR Rating: Satisfactory
The project was clearly successful in strengthening the ability of Makerere University and its six
partners to motivate and prepare students better to work in local government. The project also
built capacity of local government in the pilot districts, and provided major inputs to those
districts. It demonstrated the value of university-based long-term and short-term training in the
pilot districts. Overall it created an effective, replicable mechanism for strengthening LG and
university capacity in areas relevant to a significant national development challenge. Had the
monitoring evaluation component been more successfully implemented in this Learning and
Innovation Loan, more might have been concluded about the capacity built in the pilot districts.

By combining efforts to build local government capacity with efforts to build university capacity,
both objectives were probably better achieved. The project combined flexibility and innovation,
and thereby was able to overcome difficulties and challenges. The large and complex portfolio of
small activities funded under the project was appropriate to its objectives, and was managed
well; the success in exceeding targets within budget speaks for itself. Accomplishments in the
final two years of the project made up for a relatively slow start. The I@MAK secretariat was
thoroughly competent and motivated. The project benefited from significant commitment by
government and higher education officials. It will continue to influence education and
decentralization policy into the future. It is also expected that the lessons learned from this
project will influence World Bank policy in African education and government capacity building
as well.

The direct beneficiaries such as students and university staff have improved their performance as
a result of applying the knowledge and skills acquired from the training programs. Institutions
from which the beneficiaries come from have noted improved performance. Underlying all these
is a sense that the graduates from Makerere University and other partnering institutions are now
more practically oriented and better suited for services delivery at the LG levels.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project was to develop and demonstrate a mechanism to build capacity for service provision
and management at the LG levels. Better service provision would follow from use of such a


                                                    15

capacity, and in turn improve community well-being, quality of life, and diminish poverty. Impact on
poverty could not be measured during the project, but aspects of the project--strengthened local
government capacity to improve government services; pilot projects contributing to
strengthening local government; university capacity to provide relevant education for
development professionals; and application of research and development--should each have an
impact on poverty

On social development aspects: The priority areas for this project were agriculture, education,
engineering, financial management/administration, health, and governance/ethics. If the
development climate continues to be favorable in Uganda, this project should lead to improved
governmental capacity to deliver these services. It is not hard to infer that improving agricultural
extension, basic education, and health services will all contribute to social development. Indeed,
the efficient management of government finance, better local governance, and more ethical
government are all critical needs in Uganda.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

Many project activities have combined to strengthen Makerere University and the other six
partner institutions, both within the faculties teaching the target subjects and at the level of
university governance and administration. These are the keystone institutions in Ugandan higher
education, and it seems clear that their graduates are better prepared for professional roles in
local government (and indeed in society) than they would have been without this project. As
discussed below, higher education in Uganda faces the challenge of an exploding demand and
limited resources, Makerere and its partners are better equipped to face that challenge as a result
of this project.

As explained above, in part because of this project, the labor market for professional
employment in local government has been strengthened.

Capacity building in higher education also involves the institutionalization of linkages with
funding agencies, government, employers of graduates, and domestic and foreign universities. It
is clear that considerable progress has been made for Makerere University in improving the
quality of such institutionalized linkages and to a lesser extent for several partner universities.
Key stakeholders report that trust has been built among the administrators of the higher
education institutions that partnered in the project. So too, linkages between the universities and
both central and local governments have been greatly strengthened. Inter-university linkages and
cooperation have been strengthened. The Ministry of Finance Planning & Economic
Development has accepted the idea of research financing.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The linkages between local and Central governments have improved. There was a synergism
among project components, which is not described in the project documentation, but which have
benefited the participating universities. The faculty trained nearly 200 adult students with local
government experience and classes were enriched in the process. The faculty also learned from



                                                    16

the students. Faculty developed curricula for local government training brought that experience
back to their regular classrooms, and faculty supervised students actually placed in the field saw
the problems those students faced.

The project proved helpful to pilot local governments that were reorganizing to meet newly
imposed educational standards for LG staff positions; many of those who obtained university
degrees under the project would otherwise have lost their jobs, and senior LG managers felt that
the project smoothed what might have been a very difficult management transition.

I@MAK.COM, which was conceived of as a governance body for the project, met in weekend
meetings scores of times during the project. It became a formal body of the Faculty Senate of
Makerere University. The presence of non-academic leaders advising on university activities was
seen as "revolutionary" and highly beneficial. The forum among key leaders of higher education
in Uganda resulted in working relationships and mutual understanding of issues and problems
that will have long-term influence for higher education. The I@MAK project has been widely
known in Uganda and has served as a prototype for reform. "Improving the relevance of higher
education" in the Uganda Joint Assistance Strategy can cite this project as a successful example.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

This is a Core ICR but has features of an intensive learning ICR. The following is a brief
summary of beneficiary survey findings from the "Outcome Assessment Study" and findings
from the Stakeholder Workshop held on November 25, 2006. Details are in Annexes 8 and 9,
respectively.

Beneficiary Survey Findings:
Positive changes are beginning to emerge. The direct beneficiaries, such as students and
university staff, have improved their performance as a result of applying the knowledge and
skills acquired from the training programs. Institutions from which the beneficiaries come from
have noted improved performance. Underlying all, there is a sense that the graduates from the
partnering institutions are now more practically oriented and suited for the marked place.

The generation of new knowledge to improve on the decentralization process and service
delivery, though at early stages, has also shown promising signs. Some research finding have
already informed policy formation, delivery of services and improved training programs.

Overall, the study findings show that the interventions are producing outcomes that are relevant
and effective.     The integration of the institutionalization of the programs also promises
sustainability. However, financial sustainability poses a change for a number of programs.

Stakeholder Workshop Findings:
A stakeholder workshop was held on November 25, 2006. Seventy participants comprised local
government officials, officials of the Ugandan Local Government Association, student and
faculty researchers supported by I@MAK, faculty involved in curriculum development efforts,
scholarship students from local governments, members of the contracted evaluation team,
I@MAK.COM members, and members of the Secretariat, as well as two ICR team members.


                                                     17

There was strong support among beneficiaries for the program's continuation and expansion.
Local government representatives asked to have the I@MAK program expanded nationwide. It
was suggested that the model villages (only two nationwide) should be replicated as well. Partner
universities have begun innovation programs modeled after I@MAK.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
ICR Rating: Moderate

The risk of maintaining the outcomes achieved under this project is Moderate. On institutional
aspects, ownership among universities, local government, and central government officials is
strong and commitment is high. Changes resulting from substantial interaction of local
governments and universities have been robust. Positive lessons from the project have been
incorporated into daily practice in local governments, and at the classroom, faculty, and central
administrative levels of universities. These institutional changes will have a strong ability to
persist under a variety of external circumstances.

The Government of Uganda has recognized the importance of developing the technical and
managerial capacity of the local government staff using the program designed and implemented
under LGDP II by budgeting 5.9 billion Uganda shillings in funds for FY 07/08. In addition,
given the experience from LGDP II and the I@mak program, the program is being redesigned to
make greater use of institutions of higher learning to produce ready to use products and to
influence changes in the curriculum to address local government issues.     A strong and better
partnership will be developed between the LG leaders and the training institutions and the social
gap between the universities and the communities will be narrowed. The redesigned program
includes expansion of University level curriculum on decentralization using experience from
I@Mak.

On financial aspects, The Rockefeller Foundation has been supporting Makerere University for
more than decades is continuing its financial support. From the World Bank side, the ongoing
Local Government Reform project has substantial programs on training for local government
officials. The training will be provided by tertiary institutions. In addition, World Bank
ongoing higher education project is for Ugandan universities and research institutes to produce
more and better qualified science and engineering graduates, and higher quality and more
relevant research, and for firms to utilize these outputs to improve productivity for the sake of
enhancing Science and Technology-led growth. The financial support for these interventions
will sustain the project outcomes and realize the impact for the future.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

ICR Rating: Moderately Satisfactory



                                                  18

The Bank engaged in productive dialogue with the Government, Makerere University, and the
Rockefeller Foundation. The Bank team established a rapport with I@MAK.COM, which
helped the project design and preparation. They jointly defined the project objectives and
designed actions for achievement with the Government team. Discussions went in depth on
piloted programs and lessons learned, and in designing the M&E arrangements for the project.
Experiences and lessons on capacity building and institutional development from other countries
and operations in Uganda were incorporated into the project design.

However, as noted in the section 7.1, there were some difficulties with quality at entry. The
project development objective in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) was unclear and
differed from the one in the DCA. The wording of the project description was too general,
making it difficult to understand what the components and subcomponents were actually doing.
Furthermore, the actual organization of the activities in components and subcomponents was
suboptimal, with related activities spread across different subcomponents.2 This lack of clarity
caused problems in project course corrections. So too, the failure to anticipate the difficulties in
contracting for a strong external evaluation resulted ultimately in a lack of information on the
effects of project activities in the pilot local government units and in the university faculties..

Second, the project underestimated the complexity of monitoring and evaluation for attainment
of high-level skills and creation of improved capacity within a university. Third, measuring
outcomes and impact of these interventions would be a highly specialized activity anywhere in
the world. The skills to do this are rare, especially in Uganda.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank worked closely with I@MAK.COM. Regular supervision missions were carried out,
and special attention was given to implementation issues, such as delay of the baseline report.
Effort was made in providing technical assistance to improve implementation performance. The
reporting on project performance was realistic. The project's ratings on development objectives
and implementation progress had been Satisfactory through project implementation.

Project ratings were consistently realistic.              Balance was maintained between the positive
surpassing of project quantitative goals and the negatives in difficulties in monitoring and
evaluation. Supervision also kept close track of initial disbursement delays which had to due
with overestimates in project costs rather than with failure to implement project activities.

The Bank provided intensive guidance to address the difficulties in monitoring and evaluation.
In addition to devising flexible administrative means of responding, the Bank put significant
effort into the technical design of a feasible outcome assessment, and provided comprehensive
comments on the work as it progress.                  Also under Supervision, the Bank forged a more



2 The Rockefeller Foundation does not share the opinion regarding vagueness of objectives. It was also suggested
    that these difficulties resulted from Bank staffing changes and concomitant ambiguities regarding what was
    required.


                                                          19

comprehensive relationship with the Rockefeller foundation. Through this, each of the partners
tended to draw on the comparative advantage of each institution. The Rockefeller Foundation
contributed flexibility and a broad, sustaining vision of improved quality and relevance for
universities through long-term partnership.      The Bank contributed a rigorous approach to
experimenting with university capacity for the sake of solving an urgent national development
problem.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Based on the factors described above, the overall Bank performance is rated Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

During the project preparation and implementation, the Government of Uganda demonstrated
high commitment in improving quality of public service delivery. Senior Ministry of Finance
officials spent a significant time on the project. Government ownership of the project agenda
was strong and the preparation process was done in a good collaborative manner within the
Local Government Decentralization Program.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
ICR Rating: Satisfactory
Implementing Agency: Ministry of Finance Planning & Economic Development; Makerere
University

The high commitment demonstrated during the preparation and implementation was maintained
by the I@MAK.COM committee and secretariat. I@MAK.COM provided strong leadership in
partnering with other tertiary institutions and coordinating numerous programs and activities.
Sixty-six I@MAK.COM meetings or workshops were conducted (27 during project preparation
and 39 during project implementation). With adequate capacity in the I@MAK, the project
successfully achieved its development objectives, exceeding key performance targets. The
I@MAK's good performance was highly appreciated by the stakeholders and beneficiaries.

The project had a slow start, but was able to speed up about a year later. Initial baseline surveys
that ought to have informed subsequent M&E in the pilot districts were unsuccessful after two
initial attempts to contract an external evaluation firm. The information on the impact of the
effort in the pilot districts therefore was inadequate for some evaluation purposes. Nonetheless,
the substantive report on local government capacity done by the Makerere Institute for Social
Research as part of the preparation for the project has been used to substantiate the evaluation of
project implementation.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

Overall, the performance of Borrower has been Satisfactory.          It could have been Highly
Satisfactory if the M&E baseline survey had been carried out successfully.


                                                 20

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

Key Lessons Learned


   · National universities in Africa are an under-used resource for the critical task of
       government capacity development. Local and national universities in Africa can be
       effective partners for improving governmental capacity for service delivery. They can be
       particularly effective at long-term training needed to develop complex skills that are
       critical to good governance and organizational management. They can do this cost-
       effectively. Importantly, this project demonstrated that staff selected from local
       government for long term training do well on campus, return to government jobs when
       trained, and bring the benefits of that training to the workplace.

   · Programs enlisting the intellectual resources of universities for government capacity
       building in Africa can stimulate positive change within the universities themselves, and
       lead to increased relevance and quality of education. Professors' attitudes can, within a
       reasonably short time period, change from an "ivory tower" mentality to one which
       actively considers the social value and benefits from education, research, and training.
       In addition, these changes in attitudes tend to provoke positive university organizational
       changes (such as reorientation of curriculum and degree programs).          This benefit to
       higher education provides a double benefit to the government for public money dedicated
       to capacity building of governmental organizations.

   · Local government officials benefit from intensified interaction with educational
       institutions on many levels. Beyond the direct benefits to trainees and participants, local
       government officials react positively to the inherent mutual respect that underlies
       successful cooperation with universities.       The interaction has tacit benefits for the
       enhanced professionalism of local government staff. Local government staff seeks this
       interaction and report efficiency gains as a result of time invested.

   · Public officials, upon completion of long-term training, will return to their employers.
       Fears of international or internal "brain drain" were not supported by project evidence.
       Recipients of long-term training apply this training to their careers in public service. The
       effects of well-designed training appear in evaluations at the work place. The level of
       investment put into research, education, and training developed by university staff will
       affect the work force that benefits from this investment.

   · Effectively selected local government staff can excel in the academic work at
       undergraduate and graduate levels and compete successfully in African universities. The
       project demonstrated that staff benefit from such educational opportunities and most
       often return to the agencies where previously worked with significantly enhanced skills
       and motivation.




                                                 21

Other Lessons

Project management
    · The benefits of World Bank-Foundation partnerships can outweigh the management costs.
       In this project, the partnership between the Rockefeller Foundation and the World Bank
       not only improved the benefit to risk ration for each, it benefited from the complementary
       strengths of the partners. The Rockefeller Foundation has established a strong trust and
       understanding with Makerere over decades. The Foundation has a wealth of experience in
       university capacity building, especially in health fields. The Bank was able to provide
       added project oversight, link the university effort with government, and integrate the
       project into a broad development program. Additional management costs to the World
       Bank were very modest.

    · Monitoring and evaluation of the contributions of knowledge institutions to human
       capacity creation is complex and difficult to measure. It is easy to underestimate the time,
       expertise, and expense required to get accurate assessment of the effectiveness of
       universities in creating key knowledge and skills for personnel involved in implementing
       national development priorities. It is still more difficult to measure the impact of staff
       development on local government capacity to deliver and manage services, or the
       capacity of universities to design and deliver educational and research services,

Lessons relevant to higher education
    · Even modest amounts of flexible funding for innovations can be useful when well
       administered and when they allow the higher education system to cope better with rapid
       changes.

    · External advisors from client sectors, when their advice is sought and used in academic
       decision-making, can help an African university embark on reform.

    · Field attachment internships can be a valuable tool in improving education for students
       and promoting reform in faculties.

    · Faculty proved willing and able to make their universities more relevant to local
       government needs when given the right incentives to do so.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Bank welcomes the thoughtful and positive comments of the implementing agency and
agrees substantially with the main points presented. Borrower's evaluation is included in Annex
7.   The results of the stakeholder workshops, the beneficiary survey, and the comments of
implementers and partners tend to reinforce the main conclusions presented in this report. (See
Annexes 5, 6 and 7).




                                                22

(b) Cofinanciers

The co-financier, the Rockefeller Foundation's comments are included in Annex 8. The Bank
agrees with the Foundation's main comments relating to the project's benefits to Makerere
University.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

The results of the stakeholder workshops, the beneficiary survey, and the comments of
implementers and partners tend to reinforce the main conclusions presented in this report. (See
Annexes 5 and 6).




                                             23

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                          Actual/Latest
            Components              Appraisal Estimate                        Percentage of
                                     (USD millions)      Estimate (USD
                                                            millions)           Appraisal

ENHANCED ACADEMIC AND
INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY                      4.17                5.46               131


PILOT SUPPORT TO LOCAL
GOVERNMENT CAPACITY
BUILDING BY UNIVERSITIES                    4.60                4.23               92


ENHANCED
DECENTRALIZATION POLICY
RESEARCH & FORMULATION
CAPACITY                                    1.70                1.80               108



MONITORING AND
EVALUATION                                  0.38                0.26               68



               Total Baseline Cost         10.85               11.75               108

Physical Contingencies                      0.00                0.00              0.00

Price Contingencies                         0.15                0.00              0.00
                Total Project Costs        11.00               11.75               107
Project Preparation Fund                    0.00                0.00               .00
Front-end fee IBRD                          0.00                0.00               .00
        Total Financing Required           10.85               11.75




(b) Financing
                                                       Appraisal   Actual/Latest
            Source of Funds              Type of                                 Percentage of
                                       Cofinancing      Estimate      Estimate
                                                     (USD millions)(USD millions)  Appraisal

Borrower                                             1.00          1.00          100
International Development Association
(IDA)                                               5.00           5.00          100

Rockefeller Foundation                               5.00          5.75          115




                                               24

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Annex 2a. Component Outputs Contributing to Development Objectives

The following information recognizes that although activities allocated to components for simplicity
of description and management, in fact many specific activities had outputs that related to more than
one component. For example, some courses were designed for both university and local government
students, and local government officials and others sometimes participated in courses designed
specifically for university participants.

Component I. Enhanced Academic Institutional Capacity

   · 186 people participated in 4 pedagogical workshops.
   · One short course was developed for higher education students.
   · One long course is under development for higher education students and is expected to be
       completed.
   · One additional short course was developed for higher education students and is now being
       expanded as a long course, and is expected to be completed.
   · The Decentralization Resource Center at Makerere University was renovated and upgraded
       but has not opened.
   · 12 faculties designed or revised and operated internship programs, covering 25 disciplines.
   · 8,317 student internships of 60 to 70 days each took place.
   · I@MAK.COM decision-making mechanisms were fully functional.
   · Bursar and procurement units were strengthened.

Component II. Pilot Support to Local Government Capacity Building by Universities

   · 113 local government officials from the pilot districts received scholarships for
       undergraduate training leading to a degree.
   · 82 local government officials from the pilot districts received scholarships for graduate
       training leading to a Masters degree.
   · 3 short courses were developed and targeted for local government staff, and 1 is under
       development and is expected to be completed.
   · 2 long courses were developed and targeted for local government staff, and 1 is under
       development and is expected to be completed.
   · 4 additional short courses were developed and targeted for local government staff and then
       expanded to long courses.
   · 9 training courses were conducted for local government personnel, and 7 more are under
       implementation.



                                               25

  · 131 people attended 8 African Local Government Action Forum sessions.
  · Number of planning unit staff trained. This activity was not carried out due to weak capacity
    on monitoring and evaluation at both the central and local levels.
  · 52 radio program sessions have been conducted in the 6 disciplines covering about 70% of all
    districts in Uganda.
  · Makerere University has signed written partnership agreements with 6 higher education
    institutions.
  · 7 community meetings were held.

Component I and Component II
  · 1 short course was developed, serving both higher education and local government target
    populations, and 3 are under development and are expected to be completed.
  · 1 long course was developed serving both higher education and local government target
    populations, and 1 is under development and both are expected to be completed.
  · 6 additional short courses were developed and then expanded to long courses serving both
    higher education and local government target populations, and 3 are under expansion and are
    expected to be completed.
  · 7 training courses were conducted targeting both the higher education community and local
    government officials, and 3 more are under current implementation.
  · 1,135 people were trained in decentralization concepts, policy, and process in 43 sessions,
    approximately 55% from institutions of higher education and 45% from local and central
    government.
  · 17 Vice Chancellor Innovation Awards were issued. 8 awards were made aimed at
    promoting innovations among academic staff of the participating tertiary institutions and 9
    were made to local governments that made innovations that contributed to the improvement
    of the quality of life of the population in their respective areas.
  · 2 model village projects have been funded.

Component III. Enhanced Decentralization Policy Research and Formulation Capacity

  · Scholarships/fellowships for research were awarded to 18 PhD students and 116 Masters
    Degree students, and grants for research projects were made to 29 university staff.
  · 82 Masters students funded under Component II conducted research in the course of their
    graduate studies.
  · A sustainable mechanism for managing local government-related research was established at
    Makerere University.
  · 16 publications related to teaching and decentralized service delivery were published; 2
    manuscripts are in preparation and are expected to be published.

Component IV. Monitoring and Evaluation




                                              26

    · While various computerized databases have been created and used (plus the project has
       extensive paper files), an overall computerized management information system (MIS) has
       not been created.
    · A baseline study has been carried out, though with delay, by consultants, and judged to be
       too flawed for further use.
    · Draft outcome assessment study was completed in November 2006 and disseminated.
    · The draft report titled "Documentation of Implementation Progress: Status Report as of June
       2005" was completed in November 2006, and presented at the stakeholders meeting.



Annex 2b. Courses Supported by I@MAK.COM

Funding for course development was done in tranches, with each added tranche authorized based on
the success demonstrated in the prior work. Some of the curriculum development efforts were only
funded at a feasibility or pilot stage, and not carried to completion. The following is a list of all
funded curriculum development activities under the project.

 Short Courses
 1.  Pedagogical skills for lecturers at university and other tertiary institutions
 2.  Psycho-socio skills training and empowerment project
 3.  Continuing medical education for health care workers: Human capacity building to improve health services
     delivery in the decentralized districts
 4.  Audit in maternity care; continuous medical education proposal
 5.  Capacity building for environmental assessment in the districts of Uganda
 6.  Capacity building of engineering departments of local governments
 7.  Continuing medical education for medical officers
 8.  Animal feed production, planning and management skills for decentralized systems
 9.  Integrated training of district extension workers in food and nutrition security
 10. Enhancing the role of Makerere in technology generation and dissemination
 11. Building capacity for career guidance and professionalism ethics for students and agriculturalists
 12. Capacity building for using up-to-date soil decision aid tools for sustainable soil resource management in a
     decentralized system
 13. Enhancing horticultural crops production in decentralized districts through training in propagation techniques
     and proper cultural practices
 14. Enhancing judicious use of agro-chemicals among the small-scale farmers
 15. Strengthening practical agriculture training to adequately handle challenges of decentralization and agricultural
     modernization programs in Uganda
 16. Discipline as a prerequisite for education and production of responsible human resource to meet societal
     challenges
 17. A capacity building project in financial management and basic accounting for faculties and departments of
     Makerere University
 18. In-service agro-forestry practical diagnosis and design training
 19. Enhancing the capacity of Makerere University I.A.C.E. regional centers to promote distance and community
     participation in the decentralized districts.
 20. Building district capacity for management of key indicators of change in health care delivery system: Building
     for basic data analysis and utilization in districts
 21. Gender training and skills development (GTSD) course for decentralization in Uganda
 22. Training of extension staff in community mobilization skills
 23. Capacity building for decentralized districts in maintenance of assets
 24. Training for strengthening parish land committees



                                                         27

25. Capacity building of agricultural engineering skills for district staff for sustainable agricultural modernization
26. Building capacity for sustainable water resources development for agricultural production and domestic use at
    districts and department of agricultural engineering
27. Training district local staff in computer use, trouble shooting and maintenance
28. Training of Kiswahili primary teacher in Uganda
29. Essential primary surgery in the district
30. Capacity building for school screening programs in decentralized districts
31. Continuing dental education for capacity building among oral health practitioners in the districts of Uganda
32. Increasing ophthalmic surgical intervention returns through training of rural hospital staff
33. Improving productivity of Uganda's decentralized districts through capacity building in time management
34. Functional capacity improvement of internal auditors in local authorities in Uganda
35. Training in project planning and management at district level
36. Practical field conservation biology and wildlife management course 2001
37. Flower gardening, tree and landscaping in the districts and institutions
38. Strengthening district capacity to integrate and implement child welfare and protection policy and program
39. Rights of local government staff and sources of conflict in the local government system
40. Development of guidelines to enhance local management initiatives in health care provision in Uganda: Case of
    health unit management committees
41. Productivity improvement in industries of the decentralized districts through cleaner production technology
42. Strengthening the capacity of lower level health service managers in participatory rural appraisal to improve
    community involvement in health planning: A pilot study of Mbarara and Ntungamo districts
43. Enhancing the capacity of mid-level health service managers in planning and evaluation of health services
44. Empowering communities and the youth, in districts through training in various rural trades and improved
    employment
45. Strengthening the capacity of lower-level health service manager/health unit management committees in
    financial management for improved health service delivery
46. Integration of traditional eye practice into the eye care services

Short Courses, which were later developed into long courses
1.  Training of reproductive health workers for decentralized districts
2.  Training of health workers to be able to identify, refer and manage cases of human rights abuse
3.  Intensive workshops in animal health service delivery and production for under decentralization for district
    councilors and veterinarians, and para-veterinarians
4.  Refresher courses on practical skills in feeding, housing and management of farm animals for district extension
    staff
5.  Agribusiness training and community oriented farm management of agricultural modernization
6.  The role of Architecture in designing and planning of appropriate urban development and resource use in a
    decentralized system: Bridging the capacity gap
7.  Conflict management skills for sustainable decentralization
8.  Audit in maternity care
9.  Decentralized district mental health strategy
10. Integrated physical planning in Local Governments in Uganda
11. Training ear nose and throat primary health care
12. Introduction of cytological screening services at health centers in sub-district
13. Community-based practical training in art and design for enhancement of competitive and sustainable skills for
    the final year students of the department of industrial arts and design
14. Introducing new courses in local government administration
15. Practical training in integrated commercial fish farming for extension staff and selected farmers




                                                         28

Long Courses
   1.   Attitudinal change & enhancement of practical skills for veterinarian service providers decentralized district.
        [During different stages and particularly implementation, the title changed to include undergraduate student
        internships (4th year) as target group.]
   2.   Enhancing strategic and integrated development planning skills under decentralized governance in Uganda
   3.   Curriculum review for community forestry
   4.   Development of an appropriate training program for engineering personnel for the decentralized districts
   5.   Review of curricula for training health professionals by the faculty of medicine, Makerere University.
   6.   Electives for students of health profession of the faculty of medicine, Makerere University.
   7.   Curriculum development for the bachelor of sports science
   8.   Restructuring the Development Studies Curriculum (MUST)


Publications
   1.   Primary Health Care Psychiatry in Uganda
   2.   A hand book on Decentralization in Uganda
   3.   Frequently Asked Questions on Decentralization in Uganda
   4.   Teaching Mental Health in the District
   5.   Decentralization and Transformation of Governance in Uganda
   6.   Religion, Culture, Gender and Development
   7.   Luganda Dictionary "Enkuluze y'Oluganda ey'e Makerere"
   8.   Runyankore-Rukiga dictionary
   9.   Sustainable Development and Application of Indigenous Construction Materials in Uganda
   10. Appropriate Agroforestry Interventions in Uganda
   11. Kiswahili for Primary Schools: Pupil's Book 4
   12. Kiswahili for Primary Schools: Teacher's Book
   13. Community Mobilization Skills: A Guide Book for District Extension Workers
   14. Growing Up by Accident into a Young Adult: A Challenge That Need Not Be
   15. An Introductory Book on Foods and Nutrition
   16. Psychiatric Problems of HIV/AIDS and their Management in Uganda




                                                         29

Annex 2c. Funded Research Projects

                   Faculty Research Projects (Funded partially or completely.)
                        Title                             Name                 Unit      Institution
A Review of the ART Policy and Capacity of
Uganda's Public Health Care System to Deliver
Equitable and Effective ART Services to           Mr. Eddy J. Walakira  Social Sciences  Makerere

HIV/AIDS Clients

A Search for Strengthening Community Drug
Distributors Participation in the Home Based      Dauda W. Batega       Social Sciences  Makerere
Management of Fever/Malaria Strategy in Uganda

A study of Employment Potential Challenges        Mark Byaruhanga       Academic
                                                                        Registrar        Makerere

Agriculture Technology Transfer and the Local
Government Committees Role                        Kabann Kabananukye    MISR             Makerere

An Assessment of the Contribution of
Decentralized Service Delivery to poverty
Eradication Effort in Uganda: Case Study of Arua  Dr. Alex Ijjo         Business Admin   UMU

District
An Assessment of the Impact of Decentralization   Sr. Prisca Kobusingye
Process                                           Nkozi 6               Business Admin   UMU

An Evaluation of Java Plum (Syzygium Cumini)      Mr. K. Elly
Seeds as a Source of Energy in Poultry            Ndyomugyenyi          Agriculture      Makerere

Approaches to Solid Waste Management within a
Decentralized Urban                               Dr. Vincent Batwala   Medicine         MUST

Assessing the Impact of Fish Export on People's   Gaston A.
Livelihood in Kampala and Mukono Districts        Tumuhimbise           Agriculture      Makerere

Assessing the Status of Mould and Afloxin
Contamination of Cassava and Sweet Potato Chips   Archileo N. Kaaya     Agriculture      Makerere
in Uganda
Barriers to Communication in Local Government a
Review of the Revised District Development
Project (DDP) Communication                       Daniel Sekiboobo      UMI              UMI

Framework/handbook
Capacity Building for improvement of Science and
Technical Education in Schools in the             Dr. Gabriel Nzarubara Medicine         Makerere
Decentralized Districts
Capacity Building for Natural Resources
Conservation for Sustainable Livelihoods at Local Dr. John R. S. Tabuti Science          Makerere
Government Levels, in Uganda
Clean Water Access and Sanitary Facilities
Assessment in Selected Districts in Uganda (Rakai Dr. Fredrick J.       Science          Makerere
& Mukono)                                         Muyodi

Constraints to the Decentralized Implementation
and Management                                    Juma Anthony Okuku    Social Sciences  Makerere




                                                   30

Data Collection and Management as a Basis for
Development Planning and Evaluation at Local       Dr. Jamil Serwanga   Arts & Social    IUIU
Level                                                                   Sciences IUIU

Decentralization and Environmental Education and
Management for Poverty Eradication in Uganda; a    Prof. Kanyandago     Research Unit    UMU
Case Study
Decentralization and Poverty alleviation in Uganda P. Birungi           Economics        Makerere
Decentralized Agricultural Extension Planning and
Service                                            Wasike Mangeni       Social Sciences  Makerere

Design and Development of Appropriate Rainwater
Quality Improvement system                         Herbert Kaliballa    Technology       Makerere

Determination of Factors that have Caused Science  Dr. Wilson
Education to Lag Behind in Schools in Uganda       Byarugaba            Medicine         Makerere

Determination of Knowledge, Attitudes and
Practices Related to Feeding Children In Rakai     Dr. John H. Muyonga  Agriculture      Makerere
District
Development of a Holistic Sanitation System
Selection Algorithm for Enhancing Decentralized    Charles Niwagaba     Technology       Makerere
Service Delivery in Uganda
Dissemination of Technologies for small scale
decentralised power systems                        Francis Nturanabo    Technology       Makerere

Empowering Rural Farmers in the Management of
Pests And Diseases in Agro forestry in Uganda      Dr. Philip Nyeko     Forestry         Makerere

Engendering of Local FM Radio Development
Programs and Their Effects on                      Dr. Grace Bantebya   Social Sciences  Makerere

Engendering Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
of Local Government Social Service Delivery
Programs for Poverty Reduction in Arua District,   Robert Esuruku       Ethics & Devt    UMU

Uganda
Enhancement of Financial Information Systems for
Rural Farmers in Uganda                            Dr. Imelda Nalukenge Agriculture      Makerere

Enhancing Poverty Eradication in Uganda: The       Helen M.
Case for Information Access                        Byamugisha           Main Library     Makerere

Essential Surgical Skills Training for Health
Workers at First- Level Referral Health Units in   Dr. Patrick          Medicine         MUST
Mbarara and Ntungamo Districts                     Kyamanywa

Establishing Transitional Stages from peasantry to
commercial Agriculture in Uganda                   Prof. E. N. Sabiiti  Agriculture      Makerere

Evaluation of the Potential of Pumpkins for
Alleviation of Vitamin A Deficiency in Sironko     Dr. John Muyonga     Agriculture      Makerere
District
Family probation Services Provision Under
Decentralization                                   Dr. P.R. Atekyereza  Social Sciences  Makerere

Fiscal Decentralization Strategy; More or Less
Financial Discretionary Powers for Local           Dr. Nicholas Sunday  Business Admin   UMU
Governments: Evidence from Yumbe                   Olwor

Incorporation of traditional Practitioners in
Decentralized Mental Health Care in the Districts  Elialilia Okello     Medicine         Makerere
of Kampala, Wakiso, Rakai and Ntungamo




                                                   31

Institutional and Implementation Challenges of
Public procurement                                 Benon Basheka         I.A.C.E          Makerere

Labor and the Plight of Children in Uganda: the
Case of Arua District                              Deborah Mulumba       Social Sciences  Makerere

Local Governments and Decentralized Forest
Resources Governance in Uganda: Benefits,          Dr. Nelson            Forestry         Makerere
Challenges, Opportunities and Policy Implications  Turyahabwe

Medicinal Plants used against fowl diseases in
Rakai, Mbarara & Mbale Districts                    Prof. Bukenya Ziraba Science          Makerere

Participation Empowerment and Accountability in
Local Governments of Uganda                        William Muhumuza      Social Sciences  Makerere

Path Ways Out of Poverty in Uganda: Expanding
the Base for Poverty Reduction                     Daniel Lumonya        Social Sciences  Makerere

Performance of Food Marketing in Uganda; An
empirical investigation.                           Niringiye Aggrey      Economics        Makerere

Popularization of Science for Girls in Poorly
Resourced Districts of Uganda                      Dr. Alice Kagoda      Education        Makerere

Promoting Health and Conservation of Medicinal
Plants: The case of Sustainable Harvesting of      Paul Bukuluki         Social Sciences  Makerere
Medical Plants in Uganda
Quality Assurance Mechanisms in Uganda's
secondary Education Sub Sector                     Dr. Joseph Oonyu      Education        Makerere

Record Keeping and Reporting at the Village Level
for Promoting Planning and Development in          Fred M. Ngobo         Business Admin   Nkumba
Uganda
Research into and Development of Low- Cost
Water Treatment System for                         Michael Kizza         Technology       Makerere

Review of HIV/AIDS Prevention, Care and
Support                                            Dr. Patrick Kagurusi  Medicine         MUST

Revitalizing and Popularizing data Collection and
Management within the Context of                   James Sengendo        Social Sciences  Makerere
Decentralisation
Strategic Interventions in Urban Traffic
Management in Uganda                               Dr. A G Kerali        Technology       Makerere

Strengthening Capacity of Dermatological Services
at Grassroots Facilities Under                     Dr. Grace Mulyowa     Medicine         MUST

Survey on Availability, Utilization and Incomes
from Forest Plant foods in Rakai District          Mohamed Bukenya       Forestry         Makerere

System for Enhancing Ventilation to Control Odor
and Fly Nuisance in Ecosan Toilet                  Max Kigobe            Technology       Makerere

The effect of decentralization within the health
sector to access of health services among pastoral Charles Muchunguzi    Development      MUST
communities in Ankole Ranching scheme                                    Studies

The Impact of Decentralization on the Provision of
Primary Health Care (PHC) Services in Two          Dr. Mathias Ssamula   Social Sciences  Makerere
Districts of Uganda




                                                    32

 The Road to Health card Review of the Use of the
 Child Health Card: Review of the Use of the Child
 Card for Growth Monitoring by Health Workers            Denis Nansera        Medicine           MUST
 and Children Care Givers in Decentralized Lower
 Health Units of Mbarara

 The Role of Cultural Institutions in Community
 Development in a Decentralised Uganda: A case           Robert Kabumbuli     Social Sciences    Makerere
 Study of Rakai District
 The role of fiscal decentralization in poverty
 alleviation: An empirical investigation                 Caiphas Chekwoti     Economics          Makerere

 The Role of Human Resource Management in the
 Public Sector                                           Mr. Steven Akabwai   Business Admin     UMU

 The Role of Local Governments in Enhancement
 of Rural Livelihood Diversification as a Poverty                             Academic
 Reduction Strategy: A Case Study of Mbarara             Ms. Resty Naiga      Registrar          Makerere

 District

 The Role of Moringa Olivera Leaves in Improving
 Protein Energy Malnutrition with Children Infected      Dr. Josephine Kasolo Medicine           Makerere
 with HIV/AIDS
 Uganda National Oral Health Survey 2001: District
 Capacity Building for Oral Health Surveys in            L. Muwazi            Medicine           Makerere
 Decentralized Districts
 Work Ethos and Art in intercommunication in
 decentralization                                        Dr. G. Birungi       Arts               Makerere

 Working and living in upcountry districts                                    Academic
 prospectus for Makerere University graduates            S.M Ngobi            Registrar          Makerere

 Business Development and Quality Improvement
 in the Small Scale                                      Deogratius Kibira    Technology         Makerere

 Reducing Neonatal Mortality in Southwestern
 Uganda Through Improved Basic Neonatal Care             Jude Sekungu         Medicine           MUST




                     Projects Receiving Masters Degree Level Research Grants
         Research Projects at Masters Level
                             Title                                         Name                Unit      Institution


The effect of management and leadership styles on academic Busulwa A. Swaibu                Education   IUIU
performance in selected primary schools in Kabula Sub
District, Rakai
An investigation into the causes of girl-child dropout in      Yunus H. Mubiru              Education   IUIU
Upper classes in selected primary schools in Rakai District


An analysis of the role of teachers in primary school          Ddungu Sinaan                Education   IUIU
management: A case study of selected primary schools in
Rakai
An investigation into records mgt practices by Head teachers Nakkazi M. Edith               Education   IUIU
of selected secondary schools in Rakai District




                                                          33

The effect of decentralisation policy on the financial         Otai Micheal Otai         Education  IUIU
management of primary education: A case study of Mbale
Municipality
Influence of Tertiary Agric Curricula on attitudes and skills  Amulem Frances            Education  IUIU
of graduates
The effects of birth order on children's academic              Nsamba Kassim             -          IUIU
performance in primary schools in Uganda: A case study of
selected schools in Rakai District
The effectiveness of stakeholders in the mgt of primary        Okurut John Robert        -          IUIU
education in the decentralised framework: A case study of
Kyalulangira S/C, Rakai District
District disaster mgt committee and coordination of            Acodu Sam                 SS         Mak
humanitarian assistance
Indigenous methods of conflict resolution: A case study of     Bogere Richard            Arts       Mak
the Lugbara in Arua District
Decentralisation and challenges of care giving by the elderly: Boogere Stephen Mubinzi   SS         Mak
The case of Katikamu S/C, Luwero District


Socio-economic factors affecting adoption of improved meat Bwire Joseph                  Agric      Mak
goat (Boer) production in Rakai & Sembabule District


Assessment of factors affecting community participation in     Elima James               IPH        Mak
control of plague in epidemic prone areas of Arua District


Conflicts in LGs and their implications on service delivery:   Habiyarembye John         Arts       Mak
A case study of Kisoro District (1997-2003)


Loan monitoring for microfinance institutions in Uganda        Katuramu Absolom          ITC        Mak

Knowledge, Attitude and Practice of use of prevention of       Katushabe Juliet          SS         Mak
mother to child transmission of HIV (PMTCT) services in
Mbale Hospital Antenatal Clinic
Gender responsiveness in the National Agricultural Advisory Kebirungi Harriet            SS         Mak
Services (NAADS): The case of Buhare S/C Kabale District


Factors affecting women and men's benefits from utilisation Kyalisiima Zephaniah         SS         Mak
of microfinance services: A case study of Lubaga Division,
Kampala
Building construction cost control through appropriate         Nuganyi Lillian           Technology Mak
design and process: Helping LCs to cut construction cost:
The case of KCC
Decentralisation and good governance: The case of conflict     Muhumuza Joseph           Arts       Mak
prevention in Mbale District
Treatment actions in home mgt of malaria in children under Mujuni Perez M. Batwine       ISAE       Mak
five years in a rural setting: Kashari County, Mbarara
District.
Analysis of profitability and competitiveness of bean seed     Mulumba Evarist           Agric      Mak
(phaseolus vulgaris) multiplication by out grower farmers in
Uganda: The case of Rakai & Masaka Districts.




                                                         34

Specification and validation of information communication       Mwanja Joseph             ITC     Mak
technology security policies in ministries


Benefits and health risks associated with milk and cattle       Mwine Norbert Frank       Vet     Mak
raised in urban and pre-urban areas of Kampala City


Gender and copying mechanisms of people living with             Nakajjuko Slyvia          SS      Mak
HIV/AIDS: A case study of TASO and NACWOLA,
Kampala District
The role of LG in family planning service delivery: A case      Nalubega Harriet          SS      Mak
study of Bunghoko S/C, Mbale District
Effectiveness of bottom-up planning in Uganda: A case for       Namanya Naboth            FEMA    Mak
Ntungamo District
The role of decentralisation in the delivery of health services Ngabirano Beatrice        SS      Mak
in Kisoro District
Determinants of budget motivation and its relationship with Ogentho Poul Maxwell          -       Mak
budgetary performance in a decentralised system: A case
study of Nebbi LGs
Economic analysis of rice marketing in Uganda: a study of       Walube Paul               Agric   Mak
Bugiri & Iganga District
Accessibility and Utilisation of Family Planning Services by Masaba Sam Wekesa            SS      Mak
Women with Disabilities in Rwampara County, Mbarara
District
The significance of social justice in promoting welfare         Abeneimwe Patrick         Arts    Mak
among indigenous people: A case study of Batwa of South
Western Uganda, Muko and Bufundi S/C.


Improving police services in a decentralised set up: The case Abilu Ernest Martin         SS      Mak
of Uganda Police force in Mukono District
Decentralisation and mgt of projects: An ethical assessment Acham Julius                  -       Mak
of Kisoro District LG 1997-2002
Decentralisation and challenges of Education Services in        Agasha Juliet Bashiisha   -       Mak
Uganda: A case study of Mbarara District


-                                                              Akankwasa Stevenson        -       Mak
The place of civil society organisations in planning and        Anyolitho William         Arts    Mak
decision making process in LGs in Uganda: The case of
Nebbi District
Assessment of Household Food Security Amongst the               Bako Christine Abia       Agric   Mak
Internally displaced people. Importance of off-farm income
to H/H food security among the internally displaced people
in Northern Uganda: Gulu District


Factors affecting the uptake of HIV Voluntary Counselling       Gudo Sam Siduda           IPH     Mak
Testing by people aged 15-49 years in Kumi District


The "ubuntu": A critical analysis of the indigenous methods Guweddeko Fred                Arts    Mak
of peace & conflict management: a study of Buganda




                                                           35

Animal manure use level in banana production in Uganda        Kagoya Sarah              Agric       Mak

Factors influencing uptake of HIV voluntary testing among     Kalamya Namonyo Julius    IPH         Mak
women attending antenatal care in Tororo District


Information security: A case study of Mulago Hospital         Kasirye Catherine         Technology  Mak

The causes of rural poverty in Uganda: A case study of        Kasule Twaha Ahmed        FEMA        Mak
Wakiso S/C in Wakiso District
Factors influencing male involvement in contraceptive use     Katusabe Atikns Godfrey   ISAE        Mak
among males in Rakai District under the decentralised health
services delivery
Development of a dual wind solar hybrid design for rural     Kimera David               Technology  Mak
water pumping and electrification In Uganda
-                                                            Kisirye George             Technology  Mak
Gender and horticultural industry in Uganda                   Kyomugisha Carolyne       SS          Mak
Analysis of conflicts caused by mgt of finances in LGs: A     Lukooya Francis           Arts        Mak
case study of Mukono Dis. (1994-2004)
The viability of intensive small holder diary production      Maloba Opio Paul          Agric       Mak
systems with Friesian crosses in a rural area: Case study of
Kakuuto Country, Rakai District
Factors that influence expenditure on UPE under a             Mfitumukiza Benard        FEMA        Mak
decentralised system: A case study of Mbarara District


The impact of gender relations on planning and development Mugisha Sylivia              Arts        Mak
of LG level in Uganda: An ethical evaluation


The effects of integrating Albizia chinensis trees on soil    Mukiibi B. Daudi          Forestry &  Mak
nutrient distribution in a coffee farming system in Mukono                              Nature Cons.
District
Supply and Mgt of Antiretrovirals (ARVs) at six districts     Musoke David              Medicine    Mak
hospitals in Uganda
The impact of socio-economic factors on the use of modern     Muwonge Rogers            ISAE        Mak
contraceptives among women in reproductive age group in
Mbale Municipality
Effectiveness of affirmative action for women in LG           Nagadya Sarah             SS          Mak
administration: A case study of Rakai District
Effects of demand-driven and cost recovery policy of          Natanga Patrick Metembu   Agric       Mak
Agricultural Advisory Services
Influence of house hold relations on women's participation in Naumo Juliana Akoryo      SS          Mak
Functional Adult Literacy: A case study of Kotido District


A study to collate the Lipid level in blood and liver fatty   Nekesa Victoria           Medicine    Mak
changes for the mgt of Hyperlipidemia in HIV infected
patients in Ugandan hospitals
Feeding practices of children below six months of age         Ngabirano Tom Denis       IPH         Mak
among HIV positive mothers in Hoima District
The influence of family background on children's academic     Ninsiima Hildah           Arts        Mak
performance: A case study of selected primary schools in
Kebisoni S/C, Rukungiri District



                                                           36

Local community participation in decision making under the Nsamba Patrick Oshabe      Arts       Mak
decentralisation policy in Uganda: A case study of Wakiso
District 2000-2004
An ethical assessment of the leadership code as a mechanism Ochieng Francis-Xavier    Arts       Mak
of controlling corruption under decentralisation: A case
study of Mbale LG
The influence of decentralisation on LG revenue and          Olemo Mathew             FEMA       Mak
expenditure: A case study of Sironko District
Evaluation of the mgt (operations and maintenance) of road Onep Samuel George         Technology Mak
making equipment under the decentralised districts in
Uganda
The status of teaching and learning vocational subjects in   Oria Harold Ozoo         Education  Mak
secondary schools in Arua District (1990-2000)


Effect of human resource mgt practices on the performance    Otim Geoffrey Charles    Education  Mak
of primary school teachers in some selected schools in
Kampala
The challenges of decentralisation in conflict areas in      Owori Achiel Henry       Arts       Mak
Uganda: A case study of Gulu District 1996-2004
Factors responsible for the geographical variation in HIV    Pirio Michael Tatia      SS         Mak
prevalence between Koboko and Arua townships of Arua
District
Devolution of powers and promotion of good governance in Sseguya Gerald               Arts       Mak
LG Administration: A comparative study of Entebbe
Municipality & Bukomansimbi S/C
Challenges of revenue collection and utilisation under       Tumusiime Patrick        Arts       Mak
decentralisation: A case study of Kiziranfumbi S/C, Hoima
District
Factors affecting antenatal care visits in Hoima District    Twesigye Rogers          IPH        Mak

Integrating power line carrier terminals into optical fibre  Walugembe JB             Technology Mak
networks
Role of decentralisation in health services delivery: A case Wamurubu Alfred          SS         Mak
study of Mbale District
-                                                            Wonkuc Robson            ISAE       Mak
Factors influencing tetanus toxoid vaccination coverage      Ahimbisibwe Humphrey     -          MUST
among women of reproductive age (15-49) in Mbarara
District
Knowledge, Attitude and practice of mothers attending        Kabale Irene             -          MUST
antenatal care towards prevention of mother to child
transmission of HIV: A case study of Kisoro District


Prevalence of psychoactive drug and substance abuse in       Katongole Bells          -          MUST
Mbarara District
Strategic mgt of causes of students unrest in secondary      Kebirungi Emma B.        -          MUST
schools in Uganda: A case study of Mbarara District




                                                           37

Assessing the level of accountability and local participation   Kumakech Edward        -            MUST
in development programmes under the decentralised system
of governance: A case of Mbarara District


Effects of management training on leadership effectiveness      Mugabi Francis         -            MUST
of primary head teachers in Bushenyi District
Factors affecting academic performance in universal primary Nakazibwe Primrose         Devt Studies MUST
schools (UPE) in Mbarara District: A case study of
Rwampara County
Effects of school based peer support on the psycho-social       Naturebba Nansan       Medicine     MUST
health of AIDS orphans in Mbarara Municipality


Review of community involvement in planning and                 Nkanika Moses          Medicine     MUST
implementation of Health services: A case study of Rubabo
Health Sub-district, Rukungiri District
Participation of women in politics of LG in the wake of         Rukundo Aloysius       Education    MUST
decentralisation: A case study of Mbarara District                                     Department
Poverty and fertility rate among rural dwellers in Rwampara Tumuhimbise Immaculate     MA           MUST
county, Mbarara
Condom use and HIV prevention in Uganda: A comparative Turyagenda Matama James         MA           MUST
study of the teachings of religious leaders and those of
health/social workers
Effectiveness of LGs in mgt of primary schools: A case          Turyamuhaki Peter      -            MUST
study of Kashari County, Mbarara District
                                                                Sekware Beda
                                                                Mayanja Bernard
Analysing the demand perceptions and value attached to          Rutaroh Arthur         Institute of Nkozi
formal health care in the rural Uganda as a means of                                   Ethics &
improving service delivery                                                             Devt Studies


The impact of accessibility and effective utilisation of        Eyia Opal Abua Palm    -            Nkozi
learning materials on the performance of upper primary
pupils
The strategies of Rakai Community-Based Aids Project in         Mugume Benon           -            Nkozi
managing the effects of HIV/AIDS
In their own voices, grassroots women speak to district         Nabbosa Agnes          Institute of Nkozi
policy makers and implementers: A discursive analysis of                               Ethics &
gender disparity in the grassroots communities of Uganda                               Devt Studies
today

Factors influencing sustainability of financial institutions in Bazzekuketta James     -            Nkumba
Rural Uganda: A case study of Subcounty Integrated
Development Associations (SIDA) in Hoima District


The role of secondary schools of Wakiso and Kampala             Nanyanzi Proscovia     -            Nkumba
Districts in the implementation of the Ministry of health
Adolescent Reproductive Policy
Factors influencing financial performance in public sector      Onduru Sarah Grace     -            Nkumba
agency: A case study of Uganda Human Rights Commission




                                                           38

Implication of increased student enrolment on academic staff Kabugo Dorothy               Education    Nkumba
performance: A study of selected universities (Makerere and
Nkumba)
Citizens perspectives on the delivery of education and health Magezi Richard              -            Nkumba
services of Kampala and Rukungiri Districts


Enhancing ethics and accountability in the LG of Uganda: A Muneeza Ngamjije Joan          Social       Nkumba
case study of KCC                                                                         Sciences
The role of information technology in public financial mgt:   Nabutsale Irene             -            Nkumba
A case study of Mbale District LG
The effect of book keeping on sole traders' businesses in     Namakula Gladys             -            Nkumba
Kampala District: A case study of Balikuddembe Market


Microfinance support system, gender and development in        Tumusherure Wilson          Education    Nkumba
Uganda: A case of Mbarara District
Perceptions on the factors affecting academic performance     Kamuli Mayeku Boaz          HRM          UMI
of Government Aided Schools in Sironko                                                    Division
Effectiveness of procurement internal control system in       Kirembeka Richard Joseph    Business and UMI
government schools- A case of Makerere College school                                     Fin Mgt
                                                                                          Division
Corruption and services delivery in Arua District             Amayo Wilfred                            UMI
Management of outsourcing revenue collection in a             Barabanawe Francis          -            UMI
decentralised LG: A case study of Mbarara Municipality


Microfinance as a tool for women empowerment: A case          Batte Tadeo                 -            UMI
study of Rakai District
Contribution of structure to conflicts in Arua Municipality   Inziku Paul Clay            -            UMI

-                                                             Kweyamba Robert Byondo      Business and UMI
                                                                                          Fin Mgt
                                                                                          Division
-                                                             Muhuta Akitore Mathias      -            UMI
Contribution of Internal audit on management                  Naddaaku Sarah              Business and UMI
                                                                                          Fin Mgt
                                                                                          Division
Challenges of implementation of the New Performance           Onzoma Apollo               HRM          UMI
Appraisal System in the LG of Uganda: The case of Arua                                    Division
District LG
-                                                             Rwomushana Reuben Jack      HRM          UMI
                                                                                          Division




                             Ph.D. Research Projects

                                        Title                                            Name
The challenges of managing wetlands restoration in Kabale District (1900-2000) Baigana Rhona

Oxidative stress in Experimentally-Induced liver cirrhosis and the protective   Wamuntu Samuel
effects of some vitamins.



                                                         39

Statistical models for child survival in Uganda                                      Tumutegyereize Stephen
Introduction of genetic screening services for management of sickle cell disease     Okwi Andrew Livex
in Uganda
The effect of information and communication technology (ICT) on service              Tibenderana K.G. Priscila
delivery in selected university libraries in East Africa
Genetic heterogeneity of trypanosoma congolense isolated from livestock in           Biryomumaisho Savino
Kasese and Mbarara perigame areas
Interaction of trace metals with natural particles and their influence on biological Nazziriwo Betty
production in waters of Lake Victoria.
Community participation during the process of curriculum innovation                  Byaruhanga Mark
Quality of service (QoS) in IP-based networks with DiffServ and IntServ in           Kasigwa Justine
decentralised districts: Case of MTN/UTL in Kampala
Identification and description of passion fruit (passiflora edulis sims) viruses and Ochwo-Ssemakula Mildred
germplasm and screening for disease resistance in Uganda


Assessing the effectiveness of school agricultural education programmes in the       Okiror John James
dissemination of knowledge, skills and technologies to rural communities in
Uganda
Competencies, Occupational Attitudes and performance of sub-county chiefs in         Matagi Leonsio
Uganda under the implemented decentralisation system: Implications for
governance
A study to assess the challenges and promises of decentralised UPE planning and Ameri M. Micheal
implementation in Uganda: A case study of Kampala and Lira districts


The contribution of Makerere University's Dept of Community Education and            Kaliba Stephen
Extra Mural Studies towards capacity building for improved decentralised service
delivery in Uganda
The financing of rural LGs in Uganda                                                 Kulumba Mohammed
Economic rationalisation of production scales and combination of major high          Lwasa Stephen
value crops grown in Masaka District in Uganda
Enhancing the quality of support services delivered to distance learners of          Olal-Odur Florence
Makerere University in the decentralised districts
Computer simulation modeling of the differences in diets composition and their       Tibayungwa Francis
effects on partitioning of excreted nitrogen between manure and urine:
Implications for nutrient recycling in small holder crop-livestock systems.




                                                           40

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

This project included four major components: (1) build university capacity, (2) develop pilot
projects for building capacity in local government, (3) fund research relevant to decentralization
and to decentralized services themselves, and (4) monitoring and evaluation. In all cases, the
development impact was expected to be indirect and to accrue almost entirely after the project
ended. These factors influence the choice of economic and financial analysis approach.

Local governments provide roads, sanitation infrastructure, health services, and primary
education services in Uganda. They do so primarily on the belief that markets would not provide
the services in sufficient quantity nor quality. The argument is that private providers could not
appropriate a sufficient portion of the benefits to pay for the economically justified level of
production. Under these circumstances, it is unlikely that government salaries for professionals
employed in local government and local government service delivery will accurately describe the
benefits to the economy from their services. For example, the services of a public health officer
who effectively reduces the incidence and prevalence of infectious diseases will seldom receive a
salary equivalent to the social benefit of such reductions. An engineer supervising the
maintenance of a district network of feeder roads cannot expect a salary equal to the community
benefits from his work. There are strong positive externalities to the services provided by such
professionals employed in local government.

Many efforts to evaluate the benefits of higher education have focused on the income increases
that result from education, but such approaches fail to account for the externalities. Where those
are large, income-based estimates seriously underestimate the benefits from education.

To evaluate the cost-benefit ratio of education of local government professionals are likely to be
unsuccessful due to the inability to measure the externalities from their services. Estimates of the
benefits from a project based on improving the capacity to provide education and training for
public servants is likely to be even more difficult.

The returns to scale of investments in training professionals are highly non-linear. Countries that
have no public health physicians, no engineers, or no agronomists may pay a high price through
a continually stalled development process. On the other hand, as many African nations have
learned from experience, if more professionals are trained than the economy can absorb, then
they leave, providing few benefits to the nation. We cannot begin to estimate the marginal value
of incremental additions to the professional workforce, and the normal approach is simply to set
norms for professional staffing. In rural Uganda, where professional staffing falls below both
national and international standards, the marginal value of new professional staff is likely to be
high. Efforts to improve the relevance of training should make it higher still.

Not only was cost-benefit analysis seen as unlikely to succeed in the evaluation of this project for
the above reasons, the project took place under conditions of uncertainty. The risks to the
sustainability of project outcomes was judged to be moderate, but no approach seemed adequate
to estimate the relevant probabilities. As a result, the main economic analysis approach was to




                                                41

compare the project costs to the magnitude of potential benefits. The following discussion
suggests that the project was economically reasonable.

I@MAK.COM Expenditures Versus Sector Budgets

Local government budgets for locally raised funds in Uganda for FY2004/5 were USh120 billion.
Central government transfers to local government that year were USh750 billion. The local
government expenditures were USh870 billion (approximately US$460 million). Assuming a 20
percent discount rate, and local government continuing to expend US$460 million per year, the
present value of government expenditures over 20 years would be US$ 2,273 million. (Assume
that benefits from capacity building from this project would be fully dissipated in 20 years.)

Kasozi cites estimates of US$859 and US$1,000 per student per year for recurrent costs of
education in Uganda.3 Costs in some faculties, such as medicine, are much higher. Kasozi
estimates enrollment in 2006 at 134,600, and that enrollment is growing at 18 percent a year.4
Thus a rough estimate (assuming total costs of US$1,000 dollars per student per year) of the
expenditures on higher education in 2006 would be US$134.6 million. The present value of the
expenditures on higher education for the next 20 years, using Kasozi's growth rate in enrollment
and a 20 percent discount rate, would be US$1,645 million.

Consider that US$8.77 million makes a Y percentage improvement in local government services
and an X percentage improvement in higher education services on the average. The expenditures
on the project's Component I (building higher education capacity) plus that of Component II
(pilot projects building local government) might be justified if:

                  (2273 * 106) * (Y * 10-2) + (1645 * 106) * (X * 10-2) >= 8.77 * 106
                                                equivalently:
                                       22.73 Y + 16.45 X >= 8.77
                                                     or:
                                          2.59 Y + 1.875 X >= 1

In other words, if there were no impact on local government, the project would have to show an
average improvement of 0.53 percent or better in higher education performance over the next
generation to justify Components I and II. Equally, If there was no improvement in higher
education, the project would have to show an improvement of 0.39 percent on local government
performance to justify Components I and II. Indeed, any combination of impacts to the right of
the line in the following graph would represent an impact justifying the two components of the
project.




3Page 27 in A.B.K. Kasozi, University Education in Uganda: Challenges and Opportunities for Reform, Fountain
    Publishers. 2003.
4Page 3 in A.B.K. Kasozi, University Education in Uganda: Challenges and Opportunities for Reform, Fountain
    Publishers. 2003.


                                                     42

Thus even an improvement of educational services in the range of one-quarter of one percent
together with an improvement of one-fifth of one percent of local government services from
what otherwise would have occurred would justify the project economically, at this discount rate.

Assuming instead a 15 percent discount rate, the present value of government expenditures over
20 years would be US$2,948 million. The present value of the expenditures on higher education
for the next 20 years would be US$2,770 million. Thus the breakeven line would be:

                                        3.36 Y + 3.16 X >= 1

The breakeven line for a 15 percent discount rate is shifted to the left of that for the 20 percent
discount rate as expected. Improvements in both local government and higher education of the
order of one-sixth of one percent would then justify the project. In short, if this project made
even a modest contribution to improving the effectiveness of higher education and local
government over the next 20 years, the cost of Components I and II would be justified. Such
modest increases seem quite possible.

Costs and Effects of I@MAK.COM on the Target Districts

An estimate of the distribution of project funding by activities and Pilot Districts is shown in the
following table. Not all the activities could be so distributed, and indeed more than 1000
participants were involved in training that was not costed Thus, only 14 training courses in
addition to the Principles of Decentralization were included. Still the table gives a strong
indication of the level of activities and their cost for each of the pilot districts. The data suffice to
show that the contributions to capacity building in the pilot Districts was substantial.




                                                  43

                            Total scholarships
                                                          Principles of
                            LG Staff          Decentralization Short Term TrainingVC awards
                District

                                  Funds                      Funds                  Funds
                                  (Ush)                       (Ush)                 (Ush)

             Arua             489,780,778                    42,400

             Kampala          422,534,089                    5,972

             Mbale            439,403,894                    43,594


             Mbarara          485,530,334                    36,428               36,000,000


             Ntungamo         118,110,328                    48,372               9,000,000


             Rakai            657,041,725                    40,608               54,000,000


             Sironko          257,798,673                    8,958                36,000,000

             Yumbe            305,437,097                    20,901               27,000,000

             Other Districts                                 26,276

             Central Gov't                                   33,442

             Total           3,175,636,917                  306,950               162,000,000

Each year the Ministry of Local Government makes an assessment of the condition and
performance of district local governments. The assessment is important because it is used to
adjust the transfers of funds from the Central to local governments. Thus, in accordance with the
indicators, a reward of 20 percent can be added to the transfer for successful districts, or a
penalty of 20 percent can be assessed against the unsuccessful districts. Most districts receive the
normal "static" amount.

Thus the annual assessment gives an indication of the performance of every district in the nation.
The data from the most recent Summary Report (for year 2005) are summarized in the following
table. The assessment was carried out in 56 districts, 48 of which met a satisfactory number of
"minimum conditions" while 8 did not. All of the I@MAK pilot districts met the minimum
conditions. However, only 6 of the 8 (75 percent) met all of those minimum conditions
(compared to 77 percent of all districts). Four of the pilot districts (50 percent) were penalized by
a decrement in their budget as compared to 25 of all districts (45 percent).




                                Performance of Districts in 2005 Assessment



                                                    44

                                                Met all
                Pilot districts   Minimum
                                  conditions   minimum    Reward      Static     Penalty
                                               conditions
          Arua                       met          x                                x
          Mbarara                    met          x                                x
          Itojo (Ntungamo)           met          x                                x
          Sironko                    met                                x
          Mbale                      met          x                     x
          Rakai                      met          x          x
          Yumbe                      met                                           x
          Kampala                    met          x          x


          Overall                  48 met         43        15         16          25
                                  8 not met


Mbale was one of only two districts penalized on "Staff Functional Performance Monitoring and
Mentoring." While 15 districts in the Northern, North-Eastern, and Eastern Regions were granted
waivers from requirements on local revenue generation because of rebel insecurity and cattle
rustling, none of the pilot districts for the I@MAK project were considered sufficiently affected.

While it is difficult to draw any conclusions from this data, there is no indication that the inputs
from the I@MAK project made the pilot districts perform more successfully than did districts in
general. Of course, 2005 may have been too early for such impact to be seen, the indicators too
crude to show the impact, or other factors may have intervened.

Comments on the Economics of the Research Component

The quantitative economic evaluation of research is difficult at best. It does not seem possible at
all in the case of this project. The value of a research program is based on the value of its
individual research grants, which may differ greatly from one another. Often a small number of
successful and valuable research efforts justify an entire program. The value of such results
typically can only be calculated long after the research results are completed. The overall growth
in knowledge intensive economic activity has been seen to justify national expenses on research
and development.

In this project, research has several purposes. It has the nominal purpose, developing information
that is useful in making policy for local government and/or implementing local government
programs. For grants funding graduate and undergraduate students (including grants funding
faculty who employ students in their research projects), there is an educational benefit for the
student. Further, the research activities and results are informing curriculum development,
university reform, and teaching.

The ability to do good research and the ability to effectively disseminate and utilize research
results develop with experience. Thus this program, which innovates by sponsoring research in
universities to serve the needs of local government, has an aspect of investment in the social
capital of the research system. That too would seem to be important, but immeasurable.




                                                   45

The Ugandan Government and the donor community have accepted the principle that additional
research and development is economically justified in Uganda. This project used acceptable peer
review and decided to fund appropriately qualified grant recipients for research that was justified
as relevant to local government and thus to general socio-economic development and poverty
alleviation. It is likely that the benefit to cost ratio is acceptable.

The grant made to each Masters student for thesis research was US$3,500. At this low level of
funding, average benefit per project need not be too great. As noted above, those benefits
included the educational gains to the student, the contribution made to university capacity, and
the knowledge generated. The theses were on topics related to local government, and benefits
should have derived from their use by the local government involved even if, as has been
reported, few of the results have been more widely disseminated. In addition to these (partial
Masters) grants, 82 local government officials received full scholarships to obtain (full) Masters
degrees. While there was research output from this program, it is considered to be a form of
support for capacity building for the pilot-district local governments.

Financial Analysis: Overall Budget Allocations

The project expenditures were below those originally projected for the first two years of the
project. The secretariat notes such disbursement delays are frequent in World Bank projects in
Uganda. Because the project was extended for a fourth year, the Rockefeller Foundation added
resources, and as the exchange rate increased the value of the World Bank-contributed Special
Drawing Rights, it was necessary to revise the project budget.

In that process, according to data supplied the I@MAK secretariat revised the budgets for the
four components as follows:

   · Component 1 (Enhanced Academic and Institutional Capacity) was increased from $3.57
        million to $5.46 million. The increase was primarily in the sub-components for academic
        decision-making ($0.46 million), internships ($0.74 million), and project support ($0.55
        million).
   · Component 2 (Local Government Capacity Building by Universities) was decreased from
        $4.37 million to $4.23 million. However the curriculum development subcomponent was
        reduced by $0.58 million. Moreover, a significant portion of this subcomponent's funding
        was directed toward curricula in the university for their regular students, rather than for
        curricula targeted to local government officials in degree and diploma programs which
        incorporated on-the-job and distance education approaches (as originally intended
        according to the PAD). The budget for continuing professional education in priority areas
        ($0.1 million) was eliminated. The budget for collaboration with the Uganda Local
        Government Association ($0.15 million) was eliminated. A sub-component to support
        university for technology and other innovations in two model villages was added ($0.33
        million).
   · Component 3 (Enhanced Policy Research and Formulation Capacity) was increased from
        $1.55 million to $1.8 million. The budget for research by faculty members was increased
        by $0.54 million, while that for graduate students was decreased by $0.11 million, as was
        that for collaboration with the Global Distance Learning Center (by $0.07 million).



                                                     46

       Budgets were eliminated for planning for strengthening linkages ($0.02 million);
       international comparator visits ($0.02 million); expert witnesses ($0.02 million); and
       computers, software and office equipment ($0.07 million).
   · Component 4 (Monitoring and Evaluation) was decreased from $0.51 million to $0.26
       million, primarily by reducing the budget for the baseline and annual surveys (by $0.10
       million) and eliminating the "unallocated" category ($0.15 million).

As of September 30, 2006, the actual expenditures were 104 percent of those in the revised
budget for Component 1, 94 percent for Component 2, 64 percent for Component 3, and 27
percent for Component 4.

The net effect of these changes was to increase the overhead for the project and to change the
balance among the components. The loss of evaluation data reflected in the M&E budget
decrease reduced the learning possible from this LIL. The final project budget allocates more to
enhancing academic capacity and less to enhancing local government capacity that was
originally intended. The ICR team has noted that the PAD does not address how the balance
among components of the project is to be maintained or changed during implementation. The
secretariat and I@MAK.COM strongly rejected the suggestion that the balance had been
changed during implementation in favor of the university community. The ICR team suggests
that the change was inadvertent, resulting from the nature of the decision processes used in the
project and some deficiencies in the original project documentation.

Financial Analysis of Inputs by Priority Field

The following two tables provide the distribution of funds for major activities by priority field of
study:

                     Scholarships for LG Staff                       Internships

                       Undergraduate       Masters         Total

                                                          Amount             Amount
                       Amount (Ush)     Amount (Ush)       (Ush)             (US$)

        Agriculture    387,331,200      300,246,109     687,577,309          494,431

        Education       67,446,000      259,529,181     326,975,181          779,285

        Financial      287,268,000      275,871,968     563,139,968

        Governance     316,898,362      259,257,928     576,156,290          428,026


        Medicine       282,989,805      174,032,449     457,022,254          308,092

        Technology     356,320,400      208,445,516     564,765,916          476,919

        Total          1,698,253,767    1,477,383,150   3,175,636,917      2,486,751




                                                 47

                                 Student Research Grants                             Staff Projects

                         PhD Research           Masters Research        Total
                                s                                      Amount
                         Amount (US$)            Amount (US$)           (US$)        Amount (US$)

    Agriculture             140,000                 38,500             178,500          367,968

    Education               175,000                 73,500             248,500          109,405

    Financial                70,000                 70,000             140,000           97,196

    Governance               35,000                 94,500             129,500          547,648

    Medicine                140,000                 98,000             238,000          324,704

    Technology               70,000                 24,500             94,500           354,338

    Total                   630,000                 399,000           1,029,000         1,801,259

All the priority areas benefited from a variety of inputs and activities.

Financial Analysis of Inputs by Partner Institution

The following three tables indicate that, as expected, the majority of the funds for this project
were spent in the lead institution, Makerere University. They further indicate that there was
significant sharing of activities and budgets with the partner institutions.


                                                               Scholarships for LG Staff
                                                Undergraduate          Masters               Total

                                                    (Ushs)          (Ushs)                  (Ushs)

Islamic University in Uganda (IUIU)                                  182,980,204          182,980,204

Makerere University                              1,698,253,767       736,374,630        2,434,628,397
Mbarara University of Science and Technology
(MUST)                                                               171,995,106          171,995,106

Uganda Christian University, Mukono                                  91,646,652           91,646,652

Nkozi University                                                     91,284,430           91,284,430

Nkumba University                                                    203,102,128          203,102,128

Uganda Management Institute (UMI)I                                                             -


Other Universities ( Kyambogo, Ngetta, Kabale)

Total                                            1,698,253,767      1,477,383,150       3,175,636,917




                                                    48

                                                         PhD ResearchMasters ResearchInternships


                                                            (US$)        (US$)          (US$)

      Islamic University in Uganda (IUIU)                                28,000

      Makerere University                                   630,000     234,500       2,419,396

      Mbarara University of Science and Technology (MUST)                52,500         67,356

      Uganda Christian University, Mukono                                   -

      Nkozi University                                                   14,000

      Nkumba University                                                  31,500

      Uganda Management Institute (UMI)                                  38,500

      Other Universities (Kyambogo, Ngetta, Kabale)

      Total                                                 630,000     399,000       2,486,751



                   Principles of decentralization      VC Award               Staff projects

                             Expenditure                                      Expenditure
                               (US$)                Expenditure (US$)            (US$)

IUIU                        34912.54146                                         3,000.00

Makerere                    196702.8655                  79,000               1,688,090.47

MUST                        37117.39646                  8,000                 77,047.80

Mukono                       7442.05985                  5,000

Nkozi                       26689.43815                  8,000                 30,120.00

Nkumba                       6936.48841                                             0

UMI                         21498.68469                                         3,000.00
Other Universities
( Kyambogo,
Ngetta, Kabale)             3720.922047

Total                       335020.3966                 100,000              1,801,258.27




                                                    49

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

            Names                          Title                 Unit      Responsibility/
                                                                              Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Modupe A. Adebowale       Senior Finance Officer                LOAG2
Edith Ruguru Mwenda       Senior Counsel                        LEGAF
Rajat Narula              Senior Finance Officer                LOAG2
Miguel-Santiago da Silva
Oliveira                  Finance Analyst                       LOAG2

Richard Olowo             Senior Procurement Spec.              AFTPC
Martin Onyach-Olaa        Urban Specialist                      AFTU1
Patrick Piker Umah Tete   Senior Financial Management Spec.     AFTFM



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                      No. of staff weeks        USD Thousands (including
                                                                travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                                                      1.47
  FY02                                         9                           56.70
  FY03                                         2                            3.24
  FY04                                                                      0.00
  FY05                                                                      0.00
  FY06                                                                      0.00
  FY07                                                                      0.00
                          Total:             11                            61.41
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                                                      0.00
  FY02                                                                      0.00
  FY03                                         7                           35.65
  FY04                                       14                            63.09
  FY05                                       18                            93.81
  FY06                                       10                            73.48
  FY07                                       10                            47.00
                          Total:             59                          313.03




                                           50

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)
This is a Core ICR, but has some features of an intensive learning ICR. The following are
beneficiary survey findings from the "Outcome Assessment Study".

Beneficiary Survey Findings
Undergraduate and graduate training of local government staff. Sixty-eight percent of local
government staff was expected to complete training within three months of project completion.
Staff who have not completed their studies will be able to continue through special arrangements
and follow-up funding from the Rockefeller Foundation]. Of the 74 students who completed
their courses, 80 percent returned to local government. Of these returnees, 53 percent returned to
previous positions, 39 percent were promoted, 7 percent lost their jobs, and 2 percent were
deployed in positions lower than prior to training. Of those who lost their jobs, a major reason
was due to restructuring during the training program. Of 111 students who responded to the
question on relevance of the training, 74 percent said the training had improved their skills, 53
percent stated that they have been empowered with knowledge, and 36 percent mentioned
improved quality of work. On average, there were increases in staff supervised (54 percent of
respondents), volume of work undertaken (70 percent of respondents) and management-type
responsibilities for returnees (69 percent of respondents). The vast majority of supervisors of
returnees observed new skills that could be attributed to training. The project increased degree
holders by 25 percent. An estimated 69 percent of participating staff would not have undertaken
the degree courses without such sponsorship.

The internship program. Five out of seven faculties confirmed that the internship program
supported by I@MAK.COM differs from what had existed. Changes include increased student
placement, hands-on experience, better supervision and evaluation, adequate funding, and the
program's incorporation with the curriculum. Only 5 percent of student interns reported no
benefits. Others reported benefits: 45 percent, acquiring hands on skills; 38 percent, exposure to
a working environment; and 23 percent, gaining confidence. From the perspective of the
academic staff, the internship program contributed to positive changes in the participating
facilities and the University in general. (In their evaluation, 17 out of 21 field supervisors
expressed lack of information on what exactly to do with the interns. The report also stated, "All
districts noted that the students of Education had been deployed to the schools without the
knowledge of either the Human Resource Manager or the relevant District Officers. This way
therefore, the students could not be supervised by the relevant Departments in the District".)

University capacity building. Of the participants in Basic Principles of Decentralization short
course, 82 percent reported improved understanding of decentralization, 34 percent reported
skills improvement, 80 percent reported using the acquired skills and knowledge, 72 percent
indicated improved performance, and 24 percent noted no change in their performance. Of the
participants in pedagogical workshops, 94 percent reported using the acquired skills and
knowledge, 92 percent indicated improved performance, and 9 percent saw no change in their
performance.

Research on decentralization. The vast majority of grant recipients viewed their research
projects as driven by personal interest or job requirements, and only a few reported that their



                                                51

research was driven by the focus on decentralization. Forty out of 49 partial Masters students
indicated they would have pursued research without I@MAK support. Ten out of the 13 PhD
students responded similarly. Seven out of 11 staff said that they would not have done the
research without I@MAK funding. However, most of the respondents reported that the funding
had helped them meet their goal. Most research has not been completed; therefore results have
not been disseminated. Of 11 staff researchers interviewed, 7 had clearly defined dissemination
mechanisms--workshop/seminar, local government/line ministry, and journals. Even at a
preliminary stage, some findings have been utilized for policy research. Two-thirds of students
and half of faculty complained of delays in fund disbursing and other administrative problems.

Improving curriculum. Thirty-two participants in development of various curriculum programs
(28 from Makerere University and 5 from Mbarara University) were interviewed. Prior to being
made operational, a new or revised curriculum went through four-step process with faculty,
faculty board of studies, faculty senate, and university council. New courses had been developed
with new approaches, such as problem-based learning or distance learning, of which 12 had
received faculty approval. The revised curricula for health professional shifted from lecture- and
laboratory-based training to problem-based training, integrated with real life health problems and
community health needs. Degree or diploma courses and short courses were developed. As part
of curricula development, staff also prepared instructional materials. These included a manual for
the training of sub-county health workers in cytological screening services, and a "Trainer's
Guide in the Teaching of Mental Health in the District."




                                                52

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)
Stakeholder Workshop Findings. A stakeholder workshop was held on November 25, 2006,
specifically in support of the ICR preparation. About 70 participants included local government
officials, ULGA officials, student and faculty researchers supported by I@MAC, faculty
involved in curriculum development efforts, scholarship students from local governments,
members of the contracted evaluation team, I@MAK.COM members, and members of the
secretariat, as well as two ICR team members. Six community practice meetings (considered in
part stakeholder meetings) were held in the target districts, involving university and local
government staff members. Makerere University holds stakeholder meetings, focusing on the
donor community, every four years. The Partnerships in National Development meeting was held
in April 2006, and while it did not focus uniquely on I@MAK, it is relevant to this report.
Reports from all these meetings were made available to the ICR team.

November stakeholder meeting. The presentation of the Outcome Assessment Study was well
received. The stakeholders invited to the meeting by the I@MAK secretariat unanimously
reported favorably on the project. There was strong support among gathered stakeholders for the
continuation and scaling up of the program. Indeed, there was interest from other local
governments to have the I@MAK program expanded from the original pilot districts to go
nationwide. It was suggested that the model villages (now only two) should be replicated more
widely as well. Senior officials from districts chosen for pilot projects reported that their districts
were stronger now. Partner universities are starting innovation programs modeled after I@MAK,
and it is likely that other Ugandan universities would do so if given the chance. Student
scholarship beneficiaries reported gratitude for the support, as did recipients of research grants.
Senior officials from partner universities reported positive experience in the partnership with
Makerere. The Vice Chancellor of Makerere reported that the project had contributed to the
strengthening of the organization. Faculty members expressed satisfaction with the results of
funded curricula reform and internship programs, and gratitude for the support.

Communities of Practice. The community of practice meetings included briefings on I@MAK.
Participants documented the many problems faced by local government in Uganda, including
major unmet needs for service, poor facilities, inadequate staff, and lack of funds. Comments
were generally supportive of I@MAK's contributions to capacity building. Concerns were raised
such as the difficulty of paying increased salaries for returnees from long-term training (who
might be expected to earn more) and difficulties in replacing the trainees during their training.

Partnerships in National Development. This meeting gathered the donors supporting Makerere
for a report on the development of the University. Since Makerere became independent in 2001,
its senior officials have been elected rather than appointed by the government. Makerere is
focusing its efforts on key subjects, such as science and technology, and is increasingly taking
the role as a provider of graduate education. It continues to have financial problems. It is
supported by a number of donors, including the Norwegian Government, SIDA/SAREC, the
Pfizer Corporation, the Carnegie Corporation, and the Rockefeller Foundation.




                                                 53

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Decentralized Service Delivery, A Makerere University Training Pilot: Cr 3624
Implementation Completion Report, December 2006

Background
The Decentralized Service Delivery, A Makerere University Training Pilot project (2002-2006)
was part of a capacity building program for decentralization. In collaboration with five
universities, and one other tertiary institution, Makerere University mounted this project as a
responsive initiative to address the government policy of decentralization through capacity
building. This was the first time that government planned together with a tertiary institution to
address a government policy through higher education institutions.

Activities for the program were informed by a primary research carried out by Makerere Institute
of Social Research on the "Demand for Human Resources from the Perspective of the District"
in 2000. The program set out to explore and document lessons that would inform the
improvement of capacity building interventions by higher education institutions through the
learning and innovations loan.

Specifically, the project objectives and design were relevant not only to Makerere University and
its partners but were critical to the success of development efforts in Uganda. The program not
only underpinned the role of higher education in national development but also highlighted the
need for support from government and development partners to meet its surmounting challenges
of providing and increasing quality research and relevant education. The partnering institutions
to Makerere University were Mbarara University of Science and Technology, The Islamic
University in Uganda, Nkumba University, Uganda Martyrs University, Uganda Christian
University, and the Uganda Management Institute.

The program focused on strengthening decentralized service delivery, with specific emphasis on
six areas--health, agriculture, engineering, education, governance, and financial management--
that have strong potential to contribute to the overarching strategic results of the Poverty
Eradication Action Plan (PEAP). The creation of local government capacity was seen as
instrumental to improve service delivery and contribute ultimately to poverty reduction. Higher
education institutions are better placed to offer sustainable capacity building and provide a
continuum of activities including research, skills building, career development and curriculum
reviews, which are likely to outlive the external-driven capacity building interventions. The
program was mutually beneficial to both government and higher education institutions.

Assessment of Project Objective

Design
The Project Development Objective (PDO), as outlined in the Development Credit Agreement,
was to "develop an effective and replicable mechanism for the improvement of public service
delivery at local government levels through the improvement and restructuring of educational
and other training services offered by Makerere University and Partner Institutions".
Commitment and involvement of the various players/stakeholders (government, local



                                                 54

government, and higher education institutions) at the design phase facilitated a sharper
interpretation and internalization of the PDO. This translated into a harmonization of the
versions of the PDO in both the Project Appraisal Document and Development Credit
Agreement. The working version of the PDO that is transcribed in the Project Implementation
Plan--the document that guided the implementation of the project--was "To facilitate the
central government, higher education institutions and local government councils to jointly build
relevant capacity for improved and sustainable service delivery that would contribute to poverty
reduction through innovations". In essence, the development objective focused on key
operational areas of sustainable capacity of higher education institutions, namely teaching;
curriculum review and research through innovations.

Implementation
The project was implemented by a committee made up of representatives of Central Government,
higher education institutions, local government, and an external member from Kenya and
Tanzania. The committee adopted a flexible mode of operation, which comprised of continuous
assessment of performance and participatory decision-making.

Achievement can be viewed at three levels:
    · Higher Education Institutions. The capacity of higher education institutions to reorient
       their curricula with the objective of continuously producing graduates relevant to the
       needs of society, while at the same time engaging in basic and applied research.
    · Local Governments (Politicians/Technical Staff). Creation of a critical mass of staff in
       pilot local governments with relevant and immediately applicable skills for service
       delivery, good governance and poverty reduction.5
    · Central Government. Contribution to policy formulation and review through basic and
       applied research.

Evaluation of Performance

Evaluation
The project team rates the performance as highly satisfactory. While the project had a late start,
it outperformed expectations on all established indicators. In spite of challenges in the
monitoring and evaluation component, there has been a consistent satisfactory rating by all
supervision missions, reviews, and stakeholders. Indeed the project was lauded as having the
potential to improve capacity building in a sustainable manner by the IEG (formerly OED).
Likewise the project was rated among the top ten in Africa in the preparation of comprehensive
Financial Monitoring Reports. The project's outstanding performance is attributed to the
following:

    1. Flexibility in operation. The project was treated as a learning process and the project
       team periodically reviewed established operational guidelines. This provided an avenue
       for learning outcomes and redress when the need arose;



5These pilots were in Arua, Kampala, Mbale, Mbarara, Ntungamo, Rakai, Sironko, and Yumbe. These 6 districts
    have now been split into more than 15 districts benefiting from the pilot project.


                                                        55

    2. Ownership of the project was high. A joint planning team of Ugandan University and
        government staff worked for several months in the preparation of the capacity-building
        program. This team transitioned into the I@MAK.COM, the governing body of the
        project.
    3. Commitment to the project was unsurpassable. Members' attendance of all business and
        policy meeting was on average 90 percent. The Ministry of Finance senior government
        officials and senior university academics committed a great amount of time to this project.
    4. Implementation was based on empirical evidence. The Makerere Institute for Social
        Research conducted a study of staff capacity and staffing needs of local government prior
        to the commencement of the project.
    5. Partnership and collaboration were strong. The project benefited from a long-term
        relationship between the Rockefeller Foundation (Bank's partner) and Makerere
        University. The Bank team had working experience with Ugandan local governments.
        There was a unique collaboration between the two funding bodies, which created a
        synergy that brought together the higher education institutions and the local governments
        in an appropriate environment for a learning innovation loan.
    6. Project team was well prepared. At the onset of the project, the implementation team
        received "quality at exit" training in the execution of World Bank-funded projects.
    7. All players contributed to team effort. There was a demonstrated evidence of team work
        by all players involved. The team leader and the Rockefeller Foundation participated in
        periodic reviews by I@MAK.COM. This facilitated fast operationalization of decisions
        and shortened the approval process in cases where a different operational arrangement
        was agreed upon.

Implementation
Overall, the project was able to achieve what it set out to do. All indicators were outperformed.
The committee undertook policy and budgetary reviews at every stage of project implementation.
As a result of the committee's interventions, per-activity allocations were revised and more
activities were actually carried out than had been outlined at project inception. The versatility of
the committee, combining government, universities, and local government officials to make
decisions that affect academic institutions greatly contributed to this success. Credibility of the
secretariat and Makerere in the eyes of stakeholders grew during the implementation, as had
been hoped. Coordination with University policies was strong and I@MAK.COM formally
became a subcommittee of the Makerere University Faculty Senate.

As a result of this intervention the project was able to accomplish the following:

Equip University staff and students with a better understanding and appreciation of the needs
of Ugandan society from the perspective of service delivery. Specifically the project has been
able to make University staff understand the major policies of government, especially those
aimed at reducing poverty and other governance issues. This was achieved through a tailor-made
course, "Basic Principles of Decentralization," which was offered to 1,135 staff of collaborating
higher education institutions, Central Government, and local governments. The course had
impact on teaching, research, and community outreach while at the same time highlighting the
role that local governments can play to influence higher education curricula. A collaborative
arrangement among higher education institutions and between higher education institutions and



                                                  56

local governments has emerged and is shaping how institutions relate. Several activities of this
project helped to increase the relevance of their training programs to Ugandan development
needs.

Review existing and or develop new curriculum with a view to orienting it to the knowledge
and skills gaps identified in government and particularly the local governments. Thirteen new
curricula were developed, 42 were reviewed. As a result Makerere and other partners can
produce graduates that can better respond to the needs of society. Through field visits and
research, academic staff were exposed to real life situations. This has augmented the teaching
delivery modes with relevant and practical examples.

Equip students with practical skills and experiential learning through internships and field
work. At inception the project expected to take 400 interns. Due to sustainability reasons,
facilitation per student was reduced enabling 8,137 students from Makerere and Mbarara
University of Science and Technology to participate in the internship program. This was more
than 2,000 percent over the expected output. These students benefited from the experience of
practicing professionals, and 59 local governments benefited from the increased human resources.

Create a critical mass of knowledgeable and experienced staff in each pilot by providing
career training at undergraduate and Masters level.             From the pilot districts, 113 local
government staff received full undergraduate scholarships (more than the DCA target of 60) and
82 received full Masters scholarships (more than the DCA target of 20). Most students returned
to district government jobs during University vacations. The follow-up study of beneficiaries
indicated students received good grades. Those who had completed their courses (95
undergraduates and 40 full-time Masters) indicated a high return rate (80 percent). The returnees
generally reported increased work assignments or supervisory responsibilities. Their supervisors
also positively rated the graduates with enhanced abilities. This aspect of the pilot programs
contributed to the emerging discourse in Uganda that such staff must be offered career
development opportunities and not simply skills training. This principle is being adopted for the
successor project of Local Government Development Project 2. Additionally, the Ministry of
Local Government has established minimum university degree requirements for key positions
(e.g., sub-county chiefs) as part of the recent restructuring program.

Benefit local government staff through participation in short courses, including refresher
courses. The universities involved in the project successfully developed a menu of appropriate,
well-designed short courses and degree programs aimed at strengthening the skills and capacity
of the staff of local government. Some of the courses have been adopted as part of the priority
training programs in the Ministry of Local Government for which the local governments can
contract authorized providers, including Makerere and its partner institutions, for training and
educational services. Capacity building in local governments was not limited to technical staff.
The project also supported 73 political leaders from pilot districts. They benefited from training
on the political roles and responsibilities in a decentralized environment.




                                                  57

Stimulate competition in service delivery through the Vice Chancellor's local government
award for innovations. The three-year initiative gave first, second, and third place prizes to local
government achievements in innovation. These prizes served to draw national attention to
important innovations made at the local level and to encourage wider efforts to innovate.

Stimulate competition in academic innovation through the Vice Chancellor's academic
excellence award for innovation. Eight awards were given to deserving projects, both curricular
and research, in the participating universities. Some technologies, such as the soil kit and the soil
stabilized building materials, have been disseminated and adopted through the model villages.
Government has adopted the use of soil stabilized building materials to construct teachers'
houses less expensively.

Strengthen collaboration between higher education institutions and local governments. The
project worked closely with the Ugandan Local Governments Association (ULGA), including 52
weekly radio programs; development of the ULGA website--www.ulga.org; establishment and
holding of 7 communities of practice. The communities of practice served to disseminate the
Vice Chancellor's award-winning innovations and draw attention to key service delivery issues.
As a result, the ULGA has been strengthened, as has the Universities--Ministry of Local
Government cooperation.

Support staff and student research on and for decentralization. A significant amount of
research was funded, far beyond the original targets. As a result of the budgetary revisions, 116
instead of 75 Masters students, who had already completed course work, were supported to
undertake research. The DCA target was 15 students. Forty-three students have since completed
their Masters programs. In addition 18 staff at Makerere University were supported to undertake
PhD-level research. Sixty-six staff from Makerere and partnering Institutions were supported to
undertake research projects.

Disseminate Research Results. Research has been disseminated through the model villages,
presentations at international and national conferences, publication in refereed journals,
exhibitions, newspapers, and stand-alone books. The outcome assessment study revealed that
little had been done to disseminate the results from the student research. Sixteen publications
that can improve service delivery by local government and serve as teaching materials resulted
from the project. For example, a dictionary was produced that explains the terminology of
decentralization in the local context of Uganda. `Enkuluze' Luganda dictionary was produced.
Teachers and student Swahili books were produced for primary schools.              A manual was
produced for those training local health workers on how to deal with mental health problems. A
book was published on the proper use of indigenous construction materials. The project also
initiated the Makerere University research journal, which will ensure that project research
materials and other research get appropriate venues for dissemination.

Build institutions of excellence. The project provided for study tours in an effort to benchmark
good practices and to facilitate the establishment of institutions of excellence relevant to local
needs. Four faculties from Makerere visited universities in Thailand, South Africa, the United
Kingdom, and the United States. One of the offshoots was the establishment of two model
villages (Obayia in Arua and Nsumba in Rakai districts) to disseminate research findings and
directly link higher education institutions to local conditions.

Procure an M&E consultant.        Initial baseline surveys that ought to have informed subsequent
M&E in the pilot districts were unsuccessful after two initial attempts to contract an external


                                                  58

evaluation firm. The information on the impact of the effort in the pilot districts may therefore be
inadequate for evaluation purposes. Nonetheless, the substantive report on local government
capacity done by the Makerere Institute for Social Research as part of the preparation for the
project has been used to substantiate the evaluation of project implementation.

Lessons Learned


   · Universities as a constituent component of the higher education system are better placed
       to address key government policies even in the African Context. A collective effort by the
       various players is likely to have more impact than individual institutions.

   · Collaboration among higher education institutions is key to quality higher education in
       Uganda through joint programs, including resource mobilization. Before the pilot,
       individual higher education institutions were competing with each other in an
       environment where higher education is marginalized with limited resources.

   · Implementation risks are minimized through robust governance structures (committees
       and existing institutional arrangements) that allow for flexibility in operation (reviewing
       policies and guidelines) to respond to a volatile social, political, and economic situation
       as in Uganda.

   · While higher education institutions impart knowledge through long-term degree and
       skills-building courses, they have a lot to learn from the private sector, and from Central
       and local governments. Service delivery capacity building is a dual track system that
       benefits both the local governments and the higher education institutions.

   · University education can be made more relevant through regular field attachments.
       These have the potential to change the mindsets of students to work in a rural setting.

   · Combining the flexibility of the Rockefeller Foundation and the more structured
       operations of the World Bank provides a balancing environment that ensures
       crosschecked implementation without suffocating the project operations. This has partly
       contributed to the unprecedented absorption capacity of projects in Uganda and has
       enabled the project to continuously access funds for implementation of project activities.

   · Higher education institutions can produce change and innovations relevant to political
       and socio-economic development even with modest amounts of funding.

   · A facilitated and participatory-based process of grant management offers a transparent
       mechanism for accessing competitive, innovation funds.

   · In addition to the traditional supply-driven curricula, university education can be more
       appreciated by the community through direct provision of services and knowledge using a
       demand-driven approach.

Evaluation of Performance for Effectiveness/Lessons Learned

World Bank
Exceptional cooperation and commitment with the first team leader was fundamental to the
success of the design phase and the initial implementation arrangements. Where weaknesses


                                                59

were identified, mitigating measures were put in place (for example, training in the management
of World Bank projects, procurement, and other fiduciary aspects). A holistic arrangement was
realized between the Bank, the Rockefeller Foundation, and the Government of Uganda. These
partners met the project implementation team at periodic policy meetings to review and map out
new implementation issues and procedures. The project received negative support from the first
financial specialist in the country office attached to the project. The ingenuity of the second team
leader eased the implementation of monitoring and evaluation.

Change of the team leader created a lapse in the conceptualization of the design objective and its
constituent activities. Naturally the team leader had to go through a learning curve for effective
supervision. Moreover, this was at a period when a new project in Uganda was being initiated
by the same team leader, addressing components that were similar to the training pilot.

Rockefeller Foundation
The Rockefeller Foundation not only provided the seed funding and a planning phase budget, but
it also facilitated the negotiations that brought the World Bank onto the project. In such an
encouraging environment, the working relationship was smooth and beneficial to both the project
implementation team and the Bank, leading to an exceptional performance of the project.

The flexibility of resources from the Rockefeller Foundation ensured that the project had a
running budget even when disbursements from the IDA Special Account were slow. Most
importantly the implementing team greatly appreciated the nurturing approach of the Rockefeller
Foundation to institutional capacity building, particularly the Associate Vice President and the
first Regional Director based in Nairobi.

Government of Uganda
By design, the project benefited from the Government through participation of the Ministry of
Finance Planning and Economic Development, Ministry of Local Government, and Ministry of
Education and Sports. The commitment by Government and higher education officials to the
implementation arrangements ensured visibility of the program at the national level. The role of
the Ministry of Education and Sports diminished as implementation progressed. This was partly
due to the change in the membership of the committee and redesignation of active participants
through retirement and other avenues.

Proposed Future Arrangements
The higher education institutions involved in the project are committed to reforms that will link
teaching and research to government programs focused on improving service delivery.
Institutional framework has been established to ensure continuation of the synergies created
among higher education institutions and between higher education institutions and local and
Central Government. Local governments will continue to use local higher education institutions
for skills capacity building. Academic and skills development programs developed with the
support of the project have been or are being institutionalized and will be offered by the
institutions on a regular basis. In the immediate future, the Rockefeller Foundation has extended
support for a new 18-months grant to complete some of the activities that have been started. The



                                                 60

grant will also be used to disseminate more research findings and test out new technologies
through incubation centers.

Future capacity building programs in the country will be informed by the lessons learned under
the project. In particular the Uganda Joint Assistance Strategy (UJAS) has been informed by the
same lessons. Discussions are ongoing with government to try and adopt long-term career
development through University training under the proposed successor project to Local
Government Development Project 2. In the long term, Government intends to approach the
Bank to support the higher education sector to scale up the activities undertaken by the pilot.




                                                61

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

The Rockefeller Foundation rates this project highly satisfactory, as the Bank's assessment
attests. We agree that the evaluation delays and loss of opportunity for an appropriate baseline
were unfortunate. However, without these problems, we would rate the project as outstanding or
excellent in the context of Africa and of higher education innovations, and by its own measure of
creative objectives and massive achievements.

Neither the Bank nor the Foundation designed this project. The objectives were crystal clear
from the beginning as the university and government set out to build capacity for
decentralization as Uganda's major vehicle for growth and poverty reduction. Neither Makerere
nor her sister universities had contributed substantially to this goal prior to the project. In order
to move forward in an effective manner, Makerere would need to build its own capacity for the
task simultaneously with implementation. The project design took seriously into account the
need to make I@MAK the engine for the project, build its sustainability by making it a standing
committee of the University Senate, and incorporate the project into the Makerere's three-year
overall Strategic Plan. As a result, practically all university faculty have been expected to fine-
tune research and training toward practical, hands-on problem solving; while external funders
have been drawn in indirectly to support complementary activities. With regard to
decentralization, the project worked closely with central and local governments to ensure that
there was sufficient district-level demand for graduates, as reflected by appropriate terms of
service and salary provision. It also was linked to the Uganda Local Government Association to
assure use of new skills and building communities of practice.

Given that the University had never worked previously with the World Bank or for that matter
with the Uganda government on a development project of this scope, the outcomes of the project,
as documented in the Bank assessment, are astonishingly good. As a result the Foundation has
now approved an 18 month grant for $1.9 million to stabilize results and move the project toward
scale. The new grant also allows for some transitional activities regarding the other universities
and new relationship with the private sector including preparation for entrepreneurship and
market applications of university research. The grant does not include any further training of the
type included under the Bank loan as this should more appropriately be taken up under the next
Bank's Local Government Development Project.

There were many adjustment problems as the university learned to work with the Bank's
requirements for procurement, documentation, and clearances. As a result, there were several
delays, with the stalled establishment of an effective evaluation unit being the most serious. But
while the project did not provide an appropriate baseline measure, monitoring was excellent; it is
not clear that the baseline would have offered reliable measures of impacts or attribution within
the short project timeframe.

As this unique partnership between Makerere University, the Uganda Government, and the
Foundation comes to an end, there is clear evidence that the project has achieved "proof of
concept" by demonstrating that tertiary education institutions can play a crucial role in
improving the human resource capacities for government service delivery while retaining their
intellectual furor and excellence. The rapid progress of the initiative is especially impressive in a



                                                62

context of explosive growth of university enrollment and pressure on Makerere and other
Uganda universities to provide education with immediate financial payoff. As demand rises for
higher education, both undergraduate and graduate, it becomes more, not less, important to shape
such learning in ways that can contribute to Uganda's growth and poverty reduction. The real
issue is whether there are more efficient ways of supporting higher education than have been
realized in the past. These may include new alignment with a socially conscious private sector,
linking centers of excellence within universities across countries, taking full advantage of the
revolution in information and communications, including low power connectivity solutions for
remote communities, and ensuring a healthy feedback loop with lower levels of educations.

Finally, while we rate the risk level for continuation of activities low, especially with strong
donor interest in Makerere, we remain concerned about political tensions in the country that
could impact on future national gains.




                                                 63

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


African Development Bank. 2005. "Uganda Joint Assistance Strategy."

Delius, Asiimwe, and others. 2000. "Decentralization: Human Resource Demand Assessment
   from the Perspective of the District.", Asiimwe Delius et al., Makerere Institute of Social
   Research (MISR), Kampala.

I@Mak.COM and World Bank. 2004. "Issues Paper to Guide Mid-Term Review (June 23, 2004).

I@Mak.COM. 2006. "Bulletin" Issues 1-7 and the Special Edition (November 2006).

Kasozi A. B. K. 2003. "University Education in Uganda: Challenges and Opportunities for
   Reform." Kinshasa: Fountain Publishers.

Makere University and Ministry of Finance Planning and Economic Development. 2004.
   "Decentralized Service Delivery; A Makerere University Training Pilot." Discussion Paper,
   (August 2004).

Makerere University. 2003. "Project Implementation Plan." (January 2003).

Musisi, Nakanyike B., and Nansozi K. Muwanga, 2003. "Makerere University in Transition
   1993-2000." Partnership for Higher Education in Africa.

Ngolovoi, Mary, and Pamela Marcucci. 2006. "Brief Description of the Higher Education
   System in Uganda." (April 2006).

Ogeda, Milton Chwa, and Mary Goretti Nakabugo. 2006. "Documentation of Implementation
   Progress: Status Report as at 30 June 2005." (February 20, 2006).

Ogeda, Milton Chwa, and Mary Goretti Nakabugo. 2006. "Outcome Assessment Study." Final
   Report (November 20, 2006).

Sicherman, Carol. 2005. "Makerere 1922-2000: Becoming and African University.", Kinshasa:
   Fountain Publishers, 2005.

Uganda Management Institute. 2006. "Basic Principles of Decentralization: Papers for a One-
   Week Course conducted by the Uganda Management Institute."

World Bank. 2002. "Uganda - Decentralized Service Delivery; A Makerere University Training
   Pilot Project." Project Agreement (April 10, 2002).

World Bank. 2002. "Uganda - Decentralized Service Delivery; A Makerere University Training
   Pilot Project." Project Appraisal Document. (March 1, 2002.)

World Bank. 2002. "Uganda - Decentralized Service Delivery; A Makerere University Training
   Pilot Project." Development Credit Agreement (April 10, 2002).

World Bank. 2001-2007. Various Aide-Memories, Back-to-office Reports during preparation
   and supervision for the project.
World Bank. 2002-2006. Various Project Implementation Status Reports (ISR) for the project.




                                               64

