Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23762-UG
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4 MILLION
(US$ 5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FOR THE
DECENTRALIZED SERVICE DELIVERY: A MAKERERE UNIVERSITY TRAINING PILOT
PROJECT
LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN (LIL)
March 1, 2002
Human Development 1
Country Department 4
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 1, 2002)
Currency Unit = Uganda Shillings (USh)
USh 1,000 = US$ 0.59
US$ 1.00 = USh 1,700
FISCAL YEAR
July 1   --    June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ALGAF                    Africa Local Govcrnment Action Forum
CAPEP                    Capacity and Performance Enhancing Program
CPAR                     Country Procurement Assessment Report
DCA                      Development Credit Agreement
EFMP                     Economic and Financial Management Project
EPRC                     Economic Policy Research Center
FMR                      Financial Monitoring Report
GDLN                     Global Distance Learning Network
I@Mak.Com                Innovations at Makerere Comminee
ICBP                     Institutional Capacity Building Project
IDA                      International Development Association
LG                       Local Government
LGDP                     Local Government Development Program
LIL                      Learning and Innovations Loan
M&E                      Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS                      Management Information System
MISR                     Makerere Institute of Social Research
MOES                     Ministry of Education and Sports
MOFPED                   Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development
MOLG                     Ministry of Local Govermment
MTEF                     Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
PAF                      Poverty Action Fund
PEAP                     Poverty Eradication Action Plan
PIP                      Project Implementation Plan
PRSC                     Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PRSP                     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RCTB                     Reformed Central Tender Board
SWAP                     Sector-wide Approach Program
UAAU                     Urban Authorities Association of Uganda
ULAA                     Uganda Local Authorities Association
ULGAF                    Uganda Local Government Action Forum
UMI                      Uganda Management Institute
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:       James W. Adams
Sector Manager:       Dzingai B. Mutumbuka
Team Leader:       Preeti S. Ahuja



UGANDA
DECENTRALIZED SERVICE DELIVERY: A MAKERERE UNIVERSITY TRAINING PILOT
PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. LIL Justification                                                                                                                           Page
1.   What is to be learned (why the piloting)? ....................................................................                           2
2. How are the results going to be used (vis a vis CAS objectives and any follow-on                                                           4
operation)?
3.    Other countries or situations where similar efforts have shown promise ................................                                  5
B. Structure of the Pilot
1.   How     will the learning take place9 .......................................................................                            6
2.    Outcome-level test to be conducted .......................................................................                               8
3.    Steps Involved in Implementing the Pilot .......................................................................                        9
4.    Learning Expectations to be Documented in the Pilot ..........................................................                         10
5.    Triggers for a Follow-on Operation .......................................................................                             10
6. Results-based Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements                                       ..11.........................            1
C. Components and their Implementation Arrangements
1.   Project components .......................................................................                                              12
2.    Implementation arrangements .......................................................................                                    18
a. Procurement .......................................................................                                                 20
b. Financial Management .......................................................................                                        20
c. Other .......................................................................                                                       21
D. Risks
1.   Social and Environm          ental Risks .......................................................................                       21
a. Safeguard Policies .............                                                                                                     21
b. Other social risks ....................................................................                                             21
2.    Other Risks ....................................................................                                                       22
E. Main Loan/Credit Conditions
1.   Effectiveness Conditions ....................................................................                                           23
2.    Other ....................................................................                                                             23
F. Readiness for Implementation ....................................................................                                               23
G. Compliance with Bank Policies ....................................................................                                             24



Annexes
Annex 1.        Project Design Summary ...............................................................                                     25
Annex 2.        Project Description ...............................................................                                        28
Annex 3.        Estimated Project Costs ...............................................................                                    36
Annex 4.        Financial Management ...............................................................                                       37
Annex 5.        Project Processing Schedule ...............................................................                                40
Annex 6.        Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .............................................................                    42
Annex 7.        Documents in the Project File ...............................................................                              52
Annex 8.        Statement of Loans and Credits ...............................................................                             53
Annex 9.        Country at a Glance ...............................................................                                        55
Annex 10. Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators                                                                                             57
Annex 11. Options for Distance Leaming, Linkages among Local Governments & Linkages with                                                    60
Institutions of Excellence
MAP(S)
IBRD 31769



UGANDA
Decentralized Service Delivery: A Makerere University Training Pilot Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFCTZ
Date: March 1, 2002                                Team Leader: Preeti S. Ahuja
Country Manager/Director: James W. Adams           Sector Manager/Director: Dzingai B. Mutumbuka
Project ID: P074078                                Sector(s): ER - System Reform & Capacity Building,
ET - Tertiary Education
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL)  Theme(s): Education; Public Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[1 Loan     [ X ] Credit   [ I Grant   [ ] Guarantee    [1 Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $5.00
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                         Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5%                             Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                            Local         Foreign       Total
BORROWER                                                       1.00          0.00         1.00
IDA                                                           4.55            0.45        5.00
ROCKEFELLER FOUNDATION                                        4.55            0.45        5.00
Total:                                                        10.10           0.90       11.00
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF FINANCE, PLANNING & ECON DEV.; MAKERERE UNIVERSITY
Makerere University - Innovations at Makerere Committee
Address: Flat C-5 Lincoln Flats, P.O. Box 16022, Kampala, Uganda
Contact Person: Mr. Samwiri Katunguka
Tel: 256-41-531-067           Fax: 256-41-531-069          Email: IatMak@utlonline.co.ug;
Katungukap_Udoramail.Com
Other Agency(ies):
Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development (MOFPED)
Address: Appollo Kaggawa Rd, Plot 2/4, P.O. Box 8147, Kampala
Contact Person: Mr. Keith Muhakanizi
Tel: 256-41-230290           Fax: 256-41-230163           Email: mkeith(infocom.co.ug
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$ ):
FY          2003      2004        2005
Annual     1.77       1.84       1.39
Cumulative    1.77        3.61      5.00
Project implementation period: 3 years
Expected effectiveness date: 07/01/2002  Expected closing date:  12/31/2005
OCS PAD F-am R.v. Manh, ZIOD



A. LIL Justification
1. What is to be learned (why the piloting)?
Following a period of economic collapse and socio-political anarchy during 1971-85, Uganda has
accomplished an economic transformation over the past fifteen years which has centered around Government
policies aimed at economic liberalization, privatization, fiscal discipline and broad-based public sector
reform. The reform program has produced impressive results, including most notably the achievement of
positive, sustained economic growth (at an average annual GDP growth rate of almost 6.5% over the past
decade), accompanied by financial sector reform, the restructuring of public enterprises and efforts to create
an enabling environment for private sector development. Progress is also evident in the empowerment of
civil society, the adoption of a new constitution, and the streamlining of the civil service under a public
service reform program. A central element of this reform agenda was the introduction in the early 1 990s of
an ambitious decentralization program designed to bring about improved community well-being/quality of
life and popular participation in its achievement. The legal framework for the new program was cemented by
the 1995 Constitution of the Republic of Uganda and the Local Government Act of 1997. After two pilot
phases, the decentralization program was extended to all districts in 1998, and responsibility for supporting
agriculture extension, primary education, primary health care, clean water, and feeder roads has been
devolved to the local governments (LGs); the World Bank has provided support to Uganda's decentralization
program through a number of interventions, the most recent ones comprising the Local Government
Development Program (LGDP) and the Economic and Financial Management Project II (EFMP II) .
Furthermore, in recent years, in the context of the Uganda Government's Poverty Eradication Action Plan
(PEAP) and the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF), Uganda has progressively moved its
development framework towards a more programmatic and sectoral approach and encouraged a coordinated
broadly-based approach to capacity building. Donors have responded well by supporting sector-wide
approach programs (SWAPs), the Poverty Action Fund (PAF), and shifting to budgetary support. The Bank
has actively supported these developments via the introduction more recently of a series of Poverty
Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs) in its lending program.
The concept of local government has thus altered significantly - from an administrative arm of the center to
that of a locally responsive engine of development; increasing levels of decision-making, planning,
managerial and implementation powers and responsibilities are being devolved to sub-national public
authorities. The devolution of service delivery functions, as well as management of financial resources has
exerted considerable pressure on limited LG capacities. At the same time, this expanded role has generated
new relationships among LGs, the central government, the private sector, external assistance agencies and
other stakeholders. These have in themselves stimulated increased demands on the LGs - often particular to
specific districts and sectors.
The expanded scope of work at these levels demands greater diversity and depth of technical and managerial
skills to fulfill mandated functions in LGs. However, shortcomings in human skills, as well as organizational
and systems deficiencies are pervasive at that level. The elements and scope of capacity inadequacies are
revealed by the Uganda government's manpower survey of 1989, the National Capacity Assessment Report of
1996, and more recently by the District Human Resource Demand Assessment (October 2000) carried out by
Makerere University in five representative districts. They report extensive skills gaps in all sectors of the
economy and in all professions, particularly those concerned with policy analysis and formulation, financial
management, accountancy and general management and administration. The critical shortage of trained
human resources and lack of the right composition of skills in district development teams has adversely
affected the implementation of decentralization and other programs at the local level.
Past attempts by the government and donor community, including the Bank, to meet skill deficiencies, have
generally resulted in a multiplicity of short term training programs and seminars addressed to alleviating
2



deficiencies in staff performance. However, often these have been narrow in their coverage, supply driven,
uncoordinated, even ad hoc and have relied heavily on external technical assistance. Furthermore, the
training has generally been oriented to cater to the traditional public service role - concerned with
administration rather than active implementation - and amidst a prevailing culture, within the government
and donor community alike, which tended to look outside Uganda for solutions.
Makerere University, with its main campus in Kampala, despite its long history of producing trained human
resources for Uganda and elsewhere in Africa, was initially not sought out to help meet the capacity needs of
decentralization. Its programs remained traditional and their quality had deteriorated considerably in the '70s
and '80s. As a result, its graduates were perceived as lacking the skills, knowledge and attitudes necessary for
implementation of the new policies and functions. The perception was correct at the time and this issue has
been acknowledged by the University. However, along with the other national transformations of the '90s,
Makerere has also undertaken a process of revitalization. In the past decade, Makerere has moved from the
brink of collapse to a position where it again aspires to become one of the preeminent intellectual and
capacity building resources in the region. It has tripled student enrollment, improved the numbers and
qualifications of staff, raised quality, instigated major improvements in the physical and academic
infrastructure and drastically reduced its financial dependence upon the state. Restructuring at Makerere has
had three central interrelated elements: implementing alternative financial strategies, installing new
management structures and introducing demand driven course work. These specific changes, combined with a
new and uncommon alertness to the benefits of innovation itself, have positioned Makerere to take on
expanded public training responsibilities.
In addition, the University, with financial assistance from the Rockefeller Foundation, has over the last few
years embarked on a restructuring program that has focused on the needs of decentralization, in order to better
equip itself to play a relevant role in the process. The Government of Uganda recognizes the aggregate
capacity limitations in districts for implementing decentralization policies and programs as well as the
renewed potential of Makerere as a contributor to building more relevant public capacity in specific, key areas
from the perspective of local governments. Additionally, Government has initiated a process that should
result in a more comprehensive approach to capacity building, as a sequel to several capacity building projects
currently supported by the Bank and other development partners. The central thrust of this broader initiative is
to ensure adequate public sector capacity to support improved service delivery and private sector
development, especially aimed at the diversification of the economy.
It is against this context that this LIL seeks to develop an effective, replicable and sustainable mechanism for
strengthening the skills and competencies of those responsible for service delivery and management at the LG
level. Moreover, full integration of this intervention with the Government's decentralization and public
service reform programs and capacity building goals is intended. The LIL would pilot a set of innovative
approaches in which Makerere and select tertiary level and other institutions are to be utilized to build
critically required public capacity in support of Uganda's efforts to devolve executive and administrative
authority to sub-national levels. More specifically, the project aims to test responses to vital learning and
development issues confronting Uganda, clustered around the following themes: 1) what approaches, utilizing
a key national higher learning institution (in cooperation with a select number of suitable partner institutions),
can be designed for responding effectively to the significant need for strengthening public service delivery
capacity at sub-national levels? 2) what effective strategies can be put in place to replicate and scale-up viable
efforts for sustainable public capacity development across all districts? 3) in which ways can the key aspects
of local governments' demand for university provision of relevant skills be captured ? 4) how best can
Uganda's tertiary learning institutions be encouraged to reorient their curricula and faculty to address these
emerging public capacity needs? 5) what measures would be necessary to develop and hone the research and
policy analysis/formulation capacity (especially as it pertains to decentralized service delivery) of a number of
national actors (viz., pedagogical and policy research institutions, public agencies and ministries)? and 6)
what modalities can be implemented to allow various stakeholders (pedagogical and research institutions,
3



local and central government functionaries, multilateral development agency and a foundation) to engage in
constructive, cooperative arrangements for supporting positive outcomes in the above-mentioned areas?
The specific focus is on exploring new approaches and modalities in the field of capacity building to achieve
a coherent policy for human resource and institutional capacity development in Uganda. A LIL rather than yet
another full-fledged capacity building operation, in the first instance, will be appropriate for examining what
works best in respect to decentralization and how best to go about it. The project is testing three distinct sets
of innovative learning exercises, which are discussed in further detail under Section B relating to the Structure
of the Pilot.
2. How are the results going to be used (vis a vis CAS objectives and any follow-on operation)?
Document number: IDA/R2000-187 [IFC/R2000-202]    Date of latest CAS discussion: 11/16/2000
The proposed project aligns itself with the assistance goals and objectives proposed in the latest Uganda CAS
for FYO1-03. It was developed through an open, participatory process of consultation with the Government,
private sector, civil society and other donors. Specifically, the project forms an important part of the CAS'
support for two central Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP)/Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP)
pillars. First, it supports the pillar related to "Ensuring good governance and security " through its efforts to
develop an effective, replicable and sustainable mechanism for strengthening public skills and competencies.
This is to be achieved through its focus on strengthening planning and management skills, particularly in the
areas of financial and budgetary management, and capacities for improved accountability and governance at
the local government level, close to the communities. Second, it supports the pillar related to "Directly
increasing the quality of life of the poor" via its efforts to strengthen local capacities for delivery of inter alia
basic health and agricultural services. Additional areas of support that may evolve out of the LIL could
provide for improving coverage of other services perceived to be critical, e.g. basic education, water and
sanitation.
Overall, the LIL seeks to improve the teaching-learning environment, and implementation and policy
analysis/ formulation capacities in the domain of decentralization. Successful execution of this LIL would
contribute toward building stronger local government capacities and improved public service delivery in
Uganda. The LIL offers a means to test an approach that could, on the basis of lessons learned, be scaled up
under follow-on capacity building operations, as discussed below.
Relevance to Follow-on Operations
Much thought was given during project preparation to the question of how best to scale-up the positive results
and lessons emerging from the activities being piloted under the LIL, i.e., how is the learning to be utilized?
First, the ongoing IDA program of assistance for Uganda comprises a number of critical interventions in
support of Government's decentralization efforts. As such, a number of ongoing interventions with public
capacity building activities could benefit from the findings of the LIL. In addition, the results of the Project
testing activity would provide inputs toward the design, preparation and implementation of the future Bank
operations. The lessons learned in the context of this LIL, as well as experiences gained by government
agencies, academia and civil society will be particularly relevant to a potential follow-on LGDP, the possible
PRSC II- which is currently under preparation and the Capacity and Performance Enhancing Program
(CAPEP). More specifically, the next phase of the LGDP would seek to expand the coverage of the activities
piloted under the first operation (including building the capacity of select Local Governments for improved
service delivery, accountability and transparency), broadening support to include other key donors. The PRSC
II seeks to support implementation of the key elements of Government's PRSP/PEAP - strong LGs would
provide the support needed to implement the challenging reforms proposed under the PRSC. Finally, the
findings of the pilot project will provide inputs into the CAPEP effort to expand and take to scale the lessons
of experience and replicable aspects of the LIL pilots. This is of particular relevance to planned CAPEP
4



activities relating to reinforced capacity of the central government to: 1) support decentralization, 2) service
delivery, 3) resources mobilization, and 4) poverty eradication. A strengthened policy formulation, standards/
regulations setting and monitoring capacity at the center, with respect to decentralized services delivery could
result from the absorption of the LIL's findings into CAPEP. Furthermore, competitive financing for
institutional capacity building, aimed at institutions of the caliber of Makerere is expected to be embedded in
the CAPEP. This competitive funding if availed to Makerere, could continue to build on the work of
strengthening and re-focusing the University, with the lessons of the local government capacity building
pilots being picked-up under a number of other IDA interventions.
3. Other countries or situations where similar efforts have shown promise.
Capacity building and institutional development efforts abound throughout the Bank's program and even
within the Uganda Portfolio. While components/activities in support of stronger public sector capacity are
integral to nearly every project in the Bank's Uganda portfolio, currently there are three stand-alone specific
IDA programs dedicated to improving public sector capacity. These include the Institutional Capacity
Building Project (ICBP) which is envisaged to close shortly, the more recent LGDP, and the EFMP II. An
over-arching lesson from these operations (as well as the initiatives supported by other donors) is the
centrality of adopting a more comprehensive, well coordinated and integrated, long-term approach to capacity
building. The major lessons that have been influential in the design of this project are as follows:
* An ad hoc, discrete/project-based approach - to capacity building initiatives has failed to encourage
sustainable, broad-based reforms, as it has tended to be donor-driven, lacking genuine ownership. In
particular, in countries dependent on external financing for capacity building, at times the single most
important variable defining / driving the supply and shape of this support is the objectives /views of the
external funding agency itself.
* Experience from capacity building interventions suggests that the appropriate mix of pedagogical training
and hands-on capacity building measures is required. Furthermore, advanced education in high-quality
academic institutions needs to be accompanied by well-designed placement systems to provide trained
staff with requisite "practical" opportunities, such that they are placed in positions that permit the
utilization of their newly acquired skills.
* The experience with internship programs elsewhere suggests very positive outcomes are possible, but the
lessons include: (i) the faculty/staff supervising the students must have sufficient practical experience to
direct the student; (ii) the internship must balance the needs of the students to learn with the need for the
local government to have a concrete and positive output; (iii) the internship must be based on practical
and focused needs and results rather than on broad or hazy objectives; and (iv) the local staff should be
assured that the interns' role is to complement and not substitute them.
*  Strengthening or transforming an institution - even one of Makerere's stature - to provide capacity
building for local governments takes time. Experience from Latin America suggests that the Universities
which have developed successful programs for local governments have done so over a decade or more.
* Recognizing that capacity building and the assessment of the impact of a broad-based capacity building
program are long-term ventures, it is critical to measure what works well with respect to a capacity
building program over an extended period. As such, appropriate emphasis on a proper monitoring and
evaluation system is necessary.
* Experience from the public and private sectors also suggests that competition is key to effective
performance and results. Opening up competition beyond the Makerere University faculties, to include
representatives of the wider tertiary education community in Uganda, creates the right incentives for
establishing a broadly-based system of capacity building rather than fostering isolated institutions.
5



* An inadequate incentive framework, characterized by low salaries is a key constraint to increasing civil
service productivity and motivating increased effectiveness. As such a capacity building program must be
implemented along-side a comprehensive public service reform program where pay reform, career
development issues, etc. are addressed. Work along these lines is already underway in Uganda.
At the same time there is no experience from Uganda and little from elsewhere at using the LIL instrument to
learn from interventions involving the application of higher education to the task of strengthening public
capacity at sub national levels for improved service delivery. The closest comparable Bank experience comes
from Madagascar where the Bank was instrumental in the establishment of a Foundation for Higher
Education which within the space of a decade transformed an inefficient sub-sector with limited quality
control or accountability into one characterized by academic and financial respectability and responsive to
national economic and social needs. This project like others in higher education, particularly in Africa, has
focused on basic internal institutional change -financial, academic and administrative-for achieving greater
external efficiency. The Madagascar project has also sought to develop higher quality skills relevant to the
labor market and urgent social needs.
B. Structure of the Pilot
1. How will learning take place?
The LIL will contribute specific lessons to ongoing and proposed Bank operations for capacity building and
local government reform, by focusing exclusively on the decentralization process and on a re-oriented role for
the principal national university in contributing to improved understanding and more effective
implementation of that process. The specific themes around which the testing and learning aspects of the
project revolve are detailed below in Section B 2. Additionally, as a learning and innovations loan which
seeks to inform Government and donors, especially, the World Bank and the project co-financier Rockefeller
Foundation's relevant follow-on interventions, the value of designing and implementing a robust Monitoring
and Evaluation (M&E) system is vital. Both output and outcome oriented monitoring and evaluation
arrangements are proposed for the project. These are discussed at length in B6 and the subsequent sections of
the Project Appraisal Document.
The project includes a multi-pronged effort directed at the establishment of adequate capacity (curriculum,
staffing, systems, research and training opportunities for faculty) at Makerere University in order to advance
Uganda's decentralization program. It also includes expanding the outreach and coverage of the training
programs by enlisting the support of a broader set of suitable higher education institutions. The training aspect
(academic short and long-term programs focused at local government staff, as well as hands-on learning
through district internships and field research for students) is to be supplemented through enhanced analytic
and decentralization policy formulation capacity in academia and in the public sector. This enhanced capacity
will be applied to strengthening the skills and competencies of those responsible for service delivery and
management at the LG level, and thereby improve the quality and efficiency of service provision. The work is
being led by ajoint government-university standing committee(Innovations at Makerere Committee or
I@Mak.Com), and incorporates a strategic funding relationship between the World Bank and the Rockefeller
Foundation; this relatively novel working partnership has proved remarkably effective to date.
Increased understanding of several aspects of capacity building, particularly in connection with decentralized
service delivery, are expected to result from this project, especially in the area of institutional and social
innovation as well as improved understanding of different types of participatory organizations. How these
understandings will be arrived at is briefly discussed hereunder.
a) Economic: While it is difficult to measure precisely the economic impact of the training and research
programs over a relatively short (three year) period and given the limited scope of the pilots, the benefits
derived from the improved capacity of the local government functionaries and policy formulators should be
6



evident from their superior performance. A more effective/ productive civil service cadre, would translate
into improved general services and improved govemment-private sector interaction. While precise
measurement may not be feasible, an attempt to assess perceptions of improvement or its absence would be
made through the baseline and annual surveys conducted under the LIL as well as other available, relevant
analytic information, e.g., statistics on poverty, household budget surveys.
b) Institutional: Support for building institutional capacity at Makerere University is at the heart of this
project. Innovations in curricula, course content, course combinations, types of delivery, and the integration
with student training and faculty development of field internships, research experience and knowledge
enrichment programs for faculty and public officials, are among the expected results. The regular surveys
commissioned under the LIL, along with results of Service Delivery Surveys, qualitative assessments
completed by faculty and students, University registration records of degree programs, enrollment statistics
by course, student performance records, learning achievement by course, will monitor the demand for, and
utility of, these changes. Particularly instructive will be the results of competitive award schemes to
encourage outstanding and innovative performance leading to improvements in capacity related to
decentralization, as well as a fund for research on decentralization policy and programs.
Another kind of institutional innovation that is expected to result from the project concerns the relationship
between Makerere and a select number of partner institutions, particularly, other higher education and
research institutions, which could potentially include the Uganda Management Institute (UMI), the Economic
Policy Research Center (EPRC), and newer universities which may provide inputs to course design, training,
supervision or analytic work. In the past, Uganda has had a single dominant university rather than a system of
higher education, and the ability of Makerere to provide leadership and backstopping to the activities of other
institutions involved in the project will be an innovation with potentially far-reaching systemic implications.
c) Technical: The technical innovation possibilities of this project concern the use of appropriate distance
education formats (e.g., audio, video cassettes, radio training modules, floppy and CD-based course material)
to deliver some of the training courses related to decentralization. Another area of technical experimentation
relates to the inclusion of interactive, video-conferencing/ training/ discussion fora via the Global Distance
Leaming Network (GDLN) at UMI, to connect senior Ugandan faculty and public servants in the
decentralization field with institutions of excellence and practitioners elsewhere.
d) Social: The principal social issue faced by this project stems from the interaction between faculty and
students (from an institution heretofore perceived as distant and elitist) with poorly paid LG officials and a
voiceless rural populace. Managing the ability of the university to improve its relevance and responsiveness
to the felt needs of public servants and communities will be the great challenge of this experiment. The
biggest payoff in terms of social benefits would be derived from innovations that lead to improved well-being
of the communities benefiting from the improved public services. As noted above, while it will be difficult to
gauge the full extent and depth of enhanced social well being within the three year project life, lessons related
to this aspect of the LIL can be extracted from the results of the LG capacity enhancement pilot activities.
Additionally, in a country with a govemment which is giving serious attention to the achievement of gender
equality, obstacles to the participation of women as students, faculty and/or trainees will need to be taken into
account, and constant vigilance and sensitivity applied in trainee selection and staff development. There is
little doubt that on both these social dimensions the govemment is committed to reducing the divisiveness that
is inherent in them and could be a potential obstacle to the attainment of project goals. The measurement /
evaluation means and tools listed earlier will also be utilized here.
e) Participatory Processes: This project will yield instructive insights into the potential for four innovative
types of consultation and collaboration. This is the first time that the Government of Uganda has actively
joined hands with the University in a sustained collaborative higher education strengthening process. Second,
the project entails a process of partnership between Makerere University and a few, select pedagogical and
7



research institutions, working in close cooperation toward achieving the objective of this intervention. Third,
the project derives from a process of consultation among the University, government officials at the center
and LG levels, associations of local and urban authorities in Uganda and community representatives (the
intended beneficiaries) in a sample of Uganda's districts. The final set of participants in this process of
consultation and collaboration are the World Bank, the Government of Uganda, the Rockefeller Foundation
and Makerere University. The relatively novel co-financing partnership proposes to marry the flexibility and
quick response time of the Rockefeller Foundation's financial framework with the more regulated approach of
the Bank's financial and procurement framework (see Section C 2 (c) below). The implementation experience
of this LIL will reveal information on operationalizing and sustaining these innovative relationships.
2. Outcome-level test to be conducted
What lessons are to be gleaned and what outcomes are sought from the implementation of the pilots? The
major issues that will be considered will be clustered around the following three inter-linked themes:
(i) the ability of an established university to reorient itself (curriculum, staffing, systems, research,
professional ethos) to make itself relevant and responsive to the country 's needs in several ways. A key area
of emphasis includes improved responsiveness to the comprehensive decentralization program of the
Government. The project will shed light on the ability (creativity, substantiveness and flexibility) of Uganda's
premier university - Makerere - to respond to that demand; it will seek to test the University's demonstrable
aptitude to reorient itself so as to develop and provide appropriate training and undertake research in the field
of decentralized service delivery. This in turn depends not simply on the creation of new courses, curricula,
research and service, geared to the needs of decentralization, but also upon the structuring of faculty and
student experience so that they are professionally sensitized to the rationale for, and potential impact of
decentralization. The pilot will also seek to test the possibility of expanding the outreach of these programs
across various districts via collaboration with other partner institutions. This would be critical for instituting a
process which can truly respond to decentralized demand at sub-national levels - by expanding the spatial
outreach of the programs. Specifically, the following aspects will be examined:
*  Staff perceptions of improvements to working environment, culture, modalities; value-added of the
relatively novel decision making process instituted in the Innovations at Makerere Committee;
*  Perceived qualitative improvements in the domain of decentralization/service delivery policy research
(e.g., perceptions of community representatives and the broader LG community in the pilot districts);
* Learning achievement by course, delivery mode, and tutoring support;
*  Time to completion by course, delivery mode, and tutoring support;
*  Cost effectiveness of learner achievement by course and delivery mode;
* Results of the Internship Pilot; the outcomes of piloting innovative coursework for curriculum
development; strengths/relevance or weaknesses of the Fund for Innovative Excellence and the
Decentralization Research Fund, both from the process point and in terms of contributions to the
objectives at hand; and
*  What materials and approaches, were more useful than others for responding effectively to the significant
need for strengthening public service delivery capacity at sub-national levels.
(ii) a local government level demand-driven approach to the design of training programs and courses in
collaboration with higher education institutions. Uganda's higher education and professional development
training programs have traditionally been supply-driven, without the benefits of a participatory approach
where the express demands of various stakeholders are identified and translated into concrete programs. The
key challenge is to meet the decentralization requirements through the design and effective delivery of
relevant courses and training programs for incumbent and future public officials. While Government has
taken some measures to prepare the devolved staff, there is a need to further build upon this process by
designing and implementing various integrated approaches and course work, in order to identify what works
best in the Local Government context. Initial analytic work has been carried out recently by Makerere with
8



the support of the Rockefeller Foundation to identify the district level training needs and skill gaps that must
be addressed in order to improve public service delivery. In order to make this intervention a success,
qualitative feedback is necessary to judge the results of experimentation and improve performance:
* Learner satisfaction by course, delivery mode, and tutoring support; LG supervisors' perceptions;
* Value of Internship program, from perspective of learners and LG supervisors/instructors;
* Outcome of distance learning formats adopted and more specifically the communities of practice
established and information exchange process established among the pilot districts;
* Results of on-the-job capacity building of District Planning Units for gathering and analyzing information
on service delivery and supervision of students on internships; and
* Perception of qualitative improvement in public services delivered (as gauged) by community
representatives in pilot districts.
(iii) how to facilitate program development andfinancial support involving a number ofpartners. This project
will examine the merits of a relatively untested process of collaboration among the World Bank, the
Rockefeller Foundation, Makerere University, other national institutions including pedagogic and research
institutions, as well as the Ugandan civil society and the Government of Uganda. The arrangement will be
designed to learn from the strengths and build on the comparative advantages of each party. The common
interest in this operation centers on a joint desire to support capacity building for decentralization that would
reinforce the multi-sectoral reform process in Uganda. To this end, the two non-Ugandan development
partners and the Ugandan authorities share a vision that envisages Makerere University as a central vehicle
and catalyst for capacity building. A number of areas are highlighted for monitoring:
* Strengths and weaknesses of the key partnership arrangements. In particular, attention will be devoted to
the successful aspects of collaboration among Makerere University, World Bank and Rockefeller
Foundation, including potential innovative funding mechanisms, as well as to the lessons emerging from
the collaboration between Makerere and the Government;
* Lessons of joint work in decentralization policy research; valuable aspects of twinning between Makerere
and other institutions, especially tertiary education and research institutions;
* Replicable aspects of such collaboration, in particular with respect to the teaching/ learning aspects of the
pilot, such that effective strategies can be identified and put in place to scale-up viable efforts for
sustainable public capacity development in LGs across Uganda; and
* Outcome of the project co-financing modalities agreed between Rockefeller Foundation and the Bank.
3. Steps involved in conducting the pilot
The Rockefeller Foundation's early support for the project combined with the enthusiasm of Government and
University representatives on the I@Mak.Com has over the past eighteen months made it possible for the
Government and the University to make solid progress with respect to the preparatory steps for this LIL.
Makerere University is presently working on a number of activities.
* conducting a baseline study at the Local Government level (including community and District Planning
Units' inputs) to assess the capacity of various Ugandan higher education institutions to meet the
challenges related to the broad human resource demands and skill needs related to decentralization; this
would build on the initial "needs assessment" study undertaken by Makerere in 5 districts, whose results
are guiding the initial attempts at elaborating a syllabus. Its results will also help identify potential partner
institutions;
* encouraging the development of partnerships with other suitable pedagogical and research institutions for
collaborative work;
* implementing a transparent, competitive grant process at I@Mak.Com to elicit and select proposals for
innovative training, reworking of existing programs/courses, research and acculturation activities
(including from partner institutions) related to the University's new role;
9



* reviewing the proposed curriculum, based on the inclusion of selected/appropriate courses and training
programs which clearly meet the objectives of this project in identified service delivery areas within the
context of national priorities.
As the program develops, Makerere has agreed to undertake the following set of activities:
* conducting internships for undergraduate students;
* inducting students identified by Local Governments in the pilot districts in relevant program
areas/disciplines (see Component II below);
*  presenting two highly competitive, transparent annual awards for innovative excellence to: 1) a
qualifying faculty/unit at Makerere and/or a partner institution; and 2) to a qualifying local government;
*  undertaking transparent award of research fellowships to MA and PhD students;
*  fostering strengthened decentralization policy formulation and analytic capacity within academic and
public service cadres;
*  reviewing effectiveness of the pilot programs, courses, analytic work;
*  clear assessment of 1 st year (and thereafter annual) experience and results;
*  provide regular follow-up of trainees;
*  review of national service delivery surveys and tracking studies;
*  conduct mid-term review;
*  assessment of results for revision/replication/expansion of successful features of pilots as appropriate; and
*  formal completion report.
The combined level of measured accomplishment in the categories discussed earlier at the end of three years
project life would form the basis for deciding what follow-on activities are feasible and desirable.
4. Learning expectations to be documented in the pilot
W3 Economic      [x Technical        Fx Social           [x Participation
R Financial      Fx Institutional     D Environmental    R Other
These have been discussed above, under B1.
5. Triggers for a follow-on operation
Success under this LIL will be measured in terms of progress towards 1) meeting its development objectives;
and 2) drawing out of clear lessons from the various pilots. Achievement against specific output indicators
listed in Annex 10, in combination with the broader outcomes of the pilots (see Section B2. above) will help
determine continuation and expansion under follow-on projects, of the positive aspects tested in the context of
the LIL. Results/impact will be assessed annually, as well as at project completion against a baseline review
conducted at project inception, and will inter alia, review achievements/ improvements in the following
broad areas:
*  Quality and Scope of Revised Curricula
*  Capacity Building and Mobilization at Makerere & Other Partner Institutions
* Implementation of the Internship Pilot; Fund for Innovative Excellence; Decentralization Research and
Policy Formulation Fund
* Local Government Capacity Building in Pilot Districts
*  Improved Service Delivery
*  Capacity for Research & Policy Formulation Related to Decentralization
*  Quality of the project's monitoring and evaluation process and its outcomes
10



This project intends to introduce deeper levels of change in the LGs, Makerere University and its partners
than can be inferred from numerical data alone, and qualitative surveys will be conducted to assess
perceptions of improvements in service delivery / public performance level, as well. Specific indicators,
including measures of numbers served, timeliness and quality/satisfactory outcome of responses, will be
developed and measured. The results of such evaluations would help determine whether and how best such
capacity building efforts should be designed and delivered in the future. The sustainability of these results
will be gauged by the continued demand for the re-oriented training and research initiatives, and by the
number of LG officials who receive training under the project and return to District level work. Replicable
aspects of the pilots and lessons of experience will help define the approach of follow-on operations.
6. Results-based Monitoring and Evaluation System
As a LIL, careful assessment and evaluation of pilots' results is key. As such, a specific component of this
project is devoted to monitoring and evaluation. While it is recognized that it would be difficult to gauge the
degree of improvement in public services or in higher education in the various disciplines in the short/medium
term, the project will aim to institute and implement a process of regular reviews and assessment to study
what aspects of the LIL worked or proved to be unsuccessful.
A three-pronged approach to cater to the M&E requirements of this intervention was designed. As such, both
output and outcome oriented monitoring and evaluation arrangements are proposed for the project: 1) to
gauge progress in day to day project implementation; 2) to evaluate the suitability, acceptability and
effectiveness of the various research/training program proposals approved by the I@Mak.Com; and 3) to
gauge project impact, and more importantly, to learn from the pilots '. During the course of the project, the
I@Mak Committee will meet at monthly intervals to oversee project implementation progress and
achievements. The I@Mak.Com Secretariat staff (in-charge of project implementation), and in particular the
Task Manager attached to the Secretariat, is responsible for the continuous monitoring of the project and for
providing regular assessment reports to the financial sponsors. The Committee will also be responsible for the
evaluation of pilot courses, research, and work involving external consultants. Regular inputs will be sought
from other partner institutions, Planning Units and other representatives at Local Government levels. Equally
important, feedback on the quality/relevance/ applicability of the training (from the trainees and LG staff
supervising them) and any perceptible changes in the quality of services delivered (from the beneficiary
communities/ districts) would provide lessons for future work. Relevant findings of the Uganda National
Household Survey, the Demographic and Health Survey, the National Services Delivery Surveys relating to
the health, education, agriculture, water and sanitation sectors, poverty monitoring data and any other relevant
surveys would be reviewed and taken into account. The performance of the LIL will be tracked through a set
of key indicators, developed by M&E specialists (see Component IV below) which will be updated as
necessary. The LIL's Log frame (Annex I) and a broad list of indicators in Annex 10 provide the general
framework for defining appropriate performance indicators for monitoring the delivery of the university
strengthening and the public service capacity building pilot programs and their outcomes. World Bank
monitoring will be conducted by the Task Team Leader who will carry overall responsibility for the conduct
and leadership of supervision missions. The missions will study the implementation records and reports,
The evaluations, especially with respect to monitoring the results of the LG staff training pilots, would focus on the five pilot
districts identified in a District Human Resource Demand Assessment carried out by the Makerere Institute of Social Research (MISR)
in October 2000 and revisited in April 2002. The districts of Arua, Mbarara, Mbale, Rakai and the Kampala City Council, will serve
as the pilot districts. These districts were selected to be a part of the baseline work that was undertaken in the Assessment. Their
selection was based on robust criteria (regional distribution, capacity constraints-relatively new and old districts, rural and urban
issues, etc.). Training fellowships to a selected number of local government staff from the relevant service sectors in these Districts
will be a significant part of implementing this project activity. At the same time, the placement of Makerere students under the sub-
component focusing on internships will be broader than these five districts.
11



accounts and audits and make visits to sample LGs, project sites and participating units in conjunction with
Committee members and Rockefeller Foundation colleagues, as feasible.
C. Project Components and Implementation Arrangements
1. LIL Components
The LIL seeks to support Uganda's efforts at building capacity for improving the quality of decentralized
public services delivery at the LG levels. Its key objective is to develop an effective, sustainable and
replicable mechanism (that is fully integrated with the Government's decentralization and public service
reform programs and capacity building goals) for strengthening the skills and competencies of those
responsible for service delivery and management at the LG level. This is to be accomplished by: 1) equipping
Makerere University to provide relevant skills and competencies (via the development of appropriate training
programs, research, policy formulation and analytic capacity and the re-orientation of faculty and students)
for furthering the goal of effective, decentralized services delivery; 2) supporting capacity building
interventions on a pilot scale in local governments; and 3) supporting research and policy formulation
capacity related to decentralization. A related objective will be the development of collaborative partnering
between Makerere and other suitable institutions across Uganda, primarily pedagogical institutions - in an
arrangement designed to compound the strengths and build on the comparative advantages of each party.
Total project cost is envisaged to be about $11 million, of which the IDA Credit would finance $ 5 million.
The Rockefeller Foundation would provide another $5 million and the Government of Uganda/Makerere
University will provide counterpart funding in the amount of $1 million equivalent. The broad relationships
between project components and the achievement of the development objectives is captured in Figure 1
below.
This project is divided into the following substantive components and sub-components:
Component I. Enhanced Academic Institutional Capacity:
This component is directed at building capacity within Makerere University and providing seed money
toward the development of capacities within a select number of other suitable partner institutions/agencies.
The aim is to strengthen the ability of Makerere and other partner institutes to respond to the human capacity
and research needs of decentralization within Uganda. This component comprises the following sub-
components:
(a) StaffDevelopment: Activities include exposure of Makerere University faculty and professional staff as
well as representatives from other partner institutions to the main concepts and issues of decentralization,
through custom-designed workshops and short-term focused courses; specialized training including highly
selective study tours could also be included, as necessary. The sub-component will support the development
of a resource center on decentralization.
(b) Sustaining Academic Decision Making Mechanism: A joint Government-University committee, the
I@Mak.Com (Innovations at Makerere Committee) 2, comprising high level public servants/technocrats,
University administrators/senior faculty members and civil society representatives has been instituted, and is
driving the re-orientation of the country's premier and largest public University. The Committee holds
monthly workshops/meetings and serves as a clearing house for innovative proposals related to strengthening
the decentralization focus of Makerere's curriculum, research work and operations. It will also serve as the
overall coordination, policy setting and oversight mechanism for the LIL. Activities to be supported include
facilitating its regular workshops and operational activities; additionally, a few highly-focused annual
2 See Project Implementation Plan on the genesis of the Committee and operational record including recent highlights.
12



workshops to exchange relevant experiences and learn of recent thinking and best practices, may also be
included.
(c) Internship Pilot: This pilot is aimed at providing Makerere undergraduates with a strong experiential base
that better prepares them for working in a decentralized operational and administrative environment. It will
also provide the interns with exposure to employment opportunities in districts. Departments will liaise with
technical heads in Districts as well as the planning and personnel units regarding placement. The interns may
be supervised through direct visits to districts by faculty, by collaborating training institutions or by LG staff.
(d) Proiect Support: This will consist of strengthening units within the University that are to be involved in
the implementation of this project, e.g., the offices of the Bursar and the procurement unit. The operations of
the I@Mak.Com Secretariat which is to serve as the nucleus for project implementation, will be supported.
The staff will also be facilitated through provision of pertinent training, technical assistance, computers and
other equipment.
Component II. Pilot Support to Local Government Capacity Building by Universities:
This component would support work on the design and delivery of the pilot training courses and programs in
the selected Local Governments (district, municipal and sub-county levels) directed toward public servants in
relevant departments. While Makerere will take the lead on the activities planned under this component,
collaboration between Makerere and other suitable partner institutions is envisaged in various areas including
curriculum development, delivery of training programs and supervision of students. The undertaking ofjoint
policy research and analytic work is also a potential area of cooperation (under Component III). Efforts will
be made to identify and forge a limited number of diversified and strategic partnerships between Makerere
and other institutions. Any amplification of such arrangements ;Would be informed by the results of these
initial partnerships. The I@Mak.Com has compiled a tentative list of a number of potential partners, on the
basis of available information. These include academic (e.g., the Islamic University in Uganda (IUIU) at
Mbale), Government/quasi-public (e.g., UMI; EPRC) or civil society (e.g., Uganda Local Authorities
3
Association/Urban Authorities Association of Uganda (ULAA/UAAU)) institutions
Additionally, Arua, Mbarara, Mbale, Rakai and the Kampala City Council will serve as the pilot districts,
especially in respect to the Local Government staff development/training efforts (see footnote 1/ regarding
the basis for selection). On the other hand, the placement of Makerere students under the sub-component
focusing on internships will be broader than these five districts (see I (c) above). The following
subcomponents are included under this component:
3A comprehensive study focusing on higher education institutions (to be completed by April, 2002) will be used to identify the most
promising institutions that could collaborate with Makerere in the execution of this project. The study will evaluate the comparative
strengths or areas of weakness of these institutions and the likely form and content of collaboration. The results of the analytic work on
tertiary education institutions will inform and underpin the Committee's decisions in this regard. A sound Partnership Agreement between
Makerere and the collaborating institution will be necessary, to define the scope and nature of services involved, other substantive aspects
and financial modalities of the arrangement.
13



Figure 1
Decentralized Service Delivery: A Makerere University Training Pilot Project
Learning and Innovations Loan (LIL)
Other Factors Affecting
Local Staff Performance;
e.g., salaries; toolsl
Component 1: University                                              equipment; broad
Capacity Development:                                                 goverance issues.
- Staff Development
- Decision Making Process
- Graduate Preparation
- Mobilization
Improved Local                      Improved
Component 2: Pilot Support             Government Skills                   Deliv     
to LG Staff Capacity                     * Strategic Planning &               Lcl
Building by Universities                   Management                         Loca
- Curriculum Development                                                  Government
- Innovative Excellence                  * Govemance                         Services
- LG StaffTraining                       a                th
- Support to Planning Units              * Agriculture & Health              in Pilot
Services                 ~~~Areas
Component 3: Enhanced
Decentralization Policy
Research and Formulation
Capacitqy
- Linkages with Institutions
of Excellence
- Policy Formulation;
Analysis
- Strengthened policy
research in faculties
Component 4: Monitoring &
Evaluation
-   General Performance
Monitoring
-   Leaming from the Pilots
LGDP
PRSCs                  l
PRSP/PEAP           __ 
1 4



(a) Curriculum Development 4: To meet the more substantial and longer-term educational demands of the
LGs, Makerere with inputs from partner institutions, as appropriate, will reorganize/rework existing courses
and develop new courses, including appropriate distance education formats, as feasible. These courses could
be accumulated toward an eventual degree award at the undergraduate and masters level. Curriculum
development in the context of this LIL will initially encompass four broad areas: (i) service delivery in the
key area of basic health/medicine; (ii) agricultural services; (ii) strategic planning and management including
budgeting, accounting and financial management; and (iv) governance/ethics/ accountability. These four areas
are fully consistent with Uganda's national development priorities and are repeatedly highlighted as areas
requiring improvement in various national service delivery surveys and analytic work on poverty eradication.
The work undertaken in these areas will be both highly relevant to the objectives of this project and will be
based on the highly competitive and transparent process emanating out of the I@Mak.Com decision making
process. The primary thrust of all such work will be geared toward one or more of the following central
themes: 1) improved service delivery at local levels; 2) improved decision making/ strategic planning/
analytic capacity at the local levels; 3) improved linkages between local governments and the center.
With a view to fostering genuine competition and real partnership between Makerere and the selected partner
institutions, the latter would also be able to compete for, and access project funds for ground-breaking work
(see footnote 4/), on the basis of clear, tightly defined criteria and a transparent selection process (spelled out
in the Project Implementation Plan, PIP). The curriculum review and modification will be carried out in
collaboration with other relevant stakeholders, including, concerned ministries, public agencies, LG staff and
ULAA/UAAU. In particular, efforts will be made to solicit inputs from the five identified pilot districts.
(b) Fund for Innovative Excellence: An annual Academic Excellence Award comprising a grant of $25,000
will be given by the I@Mak Committee to a Unit from Makerere or a partner institution which is adjudicated
as having demonstrated innovative academic excellence during the course of the past year. Additionally, the
sub-component will support a Local Government Excellence Award by way of an annual grant of $30,000 to
be given by the Committee to a qualifying (pilot district) Local Government, adjudicated as having
demonstrated innovative excellence in a relevant service delivery area during the course of the past year. The
PIP elaborates clear criteria and guidelines for nominating and assessing the "winner" in either category, and
for the utilization and full accountability of the resources. Resources will be directed toward further
strengthening the selected Unit or LG.
(c) Local Government Staff Training Pilot: Workshops, short-term courses and degree programs developed
through the curriculum review work in the areas noted above will be offered by the Makerere Faculties of
Medicine, Agriculture, the Business School, Law/ Communications and other areas relevant to governance.
Training fellowships to a selected number of local government staff from the relevant services in the 5 pilot
Districts will be a significant part of implementing this project activity. This will be supplemented by
sensitization (to objectives of decentralization) visits to the campus by district council members.
The training may also be offered through a suitable partner institution in Kampala, or in the field or via
appropriate distance learning options. Three possible options to connect with and among LGs, and avail
timely information and knowledge to LG staff were considered in the context of this LIL. The options
include: (i) the formation of a Uganda Local Government Action Forum (ULGAF) to establish a partnership
and build communities of practice around various disciplines, e.g., finance, public health, animal/crop
production, extension, etc., among the 5 pilot districts across Uganda. The districts would exchange news,
4An innovative, transparent process for soliciting and evaluating proposals from faculties is already at an advanced stage of
implementation at Makerere with support from the Rockefeller Foundation. This program of competitive funding encourages innovations
in pedagogy, curriculum development, multi-disciplinary research, and outreach relevant to decentralization and poverty alleviation by its
faculty members.
15



experiences and views on issues of immediate and specific relevance, via site/ exchange visits, supplemented
by the more traditional printed material or advanced audio-visual and electronic means; (ii) participation of
LGs (and Makerere/select partnering staff) in the Africa Local Government Action Forum (ALGAF) which
utilizes available distance learning centers in Kampala, Abuja, Accra, Addis Ababa, Dar Es Salaam and
Harare, to offer pertinent courses and broader information exchange relating to various aspects of
decentralization (iii) and the purchase of regular (monthly/bi-monthly) air-time on popular local community
radio network(s) broadcasting to the pilot districts (and beyond). This would facilitate the development of an
instructive Uganda Local Government radio program. These fora would offer the pilot LGs a platform to
exchange experiences on recent innovations in the fields of pro-poor service delivery; reflect on key
implementation challenges; and discuss best approaches to address the operational implications. The ULAA/
UAAU is envisaged to play a coordinating role in these regards.
(d) Support to Local Government Planning Units: This sub-component will provide directed support to
planning units within the pilot districts to strengthen their capacities to function as the strategic foci of
economic planning, statistical and population work. These units can also help play an important role by
providing information related to the status of service delivery in districts, supervision of students on
internships and assistance in monitoring and evaluating the LIL's impact.
Component m. Enhanced Decentralization Policy Research and Formulation Capacity:
The Government of Uganda has traditionally turned to foreign universities and professionals to conduct
research which informs national public policy on decentralization. To balance this practice, this component
will be aimed at strengthening capacity within Makerere University and relevant partner institutions for
undertaking analytic and policy design work. These activities will enable the University to serve as a policy
reference center for a variety of constituencies, including districts, central government ministries,
nongovernmental organizations and donor agencies. A number of specific initiatives have been identified.
(a) Linkages with Institutions of Excellence: The project aims to improve the capacity of Makerere faculties,
EPRC and policy makers in Government for undertaking advanced research and policy work on
decentralization, by supporting the development of linkages to external universities, public management
training centers and other relevant institutions both within and outside Africa. The GDLN at UMI will be
utilized inter alia to connect senior Uganda staff working on these issues, with thought leaders and
practitioners elsewhere. A selection process and guidelines for identifying such institutions is provided in the
PIP. The eventual selection will benefit from consultations proposed under the project.
(b) Decentralization Research Fund for Students: Related to this work, a fund will be set up to finance long-
term research on decentralization by selected M.A. and PhD. students. Various Makerere units, such as the
School of Research and Post Graduate Studies and the MISR will be strengthened to undertake relevant
research. Additionally, MISR will develop and maintain a data base for this research work. Fellowships at
the PhD level, may provide for a sandwich program. Fellowships will be granted and administered in
accordance with transparent criteria.
(c) Strengthening Decentralization Policy Research in Faculties: This component supports capacity building
for policy research and formulation related to decentralization in relevant disciplines by various Makerere
faculties. The development of possible collaborations among University faculties and with other Ugandan
Partner Institutions, would be facilitated through financing of international comparator visits for staff,
collaboration with expert witnesses from other countries, provision of office equipment, as necessary.
16



Component IV. Monitoring and Evaluation:
As noted above, in order to draw lessons from this process of experimentation, and improve performance
along the way, the arrangements for M&E are critical. Under the project, M&E will focus on the following
levels.
(a) General Performance Monitoring: The I@Mak.Com Secretariat as the nucleus for day to day project
implementation, will use a comprehensive computerized Management Information System (developed by a
consultant) to facilitate general performance and financial monitoring and reporting requirements (e.g.,
number/ type of: workshops, new courses developed, LG staff trained, internships, research work undertaken,
disbursements, delays and overruns, broader performance under various sub-components, etc.) on a regular
basis. The Secretariat will submit brief quarterly and annual progress reports to the Bank and the Rockefeller
Foundation on progress in the various project areas. These reports will provide details at the pilot districts
level. In addition, the required financial monitoring reports will be submitted on a timely basis. The system
will benefit from feedback and inputs from various Makerere University units and partner institutions.
(b) Learning from the Pilots: This project intends to test important changes in the academic environment as
well as in service delivery in the pilot districts. With a view to facilitating objective assessments, from time to
time, the Committee will engage individual consultants with expertise in relevant disciplines to evaluate the
adequacy and effectiveness of the various research/training program proposals approved by the I@Mak.Com.
Additionally, multi-disciplinary staff from a local institution or firm will be hired to design a robust M&E
process, identify meaningful indicators and carry out insightful evaluation in four stages, through surveys
undertaken to assess perceptions of quality improvement at the community level. A baseline study at project
inception will be supplemented by annual evaluations conducted at the end of years I and 2 and finally upon
project completion. Relevant findings of broader national / regional service delivery, demographic,
expenditure tracking surveys, etc. will also be reflected. The major issues that will be looked at will be
clustered around the learning themes elaborated under Section B.
Indicative           Bank-       % of
Component                 Sector        Costs     % of    financing   Bank-
(US$M)    Total    (US$M)    financing
I. Enhanced Academic Institutional  Institutional    4.23     38.5      1.81        36.2
Capacity                      Development
II. Pilot Support to Local Government Human          4.66     42.4      2.22        44.4
Capacity Building by Universities  Development
III. Enhanced Decentralization Policy  Human          1.72    15.6      0.79        15.8
Research & Formulation Capacity Development
IV. Monitoring and Evaluation     Institutional       0.39     3.5      0.18         3.6
Development
Total Project Costs                 11.00   100.0      5.00       100.0
Total Financing Required                   11.00   100.0      5.00       100.0
17



2. Implementation Arrangements
(a) Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development (MOFPED): The MOFPED is taking the lead
on this project on behalf of the Government. It will also provide the linkage between Makerere University and
other Government Institutions. In particular, the MOFPED will continue to advise the I@Mak.Com on the
involvement of other Government Agencies. A number of key Ministries and public agencies have been
brought on board and are fully engaged, inter alia through the mechanism of the I@Mak.Com.
(b) Makerere Universitv: The LIL will be implemented by Makerere University on behalf of Government.
The Vice Chancellor will have the overall responsibility of overseeing the successful implementation. The
"Innovations at Makerere Committee" will assist the Vice Chancellor.
(c) Makerere University Faculties and Students: The various Faculties will be responsible for designing,
developing and delivering suitable/relevant training programs or undertaking research, and will apply for
support in accordance with the guidelines and criteria provided in the Project Implementation Plan. The
students will give feedback to the faculty and the I@Mak.Com on the relevance/ usefulness of the programs.
They will be expected to participate in evaluating these programs, including the internships / sectoral
attachments.
(d) Local Governments & Ministry of Local Government (MOLG): The MOLG and Local Government have
been involved in the various I@Mak Committee activities. Local Governments are the intended major
beneficiaries of the program and are expected to play a leading role in identifying their training needs and in
helping ensure that the programs developed under this initiative are applicable and relevant. They will also
advise Makerere University in areas where they need the research services of the University. The MOLG, and
especially the Local Governments will thus be important players in designing, monitoring and evaluating the
programs developed under the project.
(e) Ministry of Education and Sports (MOES): The MOES has been involved in the various changes and
improvements underway at Makerere University; the Commissioner for Higher Education, MOES is a
standing member of the Innovations at Makerere Committee. MOES will continue to play an important role
through this Committee in providing guidance and oversight for the project. The early lessons emerging out
of the project would also provide inputs into the Uganda higher education sector strategy currently being
developed under the supervision of MOES.
09 Other Partner Institutions: Several institutions will be identified to collaborate with Makerere University
during the implementation of this program. They are expected to collaborate in various areas, including
curriculum development, the training of Local Government staff, research and/or supervision of students on
internship. These institutions would apply for funds to support such activities, with relevance to the LIL's
objectives. Financing of activities undertaken by partner institutions will be channeled via Makerere
University. Their applications are expected to be subject to the same process and guidelines as the
applications for financing from Makerere University units. The selected partner institutions would also be
able to compete for, and if adjudicated successful, receive the award for Academic Excellence, on the basis of
transparent criteria as provided in the PIP. The various aspects of such collaboration, including details relating
to the financial flows, will be elaborated in the context of Partnership Agreements.
(g) Innovations at Makerere Committee (I(d)Mak. Com): Committee meetings/workshops and operations are
structured to maximize learning outcomes and it has served as the catalyst in the design of this project. At a
practical level the Committee intends to convene monthly meetings/workshops and would provide the policy
guidance and oversight for project implementation. It is serviced by a fully staffed Secretariat with office
facilities at Makerere University. The committee would also be the principle vehicle for digesting and
18



recording the learning process. The I@Mak Committee was recently institutionalized by the University
Senate as a University Council Committee.
(h) I(Mak. Com Secretariat: The Secretariat is headed by an Executive Secretary with international
experience of innovations in teaching and research. The Executive Secretary is assisted by a Task Manager
who is familiar with the Government's decentralization policy framework, Local Government structures and
operations, Bank operations and University teaching and research. They in turn are assisted by an
Administrative Secretary, a Research Assistant, a Financial Manager and an Accountant. The Task Manager
will lead the day to day direction/execution and monitoring of the project in conjunction with the office of the
Vice Chancellor. The Task Manager at I@Mak.Com Secretariat will have overall responsibility for
procurement (planning and implementation) in conjunction with the Makerere University procurement staff
and will work closely with the Financial staff at Makerere University on matters related to disbursements,
auditing and reporting. The Task Manager will also ensure that adequate progress, financial monitoring and
audit reports are submitted to the Bank and the Foundation in a timely fashion. See Figure 2 on project
management, decision making and implementation arrangements.
Figure 2
Project Management and Implementation Arrangements
I@MakCom
(Mombers tom ralevant Minsbies; Makerere, LGs and CMl Society Reps.)
Policy Forrulation, Decsion Malkng, Guidance, Oversight, Evaluation
j   Chairperson     jj           Alternate Chair
(vice Chancelor, Makerere)
Overal oversagtt of Projed
Executve Secretary
1.AkCrM Sefoat
Almining Ofre  1  Or Pf od
Task Manager                    Financial Manager                   Facilitators (2)
Day tr dOy po ad magementand imPlenrtOen  Fnhandda Mwasepert             (External; Ugandan)
Fadltre iank Comnntees dedslon mnarg pororo
Administrative Secretary               Accountant
| Cerdng ard Supprefg Varb. Pr*t Rdsaod Alsdvi |  Rea0nible for  e )d =o . nS aoounfrg la and d(yto day -edag
Research Assistant
I  ypo  SeOcres tD bre Seatrdat
Office Assistant  Driver
(i) Role of Bank & Rockefeller Foundation during Project Implementation    The Bank and the Rockefeller
Foundation will be responsible for making timely disbursement of the funds approved under the project. Both
will ensure that funds are extended to finance agreed/ eligible activities in accordance with the objectives of
the project. They will also carry out periodic assessments through regular and joint supervision missions to
ensure that the project is achieving its intended objectives.
19



a. Procurement
Institutional Arrangements: Procurement under the project will be primarily carried out at the Makerere
University level. IDA funds to the University will be channeled via a Special Account. Limited procurement
could take place in the subsidiary Partner Institutions (in accordance with the modalities in the Partnership
Agreement and PIP guidelines) and would be directly related to the capacity building of the LGs. The Task
Manager at I@Mak.Com Secretariat will have overall responsibility for procurement (planning and
implementation) in conjunction with the Makerere University procurement staff: he will be aided by the 2
procurement staff in the Bursar's office.
The procurement staff will receive exposure to Bank procurement procedures before the project is effective.
In addition to training relevant Makerere University staff in Bank procurement principles, the LIL would
provide technical assistance to support Makerere's efforts to improve the procurement practices / capacity at
the University level.
Procurement Methods: Procurement arrangements and thresholds are detailed in the Project Implementation
Plan and Annex 6 of the Project Appraisal Document. Goods will be procured in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published in January 1995 and revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. Consultant services will be procured in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers published in January 1987 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999. No Civil Works
would be financed by the Foundation or the Bank in the context of this LIL.
b. Financial Management
The objectives of the project's financial management system are to ensure that funds are used only for their
intended purposes in an efficient, accountable, transparent and economical way while implementing agreed
activities.
Institutional Arrangements : The I@Mak.Com, chaired by the Vice Chancellor of Makerere University is
responsible for oversight in the usage of project funds. The Committee has established internal control
systems and procedures and prepared accountability guidelines to be used for activities funded under the
project. The accounting department of Makerere University will perform the relevant financial management
functions. A Bursar who has several years of relevant accounting experience heads the department and will
act as the project financial manager. He reports to the Committee and is charged with proper management of
funds provided under the project, including ensuring that all expenditure is properly authorized and that
approved amounts are not exceeded. The Committee is served by a Secretariat headed by an Executive
Secretary who, in consultation with the Bursar, will be responsible for the management of the project funds
on behalf of the Committee. A Task Manager with experience in Bank procedures will also be a member of
the committee and will coordinate donor funded project activities. The Intemal Audit Department of
Makerere University will ensure on behalf of the Committee that the implementation of project activities and
usage of funds are in compliance with its policies and procedures and also determine that existing policies and
procedures remain adequate. The guidelines and procedures relating to access and use of funds,
accountability requirements, functions and duties of various staff engaged in the implementation and
oversight of the project are documented in the PIP.
Funds Flow, Banking & Disbursement Arrangements: The University will maintain 3 accounts for the
project: an IDA Special Account, a Rockefeller Foundation Special Account and a Project Account for
counterpart funds. IDA funds will be used to finance pre-agreed categories of expenditure as indicated in the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA). The disbursement method used will be based on Financial
Monitoring Reports (FMR). Upon effectiveness, an advance will be deposited in the IDA Special Account to
finance eligible expenditures for the ensuing six months. This initial deposit will be based on the first
20



application for withdrawal and acceptable FMRs submitted by Makerere University to IDA. Subsequent
disbursements will be based on withdrawal applications accompanied by adequate FMRs requesting
replenishments to the Special Account. The disbursement of the IDA Credit will be done on a quarterly basis.
The disbursements out of the Foundation's Account will follow Rockefeller Foundation's disbursement
procedures.
Accounting. Financial Reporting, and Auditing Arrangements: The accounting Department of Makerere
University will maintain the accounts for the project in accordance with the Government's cash accounting
systems. Project expenditures will be recorded and reported by the accounting department, based on the
accounts maintained by it. Regular University financial reporting formats will be used and these reports will
be submitted to IDA in a timely manner on a quarterly and annual basis.
The project's audit will be carried out under the auspices of the Auditor General and shall be conducted in
accordance with auditing standards and terms of reference acceptable to IDA. A single audit report will be
issued and will include an opinion on the financial statements, transactions from the Special Account as well
as on the eligibility of the expenses disbursed on the basis of Financial Monitoring Reports. An independent
auditor, acceptable to the Auditor General and the Bank, will audit project accounts, including special
accounts annually; and the I@Mak.Com Secretariat will submit the annual audit report to IDA within six
months of the end of each fiscal year.
c. Other
Co-financin' Arrangement Between the World Bank and the Rockefeller Foundation: In keeping with the
learning and innovative nature of the operation, a novel co-financing relationship between the Bank and the
Foundation has been agreed to. The cofinancing arrangement to be adopted does not neatly fall under the
traditional World Bank "joint cofinancing" or "parallel cofinancing" mechanisms. The arrangement will adopt
some features ofjoint co-financing in the sense that both financiers will finance the same Project components
in equal proportions. However, while IDA's procurement guidelines will apply to the entire Project, each
financier will establish and maintain separate disbursement arrangements. The desired outcome of this
arrangement would be a co-financing framework that would allow funds to flow evenly for the appropriate
expenditures related to the project. The arrangement proposes to marry the flexibility and quick response time
of the Foundation's financial framework with the more regulated approach of the Bank's financial and
procurement framework.
D. Risks
1. Social and Environmental Risk
There are no Environmental or Social risks that may be associated with the implementation of this project.
On the contrary, the project would seek to strengthen the capacity of civil servants for improved delivery of
decentralized public services and sustainable resources management, thereby contributing to enhanced social
well-being in Uganda. No Environmental Assessment is required for this Category 'C' project.
a. Safeguard Policies
not applicable
Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
b. Other Social Risks
21



2. Other (external, reflecting the failure of the assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk                        Risk Rating                Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Uganda faces Macroeconomic volatility              N           Govemment of Uganda's record on sustained macro and
structural reform is very sound and is unlikely to be
reversed dramatically over the course of the project life.
Reversal of Uganda's policy on decentralization in  N          The Government has firmly pursued a policy of
face of apparent obstacles to implementation/                  decentralization and related public service reform for
change in ideology.                                            over a decade and is envisaged to stay on course.
Central and LG officials lose faith in the ability of  N       Makerere is a premier educational institution in Uganda;
Makerere University to provide the requisite                   over the past decade it has made significant progress in
training and tum to the ever available foreign                 its effort to attain its former lead position within Africa.
institutions or other emerging Ugandan                         Makerere's efforts will be supported by limited TA and
challengers, for the purpose                                   extensive capacity building to meet the exigencies.
The project fails to have an impact on improving    M          The project is only intended to design and pilot/ test
capacity for decentralized service delivery                    suitable pedagogic/training programs for strengthening
specific public capacity areas. It cannot seek to address
the entire range of related issues. A comprehensive and
sustained effort to improve the incentive structure for LG
officials, provision of necessary equipment, systems and
structures to support their work are among some of the
essential elements beyond the purview of this LIL which
would need to be addressed.
From Components to Outputs
Makerere University fails to deliver                N          Makerere has the requisite skills and potential to
undertake this challenging program. It has been keenly
engaged in project preparatory activities supported by
Rockefeller. Makerere's Vice Chancellor and senior staff
are firmly behind this initiative as are the University
Senate and Council.
Other partner institutions cannot be identified or  M          While there is some risk related to not being able to
engaged                                                        identify suitable partner institutions, a select number of
potential/viable candidates have been singled out. Also, a
fairly comprehensive assessment of other higher
education institutions (their capacity, strengths, failures
etc. ) is to be completed in time for project effectiveness.
Training programs designed by Makerere with        M           The design of the training programs is based on a Needs
inputs from educational partner institutions fail to           Assessment study; also a transparent process for
meet the needs                                                 competitive selection of proposals for developing
programs in requisite areas has been agreed. Annual
evaluative reviews and feedback from students/LGs and
results of broader national surveys (e.g., service delivery
surveys of intended beneficiaries) will help guide the
design & implementation of programs.
Demand for the programs fails to materialize        N           Weaknesses in public capacity for decentralized services
delivery is undeniable. Representatives of MOFPED,
and a number of high ranking Govemment officials are
fully engaged. Representatives of Local Govemment,
frontline staff have also been consulted in the design of
this project. Most importantly, the project instrument is
flexible enough to allow for constant leaming & change.
Overall Risk Rating                                M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
22



This project is built upon the following key assumptions. First, equitable economic growth and poverty
alleviation in Uganda are well served by a process of devolution of financial, functional and political authority
that achieves popular participation and transparency, and holds public institutions accountable for their
actions. Second, implementation of a policy of decentralization requires a comprehensive, cohesive and well-
designed human capacity building program at the national and local government levels, which Uganda is now
lacking. Third, Makerere University is possibly the best equipped institution in Uganda with the skills,
mandate and potential to generate new understanding of poverty alleviation measures through research and
also to generate or retrain appropriate human resources for decentralized national development. Fourth, by
building its internal capacity to respond to evolving national needs concerning decentralization, the
University can play a key role in capacity building for the LGs. Fifth, in view of the scope and scale of this
LIL, better learning outcomes are likely to result from a clearly-defined approach (focused
instructional/academic capacity strengthening at Makerere and partners; selected areas of curriculum
development, selected districts in which to pilot these programs; select number of pedagogic/research partners
engaged in this endeavor). Overall, Government's track record on macro and structural reforms, its
commitment to decentralization and poverty eradication and Makerere University's premier position and
demonstrated enthusiasm to take on this challenge, would all prove to be effective counter measures to the
key risks. The final risk relates to the issue of making wrong choices, whether it be in the areas selected for
curriculum development, the districts identified or the partners engaged. While there are no guarantees, the
narrowing down and subsequent identification of options in these regards is grounded in a robust analytic
work and evaluation, involving a key stakeholders.
E. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Effectiveness Conditions for the LIL include:
*  the Borrower has opened the Project Account and has deposited the agreed initial deposit sum;
* the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and Makerere University;
*  a Project Implementation Plan satisfactory to the Association has been adopted for the Project; and
*  a management information system satisfactory to the Association has been adopted for the Project.
2. Other (classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.)
Dated Covenants:
*  The Borrower and Makerere University shall by May 15, 2002, provide a satisfactory list of Partner
Institutions;
*  Starting on May 30, 2002, Makerere University shall by May 30th of each year of the project's life,
furnish an adequate Annual Work Program and related budget;
*  The Borrower and Makerere University shall by August 31, 2002 employ an appropriate multi-
disciplinary Monitoring and Evaluation consultant firm/institution for the Project;
*  The Borrower and Makerere University shall by September 30, 2002, employ independent qualified
auditors;
*  Makerere University shall on or about eighteen months after the Effectiveness Date, carry out
jointly with the Borrower and the World Bank a mid-term review of the progress made in
implementing the Project.
F. Readiness for Implementation
D 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
W   1. b) Not applicable.
23



0   2. The procurement documents for the first six months' activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation; and a framework has been established for agreement on standard bidding
documents that will be used for ongoing procurement throughout the life of LIL
0 3. The LIL's Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
ix 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The I@Mak Secretariat is working on finalizing both the standard, applicable procurement documentation
and Project Implementation Plan, detailing the scope, activities and implementation arrangements for each of
the four project components.
G. Compliance with Bank Policies
Fx 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
D   2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Preeti S. Ahuja                    ingai B. Mutumbuka             Jam   W. A ams
Team Leader                         ctor Manager                  Count    irector
24



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
UGANDA: Decentralized Service Delivery: A Makerere University Trai ing Pilot Project
Hierarchy of Objectives      Key Performance              Data Collection             Critical
Indicators                   Strategy                    Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:     Sector Indicators:          Sector/Country reports:      (from Goal to Bank
Improve the well being and      Improved social indicators  * Demographic health      Mission)
quality of life of the poor  (e.g., reduced malnutrition/  surveys;                   * Sustained
through improved delivery of  stunting; increased uptake of  * Tracking studies in health,  macroeconomic
decentralized public services  improved agricultural      education;                  performance;
practices)                  * PRSP; poverty monitoring/  * Maintenance of
Reduction in poverty      analytics                    decentralization policy
headcount                   * Household Budget Survey.
Follow-on Develop. Objective
Implementation of a               Improved service       * Household Budget Survey;   * Development &
coordinated program to        delivery in key areas, e.g.,  * Service Delivery Surveys;  implementation of a
strengthen analytical,        basic health, agriculture  * Tracking studies;           coordinated, cohesive
managerial and implementation  extension.                * PRSP                        strategy for strengthen-
capacity at different levels of                                                        ing public capacity for
Uganda's Government.                                                                   service delivery.
Project Develop. Objective   Outcome/impact Indicators:  Project Reports:             (from Objective to
A demonstrably effective,    * An integrated, cohesive   * Quarterly/annual work      Goal)
replicable and sustainable    capacity building program   program/budgets/progress    * Government and
mechanism (that is fully      with a menu of appropriate,  reports;                    University
integrated with the           well designed short term   * FMR;                        management remain
Government's decentralization  courses and degree programs  * Supervision Missions;    committed to
and public service reform     aimed at strengthening     * LIL Baseline & Annual       decentralization focus
program and capacity building  decentralized public services  Surveys at 1, 2 & 3 Year-end;  for training
goals) for strengthening the  delivery.                  * Gov't reviews of capacity;
skills and competencies of                               * Service delivery surveys;
those responsible for public                             * LG Reports and records;
service delivery and                                     * Mid-term review and
management                                                project completion report.
Strengthened capacity of
Makerere and partner         * Qualified faculty;         * Reports/documents as noted  * Sustaining improved
institutions to design and   * Appropriate and adequate     above                      ability of university
deliver, training, research and  systems and resources for                             and partner institutions
other activities (to be replicated  implementing above programs                        to train and sensitize
and taken to scale) for       available and operational                                students for LG level
facilitating/enhancing                                                                 work.
decentralized service delivery.
Output from each             Output Indicators:          Project Reports:             (from Outputs to
Component:                   * Number/types of relevant                               Objective)
1. Enhanced academic and      courses, degree & research  *  All of the above reports  * Robust results of
institutional capacity: to    programs, designed, tested by  *  I@Mak.Com minutes      Needs Assessment
develop and implement pilot   Makerere; adopted by partners                            review: provide
dvopramsf andrpemint pil     * Revised curriculum;                                     guidance to design of
programs for addressing the  * University staff trained:                               curricula, pilots
public capacity needs of      short/medium term/seminars/                             * Suitable partners
decentralization: within      study tours/exchange activities                          engaged/ committed.
Makerere University;                                                                     Pilots successfully
at identified suitable partner  to improve capacity                                    replicated and scaled
institutions.                   Decentralization Resource                              up at universities.
Center at Makerere.                                        Program demand
* A cross faculty internship                              remains active.
program designed/operational;
No./type of internships
successfully completed;
* I@Mak decision making
mechanisms fully functional;
* Bursar's & procurement
units strengthened.
25



Hierarchy of Objectives      Key Performance              Data Collection               Critical
Indicators                   Strategy                     Assumptions
Output from each             Output Indicators:           Project Reports               (from Outputs to
Component:                                                                              Objective)
2. Local government capacity  * No./types of courses,     * Reports noted above.        * Demand for such
building by universities to   workshops/ programs for LG  * Tracer studies of graduates  programs remains
implement the pilot for delivery  staff operational;      * Record of enrollment        active
of the training courses and  * No. of LG staff enrolled &  * statistics by course       * Results from Service
programs to selected public   successfully compltng courses  * University registration   Delivery and Other
servants.                    * No. of Planning Unit staff  records of degree programs    Survey Reports point
trained; types of training;  * Reports related to         to improvements (and
* No. of students participating  Implementation of innovative  justify replication and
in field research;           proposals                    scaling up; or provide
* Distance education formats  * I@Mak.Com minutes/         lessons for improving
introduced/ operational;     deliberations/ proceedings   the design of successor
a No. of LG staff trained/                                 interventions)
connected (by thematic areas)
via distance learning modes;
* Fund for Innovative
Excellence fully operational:
no. and area of awards made.
* District level demand
reflected in training programs.
3. Enhanced decentralization
policy research and           * No./thematic areas of      * All of the above reports   * University faculty/
formulation capacity for       research projects completed  * I@Mak.Com proceedings      students remain
undertaking analytic and policy  and policy seminars held.  of workshops/minutes of      interested in
design work.                 * Related fund set up to      meetings.                     decentralization.
finance research by MA and                                * Gov't continues to
PhD. Students                                              value research/policy
* No. & areas of awards made                               strengthening activities
in each year of project.                                  * Funding/logistical
* Sustainable mechanism for                                arrangements adequate
continued funding established                             for successful research
* New policy measures                                      outcomes
successfully designed
* Linkages with Partner
Institutions established.
4. Adequate Monitoring and
Evaluation Systems established  * MIS designed & used for  * Quarterly, Annual progress  * Secretariat staff well
in time and operational       regular, general performance  reports by Secretariat;     trained by consultant
throughout life of project.   monitoring on basis of annual  * FMRs;                     in utilization and
work program/PIP; regular    * Reviews of quality/ utility  updating of MIS
financial monitoring.        of innovative measures/       system.
* Evaluation of Proposals     modalities proposed.         * Proposals submitted
seeking funding conducted by  * Reports of initial baseline  remain both innovative
knowledgeable subject matter  survey and subsequent annual  and useful in areas
specialist w/ current expertise.  evaluation of pilots/ LIL  relevant to improved
* Baseline study conducted    impact and lessons;          service delivery by
and subsequent annual       * Other available/related      local governments
evaluations focusing on      survey work.                 * Insights, findings
university re-orientation,   * Project status and other    and results of "learning
results of teaching/ learning/  reports.                  from pilots" exercise
research & innovation pilots.                              are clear, relevant and
* Co-financing involving                                    meaningful.
Bank-Foundation successful.
26



Hierarch) of Objectives      Key Performance              Data Collection             Critical
Indicators                   Strategy                    Assumptions
Project Components/          Inputs: (budget for each    Project Reports              (from Components to
Sub-components               component)                                               Outputs)
1. Enhanced academic and
institutional capacity       $ 4.23                      * Quarterly & Annual work     G Pace/centrality of
insttutinal apacty  $4.23million                  program! budget/progress    Govt's decentralization
To build capacity at Makerere                             reports;                     program unaltered
and select partners in areas of                          * LIL Baseline & Annual      * Makerere & partner
relevance to decentralized                                Surveys at end of Yrs 1, 2 & 3  institutions remain
service delivery:                                        * Project Status Rprts        motivated/ committed
* Staff development &                                    * Site Visits                * Track-record of
instructional capacity                                   * FMRs                       I@Mak maintained
enhancement                                              * Mid-term review and       * Various untested
* Decision making process                                 project completion report.   partnerships work well
sustenance                                               * Other reports noted above  * I(Mak Secretariat
* Graduate preparation via                                                             staff fully engaged
relevant internships                                                                 * Political exigencies
* Proj. Mobilization                                                                   minimized
2. Local government capacity
building by universities
Pilot support for LG staff   $4.66 million               As above                     As above
capacity building, via:
* Curriculum Development in
select areas of national priority
* Innovative Excellence Fund
to foster developmt of original
work; provide incentive to
outstanding academic/ LG
performance
* Short/long term courses &
program fellowships to LG
staff from pilot distt
* Support to LG Planning
Units within pilot districts
3. Enhanced decentralization
policy research and
formulation capacity within
Ugandan institutions:        $1.72 million               As above                     As above
* Exposure to best practices,
thought leaders, practitioners,
institutions of excellence
* Fund to support analytic
work related to decentralized
service delivery by MA &
PhD students
*   Policy analysis and
research capacity strengthened
in faculties
4. Monitoring and Evaluation
to evaluate results of the LIL:
draw lessons and assess results  $0.39 mllion            As above                     As above
of the various pilots, through:
* General Performance
Monitoring;
* Learning from Pilots
27



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
UGANDA: Decentralized Service Delivery: A Makerere University Training Pilot Project
The LIL seeks to support Uganda's efforts at building capacity for improving the quality of
decentralized public services delivery at the LG levels. Its key objective is to develop an effective,
sustainable and replicable mechanism (that is fully integrated with the Government's
decentralization and public service reform programs and capacity building goals) for strengthening
the skills and competencies of those responsible for service delivery and management at the LG
level. This is to be accomplished by: 1) equipping Makerere University to provide relevant skills
and competencies (via the development of appropriate training programs, research, policy
formulation and analytic capacity and the re-orientation of faculty and students) for furthering the
goal of effective, decentralized services delivery; 2) supporting capacity building interventions on a
pilot scale in local governments; and 3) supporting research and policy formulation capacity related
to decentralization. A related objective will be the development of collaborative partnering between
Makerere and other suitable institutions across Uganda, primarily pedagogical institutions - in an
arrangement designed to compound the strengths and build on the comparative advantages of each
party. This project will also examine the merits of a relatively untested, innovative process
involving collaboration between a number of disparate partners. The World Bank, the Rockefeller
Foundation, Makerere University, other select tertiary education and research institutions, Ugandan
civil society and the Government of Uganda, will be working together in an arrangement designed
to compound the strengths of and build on the comparative advantages of each party. Total project
cost is envisaged to be about $11 million, of which the IDA Credit would finance $ 5 million. The
Rockefeller Foundation would provide another $5 million and the Government of
Uganda/Makerere University will provide counterpart funding to the order of $ 1 million
equivalent. This project is divided into the following substantive components and sub-components:
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$4.23 million
Component I. Enhanced Academic Institutional Capacity:
This component is directed at building capacity within Makerere University, as well as providing
seed money toward the development of capacities within a select number of other suitable partner
institutions/agencies. The aim is to strengthen the ability of Makerere and other partner institutions
to respond to the human capacity and research needs of decentralization within Uganda. This
component comprises the following sub-components:
(a) Staff Development: Activities include exposure of Makerere University faculty and
professional staff as well as representatives from other partner institutions to the main concepts and
issues of decentralization, through custom-designed workshops and short courses. Specialized
training including highly selective study tours could also be included, for key Makerere staff as
necessary. The development of a resource center on decentralization, stocked with relevant
literature on decentralization and computers to allow on-line research will also be undertaken
within the Makerere Institute of Social Research (MISR).
(b) Sustaininz Academic Decision Making Mechanism: A joint Government-University committee,
the I@Mak.Com (Innovations at Makerere Committee) (See Project Implementation Plan on the
genesis of the Committee and operational record including recent highlights), comprising high-
level public servants/technocrats and University administrators/senior faculty members and civil
society representatives has been instituted. The Committee consists of seven deans of faculties,
senior officials representing relevant Ministries, representatives of Local Governments, civil
28



society and an external consultant, appointed by the Vice Chancellor. The Vice Chancellor chairs
the Committee. This Committee authored the proposal behind this project and the District Human
Resource Demand Assessment (See Project Implementation Plan on the key aspects andfindings
of the Demand Assessment commissioned by I@Mak Com) on which it is based. The Committee,
holds two to three day long workshops/meetings on a monthly basis. The Committee's operations
are structured to maximize teamwork through participatory facilitation techniques. Detailed
proceedings/minutes of all workshops/meetings are published along with periodic reports on issues
of significance. It provides the inspiration, energy and learning potential for this project and serves
as a clearing house for innovative proposals related to strengthening the decentralization focus of
Makerere's curriculum and operations. The I@Mak.Com provides a creative, dynamic partnering
mechanism which is deemed to be driving the re-orientation of the country's premier and largest
public University to better understand and respond to the developmental challenges faced by
Uganda. Activities to be supported under this sub-component would include facilitating these
regular workshops and operational activities of I@Mak.Com. Also included would be highly
focused annual workshops to exchange experiences and learn of recent thinking and best practices
in the area of decentralization with inter alia academicians and civil servants elsewhere.
(c) Internship Pilot: This sub-component is aimed at providing Makerere undergraduates with a
strong experiential base that better prepares them to understand, both development processes and
tasks, as well as grasp the essentials of a decentralized professional culture. This pilot will also
provide the interns with exposure to employment opportunities in districts. A consulting team
familiar with university curricula design issues and the area of decentralization policy will be
contracted to develop a comprehensive transparent and cost-efficient criteria for an effective
internship program cutting across relevant faculties. Such internships will expose students to real
problems and equip them with the solid skills needed to perform as more effective professionals in
the districts. At the end of their exercise every intern will be required to produce a report which
informs the concerned Makerere University Department of the experience gained. University
Departments will liaise with technical heads in Districts as well as planning and personnel units
regarding placement. The interns may be supervised through direct visits to districts by faculty, by
collaborating training institutions or by LG staff, including those from the planning units. At the
culmination of the pilot phase related to this sub-component, the University would review the
possibility of taking the program to scale on a cost-recovery basis, by building these costs within
the fee structure.
(d) Project Support: This will consist of strengthening units within the Makerere University that
are to be involved in supporting the implementation of this project. The offices of the Bursar and
the procurement unit at Makerere will be strengthened through provision of pertinent training,
computer and other office equipment. The sub-component will also finance a consultancy to assist
the University's procurement unit in its efforts to streamline procedures and develop revised
procurement guidelines; the consultant will also train the procurement staff and provide support in
the procurements over the course of the first year. Qualified external auditors for the project would
also be contracted under this sub-component. The I@Mak.Com Secretariat, responsible for the day
to day implementation of the project, will be facilitated through provision of one vehicle for field
and in-Kampala work, computers and other office equipment. Eligible administrative expenditures
of the Secretariat specifically related to project implementation would also be covered.
Project Component 2 - US$4.66 million
Component II. Pilot Support to Local Government Capacity Building by Universities:
This component would support work on the design and delivery of the pilot training courses and
programs in the selected Local Governments (district, municipal and sub-county levels) directed
29



toward public servants in relevant departments. While Makerere will take the lead on the activities
planned under this component, collaboration between Makerere and other suitable partner
institutions is envisaged in areas including curriculum development, delivery of training programs
and supervision of students. The undertaking ofjoint policy research and analytic work is also a
potential area of cooperation (under Component III). Efforts will be made to identify and forge a
limited number of diversified and strategic partnerships between Makerere and other institutions.
Any amplification of such arrangements would be informed by the results of these initial
partnerships. The I@Mak.Com has compiled a tentative list of a number of potential partners, on
the basis of available information. These include academic (e.g., the Islamic University in Uganda
(IUIU) at Mbale), Government/quasi-public (e.g., UMI; EPRC) or civil society (e.g., Uganda Local
Authorities Association/Urban Authorities Association of Uganda (ULAA/UAAU)) institutions.
That said, a comprehensive study focusing on higher education institutions (to be completed by
April, 2002) will be used to identify the most promising institutions that could collaborate with
Makerere in the execution of this project. The study will evaluate the comparative strengths or
areas of weakness of these institutions and the likely form and content of collaboration. The results
of the analytic work on tertiary education institutions will inform and underpin the Committee's
decisions in this regard. A sound Partnership Agreement between Makerere and the collaborating
institution will be necessary, to define the scope and nature of services involved, other substantive
aspects and financial modalities of the arrangement. The following subcomponents are included
under this component:
(a) Curriculum Development: An innovative process for soliciting and evaluating proposals from
faculties is already at an advanced stage of implementation at Makerere with support from the
Rockefeller Foundation. This program of competitive funding encourages innovations in pedagogy,
curriculum development, multi-disciplinary research, and outreach relevant to decentralization and
poverty alleviation by its faculty members. To meet the more substantial and longer-term
educational demands of the LGs, the university with inputs from partner institutions, will
reorganize existing courses and develop new courses, including distance education formats (based
on a simple correspondence learning program or a more technology intensive format where
feasible) which may result in the award of academic credit. These course credits could be
accumulated toward an eventual degree award at the undergraduate and masters level. The
Makerere University Senate will revise certificate and diploma criteria to accommodate on-the-job
training and use of distance teaching formats. Curricula in selected areas are to be developed and
adopted at Makerere in a timely manner. The dissemination of revised Curricula will be effected
through the Uganda Higher Education Council which is envisaged to become operational by April,
2002.
Curriculum development in the context of this LIL will initially encompass four broad areas in
which strong demand has been expressed in the context of the Demand Assessment: (i) service
delivery in the key area of basic health/medicine; (ii) agricultural services; (iii) strategic planning
and management including budgeting, accounting and financial management; and (iv) governance/
ethics/ accountability. These four are among the areas of weakness that are consistently highlighted
in various national service delivery surveys and analytic work on poverty eradication carried out by
the Government. As such the piloting of new courses/ reworking of old courses supported by the
requisite analytic work in these four areas is highly consistent with Uganda's national development
priorities. Support to curriculum development will be provided by way of honoraria,
research/resource person fees, field work, out of pocket, workshop and dissemination expenditures
and will be monitored in line with clear criteria established in the Project Implementation Plan.
Development of appropriate learning/ teaching materials in the form of inter alia printed books,
floppy disks and videos, will also be supported.
30



The work undertaken in these areas will be both highly relevant to the objectives of this project and
will be based on the highly competitive and transparent process emanating out of the I@Mak.Com
decision making process. The primary thrust of all such work will be geared toward one or more of
the following central themes: 1) improved service delivery at local levels; 2) improved decision
making/ strategic planning/ analytic capacity at the local levels; 3) improved linkages between local
governments and the center.
With a view to fostering genuine competition and real partnership between Makerere and the
selected partner institutions, the latter would also be able to compete for, and access funds, on the
basis of clear, tightly defined criteria and a transparent selection process (spelled out in the PIP), to
be used for screening and evaluating their innovative work. The curriculum review and
modification will also be carried out in collaboration with other relevant stakeholders, including,
concerned ministries, public agencies and LG staff. In particular, efforts will be made to solicit
inputs from the five identified pilot districts. This sub-component will also help to establish
collaboration between Makerere University faculties and ULAA/UAAU.
(b) Fund for Innovative Excellence: An annual Academic Excellence Award comprising a grant
of $25,000 will be given by the I@Mak Committee to a Unit from Makerere or a partner institution
which is adjudicated as having demonstrated innovative academic excellence during the course of
the past year. Clear criteria/qualifications for nominating and assessing Faculties or administrative
units are elaborated in the PIP. These resources will be utilized for strengthening the Unit's
performance through a menu of choices (defined in the PIP) including, the training of staff, highly
specialized training, purchase of equipment and funding of research/ analytic work. Clear
accountability will be provided by the "winner" in accordance with the guidelines in the PIP.
Additionally, the sub-component will support an annual Local Government Excellence Award,
comprising a grant of $30,000 to be given by the Committee to a qualifying Local Government in
any of the five pilot districts, adjudicated as having demonstrated innovative excellence in a
relevant service delivery area during the course of the past year. Clear criteria/qualifications for
nominating and assessing the LGs are elaborated in the PIP. The resources will be utilized for
strengthening the LG's capacity through provision of specialized training of staff. Clear
accountability for the resources will be provided by the successful LG, in accordance with the
guidelines in the PIP.
(c) Local Government Staff Traininga Pilot: Makerere University faculty will offer workshops,
short-term courses and degree programs developed through the curriculum review work (see 11 (a)
above) aimed at meeting immediate demands at the LG level for specific skills. Workshops and
short-term, refresher courses developed through the curriculum review in the areas noted above will
be offered by the Faculties of Medicine, Agriculture, the Business School, Law/ Communications
and other areas relevant to govemance.. The training may be offered: 1) at the Makerere campus;
2) through a partner institution in Kampala; 3) in the field (direct provision or through twinning
with partner institutes); and 4) through appropriate distance learning means.
The five pilot districts of Arua, Mbarara, Mbale, Rakai and the Kampala City Council -
representing the various regions of Uganda - will serve as the pilot districts, especially in respect to
the Local Government staff development/training efforts. On the other hand, the placement of
Makerere students under the sub-component focusing on internships will be broader than these five
districts (see I (c) above). These five districts were selected to be a part of the baseline work that
was undertaken in the Demand Assessment study carried out by MISR. Their selection was based
on robust criteria (regional distribution, capacity constraints, (relatively) new and old districts, rural
vs. urban issues, etc.). Training fellowships at both undergraduate and graduate levels extended to a
selected number of local govemment staff from the relevant services in these LGs will be a
31



significant part of implementing this project activity. This will be supplemented by visits to campus
by LG council members.
In addition, several distance learning options were developed and their potential and suitability was
reviewed by the I@Mak Committee in the context of the LIL. Three options to connect with and
among districts, are suggested to avail timely information and knowledge to staff in local
governments that will enable them to achieve the goals of decentralization. These options could
include the formation of a Uganda Local Government Action Forum (ULGAF) to establish a
partnership and build communities of practice around various disciplines, e.g., finance, public
health, animal/crop production, extension, etc., among the 5 pilot districts across Uganda. In
particular, the ULGAF would be the mechanism for bringing together and linking up these districts
through exchanging news and views and highlighting successful cases of immediate and specific
relevance. The emphasis will be on discussion and information sharing/dissemination, rather than
structured learning, through site/ exchange visit(s) per pilot district over the life of the LIL,
supplemented by the more traditional (printed material) or advanced (audio-visual and electronic)
means of sharing information and ideas. The possibility of ULAA/UAAU serving as the liaison and
channeling this material to and among the pilot districts, has been considered by the Committee.
The Forum will be open to other districts that wish to join in, but the project will only support the
ULGAF's implementation and evaluation in the five pilot districts. The sustainability of this pilot
activity would come through integrating / mainstreaming the ULGAF within the Local Government
activities.
Second, LGs, Makerere and select staff from other institutions would participate, as relevant, in the
training offered via the Africa Local Government Action Forum (ALGAF) which utilizes available
distance learning centers in Kampala, Abuja, Accra, Addis Ababa, Dar Es Salaam and Harare, to
offer pertinent courses and broader information exchange. The program essentially consists of
twelve training/ discussion modules (one per month) of four hours each relating to various aspects
of decentralization. A third option comprises the purchase of regular (monthly/ bi-monthly) air-time
on popular local community radio network(s) broadcasting to the pilot districts (and beyond). This
would facilitate the development of an instructive/ educational Uganda Local Government
Development Radio Program, to enable the provision of current and reliable information and
didactic material necessary for good governance to pilot municipalities in small towns and rural
areas in a cost-effective and timely manner.
(d) Support to Local Government Planning Units: This sub-component will provide directed
support to planning units within the pilot districts to strengthen their capacities to function as the
strategic foci of economic planning, statistical and population work. These units can help play an
important role by providing information related to the status of service delivery in districts. A
consultancy will be procured to help develop appropriate training materials for the planning unit
staff. The capacity of planning units will be strengthened through short courses and on-the-job
training. In this regard, they would both supervise students on internships, and assist in monitoring
and evaluating the program's impact (see Component IV (b) below). The modalities for capacity
building of planning units have been described in the PIP.
Project Component 3 - US$ 1.72 million
Component III. Enhanced Decentralization Policy Research and Formulation
Capacity:
The Government of Uganda has traditionally turned to foreign universities and professionals to
conduct research which informs national public policy. To balance this practice, this component
will be aimed at strengthening capacity within Uganda's premier and largest public university for
undertaking analytic and policy design work. These activities will enable the University to serve as
32



a policy reference center for a variety of constituencies, including LGs, government ministries,
nongovernmental organizations and donor agencies.
(a) Linkages with Institutions of Excellence: The project aims to improve the capacity to
undertake advanced research and policy work on decentralization. As such, this sub-component
proposes to establish dialogue among the existing units within Makerere University, other research
and pedagogic institutions', and policy makers in Government on the one hand, with practitioners
and thought leaders elsewhere. This option would support the development of linkages to other
universities and relevant institutions for joint work and discussion. Using the Global Distance
Learning Network facility at UMI, a pilot program would be developed to link Uganda with
institutions of excellence within Africa, specifically leading Universities (e.g., in Ghana, Tanzania,
Ethiopia, Zimbabwe, South Africa). Secondly, in order to learn from international best practices,
Makerere University would be linked with leading institutions in public management outside
Africa, with a focus on those which have significant experience in Eastern and Southern Africa (to
be selected based on the findings of the consultations undertaken in the context of other LIL
components). A multi-disciplinary firm will undertake the process of designing the modalities
leading to the development of such linkages as well as coordination of the process. The consultants
would inter alia undertake logistics and content coordination, moderation of exchange/discussion
sessions; provision/distribution of related didactic material; and development and maintenance of a
website on decentralization linked to Makerere and other GOU web-sites. The consultants would
liaise closely with ULAA/UAAU for receipt of material from the 5 pilot local governments and
would undertake training of ULAA/UAAU and relevant Makerere staff in Website maintenance.
The World Bank Institute is envisaged to provide substantive support to the project with respect to
the options to be piloted under the LIL. A description of the selection process and guidelines for
identifying such institutions will be provided in the PIP.
(b) Decentralization Research Fund for Students: Related to this work, a fund will be set up to
finance long-term research on decentralization by selected M.A. and PhD. students. Various
Makerere units, such as School of Research and Post Graduate Studies and the MISR will be
strengthened to undertake relevant research. Additionally, MISR will develop and maintain a data
base for the research. The research undertaken by students will contribute to their dissertation and
could provide inputs to the broader policy and analytic work in this field. Fellowships at the PhD
level, may be provided for a sandwich program, consisting of the first and third years at Makerere
and the second year abroad. The fellowships will be granted and administered in accordance with
transparent criteria provided in the PIP.
(c) Strengthening Decentralization Policy Research in Faculties: This component will support the
various Makerere faculties to build capacity for policy research and formulation related to
decentralization in their own disciplines. The project financing would assist in the development of
possible collaborations among University faculties and with other appropriate Partner Institutions.
Activities financed would include honoraria and out of pocket costs related to a set of thematic
meetings to bring together these institutions or faculties. The component could cover international
comparator visits for these staff as well as collaborating with expert witnesses from other countries.
Limited support to this initiative will be provided by way of computer soft and hardware and other
office equipment, as necessary.
Project Component 4 - US$0.39 million
Component IV. Monitoring and Evaluation:
As a Learning and Innovations Loan, regular summative evaluation is of central importance to this
operation. The project focuses on piloting experimental activities in a variety of areas related to
33



reorienting Makerere and involving other partner institutions for strengthening public capacity for
service delivery. In order to draw lessons from this process of experimentation, and improve
performance along the way, the arrangements for monitoring and evaluation are critical. Under the
project, M&E will focus on two levels.
(a) General Performance Monitoring: The I@Mak.Com Secretariat, which functions as the
nucleus for day to day project implementation, will track overall project performance. The
Secretariat will establish a computerized Management Information System (MIS) to facilitate
general performance and financial monitoring and reporting requirements on a regular basis. Using
a well-designed Annual Work Plan as a basis, the monitoring system will track progress of specific
project activities (e.g., number/type of: workshops, new courses developed, LG staff trained,
internships, research work undertaken;, disbursements, delays and overruns; broader performance
under various sub-components, and will produce reports geared to management decision-making.
It will also provide status updates to the Innovations Committee, the MOFPED, Rockefeller
Foundation and the Bank. The Secretariat will submit brief quarterly progress reports to the Bank
and the Rockefeller Foundation, in addition to the annual project progress report, on progress in the
various areas activities (including details of pilot districts) under the project. The system will
benefit from feedback and inputs from various Makerere units and partner institutions. The
Secretariat will monitor the performance indicators defined in the Logframe, as well as those
developed by the M&E specialist and agreed with IDA. The Task Manager at the Secretariat will be
responsible for preparing the Table of Performance Indicators to be included in Project status
reports for all supervision missions, for its annual reports to the Bank, for the mid-term review, and
at project completion. In particular, the Secretariat will submit, all required financial monitoring
reports to the Bank on a timely basis. In order to facilitate the start-up and institutionalization of
this process, a monitoring and evaluation cum MIS specialist will be employed as a part time
consultant (in accordance with the Terms of Reference in the PIP) by the Secretariat, following
project effectiveness. This specialist will work extensively with Secretariat staff and project
stakeholders and beneficiaries on the design of the monitoring and evaluation system. As part of the
specialists' TORs, he/she will be required to fully train the Task Manager, the Administrative
Secretary and the Research Assistant in utilizing and updating the MIS system.
(b) Learning from the Pilots: This project intends to pilot test deeper levels of change in the
academic environment and in service delivery in the pilot districts than can be inferred from
standard numerical data. From time to time, the Committee will seek to engage individual
consultants with expertise in the relevant disciplines to evaluate the suitability, acceptability and
effectiveness of the various research/training program proposals approved by the I@Mak.Com.
Additionally, surveys will be undertaken to assess perceptions of quality improvement at the
community level. A local institution or firm will be hired to design a robust M&E process and
relevant, meaningful indicators and carry out insightful assessment in four stages through
evaluative studies. At project inception, the institution / firm will carry out a baseline study (some
elements of this are available from the Demand Assessment completed in October 2000). The
evaluations will be conducted at the end of years 1 and 2 of project implementation and finally
upon project completion. Inter alia, the consultants will also review and include pertinent findings
of recent, available broader National Service Delivery, demographic, expenditure tracking surveys,
etc. in their reports. The major issues that will be looked at will be clustered around the following
three themes:
(i) the ability of an established university to reorient itself (curriculum, staffing, systems, research,
professional ethos) to make itself relevant and responsive to the country's needs in several ways; in
particular, in the context of this project, the focus will be directed toward the University's ability to
34



address the demands arising out of the implementation of a comprehensive Government program of
decentralization;
(ii) a local government level demand-driven approach to the design of training programs and
courses in collaboration with higher education institutions.. Uganda's education and training
programs have traditionally been supply-driven, with little experience of a participatory approach
and research process in which the express demands of diverse communities are identified and then
translated into concrete training programs aimed at concerned public officials; and
iii) how to facilitate program development and financial support involving a number of partners.
35



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
UGANDA: Decentralized Service Delivery: A Makerere University Training Pilot Project
Local             Foreign           Total
Project Cost By Component                           US $million        US $mfllion      US $million
I. Enhanced Academic and Institutional Capacity                          3.94             0.23            4.17
II. Local Government Capacity Building by Universities                   4.60             0.00            4.60
III. Enhanced Decentralization Policy Research and                       1.06              0.64           1.70
Formulation Capacity
IV. Monitoring & Evaluation                                              0.38              0.00           0.38
Total Baseline Cost                                                      9.98              0.87          10.85
Physical Contingencies                                                 0.00              0.00            0.00
Price Contingencies                                                    0.15              0.00            0.15
Total Project Costs1                           10.13              0.87          11.00
Total Financing Required2                             10.13              0.87           11.00
I Identifiable taxes and duties are 0.1 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 10.9 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is
45.87% of total project cost net of taxes.
2 The total project cost of $11 million is inclusive of a $1 million contribution from Govemment and Makerere University, toward staff salaries, rent,
utilities and taxes and duties.
36



Annex 4: Financial Management
UGANDA: Decentralized Service Delivery: A Makerere University Training Pilot Project
Overall Policy Guidance and Oversight
Makerere University, acting through the Innovations at Makerere Committee, I@Mak.Com ("the
Committee"), is responsible for the management of project funds, including the proceeds of the
credit and counterpart funds. The Chairperson of this committee is the Vice Chancellor of the
University.
Project Coordination
The Committee is served by a Secretariat headed by an Executive Secretary who, in consultation
with the Bursar, will be responsible for the management of the project funds on behalf of the
Committee. A Project Task Manager with experience in Bank procedures will also be a member of
the committee and will coordinate donor funded project activities. The Project Task Manager will
be responsible for the day-to-day execution of the project in conjunction with the Office of the Vice
Chancellor.
Project Accounting Staff
The accounting department of Makerere will perform the relevant financial management functions.
A Bursar who has several years of relevant accounting experience heads the department and will act
as the project financial manager. He reports to the Committee and is charged with proper
management of funds provided under the project, including ensuring that all expenditure is properly
authorized and that approved amounts are not exceeded. The Bursar is also responsible for:
ensuring that proper systems are maintained; preparing monthly, quarterly and annual financial
statements in accordance with guidelines; supervising the expenditures and other disbursements of
the project; ensuring that financial statements are audited; maintaining all accounting records for
the project; and supervising the project accountant and other staff.
Reporting to the Project Financial Manager, a dedicated project accountant will be responsible for
day-to-day maintenance of the books of accounts and recording project financial transactions.
These duties, together with those for the other staff in the Committee Secretariat, and an
organizational chart are set out in the Project Implementation Plan.
Financial Management System
It is planned that the financial management system will comprise records and a system for
recording project financial transactions, ensuring that transactions are duly authorized and properly
recorded, and summarizing the financial activities of the project in annual accounts. The system
will enable the University to: (a) record all financial transactions, including receipts and expenses,
e.g. cashbook and other ledger accounts; (b) track assets and liabilities; (c) ensure that every
transaction is duly authorized and properly recorded; (d) produce periodic financial information; (e)
have the financial information audited, and (f) ensure appropriate staffing to carry out the above
functions.
Documentation of procedures
The Committee has prepared Accountability Guidelines to use for activities funded under the
project. These guidelines lay down the procedures relating to: planning and budgeting;
authorization of funds requests; accountability documents to be submitted in respect to the funds;
the functions of the Internal Audit Department; external audit arrangements; and penalties in the
case of non-compliance with guidelines. These procedures will be widely circulated to ensure
knowledge of the laid down procedures by all implementing officers.
37



Funds Flow and Banking Arrangements
The University will maintain 3 accounts for the project: an IDA Special Account, a Rockefeller
Foundation Special Account and a Project account. Disbursements from the Credit using the
Financial Monitoring Report-based disbursement procedure will be deposited in the IDA Special
Account to finance pre-agreed categories of expenditure as indicated in the DCA. Upon
effectiveness, an advance will be deposited in this Account to finance eligible expenditures for the
ensuing six months. This initial deposit will be based on the first application for withdrawal and
acceptable FMRs submitted by Makerere to IDA. Subsequent disbursements will be based on
withdrawal applications accompanied by adequate FMRs requesting replenishments to the Special
Account. The Govemment of Uganda/ Makerere University contribution will be in respect of taxes
and duties, labor costs related to their services in connection with the project, related utility costs
and other operational costs.
Competitive, transparent principles will apply to the furnishing of two annual awards for innovative
excellence. Awards are to be granted on the basis of criteria and guidelines provided in the PIP and
the resources are to be used to strengthen capacity of the selected faculty or local govemment.
Adequate principles for utilization of award monies and provision of full accountability are
provided in the PIP. Moreover, a competitive process monitored by the Committee will be used to
elicit proposals from Makerere Faculties for activities to be funded under the project. Project
budgets (related to each proposal) will be scrutinized and approved by the Committee. The Dean of
the faculty responsible for the expenditure will also get a copy of the approved budget, signifying
authorization to incur expenditure. After the expenditure is incurred and payments made, valid
supporting documentation should be submitted to Project Accountant.
The Partner Institutions would also apply for funds to support such activities, with relevance to the
LIL's objectives. Financing of activities undertaken by partner institutions will be channeled via
Makerere. Their applications are expected to be subject to the same process and guidelines as the
applications for financing from Makerere units. These guidelines are elaborated in the PIP. The
selected partner institutions, would also be able to compete for, and if adjudicated successful,
receive the award/grant for Academic Innovative Excellence, on the basis of transparent criteria as
provided in the PIP. The various aspects of such collaboration, including details relating to the
financial flows, will be elaborated in the context of Partnership Agreements.
Disbursement Arrangements
The disbursement of the IDA Credit will be done on a quarterly basis. The disbursement method
used will be based on Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs). These FMRs will provide all requisite
information on the basis of the Bank's "Financial Monitoring Reports: Guidelines for Borrowers ";
information under the following categories: a proiect financial statement which includes a
summary of sources and uses of funds, an updated six-month forecast, a Special Account
reconciliation statement, and an eligible expenditures by disbursement category statement; a project
progress report which explains variances between actual physical and financial progress versus
forecasts; and a procurement management report which shows procurement status and contract
commitments.
As noted earlier, upon effectiveness, an advance will be deposited in the IDA Special Account
based on the first application for withdrawal and acceptable FMRs submitted by Makerere
University to IDA. The advance will be meant to cover project expenditures for 6 months. After
every subsequent quarter, the project will submit FMRs which include a cashflow forecast for the
following 6 months. The cash request at the reporting date will be the amount required for the
following 6 months as shown in the approved FMRs less the balance in the Special Account at the
38



end of the quarter. Subsequent disbursements of the IDA Credit will therefore be made in respect of
this cash request.
Formats of the FMRs have been agreed with the Bursar and the Project Task Manager at Makerere
University. These will report on all the project transactions, including those funded by both IDA
and the Rockefeller Foundation. Cashflow forecasts will be submitted as part of the FMRs and
these will show separately amounts to be funded by IDA and by the Rockefeller Foundation. The
Foundation will follow its own disbursement procedures (See Annex 6).
Accounting Arrangements.
The accounting Department of Makerere University will maintain the accounts for the project in
accordance with the Govemment cash accounting systems. The accounting system contains the
following features: application of consistent cash accounting principles for documenting,
recording, and reporting its financial transactions; a chart of accounts and a coding system that
allows meaningful summarization of financial transactions for financial reporting purposes; the use
of asset register; monthly closing and reconciliations of accounts and statements; and the
production of annual financial statements acceptable to IDA. The systems will be supplemented by
project-specific procedures, covering project budget, and management of a Special Account and a
project bank account.
Financial Reporting
Project expenditures will be recorded and reported by Makerere University's accounting
department, based on the accounts maintained by it. The annual financial statements will include,
inter alia, the following documents: a Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds; uses of Funds by
Project Activity; summaries of the Special Accounts activities and of Report-Based disbursements,
and notes to the financial statements.
Reports describing the financial transactions and position of the project will be produced on a more
regular basis as required within the University's normal regulations and will be submitted to IDA.
The regular University formats will be used and these reports will be submitted to IDA in a timely
manner on a quarterly and annual basis.
Audit Arrangements
The Internal Audit Department of Makerere University will ensure on behalf of the Committee that
the implementation of project activities and usage of funds are in compliance with its policies and
procedures and also determine that existing policies and procedures remain adequate. The Internal
Audit Department will report directly to the Committee relating to project matters. Copies of its
reports will also be sent to the University's Finance Committee.
The Universities and Other Tertiary Institutions Act 2001 stipulates that the Auditor General or his
nominee will be the auditor for the University Accounts. Accordingly, the audit of the project will
be carried out under the auspices of the Auditor General and shall be conducted in accordance with
auditing standards and terms of reference acceptable to IDA. A single audit report will be issued
and will include an opinion on the financial statements as well as on the eligibility of the expenses
disbursed on the basis of FMRs and transactions from the Special Account. The external auditors
report on the Project's annual financial statement will include a separate opinion on the reliability of
the FMRs submitted during the fiscal year, together with the procedures and intemal controls
involved in their preparation to support the related withdrawals from the Credit. The annual audit
report will be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
39



Annex 5: Project Processing Schedule
UGANDA: Decentralized Service Delivery: A Makerere University Training Pilot Project
Project Schedule                             Planned                  Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)   6
First Bank mission (identification)          11/01/2001              11/01/2001
Appraisal mission departure                  01/23/2002              01/23/2002
Negotiations                                 02/07/2002              02/07/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                05/14/2002
Prepared by:
The Project was prepared by a team comprising members from the Ministry of Finance, Planning
and Economic Development (MOFPED) and the Makerere University. Mr. Chris Kasami,
Permanent Secretary / Secretary to Treasury and Prof. P.J.M Ssebuwufu, Chairman, Innovations at
Makerere Committee and Vice Chancellor, Makerere University, provided overall guidance. The
members of the Innovations at Makerere Committee and particularly the Innovations at Makerere
Committee's Secretariat played a vital role in project preparation. The Uganda team was supported
by the World Bank and the Rockefeller Foundation. The Committee was assisted by an external
facilitator (Mr.Cole Dodge) and a Ugandan facilitator (Dr. Jotham Musinguzi).The principal team
members from MOFPED and Makerere University are listed below:
Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development
Mr. Keith Muhakanizi    Director, Economic Affairs Directorate
Mr. Kenneth Mugambe     Asst. Commissioner, Economic Development Policy
and Research Dept.
Makerere University
Dr. Nakanyike Musisi      Executive Secretary, I@Mak.Com, Secretariat and
Director, MISR
Mr. Katunguka Samwiri     Task Manager, I@Mak.Com Secretariat
Prof. N. Sewankambo       Alternate Chair, I@Mak.Com and Dean, Faculty of
Medicine
Mr. Ben Byambabazi        Financial Manager & University Bursar
Ms. Nakayiwa Florence     Administrative Secretary
Ms. Rhoda Mugamba         Senior Assistant Bursar (Purchasing)
Mr. Tushabe Levi          Senior Administrative Assistant
Mr. Asiimwe Delius        Research Fellow, MISR
Preparation assistance:
The Project was largely prepared with resources from the Rockefeller Foundation; the World Bank
team provided assistance to the Government and University team through its support in the context
of the pre-appraisal and appraisal missions.
Rockefeller Foundation
| Dr. Joyce Moock       | Associate Vice President
Dr. Cheikh Mbacke       Director for Africa
40



Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Preeti Ahuja                       Sr. Operations Officer, Team Leader, AFCTZ
Meera Viswanathan                  Team Assistant, AFCET
David Court                        Sr. Education Specialist, AFTHI
Victor Vergara                     Sr. Public Sector Management Specialist, WBIEP
Joseph Kizito                      Financial Management Specialist, AFTQK
Rogati Kayani                      Lead Procurement Specialist, AFTQK
Aberra Zerabruk                    Lead Counsel, LEGAF
Modupe Adebowale                   Sr. Financial Management Specialist, LOAG2
Sheila Braka                      Counsel, LEGAF
Quality Assurance Team
Joyce Moock                        Associate Vice President, Rockefeller Foundation
Paud Murphy                        Lead Education Specialist, AFTH1
Richard Cambridge                  Operations Adviser, AFTQK
Robert Blake                       Lead Operations Officer, AFMUG
41



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
UGANDA: Decentralized Service Delivery: A Makerere University Training Pilot Project
Procurement
General
A Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) for Uganda was completed in February 2001. The
CPAR makes six major recommendations: (a) revising the existing procurement regulations to make
them more transparent, efficient and economic; (b) replacing the existing Central Tender Board with a
procurement regulatory body, the National Procurement Policy Unit - renamed the Reformed Central
Tender Board (RCTB); (c) creating contract committees in all procuring entities; (d) creating
procurement units in all procuring entities; (e) employing procurement agents to support all those
procurement entities without adequate capacity; and (f) promulgating a procurement law based on the
United Nations Commission for International Trade Law (UNCITRAL) model.
Implementation of the above recommendations started officially on March 1, 2001, when new
Procurement Regulations, "The Public Finance (Procurement) Regulations, 2000 ", became effective.
On the same day, the Central Tender Board ceased to exist in its old form with its functions being taken
over by contract committees established in each ministry/procuring entity. Each procuring entity is
now completely responsible and accountable for all its procurement. The RCTB should have been
operational on the same day but there were delays in appointing the Board and recruiting top officials of
the Secretariat. The RCTB became fully operational on September 1, 2001. A draft procurement law
based on the UNCITRAL model has been drafted and consultations are now at an advanced stage. The
plan is to present the bill to Parliament by March 2002. In the meantime, the new Regulations will
continue as the legal instrument for controlling procurement in public entities. Implementation of the
recommendations started under PRSC I and is continuing under PRSC 2.
The CPAR identified the lack of adequate procurement capacity as the single most important issue in
public sector procurement in Uganda. This has been confirmed in another study carried out in 70
procuring entities at Central and Local Government level. One of the interim solutions that is suggested
in the CPAR is the employment of consultants to assist weak procurement units.
Assessment of Procurement Capacity at Makerere University
Since Procurement activities related to the LIL will be implemented by Makerere University as the
implementing agency, a brief procurement capacity review of Makerere University was carried out by
the Bank team. Procurement staff at the University are generally proficient with implementing low
value procurement for goods but may be challenged by having to apply the Bank's guidelines for
procurement of goods or services when procuring office equipment (primarily computers related hard
and software) and while hiring consultants for this project. There are two full time procurement staff
(under the Makerere University Bursar's office). The I@Mak.Com Project Task Manager is familiar
with Bank procurement requirements. Makerere University has always had its own procurement
organization, rules and procedures modeled on the now abolished Central Tender Board. The Makerere
University is required to use the new Regulations for all procurement financed by public funds. It is still
in the process of adopting these Regulations. National competitive bidding (advertising in key national
newspapers) and shopping (through obtaining price quotations) are the usual procurement modalities
practiced at Makerere.
Makerere University is supported by three levels of authority: a Tender Board (with members drawn
from both outside and within Makerere); a Tender Board Sub-Committee; and Finance Committees in
every faculty. The Tender Board includes representatives from the Ministry of Education and Sports,
42



and Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Faculties are represented on the Board's Sub-committee. The
Tender Board handles procurements over the threshold of UgSh. 20 million (presently equivalent to
some $12,000); the Sub-Committee handles procurements below UgSh. 20 million but above UgSh.
500,000. The Finance Committees in the faculties handle all procurements below UgSh. 500,000 (about
$235 presently). The Tender Board meets once every quarter, but may hold extra-ordinary sessions
during the year as necessary. The Tender Board sub-committee meets once every two to three weeks
and deals with procurement below the UgSh. 20 million threshold, focusing mainly on day to day
procurements. The Finance Committees meet whenever there are tenders to approve. The two
procurement staff in the procurement unit carry out the day-to-day procurement activities and provide
secretariat services to the tender board and the tender board sub-committee. The procurement function
within the Makerere University is however slated to be reviewed with the objective of streamlining and
restructuring the same.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment for Makerere University is deemed to be high. The frequency of
procurement supervision missions proposed is as follows: twice every year (including special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits and mid-term review).
Organization
Procurement under the project will be primarily carried out at the Makerere University level. IDA
funds to the University will be channeled via a Special Account. Limited procurement could take place
in subsidiary partner institutions (in accordance with the principles of the Partnership Agreement) and
would be directly related to the capacity building of the local/district government agencies. The Project
Task Manager at I@Mak.Com Secretariat will have overall responsibility for procurement (planning
and implementation) in conjunction with the two Makerere procurement staff in the Bursar's office.
The procurement staff will receive exposure to Bank procurement procedures before the project is
effective. In addition to exposing relevant Makerere staff to Bank procurement principles (both staff are
to attend Basic Procurement training - possibly at the Eastern and Southern Africa Management
Institute (ESAMI)), the LIL would provide technical assistance toward Makerere's efforts to improve
the procurement practices/capacity at the University level. The technical assistance would be provided
by a consultant firm familiar with procurement under Bank-financed projects, who would both train the
University procurement staff (via a series of workshops and hands-on training) and guide them in
establishing a simple procurement planning and monitoring system. The consultants would also revisit
the University procurement staff and system during the first year of the project's implementation and
provide support toward appropriate procurement of the procurement activities foreseen under the LIL.
The Project Task Manager at I@Mak.Com Secretariat aided by the procurement unit will have overall
responsibility for preparing and submitting the procurement plans for the LIL, and to carry out the
procurement activities. Completion of procurement documents for the first year's activities for the start
of project implementation, and establishment of a framework for agreement on standard bidding
documents that will be used for ongoing procurement throughout the life of the project is proposed by
March 31, 2002.
Procurement Methods
Goods financed by the project will be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published in January 1995 and revised in January
and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. Consultant services financed by the project will
be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers published in January 1987 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999.
43



The Bank's guidelines for procurement and selection of consultants will apply to all procurements
under the project, including those financed out of the Rockefeller grant monies.
Procurement of Goods:
It is envisaged that most of the procurement for goods financed by the project (equipment and vehicles)
will be done utilizing National Competitive Bidding (NCB), International or National Shopping (IS/NS)
procedures or via IAPSO. Some procurement could be undertaken through Limited International
Bidding (LIB) for specific, specialized equipment where the number of suppliers are limited and well
known (threshold: greater than or equal to $ 100, 000 equivalent; aggregate : $ 130,000). Office
equipment including computers and vehicle would mostly be procured through NCB (threshold:
greater than or equal to $ 30,000 but less than $ 100,000; aggregate: $ 368,500). Office equipment
including computers and vehicle may also be procured through IAPSO (threshold: less than or equal to
$ 50,000; aggregate: $ 368,500). Miscellaneous equipment, supplies, materials, products, would be
procured through shopping (threshold: <$30,000; aggregate: $50,000) or via IAPSO, as per procedures
detailed in the Guidelines. The vehicles, office equipment (computers, supplies), teaching, reporting
materials used by various consultants will be included and supplied under their contracts.
Prior and post review by the Bank for Goods contract:
All project-financed goods contracts equal to or above the threshold of US$ 50,000, per contract will be
subject to prior review procedures in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. Contracts under this
threshold will be subject to post review.
Procurement of Consultancy Services:
All consulting service contracts costing more than US$100,000 equivalent for firms will be awarded
through Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method. Consulting service contracts estimated to
cost less than US$100,000 for firms may be awarded through the Consultants' Qualifications (CQ)
selection method. For contracts of a routine nature estimated to cost less than US$100,000 and where
well established practices and standards exist such as financial audits, Least-Cost Selection (LCS)
method may be used. In cases where the assignment is simple and can be defined precisely and the
budget is fixed, Selection under a Fixed Budget (SFB) method will be used in accordance with
paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines. All consulting services of individual consultants will be procured
under individual contracts (IC) in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 to 5.3 of the
Guidelines. In exceptional cases, Single-Source (SS) selection would be used in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 to 3.1 1.
To ensure that priority is given to the identification of suitable and qualified national consultants, short-
lists for contracts estimated under US$ 100,000 or equivalent may be comprised entirely of national
consultants (in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines), provided
that sufficient number of qualified individuals or firms (at least three) are available. However, if
foreign firms have expressed interest, they will not be excluded from consideration.
Consulting services contracts will be awarded under the project, following Bank Consultant Guidelines
as follows: (a) the main contract would be awarded to a multidisciplinary consulting firm for the
"learning from the pilots" sub-component to design and carry out a baseline survey, followed by annual
in-depth evaluative surveys over the project's life. The selected firm would be: proficient in current
M&E and impact assessment methodologies (including the design of quantitative and qualitative
indicators); familiar with Uganda's decentralization process (including the challenges of Local
Governments' service delivery capacity and broader decentralization policy research and formulation
questions); and, acquainted with the Ugandan tertiary education sector and related issues. The contract
44



would be awarded under the Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method; (b) contracts awarded
on CQ basis to 3 firms for (1) design of an Intemship Pilot Program; (2) review and revision of the
procurement framework at Makerere and training, design of procurement planning & monitoring
system and assistance of I@Mak Secretariat (including 2 procurement staff in the Bursar's office) staff
in project procurement (as discussed above); and (3) a multi-disciplinary firm to undertake the process
of designing the modalities leading to the development of linkages and providing coordination between
the relevant Ugandan institutions (as discussed under Component III of the Project; Annex 2) and
institutions of excellence/ practitioners providing best practices and latest knowledge in the area of
decentralized service delivery policy formulation and research. (c) finally, one consultancy contract
would be awarded to a well-qualified firm for carrying out the annual external audit of the project. The
contract would be awarded on the basis of the LCS method.
A series of individual contracts would be awarded on individual consultant's qualifications and
experience basis. The individual contracts may be clustered around the following broad categories: (1)
design of a project performance monitoring and evaluation system and training in it of I@Mak
Committee's Secretariat staff; (2) customization of training material for planning units staff training;
and (3) expert evaluations of innovative proposals being piloted. Other critical national or international
experts may be hired with IDA prior agreement, as this LIL evolves. The thresholds for prior review
are noted below and largely national experts will be recruited under the project. All requisite Terms of
Reference (TOR) will be submitted to IDA for approval.
Prior and post review by the Bank for consultant contracts:
Project financed consulting assignments, with individuals that cost equal to or more than US$ 25,000
equivalent, per contract, will be subject to prior review by IDA. Project financed consulting
assignments, with firms that cost equal to or more than US$ 50,000 equivalent, per contract, will be
subject to prior review by IDA. All single source contracts will also be subject to prior review by IDA.
Training. Study Tours, Workshops:
All training, study tours, workshops, internships, fellowships etc. will adhere to the Project's objectives
and specifications as provided in the PIP and will be packaged together as far as possible. Prior review
of all study tours will be required, including proposed detailed budget, participants, objectives, agenda,
location of training and other details. All training through twinning arrangements/ partnering between
Makerere and other Partner Institutions, based on appropriate Partnership Agreements, will be based on
Quality Based Selection (QBS) principles and subject to prior review by IDA. Others may be reviewed
on a sample basis or will be reviewed through post-review.
Grants:
Two annual awards (Academic Excellence Award and Local Government Excellence Award) will be
granted by the I@Mak.Com on the basis of a clear nomination process/selection criteria (as detailed in
the PIP) for innovative work (consistent with the objectives of this LIL). The annual awards: 1) in the
amount of $25,000 would be granted to a qualifying Makerere Unit or Partner Institution; and 2) in the
amount of $30,000 to a qualifying pilot district Local Government. These will be reviewed through
post-review.
Procurement Implementation Schedule and Advance Procurement Actions:
A detailed procurement actions implementation schedule is being included in the Project
Implementation Plan. Table A will be used as a basis to monitor procurement processing under the
45



project. In particular, the advance procurement actions for the first year of project implementation have
been identified and agreed with the Borrower by Appraisal.
Table A: Procurement Plan (US$ million equivalent)
P    Component/Description of        Estimaled  Procurement        Date-      Date-        Indicative
k    Srvc/ Good                        Cost I   Method 2           RFP/ITB    Award        date-
g                                                                  2                       Completion/
N                                                                                          Delivery3
1   Goods (NCB Package I - Computers  64800.00  NCB; PR            July 2002  October      January
and accessories; fax machines; office  (28200.00)                          2002        2003
equipment and vehicle for project
support)
2  Goods (NCB Package 2 -            95500.00  NCB; PR           August 2002  November    February 2003
strengthening decentralization   (41520.00)                               2002
research / policy capacity in 6
faculties)
3  Goods (NCB Package 3 - Check      90800.00  NCB; PR            December    March 2003  June 2003
printing machine and software)   (39500.00)                   2002
4  Goods (NCB Package 4- Computers   116700.00  NCB; PR          February     May 2003    October 2003
and accessories for Resource Center  (50800.00)               2003
on decentralization)
5  Goods (Shopping - various materials,  32400.00  IS/NS          Continuous  Continuous  Continuous;
books, CDs, furniture etc.)      (14100.00)                                            bulk by Dec.
2003
6  Consultancy (Firm - Design        25450.00  CQ                 May 2002    July 2002   September
Internship Program)              (11070.00)                                            2002
7  Consultancy (Firm - Assist in     18350.00  CQ                 May 2002    July 2002   Continuous;
revisions to Makerere procurement  (7995.00)                                           majority of
framework and Procurement staff                                                        assignment
Training & Assistance)                                                                through June
2003
8  Consultancy (Firm - External      37000.00  LCS                 July 2002  September   Continuous;
Auditors)                        (16120.00)                                2002        Annual Audits
9  Consultancy (Individual-          12350.00  IC                 December    February    April 2003
customization of training material for  (5375.00)              2002        2003
planning units staff training)
10  Consultancy (Firm:Coordination;   50000.00  CQ; _             July 2002   September   In place by
logistics; develop/ maintain website;  (21765.00)                         2002        December
train ULAAIUAAU)                                                                      2002;
__________________ ___________            Continuous
46



P    ComponentlDescription of       Estimated  Procurement       Date -      Date -      Indicative
k    Sri ce Good                      Cost I   Mielhod 2         RFP/ITB     Award       date-
| .              . .  .                                          2                       Completion'
N                                                                                        Delivery3
0                         .                                   .             ._
11 Consultancy (Individual- Developing  8400.00  IC              April 2002  May 2002   June 2002
a computerized M&E system for    (3655.00)
I Mak Secretariat to track project
progress)
12 Consultancy (Individuals - various  88950.00  IC             Continuous  Continuous  Continuous
individuals; expert evaluations of  (38690.00)
work being piloted)                                                       _
13 Consultancy (Firm - Impact       337900.00  QCBS; PR         April 2002  August      Continuous;
Assessment; Learning from the LIL  (146920.00)                           2002        baseline study;
Pilots; baseline and annual surveys)                                                 annual reports
14 Training Programs, Workshop,     8931900.00 CQ-Firms;        Continuous  Continuous  Continuous
Internships, Fellowships, Partnering  (4308810.00) IC- Individuals;
QBS - Twinning/
All Partnering
Arrangcements &
Study Tours subiect
to prior review:
other
15 Grants (Annual Award for Innovative  165000.00  Other        Continuous  Continuous  Continuous
Excellence by qualifying i) Makerere  (82500.00)
Units or Partner Institutions; ii) Local
Governments in Pilot Distt.                  _
16 Operating Costs                  924500.00  CQ, IC, other    Continuous  Continuous  Continuous
(182980.00)               _
Total               $11,000,00
0.00
$5,000,000
.00
1/   All figures are broad estimates. The figures in parenthesis are amounts to be financed by IDA. These do include the
unallocated Credit proceeds of some US $ 75,000 equivalent. All costs include price contingencies. GOUt Makerere's
contribution of about $ 1,000,000 equivalent in terms of staff time, utilities, taxes and duties etc. is reflected in the totals.
2/   RFP - Request for Proposals, ITB - Invitation to Bid, ICB - International Competitive Bidding, IS/NS -
InternationaUNational Shopping; IC - Individual Consultant; NCB - National Competitive Bidding, QCBS - Quality- and
Cost-Based Selection, QBS - Quality-based Selection, SFB - Selection under a Fixed Budget, LCS - Least-Cost
Selection, CQ - Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications; PR - Prior Review; additionally, any other contract with
a value over the prior review threshold will be subject to prior review.
3/   End of contract may not exceed loan/credit board date
47



Disbursement
Disbursement of IDA Credit Proceeds: Table B shows the allocation of the proceeds of the IDA
Credit. The proceeds of the Credit in the sum of US$5 million will be disbursed over the project life
of three years.
Table B: Allocation of IDA Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category                  Amount in US$ Equivalent      Financing Percentage
1. Goods                                 154,300.00                50% Foreign; 45%
local
2. Consultants' Services and Audit Fees  234,087.50                 50% Foreign; 45%
local
3. Training, Workshops, Study Tours
(a) I@Mak Committee Allowances                 0.00                0%
(b) Other Training, Workshops, Study    4,281,332.00               50%
Tours
4. Grants
(a) Academic Excellence Grant             37,500.00                 50%
(b) Local Govt. Excellence Grant           45,000.00                50%
5. Operating Costs:
(a) Project Implementation Support              0.00                 0%
Allowances
(b) Other Operating Costs                172,950.00                45%
6. Unallocated                             74,830.50
Total                               5,000,000.00
To facilitate disbursements, the GOU will open and maintain a Special Deposit Account in US dollar in
a commercial bank under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. Disbursements from the Credit using
the Financial Monitoring Report-based disbursement procedure will be deposited in the Special
Account. Upon effectiveness, an advance will be deposited in the Account to finance eligible
expenditures for the ensuing six months. This initial deposit will be based on the first application for
withdrawal and acceptable FMRs submitted by Makerere to IDA. Subsequent disbursements will be on
quarterly basis and will be the lesser of the amount requested by the Project and the amount which the
Association determines, based on the FMR that accompanies the Withdrawal Application that is
required to finance eligible expenditures during the six-month period that follows the date of the FMR.
However, the quarterly disbursement when added to the amount indicated in the FMR as the balance in
the Special Account will not exceed the equivalent of US$ 1,000,000.
In addition, a Project Account in Uganda shillings will be opened and maintained in a commercial bank
under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA for GOU's counterpart fund contribution. The counterpart
contribution, estimated at US$1 million equivalent will be used for payment of taxes and duties,
Makerere and GOU's labor costs related to their services in connection with the Project, related utility
costs and other operational costs. The agreed sum of $50,000 (in Uganda Shillings equivalent) has
already been deposited into the Project Account. A minimum balance of $15,000 (in Uganda Shillings
equivalent) would be maintained in the account, thereafter, US$15,000 would be the threshold sum for
triggering replenishment whenever the balance fell below that level.
48



Disbursements from Rockefeller Foundation to finance its share of the project eligible expenditure will
be deposited in a separate Special Account maintained in US dollar by Makerere University. (The
University presently maintains a Special Account for Rockefeller Foundation funds.) Modalities for
accessing Rockefeller's funds are provided in the PIP and hereunder.
Allowances for I(a)Mak Committee and Secretariat Members: Proceeds of the IDA Credit will not be
disbursed toward the payment of allowances or salary supplements relating to I@Mak Committee
meetings or for project implementation support for Committee and Secretariat members. The Financial
Monitoring Reports (FMRs) will explicitly note the amount of such allowances or salary supplements
paid during the period covered by the said FMR. These allowances will be paid by the Rockefeller
Foundation.
Audits. The external auditor's report on the Project's annual financial statement will include a separate
opinion on the reliability of the FMRs submitted during the fiscal year, together with the procedures
and internal controls involved in their preparation to support the related withdrawals from the Credit.
Co-financing Arrangement Between IDA and Rockefeller Foundation:
In keeping with the learning and innovative nature of the operation, a novel Co-financing relationship
between the two financing institutions was agreed to by both development partners. The co-financing
arrangement to be adopted does not neatly fall under the traditional joint co-financing or parallel co-
financing mechanisms. The arrangement will adopt some features ofjoint co-financing in the sense that
both financiers will finance the same Project components in equal proportions. However, while IDA's
procurement guidelines will apply to the entire Project, each financier will establish and maintain
separate disbursement arrangements. The desired outcome of this arrangement would be a co-financing
framework that would allow funds to flow evenly for the appropriate expenditures related to the Project.
The agreed arrangement proposes to marry the flexibility and quick response time of the Rockefeller
Foundation's financial framework with the more regulated approach of the Bank's financial and
procurement framework. The combination of a Grant and a Credit in equal proportion under this Project
should allow Makerere University to continue to benefit from the Foundation's financial agility to carry
out Project related activities while managing the more rigorous requirements of a World Bank "loan" to
ensure that the resources are being used for the desired ends. The amounts and principal features of this
Arrangement will be as follows:
*  Project Financing: Each development partner will contribute $5 million toward the project and
the Government of Uganda/Makerere University will provide counterpart funding of $ 1 million
equivalent. Total Project cost is estimated at $1 1 million. The Foundation and IDA funds will be
used in equal proportion to finance pre-agreed categories of expenditure as indicated in the Table
C below. Similarly, the Rockefeller Foundation will disburse funds for eligible expenditures
under the Project.
* Procurement: With a view to keeping the implementation arrangements for the Project
streamlined, a common set of procurement regulations and procedures will be applied to the
procurement of goods, services, training and (incremental) operating costs; as such, it was
mutually agreed that the World Bank's procurement guidelines will be applied to all procurements
financed under the Project by the IDA Credit and the Rockefeller Grant monies. No civil works
are to be financed out of the Credit proceeds or the Foundation Grant in the context of this project.
The Bank procurement procedures are to be applied to help ensure that monies are being
expended in accordance with the principles of economy, efficiency and fairness and transparency
of process.
49



* Disbursement: The World Bank's disbursement guidelines will not be applied to the
Rockefeller grant. The Rockefeller Foundation will follow its standard disbursement practices for
the release of its funds. Adequate withdrawal applications supported by Financial Monitoring
Reports covering the entire project (including information on all counterpart contributions from
the Government/Makerere University) and seeking disbursements for eligible expenditures, will
be submitted to IDA by the Innovations at Makerere Committee (hereinafter referred to as
"I@Mak.Com") Secretariat. In view of the equal proportionality of the funding by the two
development partners, the Foundation and IDA will review their respective
applications/documentation individually (each institution using its own review procedures and
disbursement guidelines), and proceed to disburse their contributions as may be approved.
* Exchange of Letter on Financial Principles: In order to make explicit the principles governing
financial arrangements and to be precise in the modalities characterizing the nature of the funding
partnership, these principles are defined in a letter confirmed by the World Bank and the
Rockefeller Foundation.
Table C: Project Financing
Financier                   Amount of Financing  Project Component and Expenditure
Category Financed
IDA                          $ 5 million Credit  All 4 Project Components & Eligible
Expenditure Categories:
*  goods
*  consultancy services
.  training
.  grants
. (incremental) operating costs
Rockefeller Foundation        $ 5 million Grant  All 4 Project Components & Eligible
Expenditure Categories:
.  goods
*  consultancy services
.  training
* grants
*  (incremental) operating costs
GOU/Makerere                  $ 1 million       All 4 Project components & primarily
Operating Costs:
*  applicable taxes and duties
.  salaries of Makerere & Government
.  staff relevant to the Project
o  utilities; office accommodation
Total                         $ 11 million
The Rockefeller Foundation Grant Access Mechanism:
The following procedures govem the grant application and disbursement for the Rockefeller Foundation
to Makerere University.
1.  First, Makerere University submits a proposal and budget to the Rockefeller Foundation.
2.  The Rockefeller Foundation sends a letter of notification of a grant to the Vice Chancellor,
Makerere University who is the Chairperson of I@Mak.Com. (Advance notification may be by
phone or fax.)
50



3.  The University applies for disbursement of the available funds in tranches in accordance with the
budget.
4. For every tranche, Makerere (I@Mak.Com) prepares accountability certified by its Internal
Auditor.
5.  The accountability statement is presented to I@Mak.Com for validation and confirmation.
6.  The approved accountability is then submitted to the Rockefeller Foundation under a covering
letter. By the same letter, Makerere applies for release of another tranche against an attached
budget. Approval is communicated to the Vice Chancellor in writing. Makerere also gets a Bank
advice whenever the Telegraphic Transfer to their account has been effected. Advance notice
may be done by phone. The Rockefeller Foundation staff make periodic visits to review how the
activities they are funding are progressing.
Funds Flow to Makerere Faculties/Units and Partner Institutions
The various Makerere Faculties will contribute to the design development and delivery of suitable/
relevant training programs or undertaking research, and will apply for support in accordance with the
guidelines and criteria provided in the Project Implementation Plan. The Partner Institutions would also
apply for funds to support such activities, with relevance to the LIL's objectives. Financing of activities
undertaken by partner institutions will be channeled via Makerere. Their applications are expected to
be subject to the same process and guidelines as the applications for financing from Makerere units
(Also refer Annex 4).
51



Annex 7: Documents in the Project File*
UGANDA: Decentralized Service Delivery: A Makerere University Training Pilot Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
* Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
* Procurement Capacity Assessment, Makerere University, February 2002; Mr. Rogati Kayani,
Lead Procurement Specialist
* Financial Management Assessment, Makerere University, January 2002; Mr. Joseph Kizito,
Financial Management Specialist
C. Other
* Project Proposal prepared by the I@Mak Committee.
* Report of proceedings/minutes of various I@Mak Committee workshops/
meetings/deliberations.
* Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet
*   Sample of Innovative Proposals reviewed by I@Mak.Com
* Makerere Institute of Social Research, Needs Assessment in 5 Pilot Districts, October 2000
* Assessment of Higher Education Institutions (Potential Partners to Makerere), April, 2002
* Makerere University Prospectus 20001/02
*  Uganda Management Institute Prospectus 20001/02
*Including electronic files
52



Annex 8: Statement of Loans and Credits
UGANDA: Decentralized Service Delivery: A Makerere University Training Pilot Project
06-Feb-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in UIS Millions                           disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                     IBRD        IDA                 GEF    Cancel.    Undisb.      Orig  Frm Rev'd
P002984       2002 UG FOURTH POWER PROJECT                          0.00     6Z00                 0.00      0.00     60.59       0.70      0.00
P065436       2002 2ND PHASE OF THE RD. DEVELOPMENT                 0.00     64.52                0.00      0.00     64.39       0.99      0.00
P069996       2002 PROGRAM                                          000      49.15                0.00      0.00     4809       000       0.00
P044695       2001 Energy for Rural Transformation Projeet          0.00     4500                 0.00     .000      44 66       0 05     o000
P050439       2001 National Agric Advisoy Services Proj.            0.00     48.50                0.00      0 00     43.30      22.44      0.00
P073089       2001 PRIVATIZATION & UTILITY SECTOR REFORM            0.00     2200                 0.00      0.00     2013        8 01      000
P072482       2001 EMCOP II                                         0.00     47 50                0.00      0.00     44 98      13 35      0.00
P070627       2001 HIV/AIDS ControlProjet                           0.00     2000                 0.00      0.00     1961        292       000
P044679       2000 RegionalTradeFac. -Uganda                        0 00     34.04                0.00      000      2572       1459       0.00
P002992       2000 Second Econromic and Fin. Mgmt. Project          0.00     80 90                0.00      0.00     46.53     -28.12      0 00
P059223       1999 LOCAL GOV DEVEPROGRAM                            0.00     22.40                0.00      000      14.49      1554       000
P002941       1999 NAICVUBOCHANNELREH                               0.00     12.40                2.00      0.00      178        0.15      000
P059127       1999 ICB-PAMSU                                        0.00     26.00                000       0.00     18.60       661       000
P002970       1999 AGRIC.RES & TRNG. II                             0 00     90.98                0 00      0.00     71 87      21 89      1.02
P057007       1998 ROADSDEVTPROGRAM                                 0.00     27.60                0.00     1698       562       2425       0.18
P040551       1998 ELNINOEMERGRDREP                                 000      34.00                0.00      0.00     15.29       5.16      000
P049543       1998 NUTRIT CHILD DEV                                 0.00     30.00                000       0.00     19.47      2198       063
P046836       1997 ROAD SECT/INST.SUPP                              000      12.10                0.00      0.00      1 95       186       000
P046870       1997 Lake Victoria Env.                               0.00      980                 9.80      0.00      2 74       265       0 00
P035634       1996 LAKEVICTORIAENV.                                 000      12.30                0.00      218       129        476       160
P002971       1995 PRIV. SECTOR COMPETI                             0.00    45.00                 0.00      0.00      0 34       1 33      000
P002976       1995 DISTRICT HEALTH                                  0.00     36.40                0.00      0.00      0.82       328       0 00
P002963       1994 INST. CAPACITYBLOG                               0.00    50.00                 0.00      0.00      1.67       2.51      000
P002957       1994 SEXUAL.TRANS.IN                                  000      42.30                0.00      0 00      2.89       3986      000
SMALL TOWNS WATER
Total:       0.00     924.89             1180        19.16     576.80    15077       3.43
53



UGANDA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
OCT-200 1
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                      Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi   Pa
1999               AEF Gomba                    1.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.40    0.00    0.00    0
2001               AEF Kaboija                  0.35    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.35    0.00    0.00    0
1998               AEF Kampala Flwr             0.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0
2000               AEF Kasambya                 0.99    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0
AEF Kiwa II                  0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0
1997               AEF Ladoto                   0.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.80    0.00    0.00    0
2000               AEF LongFreight              0.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0
2000               AEF Mosa Court               0.48    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.48    0.00    0.00    0
1998               AEF Nile Roses               0.16    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.16    0.00    0.00    0
1993               AEF Rainbow                  0.79    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.79    0.00    0.00    0
1995               AEF Rwenzori                 0.23    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.23    0.00    0.00    0
1993               AEF Skyblue                  0.51    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.51    0.00    0.00    0
1994               AEF White Nile               0.24    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.24    0.00    0.00    0
1998               AEF Wstern Hgh               0.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0
1999               CelTel Uganda                3.00    0.70    0.00    0.00    3.00    0.70    0.00    0
1994/00            DFCU                         0.00    0.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.60    0.00    0
0/84/92            DFCU LEASING                 0.79    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.19    0.00     0.00   0
1995/96           Jubilee                       0.00    0.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.10    0.00    0
1993               Kasese Cobalt                9.33    3.60    0.00    0.00    9.33    3.60    0.00    0
1996               Tilda Rice                   2.16    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.66    0.00    0.00    0
1998               Uganda Sugar                 4.02    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.02    0.00    0.00    0
1983               AEF Agro Mgmt                0.60    0.40    0.00    0.00    0.55    0.40    0.00    0
1996               AEF Clovergem                0.84    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.84    0.00    0.00    0
1992               AEF Conrad Plaza             0.94    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.94    0.00    0.00    0
1997               AEF Exec. Invmnt             0.86    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.86    0.00    0.00    0
1998
Total Portfolio:       30.29    5.40         0.00     0.00   26.35    5.40    0.0(
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                         Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2002              AEF Makss                        1.35     0.00      0.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:       1.35      0.00     0.00      0.00
54



Annex 9: Country at a Glance
UGANDA: Decentralized Service Delivery: A Makerere University Training Pilot Project
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan     Low-
Uganda      Africa  Income      D Development diamond'
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                      22.2      659     2,459                Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, USS)                   300       480      420
GNI (Atlas method. USS billions)                     6.8       313     1.030                      F
Average annual growth. 1994.00
Population (IX)                                      3.0       2.6       1.9
Labor force (%)                                      2.7       2.6       2.4     GNI                            Gross
per ~'primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                            capita                     enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  35
Urban population (% of total population)              13        34       32
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      42        47       59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              97        92       77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)            26                        |    Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)  52        55       76
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+J                   38        38       38     !
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)  122       78       96               Uganda
Male                                               129        85      102           L----  Low-income group
Female                                             114        71       86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1990      1999     2000
iEconomic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                                   4.3       6.4       6.2    j
Gross domestic investment/GDP                        12.7     16.4      181
Exports of goods and services/GDP                    7.2      11.3      101                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                           0.6       4.7       2.6                      T
Gross national savings/GDP                           0.6      10.3      10.6
Current account balance/GDP                         -10.0    -11.6     -13.9
Interest payments/GDP                                          0.6       0.7     Domesic                    Investment
Total debt/GDP                                      51.2      63.7      59.1    savings
Total debt service/exports                          80.2      23.7      25.5    1
Present value of debtGDP                                      27.3      15.9
Present value of debt/exports                                225.3     146.2
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00    1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 4.1      7.1     7.5       4.4       6.3              -  Uganda
GDP per capita                      1.3      3.9     4.5       1.1       3.8            - ------ Low-income group
Exports of goods and services       2.0     15.4    31.3      -0.7       6.3    L
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1990      1999     2000      Growth of investment and GOP (%)
(% of GOP)!
Agriculture                                         56.6      44.4      42.5    ! 5tx-5
Industry                                            1 1.      17.8      19.1    41t
Manufacturing                                       5.7       8.7      9.1    120
Services                                            32.4      37.8      38.4
Private consumption                                 91.9      85.4      86.9   12a 1    95   95   97    es   99    00
General government consumption                       7.5       9.9      10.5    1
Imports of goods and services                       19.4      23.1      25.6                   GDi          GDP
1980090  1990-00     1999      2000    I Growth ofexports and imports lijl
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  3.3     3.7       6.9       4 1    so
Industry                                    6.8     12.3       9.3       6.5      j 
Manufacturing                              4.8     13.6      11.7      1.9
Services                                    3 9      7.9       7.2       5.3    20
Private consumption                          3.9     7.5      17.3       0.9     1        6                     00
General government consumption               1.7     6.4      -4.5       4.6   !_20
Gross domestic investment                   11.2    10.1      14.1      30.5              -Exports          Imports
Imports of goods and services               5.9     13.2      47.8       6.3
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates. Uganda data are in fiscal year: 1999 refers to 1998199: 2000 refers to 1999100.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
55



Uganda
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1990      1999     2000     $into    -.
Domestic prices                                      190                             ation %
(% changeJ).      ,o
Consumer prices                                      45.5      -0.2       6.3    to I
Implicit GOP deflator                                44.4       4.2       3.0
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                               9I            96   97 -9       99    00l
Current revenue                                       6.8      10.9      10.8    : s
Current budget balance                                -0.3       0.9      0 4                 GDP deflator  _ 0  CP
Overall surplus/deficit                              -5.9      -5.9      .9 0
TRADE
1990      1999      2000     Export andrimport levels (USS mill.)
(USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                   210       549      439     j2.000
Coffee                                              159       307       187 
Cotton                                                ..       11        23     1.500
Total imports (Ci)                                    584      1,392    1,513     te ol
Food                                                                                      Jd                   j
Fuel and energy                                      78        108      143      Soo
Capital goods                                                                      0
94   95   95   97   go   99   00
Export price index (1995=100)                          56        67       58
Import price index (1995=100)                          83       103      104                 n7Exports     *imports
Terms of trade (t995=100)                              67        65       56
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1990      1999     2000         --     -     -       --
(t990 m999i2ns)             j Current account balance to GOP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                         246       726      626     I      -
Imports of goods and services                         676     1,834     1,985      uI
Resource balance                                     -430     -1.107   -1,359
Net income                                            -77       -14      -15
Net current transfers                                  78       375      513                                        I..
Current account balance                              -429      -746     -861     ,-1.
Financing items (net)                                 419       780      846
Changes in net reserves                                10       -33        15 is
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)                 35       748      719
Conversion rate (DEC, odat/USS)                    319.6    1,362.0  1,511.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1990      1999      2000    !            -           -.-.
(US$ millions)                                                                    Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                2,202     4,078     3,668
IBRD                                                 21         0        0                  F.21 G: 117
IDA                                                 805     2,043     2,115
Total debt service                                    197       184       172
IBRD                                                  7         0        0
IDA                                                   6        27       29
Composition of net resource flows                                                    D. s1e
Official grants                                     153       277      312
Official creditors                                   ..       195      169
Private creditors                                     0         4       11
Foreign direct investment                             6       230      248
World Bank program
Commitments                                         227       165      107      A -IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                       165       132      190      B- IDA   D- Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                                 6         13       14      C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net Oows                                            159       119      176
Interest payments                                     7        14       15
Net transfers                                       152       104      161
Development Economics                                                                                              9/13101
56



Additional Annex 10: Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
UGANDA: Decentralized Service Delivery: A Makerere University Training Pilot Project
The LIL would pilot a set of innovative approaches targeted at Makerere and select tertiary level
and other institutions, which are to be strengthened and utilized to build critically required public
capacity in support of Uganda's efforts to devolve executive and administrative authority to sub-
national levels. The indicators listed below are intended to provide a means of measuring specific
objectives at both output and outcome levels. Some provide benchmarks for measuring the
attainment of capacity at Makerere and its Partner Institutions, and others parallel and resulting
achievement within local governments. An attempt is also made to look at the qualitative aspect of
the project's results, including the measurement of the most difficult goal: the improved delivery
of services which results from the interventions of the project. Measurement of the extent to which
qualitative and quantitative objectives are or are not achieved is a critical feature of this project
because of a design which is geared to the learning of lessons about innovations. The indicators
below attempt to provide benchmarks related to key aspects of the Project:
1. Quality and Scope of Revised Curricula
* Number of workshops relevant to decentralization developed and offered (not less than 20)
* Number of short term refresher courses/continuing education programs relevant to
decentralization offered (not less than 10)
* Number of new courses relevant to decentralization introduced into the curriculum (not less
than 21)
* Number of new courses relevant to decentralization in the six disciplines specified in the
context of the LIL pilot (not less than 9)
* Decentralized service policy related courses developed (not less than 3)
* 30 training courses manuals/didactic materials
*  Qualitative evaluations of breadth, academic value and practical utility of course content
*  Updated University Prospectuses for Makerere and other Partner Institutions
2. Makerere & Other Partner Institutions Capacity Building and Mobilization
*  Response of Makerere & Partner Institutions staff to I@mak.com objectives and decision
making process (qualitative evaluation)
*  Number of successfully operating partnerships between Makerere & Partner Institutions
(not less than 3)
*  Number of successful program collaborations -joint programs between Makerere and a
Partner Institution or proposals coming solely from Partner Institution(s) (not less than 10)
*  Makerere/Partner Institutions staff trained in areas relevant to objectives of the Project (not
less 800)
* Select Makerere staff complete Training (not less than 10 staff members)
* Makerere staff mobilized in the four PEAP focus areas and two others to be decided on the
basis of need and relevant to the objectives of the Project - successful proposals emanating
from Makerere staff (not less than 75)
* Number of local governments over and above the 5 pilot districts involved in activities
under the project (not less than 10)
* Decentralization Resource Center established and operational at Makerere
* Makerere University Bursar's office and procurement unit strengthened
* Innovative Excellence Award to qualifying Makerere/Partner unit (not less than 3)
57



3. Internship Pilot
* Guidelines for Internship Programs developed by the end of 2002.
* Internship program integrated into the University Curricula.
* Number of Makerere students on intermships supported under the project (not less than 300)
* Internship programs implemented in 6 Makerere University faculties
* Number of successful internship programs (not less than 10)
4. Local Government Capacity Building in Five Pilot Districts
* Number of participants in workshops and short term refresher courses/continuing education
programs in the Faculties of Medicine, Agriculture, Law/Communications, the Business
School and two others to be decided on the basis of need: (not less than 150)
* Undergraduate Fellowships completed (not less than 60)
* Masters Fellowships initiated (not less than 20)
* Local Government Councilors completing Sensitization Seminars (not less than 60)
* District planners, population offices and statisticians trained (not less than 10)
* Number of LG staff completing distance education courses related to Africa Local
Govemment Action Forum (ALGAF) (not less than 50)
* Uganda Local Government Action Forum (ULGAF) involying all 5 pilot districts
established and fully operational by 2003/04
* Four communities of Practice established (around 4 key areas identified in the Project)
* Uganda Local Government Development Radio Program (ULGDRP) airing relevant
educational and informational programs by 2003/04 (all 5 pilot districts and a possible
outreach beyond).
* Innovative Excellence Award granted to a qualifying Local Government (not less than 3)
* Number of LGs over and above the 5 pilot districts involved in Project activities
5. Improved Service Delivery
* Better delivery of services to communities in pilot districts by Local Governments trained
(Specific indicators will be developed and regularly measured through the "Learning from
the Pilots" M&E exercise)
6. Capacity for Research & Policy Formulation Related to Decentralization
* Number of Institutions of Excellence linked with Makerere and/or Partner Institutions (not
less than 3)
* Number of such Institutions of Excellence visited (not less than 5)
* Faculty Based Research on decentralization - projects not for earning academic awards (not
less than 10)
* Number of Masters level research undertaken (not less than 15)
* Number of PhD research undertaken (not less than 10)
* Research jointly undertaken with Partner Institutions (not less than 3)
* Capacity building for policy research and formulation supported in select Makerere
faculties & Partner Institutions (not less than 6)
58



7. Monitoring and Evaluation
*  A multi-disciplinary consulting firm to carry out the monitoring and evaluation of the LIL
in place by the start of the 2002/3 academic year.
*  An effective M&E process to track project implementation performance and progress,
operational in the Secretariat by the start of the 2002/3 academic year
  Thorough baseline report supplemented by annual monitoring & evaluation reports
focusing on the pilots and lessons under the LIL, over the project's life (4 total)
59



Additional Annex 11 :Options for Distance Learning, Linkages among Local
Governments & Linkages with Institutions of Excellence
UGANDA: Decentralized Service Delivery: A Makerere University Training Pilot Project
A fundamental condition for successful decentralization is the availability of salient information,
training and best practices to public policy makers, local government officials, community leaders
and private citizens. The options suggested here would seek to establish institutional linkages and
dialogue at various levels for availing timely information to academics, decision makers in
Kampala and staff in local governments. This in turn would help them achieve the goals of
decentralization, namely to provide:
a) Services for the local populations efficiently and effectively,
b) A conducive environment for local economic development, and
c) Management of local resources in a sustainable manner
The inclusion of the options and related modalities proposed hereunder would be subject to the
selection process and guidelines provided in the PIP:
1. Africa Local Government Action Forum (ALGAF)
The Africa Local Government Action Forum (ALGAF) is a joint initiative of the Municipal
Development Program (MDP) for Eastern and Southern Africa, The Global Distance Learning
Network (GDLN), Uganda Management Institute (Kampala, Uganda), Civil Service College (Addis
Ababa, Ethiopia); Institute of Financial Management (Dar Es Salaam, Tanzania), Institute of
Management and Public Administration (Accra, Ghana) and Bank offices, in Harare, Zimbabwe
and Abuja, Nigeria. The ALGAF which seeks to utilize the available technology in these countries
(through six distance learning centers in Kampala, Abuja, Accra, Addis Ababa, Dar Es Salaam and
Harare), has been active since 2000 and has three principal objectives:
*    Provide an accessible platform for structured dialog on key issues of Local Governance and
Finance in Anglophone Africa
*    Develop support networks for policy formulation, implementation and evaluation
*    Improve local governance by accelerating, broadening and deepening dialogue with
stakeholders on a regional level
The program essentially consists of twelve training/discussion modules of four hours each. Each
module, presented the first Friday of each month, is based on a keynote presentation supported by a
reference reading. The readings are posted on websites in the MDP home page as well as in the
World Bank Institute's (WBI) intergovernmental fiscal relations page. The Forum generally
includes a core set of 100 participants who are awarded certificates for attending at least eight
sessions as well as additional 60-80 participants that participate in specific sessions depending on
their interest. Topics covered have included the following themes: Poverty and Municipal
Governance; Integrity: the building block of governance, Gender: Building strength through
inclusive governance, Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations; Privatization: Provision of services does
not mean production of services. The Forum allows for the addition of special sessions as needed.
The ALGAF training would provide for the piloting of two options. First, Makerere and other
pedagogic institutions' staff would benefit from the relevant modules. Additionally, local
government staff from the 5 pilot districts and select public policy makers, would benefit from the
training provided under the various modules, with an emphasis on the participation of LG staff in
the training modules.
60



2. Uganda Local Government Action Forum (ULGAF)
Another possible option relates to the development of a Uganda Local Government Action Forum
(ULGAF). Makerere in collaboration with Partner Institutions, such as the Uganda Local
Authorities Association and the Urban Authorities Association of Uganda (ULAA/UAAU) which
has been identified as a potential Partner Institution, would work toward this end. The experience
from the five pilot districts will be evaluated and lessons learned would inform future operations.
The ULGAF would attempt to establish a partnership of the 5 pilot districts across Uganda and
offer the local government staff from Arua, Mbarara, Mbale, Rakai and Kampala a platform to:
*  exchange experiences among staff on recent innovations in the fields of pro-poor service
delivery;
*  reflect with partners (and communities) on some of the key implementation challenges of these
approaches; and
*  discuss how best to address the operational implications.
In particular, the ULGAF would be the mechanism for bringing together and linking up these
districts through exchanging news and views and highlighting successful cases of immediate and
specific relevance, e.g., improvements in pre-natal care for HIV-positive pregnant women in
District X would be shared with public health practitioners in the other four local governments.
Communities of practice would be built around various disciplines, e.g., finance, public health,
animal/crop production, extension, etc. The emphasis will be on discussion and information
sharing, rather than structured learning.
There will be one site/exchange visit per pilot district over the life of LIL, supplemented by the
more traditional means of sharing information and ideas, e.g., printed materials by way of
information brochures, guides, leaflets and posters. These can be developed and exchanged among
the 5 districts, as well as the material made available through the more advanced audio-visual and
electronic means: on CDs, floppies, tapes and posted on websites The possibility of ULAA/UAAU
serving as the liaison and channeling this material to and among the pilot districts, has been
considered by the Committee. The Forum will be open to other districts that wish to join in, but the
project will only support the ULGAF's implementation and evaluation in the five pilot districts.
The sustainability of this pilot activity would come through integrating / mainstreaming the
ULGAF within the Local Government activities.
Another option comprises the purchase of regular (monthly/ bi-monthly) air-time on popular local
community radio network(s) broadcasting to the pilot districts (and beyond). This would facilitate
the development of an instructive/ educational Uganda Local Government Development Radio
Program, to enable the provision of current and reliable information and didactic material
necessary for good governance to pilot municipalities in small towns and rural areas in a cost-
effective and timely manner.
3. Uganda Local Government Development Radio Program (ULGDRP)
It is proposed that the LIL support the purchase of regular (monthly/bi-monthly) air-time on
popular local community radio network(s) broadcasting to the pilot districts (and beyond). The
ULGDRP will address information needs of local governments and facilitate the provision of
current and reliable information and didactic material necessary for good governance to pilot
municipalities in small towns and rural areas in a cost-effective and timely manner.
61



An hour long stimulating and lively program on a regular basis (with some 12 to 24 sessions per
year), with educational and informational content is proposed; the program format could comprise:
1 ) an educational segment with simple didactic material on one of the broad training disciplines
being piloted under the LIL, viz. agriculture, medicine, finance, anticorruption strategies, etc.
(ideally supported by printed manuals and other literature sent in advance to the pilot districts);
2) engaging interviews on a relevant subject with personalities and practitioners from one of the
pilot districts;
3) data and news on local government issues in the pilot districts; news from communities that
have developed successful poverty alleviation programs through decentralization, and feedback
from officials participating in the program will be headlined;
4) an inter-active segment with dialogue; questions and answer sessions; problem solving and
conflict resolution. The perspectives of LG staff affected by the most critical issues, e.g.,
chronic shortage of malaria prophylactics; communities affected by poor/inadequate services,
could be given special attention.
Among the most important reasons for considering the use of radio is the likelihood of its being by
far the most inexpensive means for reaching target audiences. The second highly favorable aspect is
the inclusiveness and potential for access by large numbers of people beyond local government
staff, including politicians, NGOs, communities, etc. The immediacy and timeliness of radio can
ensure that programs are relevant and relate to recent issues. Programs can be altered and brought
up to date very quickly. However, radio does have its limitations as a hard teaching mechanism.
Great care must be taken to ensure that programs are engaging and interesting and messages clear
and straight-forward.
4. Linkages with Institutions of Excellence:
This option would support the development of linkages to other universities and relevant
institutions for joint work and discussion and it proposes to put Makerere and other research and
pedagogic institutions' staff and public policy makers in contact with practitioners and thought
leaders elsewhere. Using the GDLN facility at UMI, a three year 24 hour (12 sessions of 2 hours
each) annual pilot program is proposed for developmentusing three entry points:
In the first instance, Makerere would be linked to outstanding institutions within Africa:
specifically leading Universities and public management training Centers (e.g., in Ghana, Tanzania,
Ethiopia, Zimbabwe and South Africa). Working groups in local government capacity enhancement
would be developed and point (Makerere and another University) or multipoint (Makerere and
more than one site) could be established to discuss leading issues of public administration.
Secondly, Makerere University would be linked with leading institutions in public management
including institutions which have significant experience in Eastern and Southern Africa (to be
selected based on the findings of the consultations undertaken in the context of the project). A
multi-disciplinary firm would undertake the process of designing the modalities leading to the
development of such linkages as well as coordination of the process (see Component III; Annex 2
for more detail).
Finally, a pilot link is proposed between Uganda and practitioners elsewhere to learn from
international best practices. A program of dialog via videoconferences would be defined in
collaboration with inter alia, the ULAA/UAAU, Africa Union of Local Authorities (Harare), the
International Union of Local Authorities (The Hague) and the International City Managers
Association.
62



IBRD 31769
UGANDA                                    -
DECENTRALIZED SERVICE DELIVERY:
A MAKERERE UNIVERSITY TRAINING PILOT PROJECT (LIL)         7
_  iPILOT DI-STPCTS  _  _  DISTRICT BOUNDARIES  
PRIMARY ROADS            REGION BOUNDARIES              II
0  DISTRICT CAPITALS  ---  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES     r    |    ff
  NATIONAL CAPITAL
300                          32-                          34
0     50    100    150                SUDAN
KILOMETERS
K-   YXUMB  -tol '
,kf-'Y.M, .      ,3          t       2    0:      (
DEMOCRATIC gXp>R
-2               ;  ()  hASINDI           lX   )4A-\  K T  Wl /  | ADJUMANI  K
DE M O C          ,;;e'  (,2,  s NEBBI
f~~  ~~~     l  r,* /,lbg>l        \-~      4Sm     i   BL
f>!/ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~E~c *'  Ic ,   -\izl.-.r  Pall a ,4;t{r-,l.,,. *
RO
!~~~~ K                             TAPL                           KENYA    ]
0'  L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,~~~~~~~/L M ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ra LR
INDI-                                         2 *
Sti,i,;-fll;ill4tl>g MRAIRAA A_1 ~kfcaar.a3;o*            |      ;-
RuB;huru2tl')~    ~~ L' ''! I.vLprGL            I     I
To  u   A;etll  '\                   TA NI                               S i,; A-
Q;K r,.*;.  -2D  NI,    R    j1             I       .. ...1 .  RJ.-.;L    - -' 
To  *  a  ale                                       ,  ,I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U~tIjR;O,; 
30'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
I                 I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 
E  X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.t...C  C:



