Report No. PID10718
Project Name             Uganda-Decentralized Service Delivery: A (@)
Makerere University Training Pilot
Region                   Africa Regional Office
Sector                   System Reform & Capacity Building;
Tertiary Education
Project ID               UGPE74078
Borrower(s)              GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF FINANCE, PLANNING &
ECON DEV.; MAKERERE UNIVERS.
Makerere University - Innovations at
Makerere Committee
Address: Flat C-5 Lincoln Flats, P.O. Box
16022, Kampala, Uganda
Contact Person: Mr. Samwiri Katunguka
Tel: 256-41-531-067
Fax: 256-41-531-069
Email: IatMak@utlonline.co.ug;
Katunguka@Udoramail.Com
Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic
Development (MOFPED)
Address: Appollo Kaggawa Rd, Plot 2/4,
P.O. Box 8147, Kampala
Contact Person: Mr. Keith Muhakanizi
Tel: 256-41-230290
Fax: 256-41-230163
Email: mkeith@infocom.co.ug
Environment Category     C
Date PID Prepared        February 28, 2002
Projected Appraisal
Date                     January 21, 2002
Projected Board Date     March 28, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Following a period of economic collapse and socio-political anarchy during
1971-85, Uganda has accomplished an economic transformation over the past
fifteen years which has centered around Government policies aimed at
economic liberalization, privatization, fiscal discipline and broad-based
public sector reform. The reform program has produced impressive results,
including most notably the achievement of positive, sustained economic
growth (at an average annual GDP growth rate of almost 6.59 over the past
decade), accompanied by financial sector reform, the restructuring of
public enterprises and efforts to create an enabling environment for
private sector development. Progress is also evident in the empowerment
of civil society, the adoption of a new constitution, and the streamlining
of the civil service under a public service reform program. A central



element of this reform agenda was the introduction in the early 1990s of
an ambitious decentralization program designed to bring about improved
community well-being/quality of life and popular participation in its
achievement. The legal framework for the new program was cemented by the
1995 Constitution of the Republic of Uganda and the Local Government Act
of 1997. After two pilot phases, the decentralization program was extended
to all districts in 1998, and responsibility for supporting agriculture
extension, primary education, primary health care, clean water, and feeder
roads has been devolved to the local governments (LGs); the World Bank
has provided support to Uganda's decentralization program through a number
of interventions, the most recent ones comprising the Local Government
Development Program (LGDP) and the Economic and Financial Management
Project II (EFMP II) . Furthermore, in recent years, in the context of
the Uganda Government's Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP) and the
Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF), Uganda has progressively moved
its development framework towards a more programmatic and sectoral
approach and encouraged a coordinated broadly-based approach to capacity
building. Donors have responded well by supporting sector-wide approach
programs (SWAPs), the Poverty Action Fund (PAF), and shifting to budgetary
support. The Bank has actively supported these developments via the
introduction more recently of a series of poverty reduction support
credits (PRSCs) in its lending program. The concept of local government
has thus altered significantly - from an administrative arm of the center
to that of a locally responsive engine of development; increasing levels
of decision-making, planning, managerial and implementation powers and
responsibilities are being devolved to sub-national public authorities.
The devolution of service delivery functions, as well as management of
financial resources has exerted considerable pressure on limited LG
capacities. At the same time, this expanded role has generated new
relationships among LGs, the central government, the private sector,
external assistance agencies and other stakeholders. These have in
themselves stimulated increased demands on the LGs - often particular to
specific districts and sectors. The expanded scope of work at these
levels demands greater diversity and depth of technical and managerial
skills to fulfill mandated functions in LGs. However, shortcomings in
human skills, as well as organizational and systems deficiencies are
pervasive at that level. The elements and scope of capacity inadequacies
are revealed by the Uganda government's manpower survey of 1989, the
National Capacity Assessment Report of 1996, and more recently by the
District Human Resource Demand Assessment (October 2000) carried out by
Makerere University in five representative districts. They report
extensive skills gaps in all sectors of the economy and in all
professions, particularly those concerned with policy analysis and
formulation, financial management, accountancy and general management and
administration. The critical shortage of trained human resources and lack
of the right composition of skills in district development teams has
adversely affected the implementation of decentralization and other
programs at the local level. Past attempts by the government and donor
community, including the Bank, to meet skill deficiencies, have generally
resulted in a multiplicity of short term training programs and seminars
addressed to alleviating deficiencies in staff performance. However,
often these have been narrow in their coverage, supply driven,
uncoordinated, even ad hoc and have relied heavily on external technical
assistance. Furthermore, the training has generally been oriented to
cater to the traditional public service role - concerned with
- 2 -



administration rather than active implementation - and amidst a
prevailing culture, within the government and donor community alike, which
tended to look outside Uganda for solutions. Makerere University, with its
main campus in Kampala, despite its long history of producing trained
human resources for Uganda and elsewhere in Africa, was initially not
sought out to help meet the capacity needs of decentralization. Its
programs remained traditional and their quality had deteriorated
considerably in the '70s and '80s. As a result, its graduates were
perceived as lacking the skills, knowledge and attitudes necessary for
implementation of the new policies and functions. The perception was
correct at the time and this issue has been acknowledged by the
University. However, along with the other national transformations of
the '90s, Makerere has also undertaken a process of revitalization. In
the past decade, Makerere has moved from the brink of collapse to a
position where it again aspires to become one of the preeminent
intellectual and capacity building resources in the region. It has tripled
student enrollment, improved the numbers and qualifications of staff,
raised quality, instigated major improvements in the physical and academic
infrastructure and drastically reduced its financial dependence upon the
state. Restructuring at Makerere has had three central interrelated
elements: implementing alternative financial strategies, installing new
management structures and introducing demand driven course work. These
specific changes, combined with a new and uncommon alertness to the
benefits of innovation itself, have positioned Makerere to take on
expanded public training responsibilities. In addition, the University,
with financial assistance from the Rockefeller Foundation, has over the
last few years embarked on a restructuring program that has focused on the
needs of decentralization, in order to better equip itself to play a
relevant role in the process. The Government of Uganda recognizes the
aggregate capacity limitations in districts for implementing
decentralization policies and programs as well as the renewed potential of
Makerere as a contributor to building more relevant public capacity in
specific, key areas from the perspective of local governments.
Additionally, Government has initiated a process that should result in a
more comprehensive approach to capacity building, as a sequel to several
capacity building projects currently supported by the Bank and other
development partners. The central thrust of this broader initiative is to
ensure adequate public sector capacity to support improved service
delivery and private sector development, especially aimed at the
diversification of the economy. It is against this context that this LIL
seeks to develop an effective, replicable and sustainable mechanism for
strengthening the skills and competencies of those responsible for service
delivery and management at the LG level. Moreover, full integration of
this intervention with the Government's decentralization and public
service reform programs and capacity building goals is intended. The LIL
would pilot a set of innovative approaches in which Makerere and select
tertiary level and other institutions are to be utilized to build
critically required public capacity in support of Uganda's efforts to
devolve executive and administrative authority to sub-national levels.
More specifically, the project aims to test responses to vital learning
and development issues confronting Uganda, clustered around the following
themes: 1) what approaches, utilizing a key national higher learning
institution (in cooperation with a select number of suitable partner
institutions), can be designed for responding effectively to the
significant need for strengthening public service delivery capacity at
-3 -



sub-national levels? 2) what effective strategies can be put in place to
replicate and scale-up viable efforts for sustainable public capacity
development across all districts? 3) in which ways can the key aspects of
local governments' demand for university provision of relevant skills be
captured ? 4) how best can Uganda's tertiary learning institutions be
encouraged to reorient their curricula and faculty to address these
emerging public capacity needs? 5) what measures would be necessary to
develop and hone the research and policy analysis/formulation capacity
(especially as it pertains to decentralized service delivery) of a number
of national actors (viz., pedagogical and policy research institutions,
public agencies and ministries)? and 6) what modalities can be implemented
to allow various stakeholders (pedagogical and research institutions,
local and central government functionaries, multilateral development
agency and a foundation) to engage in constructive, cooperative
arrangements for supporting positive outcomes in the above-mentioned
areas? The specific focus is on exploring new approaches and modalities
in the field of capacity building to achieve a coherent policy for human
resource and institutional capacity development in Uganda. A LIL rather
than yet another full-fledged capacity building operation, in the first
instance, will be appropriate for examining what works best in respect to
decentralization and how best to go about it.
2. Objectives
Through this LIL, IDA in partnership with the Rockefeller Foundation and
several Ugandan institutions seeks to support Government's efforts at
building capacity for improving the quality of decentralized public
services delivery at the LG levels. Its key objective is to develop an
effective, sustainable and replicable mechanism (that is fully integrated
with the Government's decentralization and public service reform programs
and capacity building goals) for strengthening the skills and competencies
of those responsible for service delivery and management at the LG level.
This is to be accomplished by : 1) equipping Makerere University to
provide relevant skills and competencies (via the development of
appropriate training programs, research, policy formulation and analytic
capacity and the re-orientation of faculty and students) for furthering
the goal of effective, decentralized services delivery; 2) supporting
capacity building interventions on a pilot scale in local governments; and
3) supporting research and policy formulation capacity related to
decentralization. A related objective will be the development of
collaborative partnering between Makerere and other suitable institutions
across Uganda, primarily pedagogical institutions - in an arrangement
designed to compound the strengths and build on the comparative advantages
of each party. This project will also examine the merits of a relatively
untested, innovative process involving collaboration between a number of
disparate partners. The World Bank, the Rockefeller Foundation, Makerere
University, other select tertiary education and research institutions,
Ugandan civil society and the Government of Uganda, will be working
together in an arrangement designed to build on the strengths and the
comparative advantages of each party. Total project cost is envisaged to
be about $11 million, of which the IDA Credit would finance $ 5 million.
The Rockefeller Foundation would provide another $5 million and the
Government of Uganda/Makerere University will provide counterpart funding
to the order of $ 1 million equivalent.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
- 4-



IDA staff offer comparative knowledge (based on international best
practices, regional comparators and national policy and programs) and
experience in areas of public service reform and decentralization, and
capacity building. This assistance has been valued by Government and
other partners looking at the Bank to coordinate efforts in this areas.
Some worthwhile additions that the Bank brings to the exercise
include:Rich analytical information on Uganda's socio-economic
context,Lessons of experience from other operations across Uganda (and
elsewhere); more specifically, lessons can be learned from the pre
university levels of Uganda's education system which relate to the
pipeline issues for higher education. Experience with capacity building
projects also abounds.IDA funds that could be used to expand the scale of
promising initiatives.Extensive IDA experience and invovement in key
sectors where services are to be decentralized, e.g., delivery of health,
education, agricultural services.
4. Description
This project is divided into the following substantive
components:Component I. Enhanced Academic Institutional Capacity: This
component is directed at building capacity within Makerere University and
providing seed money toward the development of capacities within a select
number of other suitable partner institutions/agencies. The aim is to
strengthen the ability of Makerere and other partner institutes to respond
to the human capacity and research needs of decentralization within
Uganda. Component II. Pilot Support to Local Government Capacity Building
by Universities: This component would support work on the design and
delivery of the pilot training courses and programs in the selected Local
Governments (district, municipal and sub-county levels) directed toward
public servants in relevant departments. While Makerere will take the lead
on the activities planned under this component, collaboration between
Makerere and other suitable partner institutions is envisaged in areas
including curriculum development, delivery of training programs and
supervision of students. The undertaking of joint policy research and
analytic work is also a potential area of cooperation (under Component
III). Efforts will be made to identify and forge a limited number of
diversified and strategic partnerships between Makerere and other
institutions. Any amplification of such arrangements would be informed by
the results of these initial partnerships. Additionally, Arua, Mbarara,
Mbale, Rakai and the Kampala City Council will serve as the pilot
districts, especially in respect to the Local Government staff
development/training efforts. On the other hand, the placement of Makerere
students under the sub-component focusing on internships will be broader
than these five districts.Component III. Enhanced Decentralization Policy
Research and Formulation Capacity:The Government of Uganda has
traditionally turned to foreign universities and professionals to conduct
research which informs national public policy on decentralization. To
balance this practice, this component will be aimed at strengthening
capacity within Makerere and relevant partner institutions for undertaking
analytic and policy design work. These activities will enable the
University to serve as a policy reference center for a variety of
constituencies, including districts, central government ministries,
nongovernmental organizations and donor agencies. Component IV.
Monitoring and Evaluation:In order to draw lessons from the process of
experimentation under this project, and improve performance along the way,
the arrangements for M&E are critical. Under the project, M&E will focus
- 5 -



on general project performance monitoring as well as assessments that will
provide the results of the pilots implemented to test important changes in
the academic environment as well as in service delivery in the pilot
districts.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER - US1.0 million; IDA - US$5.0 million;
Rockefeller Foundation -
US$5.0 million
Total Project Cost US$11.0 million
6. Implementation
The Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development (MOFPED) is
taking the lead on this project on behalf of the Uganda Government.
However, a number of other key Ministries and public agencies have been
brought on board and are fully engaged. A joint Government-University
committee comprising high level public servants/technocrats, University
administrators/ senior faculty members and Local Government and civil
society representatives has been instituted. The Committee, has met over
two days on a monthly basis for the past twelve months. It provides the
inspiration, energy and learning potential for this project. At a
practical level the Committee - which intends to continue meeting at least
once per month - would provide the policy guidance and oversight for the
implementation of the project. It is serviced by a fully staffed
Secretariat with office facilities at the university. A senior
professional familiar with Bank procedures, has been identified as Project
Task Manager to lead the day to day direction/execution of the project in
conjunction with the office of the Vice Chancellor. The committee would
also be the principle vehicle for digesting and recording the learning
process.
7. Sustainability
Maintaining momentum in implementing the innovations and
institutionalizing the successful innovations presents a challenge.
Transforming Makerere, and other possible counterpart institutions to the
point where they are equipped in terms of relevant curriculum, staff
orientation and institutional culture to provide the requisite training
also cannot be accomplished overnight. The acquisition and application of
skills and competence by district official, for improved service delivery
at local levels, is an equally long term endeavor. In view of the
challenge presented, the importance of utilizing a Learning and
Innovations Loan (LIL) as the appropriate instrument, cannot be
overstated. The LIL offers a means to test an approach that could, on the
basis of lessons learned, be scaled up. Sustainability will be ensured
through the expansion of select, promising, relevant and vital pilot
activities via a follow-on full fledged capacity building operation,
currently under preparation.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Capacity building and institutional development efforts abound throughout
the Bank's program and even within the Uganda Portfolio. While
components/activities in support of stronger public sector capacity are
integral to nearly every project in the Bank's Uganda portfolio, currently
there are three stand-alone specific IDA programs dedicated to improving
- 6 -



public sector capacity. These include the Institutional Capacity Building
Project (ICBP) which is envisaged to close shortly, the more recent LGDP,
and the EFMP II. An over-arching lesson from these operations (as well as
the initiatives supported by other donors) is the centrality of adopting a
more comprehensive, well coordinated and integrated, long-term approach to
capacity building. The major lessons that have been influential in the
design of this project are as follows:? An ad hoc, discrete/project-based
approach - to capacity building initiatives has failed to encourage
sustainable, broad-based reforms, as it has tended to be donor-driven,
lacking genuine ownership. In particular, in countries dependent on
external financing for capacity building, at times the single most
important variable defining / driving the supply and shape of this support
is the objectives /views of the external funding agency itself. ?
Experience from capacity building interventions suggests that the
appropriate mix of pedagogical training and hands-on capacity building
measures is required. Furthermore, advanced education in high-quality
academic institutions needs to be accompanied by well-designed placement
systems to provide trained staff with requisite "practical" opportunities,
such that they are placed in positions that permit the utilization of
their newly acquired skills.? The experience with internship programs
elsewhere suggests very positive outcomes are possible, but the lessons
include: (i) the faculty/staff supervising the students must have
sufficient practical experience to direct the student; (ii) the internship
must balance the needs of the students to learn with the need for the
local government to have a concrete and positive output; (iii) the
internship must be based on practical and focused needs and result rather
than on broad or hazy objectives; and (iv) the local staff should be
assured that the interns' role is to complement and not substitute them.?
Strengthening or transforming an institution - even one of Makerere's
stature - to provide capacity building for local governments takes time.
Experience from Latin America suggests that the Universities which have
developed successful programs for local governments have done so over a
decade or more. ? Recognizing that capacity building and the assessment of
the impact of a broad-based capacity building program are long-term
ventures, it is critical to measure what works well with respect to a
capacity building program over an extended period. As such, appropriate
emphasis on a proper monitoring and evaluation system is necessary. ?
Experience from the public and private sectors also suggests that
competition is key to effective performance and results. Opening up
competition beyond the Makerere University faculties, to include
representatives of the wider tertiary education community in Uganda,
creates the right incentives for establishing a broadly-based system of
capacity building rather than fostering isolated institutions.      ? An
inadequate incentive framework, characterized by low salaries is a key
constraint to increasing civil service productivity and motivating
increased effectiveness. As such a capacity building program must be
implemented along-side a comprehensive public service reform program where
pay reform, career development issues, etc. are addressed. Work along
these lines is already underway in Uganda. At the same time there is no
experience from Uganda and little from elsewhere at using the LIL
instrument to learn from interventions involving the application of higher
education to the task of strengthening public capacity at sub national
levels for improved service delivery. The closest comparable Bank
experience comes from Madagascar where the Bank was instrumental in the
establishment of a Foundation for Higher Education which within the space
- 7 -



of a decade transformed an inefficient sub-sector with limited quality
control or accountability into one characterized by academic and financial
respectability and responsive to national economic and social needs. This
project like others in higher education, particularly in Africa, has
focused on basic internal institutional change -financial, academic and
administrative--for achieving greater external efficiency. The Madagascar
project has also sought to develop higher quality skills relevant to the
labor market and urgent social needs.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  There are no Environmental or Social risks that may
be associated with the implementation of this project. On the contrary,
the project would seek to strengthen the capacity of civil servants for
improved delivery of decentralized public services and better management
of resources, thereby contributing to enhanced social well-being in
Uganda. Inputs from local communities, district authorities and academia
will shape the design of the project and will be key to the pilot training
packages to be developed under the project.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Preeti S. Ahuja
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-1657
Fax: 202-473-5453
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
March 8, 2002.
-8-



