Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER  3624 UG
Project Agreement
(Uganda Decentralized Service Delivery:
 A Makerere University Training Pilot Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
MAKERERE UNIVERSITY 
Dated April 10, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3624 UG
Page  2
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 10, 2002, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and MAKERERE UNIVERSITY.
WHEREAS (A)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
The Republic of Uganda (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make 
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to four million Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 4,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development 
Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Makerere University agrees to undertake such 
obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a Subsidiary Grant Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
Makerere University, the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to Makerere University on the terms and conditions set forth 
in said Subsidiary Grant Agreement; and
WHEREAS Makerere University, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions 
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
Page  3
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Makerere University declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and educational practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Association and Makerere University shall otherwise agree, Makerere University 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 
2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Makerere University shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of this Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, Makerere University shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Association and Makerere University, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Makerere University on said plan.
Section 2.04. Makerere University shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Makerere 
University shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, 
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) Makerere University shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
Page  4
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement, and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) 
Makerere University shall promptly inform the Association of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Makerere University of its obligations under 
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of Makerere University
Section 3.01. Makerere University shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and educational practices under the supervision 
of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. Makerere University shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and 
administrative practices.
Section 3.03. Makerere University shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, 
or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a)  Makerere University shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
accounting standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
Makerere University shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable 
Page  5
to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six 
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, for such year as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02.  Makerere University shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association with its first application for 
withdrawal and thereafter not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, a 
Financial Monitoring Report for such period, which:
(a) 
(i) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and projected sources and applications of 
funds for the Project for the six-month period following the period covered by said report; and 
(ii) shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the period 
covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the six-month period following the period covered by said report;
(b)
(i) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively and 
for the period covered by said report; and (ii) explains variances between the actual and 
previously forecast implementation targets; and
(c) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said 
report.
Section 4.03. Makerere University shall have the independent auditors referred to in 
paragraph (b) of Section 4.01, appointed no later than September 30, 2002, or such later date as 
may be agreed to with the Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination; Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which 
the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Page  6
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of Makerere 
University thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date fifteen (15) years after the date of this Agreement; and
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms 
before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly 
notify Makerere University of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect 
notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this 
Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in 
writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to 
be given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. 
Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail. telegram, cable, telex 
or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s 
address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request.    The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
For Makerere University:
Page  7
Makere University
P.O. Box 7062
Kampala, Uganda
Cable address:
Facsimile:
MAKUNIKA
541068
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document required or 
permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Makerere University, or by 
Makerere University on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may 
be taken or executed by the Vice Chancellor of Makerere University or such other person or 
persons as Makerere University shall designate in writing, and Makerere University shall furnish 
to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature 
of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/
Callisto 
Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
MAKERERE UNIVERSITY 
By 
/s/
Edith Grace Ssempala
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Page  8
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods 
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
Limited International Bidding
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $130,000 equivalent, and goods, which the Association agrees can only be 
purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Competitive Bidding 
Office equipment and vehicles estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or more per contract 
but less than $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $385,500 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
4. 
National or International Shopping
Miscellaneous equipment, supplies, materials and products estimated to cost less than 
$30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national or international shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
 5. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
The following goods may be procured from IAPSO in accordance with the provisions of 
Page  9
paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines:
(a) 
Office equipment and vehicles estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $368,500 equivalent; and 
(b) 
miscellaneous equipment, supplies, materials and products estimated to cost less 
than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000 
equivalent. 
Part C
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part 
A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Page  10
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list 
of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services based on Partnership Agreements between Makerere University and Partner 
Institutions shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Least-cost Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract for firms may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
5.
Single Source Selection
Services that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.8 shall be procured in 
accordance with paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines with the Association's 
prior agreement. 
6.
Individual Consultants
Page  11
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have 
been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
Section I
: 
Project Implementation Plan
1.
Makerere University shall prepare and transmit to the Association for comments, and 
thereafter adopt in form and substance acceptable to the Association, a Project Implementation 
Plan, setting forth the implementation and monitoring arrangements for the Project, including
 
the 
administrative, financial and accounting procedures, the procurement and disbursement 
procedures, model forms for Partnership Agreements, terms of reference for consultants and staff 
Page  12
procedures, model forms for Partnership Agreements, terms of reference for consultants and staff 
of the Secretariat and criteria for the review and approval of Grants, as the same may be amended 
from time to time with the Association’s prior written consent, and such term shall include any 
schedules, tables and annexes to the PIP.
2.
Makerere University shall carry out the Project in accordance with procedures set out in 
the Project Implementation Plan, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not 
amend or waive any provision thereof, if such amendment or waiver may, in the opinion of the 
Association, materially or adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
Section II
: Institutional 
Structure
1. 
I@mak.com
Makerere University shall maintain until the completion of the Project, 
I@mak.com
in a 
form and with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association. 
I@mak.com
is 
headed by a chairperson, who is the Vice Chancellor of Makerere University. 
I@mak.com
shall 
be responsible for: (a) overall coordination, general oversight and policy guidance of the Project; 
(b) reviewing and approving quarterly and annual work plans and budgets for the Project; (c) 
receiving and reviewing applications for Grants, and awarding Grants to Grant Recipients under 
Part B.2 of the Project as set out in the Development Credit Agreement; (d) reviewing and 
approving training proposals, curriculum development proposals and research proposals; (e) 
reviewing and approving work plans and budgets submitted by the various Makerere University 
Units, Partner Institution Units and Local Governments; and (f) absorption and recording of 
lessons learned.
2.
I@mak.com
 Secretariat
Makerere University shall maintain until the completion of the Project a Secretariat in a 
form and with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association. The Secretariat is 
headed by an executive secretary assisted by a task manager, an administrative secretary, a 
research assistant, a financial manager and an accountant. The executive secretary shall report 
directly to the chairperson of 
I@mak.com
. The Secretariat shall be responsible for:
(a) receiving training proposals, curriculum development proposals and research 
proposals submitted by the various Makerere University Units, Partner Institution Units and 
Local Governments, and submitting them for approval to 
I@mak.com
;
(b) preparing quarterly and annual work plans and budgets for the Project and 
submitting them to 
I@mak.com
 for approval; 
(c) receiving work plans and budgets submitted by the various Makerere University 
Units, Partner Institution Units and Local Governments, and submitting them to 
I@mak.com
for 
approval; 
(d) procurement, financial management, audit and disbursement planning, coordination 
Page  13
(d) procurement, financial management, audit and disbursement planning, coordination 
and implementation; 
(e) ensuring that progress reports are submitted to it on a quarterly and annual basis by 
the Makerere University Units, Partner Institution Units and Local Governments involved in 
Project implementation; 
 (f) carrying out reviews and monitoring the implementation of the Project;
 (g) coordinating the recruiting and activities of consultants involved in the Project; and 
(h) compiling, preparing and submitting reports on the progress of the Project to 
I@mak.com
, the Borrower and the Association.
3. 
Makerere University Units
Makerere University Units shall be responsible for: (a) designing and developing 
proposals for training programs, research and curriculum development for the Project, and 
submitting them to the Secretariat for approval by 
I@mak.com
;
(b) implementing proposals 
approved under sub paragraph (i) of this paragraph; and (c) submitting quarterly and annual 
reports to the Secretariat.
4.
Partner Institutions
(a)
Makerere University shall select Partner Institutions satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish a list thereof to the Association by May 15, 2002.
(b)
Makerere University shall enter into Partnership Agreements with Partner 
Institutions for the purpose of collaborating in activities aimed at improving decentralized service 
delivery, on terms satisfactory to the Association, including disbursement and procurement 
arrangements, eligible activities and reporting requirements. The Partnership Agreements, or any 
provisions thereof shall not be amended or waived in a manner which, in the opinion of the 
Association, may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project or parts 
thereof. Partner Institutions shall be responsible for: (i) designing and developing relevant 
training programs, research and curriculum development proposals for the Project, and 
submitting them to the Secretariat for approval by 
I@mak.com
;
(ii) implementing proposals 
approved under sub paragraph (i) of this paragraph; and (iii) and submitting quarterly and annual 
reports to the Secretariat.
Section III
:
Annual Work Programs and Budgets
Makerere University shall submit to the Association, for its review and approval, not 
later than May 30 of each year, beginning May 30, 2002, a proposed annual work program and 
budget for the forthcoming fiscal year.
Page  14
Section IV
 : 
Grants
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section II above, no Grants shall be provided to 
Grant Recipients out of the proceeds of the Credit unless 
I@mak.com
has determined, on the 
basis of a selection process conducted in accordance with the guidelines set forth in PIP, that the 
Grant proposal satisfies the eligibility criteria set forth in PIP,  including the following:
(a)
the Grant shall be for the types of activities set forth in Part B.2 of the Project as 
set out in the Development Credit Agreement;
(b)
the Grant activities shall be in accordance with standards set forth in PIP; and
(c)
no Grant shall be in excess of the equivalent of $25,000 for Academic 
Excellence Grants and $30,000 for Local Government Excellence Grants.
Section V
 :  
Monitoring and Evaluation, Performance Indicators, Reports and Reviews
1.
Makerere University shall together with the Borrower:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 3 to the 
Development Credit Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association, on a quarterly and annual basis for the duration of the Project, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during 
the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Borrower and the Association, no later than 4 weeks after 
submission of each said report, or such later date as the Association shall request, the report 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on 
the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
2. 
(a)
In addition to the monitoring and evaluation reports required under paragraph 1 
of this Section, Makerere University and the Borrower shall prepare or cause to be prepared, 
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, reports setting 
out the results of surveys and reviews of the lessons learned or being learned from the Project.  
The reports shall be furnished to the Association at four intervals during Project implementation 
as set out in detail in PIP, but beginning with a baseline study at the commencement of the 
Page  15
as set out in detail in PIP, but beginning with a baseline study at the commencement of the 
Project.
(b) Makerere University shall by August 31, 2002, employ monitoring and evaluation 
consultants for the carrying out of activities under paragraph 2 (a) of this Section, in accordance 
with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
3.
Makerere University shall on or about eighteen months after the Effective Date, carry out 
jointly with the Borrower and the Association a midterm review of the progress made in carrying 
out the Project (hereinafter referred to as the Midterm Review).
(a)
The Midterm Review shall cover, amongst other things:
(i)
progress made in meeting the Project’s objectives; 
(ii)
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities under the Project; and
(iii)
overall Project performance against Project performance indicators.
(b) 
Makerere University and the Borrower shall, at least four weeks prior to the 
Midterm Review, furnish to the Association a separate report describing the status of 
implementation of each component of the Project and a summary report of Project 
implementation generally.
(c) 
Makerere University and the Borrower shall, not later than four weeks after the 
Midterm Review, prepare an action program, acceptable to the Association, for the further 
implementation of the Project having regard to the findings of the Midterm Review and, 
thereafter, implement such action program.
