Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23337
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(FSLT-70030)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$505.06 MILLION
TO NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A BANK RESTRUCTURING FACILITY ADJUSTMENT LOAN
12/21/2001
Mexico Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Mexican Pesos MXP
MXPI = US$ 0.108
US$ 1 = MXP9.26
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BRFL               Bank Restructuring Facility Loan
BRFL II            Second Bank Restructuring Facility Loan
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
CETES              Treasury Certificates (Certif cados de Tesoreria de la Federacion)
CNBV               National Banking and Securities Comission
FOBAPROA           Trust Fund for the Protection of Bank Savings
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
IDB                Inter-American Development Bank
IPAB               Bank Savings Protection Institute
IMF                International Monetary Fund
NAFIN              Nacional Financiera S.A.
NAFTA              North American Free Trade Agreement
SHCP               Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit
UDI                Investment Units (Indexed)
Vice President:  David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:  Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager/Director:  Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Mariluz Cortes



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
Bank Restructuring Facility Loan
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                             12
6. Sustainability                                                                 15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  16
8. Lessons Learned                                                                17
9. Partner Comments                                                               17
10. Additional Information                                                        18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             26
Annex 8. Matrix of Policy Actions for Tranche Release                             27
Annex 9. Regulatory Reforms Implemented                                           30
Annex 10. Description of IPAB Program at Inception - Shares of Total Assets by Group  32
Annex 11. Transactions Underwritten by IPAB                                       33
Annex 12. Additional Transactions                                                 34
Annex 13. Banking Credit as a Share of GDP                                        35
Annex 14. Consolidation in the Banking Sector                                     36
Annex 15. Non-Performing Loans                                                    37
Annex 16. Comments from IPAB                                                      38
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P067491                                      Project Name: Bank Restructuring Facility
Adjustment Loan
Team Leader: Mariluz Cortes                              TL Unit: LCSFF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: December 21, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Bank Restructuring Facility Adjustment Loan   L/C/ITFNumber: FSLT-70030
Country/Department: MEXICO                                              Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: FF - Financial Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   07/20/1999                             Effective: 02/24/2000        02/24/2000
Appraisal:  11/16/1999                               MTR:
Approval:  12/14/1999                             Closing: 06/30/2001          06/30/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency: NACIONAL FINANCIERA/IPAB
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      David de Ferranti                        David de Ferranti
Country Manager:     Olivier Lafourcade                        Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:      Danny M. Leipziger                        Danny M. Leipziger
Team Leader at ICR:  Mariluz Cortes                           Mariluz Cortes
ICR Primary Author:  Robert Cull
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1 Economic Context: The objective of this loan is best viewed in light of the situation of
the banking sector during the second half of the 1990s. Between mid-December 1994 and the first
quarter of 1995, Mexico's banking system suffered a major systemic, solvency and liquidity crisis,
triggered by the massive devaluation of the peso. As described in detail in the President's Report
(PR) that accompanied the loan, the inherent weaknesses of the banking sector can be traced to a
number of policy failures, including the nationalization of the commercial banking system in the
early 1980s, and the subsequent rapid and poorly implemented privatization of banks in the early
1990s. The banks were acquired by domestic buyers that lacked the requisite banking skills, and
operated within a weak regulatory framework. To deal with the systemic crisis, the Government
used the Trust Fund for the Protection of Bank Savings (FOBAPROA) to provide broad,
discretionary support to individual financial institutions.  Through a mix of programs,
FOBAPROA provided liquidity and capital to the banks and relief to debtors. However, as
described by many commentators (Bubel and Skelton (1998), Graf (1999), and Klingebiel
(2000)), FOBAPROA lacked the legal tools, resources, and independence needed to resolve the
volume of assets that eventually came under its possession. In fact, most of the capitalization and
portfolio purchase programs involved the issuing by FOBAPROA of non-negotiable promissory
notes (zero-cupon bonds), to be redeemed in ten years, with interests being payable at maturity
(there were some exceptions to this rule for foreign buyers of distressed banks).
3.1.2 The FOBAPROA program did avert the collapse of the financial system, but at a very high
future cost. As of June 1999, the estimated net fiscal cost of the financial support programs
amounted to about MXP873 billion, equivalent to 19.3% of GDP, although none of the failed
banks had been closed or sold at that stage. The financial sector eventually stabilized, but
remained undercapitalized, with a high share of non-performing and restructured loans (Annex
15). Moreover, real credit growth to the private sector remained negative since 1995, posing a
threat to the sustainability of Mexico's economic recovery.
3.1.3 At the end of 1998, the Mexican Government adopted a new strategy to resolve the
situation of the banks that remained insolvent since the 1994-1995 crisis and introduced a
program of financial sector reforms aimed at preventing the repetition of a banking crisis in the
future, and at restarting prudent bank lending to the private sector. The Bank is providing
financial and analytical support for this program through a sequence of loans. The First Bank
Restructuring Facility Loan (BRFL), supported the first stage of the Government's program,
involving legal and regulatory reforms and the capitalization and resolution programs of three
large insolvent banks. The Second BRFL, approved on June 21, 2001, supports the second stage
of the Government's program, which involves additional legal and regulatory reforms, the
resolution of the remaining failed banks under government control, and the divestiture of residual
assets assumed from banks by the Government during the crisis. Provided these first two loans
are deemed successful, further ones are contemplated in support of other phases of the
Government's financial sector reform program, including the restructuring of public banks.
3.1.4 Objectives: The objective of the BRFL was to assist the Mexican Government to
implement the first stage of its Bank Restructuring Program, aimed at bringing about a better
- 2 -



functioning banking sector, able to withstand external shocks and to increase prudent lending to
the private sector, opening access to groups and enterprises today largely excluded from bank
financing (micro, rural and financing of small and medium enterprises - SMEs) and to continue
strengthening the legal and supervisory framework for a safe and sound system. The expectation
is that the financial sector reforms implemented in Mexico will contribute to poverty reduction in
several ways. First, by reducing the risk of another banking crisis, because financial crisis entail
huge financial costs and crowd out social spending, with dramatic effects on poverty increases.
Second, by improving financial depth, because stronger banks are better able to sustain growth,
lead to better allocation of resources and, therefore, reduce poverty. Finally, the legal reforms
aimed at strengthening contract enforcement would be conducive to greater access to credit by
SMEs, which should create more job opportunities, an important objective in a country with a fast
growing labor force.
3.1.5 Specifically, the BRFL supported the following reforms:
*   Legal Reforms to improve incentives in the banking system. These included: (i) approval
in December 1998 of the IPAB (Bank Savings Protection Institute) Law establishing a gradual
phase-out of the universal deposit insurance scheme, replacing it with one mandating limited
coverage; (ii) presentation to Congress of the Secured Transactions Law (April 1999) and a
new Bankruptcy Law (November 1999); and (iii) the adoption of a final debtor relief program
("Punto Final").
* Regulatory Reform to Improve banks' capitalization and soundness. In September 1999,
the regulatory authorities announced a series of regulatory reforms to improve banks'
capitalization and soundness, to be implemented according to a preannounced schedule
between 2000 and 2003.
*   Resolution of the failed banks under IPAB's purview through mergers/acquisitions and
closures. The Law gives IPAB the authority to carry out restructuring and resolution
operations for troubled banks, including banks under the previous FOBAPROA bank support
program. This operation supported the restructuring, sale, merger or liquidation of several
banks that were under IPAB's restructuring program.
*   Disposal of bank assets under IPAB's control. The loan supported the implementation of
IPAB's program of asset disposal (assets inherited from FOBAPROA), which establishes a
timetable for outsourcing the sale of loans and other assets purchased from banks to
specialized asset management companies.
3.1.6 The BRFL clearly incorporated appropriate development objectives. Resolving the
pending troubled banks was the major obstacle to creating a well-functioning financial system.
The sustained post-crisis contraction in real lending to the private sector was due, in large part, to
the failure to fully resolve the crisis itself Many banks languished, relying on substantial
government assistance to survive, without truly operating as banks. Moreover, many of them
were saddled with a large amount of illiquid FOBAPROA notes in their balance sheets, which
obliged them to get funding in the inter-bank market at very high costs. By also focussing on
legal reforms to improve the contracting environment and regulatory reforms to improve banks'
capitalization and soundness, the BRFL made significant contributions to improved banking
performance on a going-forward basis, and contributed to reducing the risk of future banking
- 3 -



crisis, and attracted foreign investment into this sector.
3.1.7 The passing of the IPAB Law marked an important change in approach to handling bank
closing and resolution, and put in place mechanisms to address the pending issues that had
prevented the full resolution of the 1994-1995 banking crisis. The new legislation allowed the
Government of Mexico to make explicit the cost of the banking resolution and to reach a
permanent solution to the banking problems in a transparent way. However, IPAB had inherited
so many of FOBAPROA's remaining problems, including its massive stock of non-performing
assets, that there were few options for resolving troubled banks. For example, so many fiscal
obligations had been inherited from the FOBAPROA era that it would have been impossible to
adopt a 'good bank/bad bank' solution in which the performing assets of troubled banks, packaged
with as much of their deposits as possible, could have been sold to another bank, with the residual
assets and liabilities being resolved quickly by IPAB; a resolution option that could have been
much less costly for the country. Therefore, the loan was designed: (i) to assist in a handful of
acquisitions or mergers of large, troubled banks, and (ii) as the first in a series of programmatic
loans in which further restructuring would be pursued as more resources became available. While
it could be argued that by sequencing the restructuring in this way, the Government allowed some
banks to deteriorate further, there was no real alternative. The Government's Bank Restructuring
Plan and this operation were designed to make the best of a difficult situation with limited
resources. The policy mistake, if there was one, was that FOBAPROA had assumed too many
obligations at too high a price, postponing but not resolving banks from a financial point of view.
3.1.8 Another well-crafted feature of the BRFL was that the Bank's assistance was
transaction-based, meaning that the disbursement of funds occurred only after appropriate
restructuring transactions had been worked out. The Government and the Bank agreed on a set
of eligibility criteria for transactions, and a pool of funds was set aside to support transactions that
met those criteria. IPAB used the proceeds of the Bank loan to service its "performing" notes
(that is notes that paid in cash at least the real component of the interest rate) issued to help
capitalize the banks involved in those transactions and/or to improve the quality of the bank's
assets by replacing the old FOBAPROA notes. By specifying only eligibility criteria, rather than
identifying the transactions themselves, the BRFL had an inherent flexibility that contributed to its
success.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The loan objective remained unchanged.
3.3 Original Components:
The BRFL was designed as a three tranche loan to support the first stage of the Government's
bank restructuring program. The first tranche was to be awarded upon effectiveness of the loan.
Two floating tranches were linked to agreed bank resolution transactions. Based on the Bank's
assessment that all the conditions under the loan agreement had been met, release of a first
floating tranche of US$150 million was approved on June 19, 2000. Release of the second
floating tranche, also of US$150 million, was approved on December 13, 2000.
3.4 Revised Components:
The loan components remained unchanged.
- 4 -



3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1 Quality at entry was satisfactory. The operation came in the aftermath of a major crisis,
that had left a number of failed banks still operating in the system, after unsuccessful attempts at
restructuring by the Mexican authorities. The operation was timely in that the Bank's involvement
came at a time when there was wide recognition of the failure of FOBAPROA's restructuring
efforts, and a political consensus had emerged for the need to resolve the situation of the troubled
banks, and face past losses, no matter how large they might be. The earlier Bank operation to
assist a weak FOBAPROA was rated unsatisfactory (see ICR, Report No. 18012), the operation
likely would have failed.  Waiting until the better funded, more independent IPAB had been
created, was a prudent course of action.
3.5.2 Quality at entry was further enhanced in a number of areas by the knowledge accumulated
in the Bank about Mexico's banking sector and policy framework, through economic and sector
work carried out since the banking crisis. The quality of the operation was also enhanced by the
Bank's experience of what makes for successful financial sector reforms in other countries.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1 This adjustment loan has achieved its intended objective of supporting the first stage of
Mexico's Bank Restructuring Program, aimed at bringing about a better functioning banking
sector, able to withstand external shocks and to resume prudent lending to the private sector,
opening access to groups and enterprises today largely excluded from bank financing (micro, rural
and financing of small and medium enterprises - SMEs). All policy reform measures supported by
this loan were implemented within a year of loan approval by the Board. The achievement of
objectives is rated as satisfactory, because the reforms have strengthened the banking sector by
introducing international standards of prudential regulation and by selling some of the failed banks
to well run and financially strong foreign banks. Furthermore, the strengthened Mexican banks
are fearing well despite the downturn in the economy, and seem to be insulated from contagion
from the instability affecting other countries in Latin America. However, it is too early to judge if
the expected long term effect of increased credit access to underserved sectors of the population
will fully materialize, although there are some evidences that it is likely to be achieved.
4.1.2 The short-term objectives, which were achieved are highly satisfactorily. They are
summarized below, with some comments of additional actions needed to fully achieve the
intended longer-term objectives.
A. Legal Framework to Improve Incentives in the Banking Sector
4.1.3 Deposit Insurance: In developing countries, which tend to have weaker supporting
institutions, it is important to limit the range and amount of deposits covered. In those
environments, overly generous insurance tends to lead to moral hazard, financial sector fragility
and slower long-run sector development (see World Development Report 2002 and Finance for
Growth (2001)).  Under the first stage of the Government's Bank Restructuring Program,
progress has been made in this area. The IPAB Law, provides for a gradual dismantling of the
- 5 -



universal deposit insurance scheme, replacing it with a Deposit Guarantee Fund, with limited
coverage, to be administered by IPAB. Coverage will decrease in three stages, according to a
timetable announced on May 31, 1999. By the end of January 2003, the guarantee will no longer
cover inter-bank credits, and by January 1, 2005 it will only cover deposits up to 400,000 UDIs
(about US $130,000) per depositor. This is a high coverage both by regional standards and in
comparison with per capita GDP. For reference, coverage per depositor in Brazil is about
US$10,000, which is about 3.3 times per capita GDP. In Peru, coverage per depositor is 8 times
per capita GDP. Under Mexico's new plan, coverage will be over twenty times per capita GDP.
More encouraging, however, is the elimination of the government guarantee on inter-bank
deposits which will have a major impact on the banking system, because banks perceived as weak
will be rationed out of the inter-bank market, on which many now depend, and/or will face higher
financing costs. The elimination of this guarantee should be a powerful incentive for banks to
strengthen their solvency, liquidity, and profitability conditions.
4.1.4 The PR for BRFL II identifies the need to improve the IPAB Law in order to clarify
IPAB's role as manager of the Deposit Guarantee Fund in three areas: (i) setting deposit insurance
premia; currently IPAB's Board lacks the flexibility to establish risk-based premia, (ii) establishing
specific rules to define recognition of deposit ownership; and (iii) change bank information
systems to allow the authorities to determine the actual guaranteed deposit base in each bank. In
addition, as noted above, although the new coverage limit is a substantial improvement over
universal coverage, it is still high by international standards. Currently, the Mexican Government
is in the process of reviewing the IPAB Law along these lines. Nevertheless, while some further
adjustments may prove necessary, substantial gains have been made in this area.
4.1.5 Contract Enforcement, Creditor Rights: Two major legal reforms were passed under the
first stage of the Government's Bank Restructuring Program, that aimed to improve contract
enforcement and thus enhance creditors' rights. By removing many uncertainties associated with
lending to the private sector, these reforms were designed to lay the groundwork for increased
access to credit, especially for underserved market segments such as SMEs. The Commercial
Reorganization and Bankruptcy Act of April 27, 2000, facilitates the recovery of assets in the
event of loan default by eliminating legal recourses that had enabled debtors to prolong the
seizure process indefinitely and/or redeploy the corporate assets of failed firms. Although the legal
framework is in place, the effect of this new legislation on credit expansion will depend on further
strengthening of the institutions in charge of implementing it. A positive sign is that federal
judges, who retain a central role in the new bankruptcy process, are being advised by technical
specialists on legal, financial, managerial, and accounting matters associated with the institute
created by the new law.
4.1.6 The second major legal reform was the Miscellany of Secured Lending, passed on April
30, 2000. This includes amendments to the Commercial Code, the General Law on Negotiable
Instruments and Credit Transactions, and the Credit Institutions Law. The reform facilitates
secured transactions by introducing new principles of collateral without the transfer of ownership
and the guarantee trust. The first principle enables borrowers to guarantee payment with
inventories, goods in production, and other movable goods. The second permits these pledges of
goods or future production without their physical transfer to the lender. The new legislation also
- 6 -



establishes two new procedures to execute guarantees: one judicial and the other extra-judicial,
designed to shorten the process of foreclosing on borrowers' pledges of collateral in the event of
default. Since the new legislation by itself might be insufficient to foster greater secured lending,
efforts should be made to monitor borrowers' ability and willingness to take advantage of the law.
Complementary effort to convert Mexico's collateral registries to electronic form, which should
improve the efficiency and safety of pledging movable and non-movable assets, should also be
encouraged.
B. Regulatory Reforms to Improve Banks' Capitalization and Soundness
4.1.7 In September 1999, under the first stage of the Government's Bank Restructuring
Program, the regulatory authorities announced a series of regulatory reforms which changed the
definition of regulatory capital and required the disclosure of its composition; limited the
incorporation of differed taxes in capital; improved the definition of risk-weighted assets;
established loan classifications and new provisioning guidelines based on repayment capacity;
improved accounting practices and standards; and improved disclosure. These represent major
attempts to improve CNBV's ability to monitor banks directly and through the market via
expanded disclosure, and thus improve the safety and soundness and transparency of the system.
The regulatory reforms and the timetable for their implementation are described in Annex 9.
4.1.8 These regulatory changes may make it easier for the CNBV to identify troubled banks. As
a further step in this area of reform, new regulations for early warning and prompt corrective
actions were introduced in an amendment to the Credit Institutions Law, supported by the Second
BRFL. The CNBV also issued Circular 1448, which conditioned regulatory forbearance on the
existence of a mandatory rehabilitation plan. The PR for BRFL II notes that such forbearance has
been granted in special cases. Still, the Mexican banking legal framework is geared towards
rehabilitation rather than closure in the event of severe difficulties. Future financial sector reforms
should incorporate more effective exit procedures for insolvent banks, since improvements in
prudential regulations are generally insufficient to ensure bank soundness.
C. IPAB's Bank Capitalization and Resolution Program
4.1.9 IPAB inherited assets and liabilities from the failed FOBAPROA in late 1998. In addition,
as time wore on, it became clear that many banks outside the FOBAPROA umbrella were also
facing severe problems, and thus a number of them were intervened and later turned over to IPAB
for restructuring. This section summarizes IPAB's bank restructuring/resolution transactions
under BRFL I, and its planned restructuring/resolution efforts under BRFL II.
4.1 .10 To give the reader an understanding of the magnitude of the problems faced by IPAB, and
to categorize banks according to their participation in the various restructuring programs offered
first by FOBAPROA and later IPAB, Annex 10 provides a chart based on CNBV data. While
CNBV's bulletins provide information on banks currently in operation, from an historical
perspective they are incomplete since they exclude the assets of banks that have been taken over
by the government. For this reason, we present data from December 1996, a point when data
were available for all but a handful of banks that had been intervened early on. As described
- 7 -



below, those banks, which comprised a relatively small share of the sector's assets, are currently
being liquidated under BRFL II. Annex 10, therefore, provides data on those banks that continue
to exist in one form or another -- many banks were acquired or merged with others, and thus it is
their balance sheets and their branch networks that live on (see Annex 14 for data on sector
consolidation). In choosing 1996 data, we also exclude banks that entered after that date. As
those banks are also not very large, Annex 10 provides a reasonably comprehensive rendering of
the banking sector. Perhaps the most striking feature of Annex 10 is that only 11% of total
banking assets were held by banks that did not require assistance from IPAB. These were largely
foreign-owned banks such as Citibank, American Express, ABN Amro, and Bank Boston. As
indicated in Table 1 below, they comprise a relatively small share of retail banking in Mexico, but
a large share of derivatives activities.
4.1.11 IPAB's Bank Restructuring and Resolution Program includes two large banks (Serfin and
Bancrecer) that were put under IPAB's management for not meeting the legal capital adequacy
ratio, and were put up for sale, and three other banks (Promex, Atlantico, and Inverlat) that were
to be merged or acquired by larger (domestic and foreign) banks. Under the Program, IPAB
issued notes to capitalize these banks prior to their sale and to replace the old FOBAPROA notes.
IPAB has also in its program, for their closure or sale, ten small failed banks, that had been
intervened by the CNBV.   Seven of these banks had received financial assistance from
FOBAPROA, and IPAB holds their capital shares and/or guarantees. In addition, IPAB is
responsible for the liabilities inherited from FOBAPROA with a number of banks that had
participated in FOBAPROA's private capitalization programs. Given the magnitude of the
program, IPAB is implementing it by stages.
4.1.12 Bank resolution transactions under BFRL. Under BRFL I, IPAB issued MXP 100 billion
to support the restructuring and purchase of Serfin by the Spanish bank Banco Santander Central
Hispano (BSCH); MXP24.3 billion for Bancomer's purchase of Promex; and MXP46.5 billion for
Bank of Nova Scotia's purchase of Inverlat. As described below, Bancomer was later purchased
by the Spanish bank Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria (BBVA). As shown in Annex 11, these
transactions brought in foreign ownership in banks that comprised 23% percent of total banking
sector assets (in 1996). This represents a remarkable transformation of Mexico's retail banking
market, 75% of which is now in foreign hands.
4.1.13 Bank resolution transactions under BRFLII Under BRFL II, IPAB will spend about
MXP45.0 billion for the restructuring and sale of Atlantico to Bital, and MXP102.2 billion for the
restructuring and sale of Bancrecer. Atlantico and Bancrecer represented 8% of the system's
assets in 1996 (see Annex 11). In total, IPAB's Program will have supported ownership changes
in banks that comprised nearly a third of the system's assets in 1996.
4.1.14 There are seven banks to be liquidated: Capital, Cremi, Interestatal, Obrero, Oriente,
Pronorte, and Union, which received assistance from FOBAPROA. In April, 2001, IPAB's Board
agreed upon a formal mechanism for liquidation, which will be undertaken as part of BRFL II.
While none of these banks is particularly large, IPAB has set aside total support of MXP125
billion to cancel their liabilities, prior to their liquidation. There are also two small intervened
banks, Industrial and Sureste, that appear to have some remaining franchise value and could be
- 8 -



sold. As indicated in Annex 10, these banks comprised only 1% of 1996 banking sector assets.
The closure and or sale of these banks is being undertaken as part of IPAB's second stage of the
Bank Restructuring and Resolution Program.
4.1.15 Banks Under Private Capitalization Programs. Under its Capitalization and Loan
Purchase Program, FOBAPROA issued notes to purchase the impaired assets of many banks to
improve their balance sheets. IPAB conditioned the exchange of the old FOBAPROA notes for
IPAB notes with the same terms, to the subscription, by each bank, of a "Financial Consolidation
Plan." The plans specified timetables of specific actions designed to enable these banks to meet
the new, more rigorous capital requirements. There are a number of large banks in this category
including Banamex, Bancomer, Banorte, BBVA, and Bital. Together they represented over half
of the sector's total assets in 1996 (Annex 10). While these banks were not the major focus of
IPAB's efforts under BRFL or BRFLII, at least with respect to specific bank restructuring
transactions, they hold an important share of IPAB's liabilities. Some progress has been made in
this area. Most notably, two large banks in this category, BBVA and Bancomer merged on June
29, 2000, and, as noted, IPAB had issued notes to support Bancomer's purchase of Promex.
Therefore, through its indirect support via Promex and its direct assistance through the private
capitalization program, IPAB helped facilitate the largest transaction undertaken. As indicated in
Annex 12, the banks that now comprise Bancomer-BBVA represented 21% of total sector assets
in 1996. Combined, the banks in that transaction and those sold under BRFL I represented 44%
of the system's 1996 assets. When the transactions under BRFL II are complete, IPAB will have
supported restructurings of banks that account for 52% of the sector's assets. Moreover, under
BRFL II, Banorte purchased Bancrecer, in late September 2001. To reiterate, in terms of sector
assets, IPAB has assisted in a remarkable amount of restructuring within a relatively short period.
Banks under FOBAPROA's old Financial Strengthening "Saneamiento" Program were also
eligible for the same IPAB note swaps as those under the capitalization and loan purchase
program. This category includes Banpais, Bancen, Santander-Mexicano, and Confia.
D. IPAB's Program for the Disposal of Bank Assets
4.1.16 Residual Asset Disposal: Based on cross-country experience, Klingebiel (2000) argues
that asset management companies (or agencies) are only effective if used for the narrowly defined
purpose of resolving insolvent financial institutions and selling their assets. Satisfactory results
also require assets that are easily liquefiable, such as real estate, professional management,
political independence, appropriate funding, adequate bankruptcy and foreclosure laws, good
information and management systems, and transparency in operations and processes. Klingebiel
points out that almost none of the conditions was satisfied in Mexico under FOBAPROA, and,
compared to other countries, recovery of assets was abysmal -- from 1995 to 1999 FOBAPROA
sold only 0.5% of its assets.
4.1.17 Under IPAB, many of these problems have been resolved. As noted above, improvements
have been made to bankruptcy and foreclosure laws, and also with respect to disclosure of
information and transparency.  IPAB also enjoys better funding and management, and more
political independence, and some progress was made in terms of residual asset recovery. As of
December 1999, IPAB's assets for sale had total book value of MXP251.6 billion (US$26.32
-9-



billion), which was composed of a loan portfolio (MXP215.4 billion); equity participations
(MXP19.4 billion); and real estate and other assets (MXPI6.8 billion). Between the last quarter
of 1999 and the end of 2000, IPAB auctioned eight packages from the loan portfolio and
recovered MXP9.8 billion. During the same period, IPAB received MXP2.8 billion from the sale
of goods and real estate. In addition, as a result of the restructuring of several corporate loans
done by commercial banks in 2000, IPAB obtained a recovery of MXP877.9 million.
4.1.18 IPAB Is Cash Flow. The viability of IPAB's program of bank resolution is interdependent
with the management of its cash flow over time. IPAB, therefore, has taken multiple steps to
refinance its debt to lengthen its maturity profile and thus reduce its debt servicing costs. These
include: (i) weekly issues of Bonos de Proteccion de Ahorro ("BPAs"; MXP73.6 billion issued
between March and December 2000); (ii) long-term loans from financial institutions (MXP140
billion in 2000); (iii) banks sales and restructuring of their liabilities; and (iv) refinancing and
prepayment of its most expensive obligations. The PR for BRFL II notes that these efforts
resulted in a reduction of 7.2% in real terms of IPAB's debt between December 1999 to
December 2000, reducing it from 14.3% of GDP to 11.2% of GDP. In addition, the financial cost
of IPAB debt declined from an average of CETES+1.20 to CETES+0.87, where CETES is the
rate on Mexican treasury certificates (Certificados de Tesoreria de la Federacion). By providing
substantial financial resources to IPAB, BRFL I clearly contributed to improved debt servicing
terms and a reduction in total debt. This will, modestly, help ensure IPAB's future financial
viability.
E. Long-term Objectives: Access to Credit
4.1.19 As noted, the PR for BRFL I made it clear that long-run objectives in terms of improved
private access to credit would be unlikely to emerge until later in the larger program of bank
restructuring. Annex 13 indicates that, since the 1994-5 crisis, credit to the private sector has
declined from about 30% of GDP to 15% of GDP. Those figures extend only through 1999, but
the most recent figures from the IMF's International Financial Statistics also indicate that, in the
first quarter 2001, the ratio remained at 15%. On the other hand, Annex 15 indicates that the
share of non-performing loans has declined from 22% in 1995 to 13% in 2000. These portfolio
improvements are largely the result of IPAB's restructuring efforts. Rapid GDP growth up to
2000, and the general process of consolidation illustrated in Annex 14. There is now a smaller
number of banks, with much stronger balance sheets, including many that are foreign-controlled.
Because cleaning necessarily involves retiring impaired credits, it is not surprising that the
restructuring process coincided with a reduction in the ratio of private credit to GDP. Moreover,
sluggish economic conditions during 2001 have also curtailed growth in lending. In the PR, 2.9%
annual growth in per capita income was estimated for 1999 to 2003. The most recent World
Bank Unified Survey indicates that per capita income will contract by 1.2% in 2001. In the
future, the combination of a roster of more qualified owners and general improvements in the
contracting environment should lead to credit growth. The credit situation should be monitored
closely in the coming years, and, if access is not improved, additional changes to the legal and
regulatory framework should be undertaken.
4.2 Outputs by components:
A. Legal Framework to Improve Incentives in the Banking Sector
- 10-



* The IPAB Law, approved December 1998, provides a timetable for the gradual rollback of
the universal deposit insurance system, characterized by explicit coverage limits and the
removal of guarantees on inter-bank credits.
*   The Commercial Reorganization and Bankruptcy Act, passed April 2000, simplifies the
bankruptcy procedure making it impossible for debtors to suspend payment indefinitely and it
allows the quick redeployment of the assets of failed firms.
* The Miscellany of Secured Lending, passed April 2000, expands the range of collateralizable
assets to movable goods, inventories, and goods in process, without requiring physical
transfer to the lender. It also establishes new judicial and extra-judicial procedures for
executing guarantees in the event of default.
B. Regulatory Reforms to Improve Banks' Capitalization and Soundness
Capital Rules
* A resolution issued by the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (SHCP), on October 1999,
provides new definitions of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital, specific provisioning guidelines, limits on
the use of deferred taxes as capital, and new treatment of equity investments, intangible assets,
and off-balance sheet items in measuring capital.
Asset Classification and Provisioning Rules
* CNBV circular 1449, issued October 1999, bases credit portfolio classification for credit card
loans on probability of non-payment, and establishes new provisioning rules for those loans.
* CNBV circular 1460, issued January 2000, bases credit portfolio classification for mortgages
on the probability of default, and establishes new provisioning rules for those loans.
* CNBV circular 1480, issued October 2000, strengthens and clarifies credit portfolio
classification rules for commercial loans. The new classification is based in comprehensive
credit risk analysis, including country risk, for both the loan and the creditor. It requires
quarterly classification and provisioning for 80% of the credit portfolio based on probability of
default; the remaining 20% based on repayment experience. The quarterly classifications are
now disclosed. The number of risk categories has expanded from 5 to 7, and the treatment of
guarantees changed.
Accounting and Disclosure Standards
* CNBV circular 1448, issued October 1999, provides new accounting standards for asset
securitization and asset transfer; valuation is now based on international standards. It also
requires institutions to disclose components of regulatory capital and disclose any regulatory
forbearance, including its impact on financial statements. Forbearance is now conditioned on
the existence of a comprehensive rehabilitation plan.
* CNBV circulars 1484 and 1488, issued October 2000, refine some supervisory norms to
facilitate financial reporting and disclosure.
* CNBV circular 1456, issued December 1999, provides new rules for accounting and valuation
of holding companies.



C. IPAB's Bank Capitalization and Resolution Program
*   IPAB issued notes worth MXP 100 billion to support the purchase of Serfin (the third largest
banking group) by the Spanish bank BSCH on May 22, 2000.
* IPAB issued notes worth MXP24.3 billion to support the purchase of Promex by Bancomer
on August 10, 2000. Bancomer (the second largest bank) was then purchased by the Spanish
bank BBVA.
* IPAB issued notes worth MXP46.5 billion to support the purchase of Inverlat (the eighth
largest bank) by the Canadian Bank of Nova Scotia on November 30, 2000.
D. IPAB Program for the Disposal of Bank Assets
* Between the last quarter of 1999 and the end of 2000, IPAB auctioned eight packages from
the loan portfolio and recovered MXP9.8 billion. During the same period, IPAB received
MXP2.8 billion from the sale of goods and real estate. In addition, as a result of the
restructuring of several corporate loans done by commercial banks in 2000, IPAB obtained a
recovery of MXP877.9 million. For comparison, from 1995 to 1999, FOBAPROA disposed
of only MXPO.7 billion in assets.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
NA
4.4 Financial rate of return:
NA
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The short-term institutional development impact of the BRFL has been substantial, and additional
institutional restructuring is being undertaken as part of BRFL II. The legal reforms taken to
improve banking sector incentives should lessen moral hazard problems associated with the old
universal system of deposit insurance, and improvements in contract enforcement should make it
easier and cheaper for banks to lend to the private sector. The measures taken with respect to
measurement of capital, asset classification, and disclosure of financial information has strengthen
CNBV's ability to supervise banks and it has enhanced disclosure. IPAB's support for a number
of bank restructuring transactions among Mexico's most important banks has resulted in more
capable ownership of what now appear to be viable institutions. IPAB's plan for disposal of
residual assets incorporates multiple lessons from past asset management experiences, both in
Mexico and abroad, and auctions of assets have become a recurrent activity. It remains to be seen
how much those institutional developments will contribute to a vibrant, inclusive banking sector
over the long term.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1 The policy reforms and the bank restructuring transactions supported by this operation
were implemented as envisaged. As in any banking sector operation, there was the threat that
global economic instability, particularly instability originating in another developing country,
could have negative implications for the Government's overall program of banking sector reform.
- 12 -



Such contagion effects did not materialize during the implementation of the reforms. The
insulation of the Mexican banks to instability in other developing countries, during the
implementation period, was largely the result of the close ties forged between Mexico and the
USA in the context of NAFTA (North American Free Trade Agreement). Although as the US
economy decelerates, Mexico's banking sector could become more vulnerable to the instability in
other countries in the region, the presence of a strong and stable banking sector will protect the
economy from any major negative effect.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1 The successful implementation of IPAB's bank restructuring program is due, to large
extent, to the Government's decision to eliminate all legal restrictions to foreign ownership in the
banking sector. Under the previous legal framework, foreign investors were not permitted to hold
more than 20% of the shares of any bank that comprised more than 6% of the aggregate capital of
the Mexican banking system. In effect, this rule prohibited foreign control of the three largest
banks in Mexico. In February 1995, in the wake of the 1994-95 financial crisis, Congress had
passed legislation permitting foreign banks to take majority stakes in Mexican banks (except for
the Big Three). However, as part of the December 1998, banking reform approved by Congress,
all limnitations on foreign ownership of banks were removed, which proved crucial to the success
of the BRFL. Allowing full foreign participation resulted in much-needed injections of capital and
sound management and know-how into the banking sector and substantial restructuring of the
banks themselves through merger and acquisitions.
5.2.2 IMF (2000) reported that in 1994, less than two percent of total banking sector assets
were held by majority foreign-controlled banks. Table 1 indicates that, by December 2000,
fifty-six percent of banking sector assets and sixty percent of retail deposits were held by
foreign-controlled banks. Four foreign banks were responsible for the recent increase in
participation in the retail market. Spanish banks had majority ownership of Mexico's largest
financial group (BBVA-Bancomer) and its third largest group (Santander). Bank of Nova Scotia,
through its purchase of Inverlat, ranked as the eighth largest bank. Citibank ranked ninth. Those
figures, however, do not include Citibank's purchase of Banamex, Mexico's largest bank, which
was completed on August 3, 2001. Adding Banamex to the figures in Table 1, roughly
seventy-five percent of banking sector assets and eighty percent of retail deposits are now held by
foreign-controlled banks.
5.2.3 Prior to Bancomer's sale to BBVA, IPAB notes had supported the purchase of Promex by
Bancomer. IPAB notes directly supported Santander's purchase of Banco Serfm and Nova
Scotia's purchase of Inverlat. In this way, IPAB was instrumental in the restructuring efforts of
three of the four foreign banks most involved in Mexico's retail banking sector.
-13 -



Table 1. Foreign Ownership in Mexican Banking Sector (Dec. 2000)
Type         Number of Capital (US $ % of Assets % of Loans  % of Retail  % of
Banks        bn)                              Deposits  Derivatives
Mexican          14         7.0         44         44.7        40.3        12.6
controlled
Large foreign    4          4.2         52         48.6        59.6        34.6
affiliates &
foreign
controlled
large banks
Small foreign
affiliates       14         0.7  -       4         6.7         0.1         52.8
Source: Yacaman (2001).
5.2.4 Emerging empirical evidence across many countries indicates that the presence of foreign
banks is associated with higher profitability, and lower interest margins and overhead expenses for
domestic banks. This strongly suggests that foreign presence improves sector efficiency, and
effects are strongest in countries with poorly developed banking sectors. Cross-country evidence
also indicates that foreign presence reduces the probability of systemic crisis in the banking sector.
Similarly, the evidence indicates that legal restrictions on foreign entry are associated with lower
loan quality and greater sector fragility. When financial crises do occur, foreign banks may be a
stabilizing influence. For example, there is evidence from Goldberg et al. (2000) that during the
Tequila Crisis private foreign banks in Argentina maintained higher loan growth rates than either
the domestic private or the state-owned banks. That study also finds that credit growth for
Mexico's foreign-controlled banks was less sensitive to macroeconomic fluctuations than was
credit growth at domestic banks from 1995 to 1998. The entire body of evidence, which is
summarized in World Development Report 2002: Building Institutions for Markets and the
Bank's Policy Research Report Finance for Growth: Policy Choices in a Volatile World, strongly
suggests that by eliminating restrictions on foreign ownership of banks, the Mexican authorities
not only remedied a shortage of capital, but also set the groundwork for a more efficient and
stable banking sector.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1 As noted in the discussion of achievement of objectives and outputs, with respect to both
regulatory reforms and the restructuring of a handful of key banks, the Government has
accomplished many of the policy actions that were under its control. These successes were, to
large extent, the result of the capable management and the quality of the professional staff of both
IPAB and CNBV. In particular IPAB, which was a new agency when the BRFL was approved,
had from the beginning a very capable management that was able to incorporate a number of
young, highly skilled, professionals, to its staff. In addition, IPAB's charter, dictates that it
reports to Congress periodically and it submits to Congressional audits. This oversight brought
- 14 -



about much transparency and independence in IPAB's operations. The details of all of IPAB's
activities are regularly posted on its website. The success of this operation owes much to the
quality of IPAB's staff and the transparency of its operations.
5.3.2 IPAB's continued success in restructuring remaining troubled banks under BRFL II will be
key to ensuring the sustainability of the overall program of bank reformn.  Similarly, the
Government should monitor whether the regulatory reforms, especially those related to
improvement of the contracting environment, are having the desired effects with respect to access
to credit and its cost. If not, further regulatory reform may be required.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
NA
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1  The reforms undertaken under the BRFL are likely to be sustainable in the sense that they
will not be overturned. The legal and regulatory reforms supported by this loan (summarized in
Annex 9) are necessary to support Mexico's growing participation in the global economy; and are
unlikely to be repealed without causing great damage to the rest of the economy. Moreover, the
BRFL II, which is already approved, contemplates additional regulatory reforms designed to
further strengthen banking safety and soundness, including new guidelines for internal governance
and improvements in external auditing requirements. Also, although the threat of a financial crisis
can never be completely erased, increased participation by foreign banks, especially in the retail
market, is likely to lend greater stability to Mexico's banking system. Although some foreign
owners could conceivably sell their banks at some point in the future, it is likely that foreign
presence will remain high.
6.1.2 On the other hand, one of the key long-term goals mentioned in the BRFL is to foster a
banking sector better able to lend to the private sector, opening access to groups and enterprises
today largely excluded from bank financing (micro, rural and SME financing). As noted, because
this was the first loan undertaken as part of a larger program of banking reform, there is little
evidence of improved credit access to date (studies on this topic are underway for the urban poor
in Mexico City and Bogota, Colombia, and more broadly to all uder-served groups in Brazil).
Improvements will no doubt depend on how well the new regulations are implemented, especially
those relating to bankers' incentives, creditors' rights, and the general quality of the contracting
environment.
6.1.3 In short, the sustainability of the loan's short-term objectives is highly likely, while
securing long-term objectives regarding access to credit are less certain. The overall sustainability
of the policy reforms is, therefore, rated likely. This highlights the difficulties inherent in
evaluating loans that are an early part of a larger program in the context of an ICR.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
NA
- 15 -



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's lending performance was satisfactory. The Bank devoted substantial attention to the
identification, preparation and appraisal phases. The reform proposals discussed with the
Government authorities during loan preparation were based on very extensive, largely
confidential, economic and sector work, as well as policy dialogue, carried out by the Bank during
the years prior to loan preparation. The extensive knowledge of the sector accumulated by the
Bank strengthened the operation. Also, the Bank was very effective in applying the lessons
learned from other financial sector loans to the design of the BRFL. In particular, the decision to
make tranche disbursements based on completed bank resolution transactions, was a very
important element in the success of the loan and containing the risks for the Bank.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance during supervision was also satisfactory.  Prior to each tranche
disbursement, the staff carried out an in-deph review of all the evidence of compliance with
tranche conditions. Particular attention was given to the review of all the completed bank
resolution transactions to ensure compliance with agreed eligibility criteria and loan covenants.
Given the complexity of the evidence of compliance with tranche conditions, it was a good
decision to involve the Bank lawyer in each of the supervision missions.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall Bank performance was satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in identification and appraisal is assessed as satisfactory. One of the
reasons for the success of the operation, was that during loan preparation the Borrower, through
its two agencies: CNBV and IPAB, showed a greater openness and willingness to share
information with the Bank than in the past. During long time after the banking crisis, the
authorities had been reluctant to recognize the need to reform the banking regulations and to
resolve the situation of the insolvent banks. This reluctance affected negatively the policy
dialogue between the Bank and the authorities. The change in attitude of the authorities reflected,
in part, the broadening of the political representation in Congress, which brought about a greater
openmess in discussing policy matters, including the failure of the FOBRAPOA program, and the
pressure via more democratic system to disclose more information.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Borrower has fully complied with the provisions of the loan, within the expected time frame.
All three tranches were disbursed within the same calendar year.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The two main Government agencies involved in implementing the policy measures supported by
this operation were CNBV (National Banking and Securities Commission) and IPAB (Bank
Savings Protection Institute). The performance of both agencies was satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
- 16-



Overall the Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1 Set limited objectives. Over-ambitious objectives, such as the restoration of the solvency and
soundness of the banking system, is a long-term goal that goes beyond a single operation. It is
more realistic to support a program of reforms with a number of sequential operations that can be
approved based on the success of the previous ones.
8.2   Disburse against specific transactions. Banking restructuring operations should disburse
against the completed resolution of specific banks' cases, not against the promise of future actions
which may not materialize. However, the operation should not specify the transactions it will
support ex-ante, but rather should develop criteria that determine which transactions are eligible
for financial support (i.e. floating tranches). This approach builds important flexibility into the
operation.
8.3   Ensure that the main implementing agency is the main recipient of the Bank resources.
Bank funds should be disbursed to the main agency in charge of implementing the policy reforms,
to strengthen the incentives of these agencies to work in close collaboration with the Bank.
8.4   Bank support should come only after a political consensus in favor of restructuring banks
andfacing past losses has been achieved. FOBAPROA's lack of resources and legal support was
a strong signal that such a consensus had not been reached immediately after the crisis. Had the
Bank tried earlier to assist a weak FOBAPROA, the operation likely would have failed. Waiting
until the IPAB Law created an enabling framework for the resolution of insolvent banks, and
IPAB had the resources to finance bank resolution transactions, was a prudent course of action.
8.5   Tools of evaluation may need to be better adapted to suit sequential operations within a
broader program. Current tools of evaluation are not perfectly suited to evaluating programmatic
loans. For loans that come early in the program, definitive answers regarding institutional
development and sustainability that are required by the ICR process are often not possible.
8.6   Restoring the viability of bank's cash flows. Prior attempts to "contain"the banking crisis
were excessively focused on "accounting solutions" (i.e., exchange of bad loans for government
paper) with no cash flow impact. The "least cash solution" was not the "least cost solution"and
several banks, full of government paper had to be intervened since their cash flow continued to
deteriorate.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Comments by IPAB, the main implementing agency, are presented in Annex 16.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
- 17 -



10. Additional Information
Report and Recommendation of the President on a Proposed Bank Restructuring Facility
Adjustment Loan in the Amount of US$505.06 million for Nacional Financiera. Report
No.P7347-ME
- 18-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix               Projected In last PSR            Actual/Latest Estimate
NOT APPLICABLE BECAUSE THIS IS AN
ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
Output Indicators:
IndicatoriMatrix               Projected in last PSR            ActuaULatest Estimate
NOT APPLICABLE BECAUSE THIS IS AN
ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
End of project
-19 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component           US$ million  US$ million
NOT APPLICABT.E 13CAUSE THIS IS AN
ADJUSTMENT JPER TION
Total Baseline Cost                               0.00           0.00
Total Project Costs            0.00           0.00
Total Financing Required            0.00           0.00
Project Costs by Procureme nt Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB         NCB         Other2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00')
2. Goods                    0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00,)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00,)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
- 20 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category       ICB           NCB          Otherd        N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                       0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                       0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
3. Services                    0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                       0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govermment units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percenlag=e or Apprai%al|
Componeni             Appraisal E%ilmate         Aciual/Latesi Estimagep                     l
Bank     Go't.     CoF.      Bank     Go%i.     CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
- 21 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
NOT APPLICABLE BECAUSE THIS IS AN ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
- 22 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count          Specialty                     Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
July 1999                    1   Team Leader/Lead Ops. Officer
I   Regional Financial Sector
Advisor
1   Bank Supervisor
I   Financial Economist
1   Bank Restructuring Consultant
September 1999              1    Teamn Leader/Lead Ops. Officer
1   Financial Economist
2   Bank Supervisors
Appraisal/Negotiation
October 1999                1    Team Leader/Lead
Ops.Officer
1   Regional Financial Sector
Advisor
1   Financial Economist
1   Bank Restructuring
Consultant
Supervision
June 2000                    1   Team Leader/Lead Ops.
Officer
2   Financial Economists
1   Bank Restructuring
Consultant
1   Bank Supervisor
1   Sr. Counsel
December 2000                1   Team Leader/Lead Ops. Officer
I   Bank Supervisor
ICR
no rnission travel
during ICR stage
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle  ]                Actual/Latest Estirnate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              27.46                       106.6
Appraisal/Negotiation                   17.67                        68.0
Supervision                             20.83                       91.5
ICR                                      6.18                        25.7
Total                                   72.14                      291.8
- 23 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
EZ Macro policies                      O H  *SUOM      O N  O NA
Z SectorPolicies                       OH   OSUOM      ON   O NA
O Physical                             OH   OSUOM      ON   *NA
L Financial                            O H  *SUOM      O N  O NA
O Institutional Development            0 H  O SU O M   0 N  0 NA
C Environmental                        O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
Social
Oi Poverty Reduction             O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
LI Gender                        O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
EJ Other (Please specify)        O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
E Private sector development           0 H  O SU O M   0 N  0 NA
El Public sector management            0 H  O SU O M   0 N  0 NA
LI Other (Please specify)              O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
- 24 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactoiy)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
El Lending                                         OHS*S        OU    OHU
rI Supervision                                     OHS OS       OLU   OHU
El Overall                                         OHS OS       O U   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
D Preparation                                      OHS OS       O U   O HU
El Government implementation performance           O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
rO Implementation agency performance               O HS OS      O U   0 HU
O Overall                                          OHS OS       OU    0 HU
- 25-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Bubel, Robert V. and Edward C. Skelton, "Fiscal Therapy: The Mexican Banking Industry in
Rehab," Financial Industry News, Fourth Quarter 1998, Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas.
Goldberg, Linda B., Gerard Dages, and Daniel Kinney, "Foreign and Domestic Bank Participation
in Emerging Markets: Lessons from Mexico and Argentina," Federal Reserve Bank of New York
Economic Policy Review, vol. 6, no. 3, 2000.
Graf, Pablo, "Policy Responses to the Banking Crisis in Mexico," in Bank Restructuring in
Practice, BIS Policy Papers, No. 6, August 1999, Bank for International Settlements, Basel,
Switzerland.
IMF (International Monetary Fund), International Capital Markets Developments, Prospects,
and Key Policy Issues (by a staff team led by Donald J. Mathieson and Garry J. Schinasi.)
International Monetary Fund: Washington, DC, 2000.
Klingebiel, Daniela, "The Use of Asset Management Companies in the Resolution of Banking
Crises: Cross-Country Experiences," World Bank, Policy Research Working Paper 2284, Feb.
2000.
World Bank, Finance for Growth: Policy Choices in a Volatile World, Policy Research Report.
New York: Oxford University Press, 2001.
World Bank, World Development Report 2002: Building Institutions for Markets. New York:
Oxford University Press, 2001.
Yacaman, Jesus Marcos, "Competition and Consolidation in the Mexican Banking Industry after
the 1995 Crisis," in The Banking Industry in Emerging Market Economies: Competition,
Consolidation, and Systemic Stability, BIS Papers, No. 4, August 2001, Bank for International
Settlements, Basel, Switzerland.
- 26 -



Additional Annex 8. Matrix of Policy Actions
MEXICO
PROPOSED BANK RESTRUCTURING FACILITY ADJUSTMENT LOAN
MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS FOR TRANCHE RELEASE
OBJECTIVES          ACTIONS TAKEN BY MEXICO            SECOND AND THIRD TRANCHE
TO DATE (First Tranche)            ACTIONS
1. MACROECONOMIC POLICY FRAMEEWORK
Maintenance of      * Maintenance of sound              * Maintenance of sound macroeconomic
Supportive          macroeconomic framework consistent  policy framework consistent with policy
Macroeconomic       with policy objectives and program  objectives and program described in Letter
Program             described in Letter of Sector Policy  of Sector Policy
2. REFORM OF LEGAL FRAMEWORK
Improve incentives  The Mexican authorities have:
in the financial    * Obtained, in December 1998,
sector              Congressional approval of new
legislation creating the Institute for
the Protection of Bank Savings
(IPAB). The Law phases-in a limited
deposit insurance to replace the
existing universal insurance guarantee
between June 1, 1999 and December
31, 2004 (with the elimination of
coverage on interbank liabilities by
01/003)
* Allowed full participation of
foreign investors in existing Mexican
banks
* Submitted to Congress, in 04/99, a
draft Federal Credit Guarantee Law,
which if approved would strengthen
foreclosure procedures and create
conditions for lending based on
movable collateral
* Has prepared and is ready to
subrnit to Congress a draft of a new
Bankruptcy law.
3. STRENGTHENING OF BANKING REGULATION
To raise banking    The Mexican authorities have:       Second Tranche Actions
sector regulation   In September 1999, the SHCP/CNBV    *  That the Regulatory Reform Program
towards             announced a series of regulatory    has been implemented on a consistent basis,
international       reforms to be introduced gradually  in accordance with its terms
standards to:       between January 2000 and December
* Improve the       2002. Within this program,         Third Tranche Actions
quality of banks'   regulations have been already issued  *  That the Regulatory Reform Program
capital             in respect of:                     has been implemented on a consistent basis,
* Enhance                                              in accordance with its terms
accounting and      * Changes in the definition of      *  Issuance of new regulation for loan
disclosure standards  regulatory capital which includes: (i)  classification and loan loss provision for
* Eliminate        limiting the weight of deferred taxes  either mortgage or commercial loans
unjustified         in Tier I capital; (ii) defining the
- 27-



forbearance        characteristics of the non-cumulative
* Improve loan     subordinated debentures that could be
classification and  counted as Tier I capital; (iii)
provisioning rules  deducting all equity investments in
non-traded, non-financial companies
from capital; and (iv) substituting
specific provisions for general
provisions in Tier 2 capital
* requirements to disclose the
composition of regulatory capital
* improvements in the definition of
risk weighted assets
* new classification and
provisioning rules for credit card
loans
* new criteria to grant regulatory
forbearance and requirements to
disclose instances of regulatory
forbearance
* requirements to disclose "troubled
"debt, financial information by
business segment and aggregate
information on transactions with
related parties
* improvement of accounting
practices towards international
standards regarding market valuation
of investments and derivatives
* introduction of accounting
standards applicable to assets
securitization and assets transfers
4. RESTRUCTURING/RESOLUTION OF BANKS BY IPAB
To restructure, sell,  BANK RESOLUTION               Second Tranche Actions
merge or liquidate  TRANSACTIONS                     * That IPAB has issued Eligible notes in
banks under IPAB's                          2/98,    an aggregate amount equal to at least US5.0
bank restrcturing  The IPAB Law, approved in 12/98,  billion, in support of Eligible Bank
program            enables IPAB to assume the functions    .         .     2
. .   ,   , .     ~~Resolution Transactions .
of a deposit insurer and a resolution  T                 t
agency to:~~~~~ That budgetary transfers to IPAB have
agency to:                        been made in a timely fashion so as to allow
p     Manage the bank support    IPAB to discharge its responsibilities under
programs and accelerate the financial  the Program
strengthening of currently
undercapitalized banks, and the sale  Third Tranche Actions
or liquidation of intervened ones                                3
a sell the assets purchased by    * That IPAB has issued Eligible notes in an
FOBAPROA from banks under         aggregate amount equal to at least US8.0
previous bank support programs    billion, in support of Eligible Bank
within a time frame of up to 5 years  Resolution Transactions4
a That budgetary transfers to IPAB have
IPAB has already taken the following  been made in a timely fashion so as to allow
actions:                          IPAB to discharge its responsibilities under
* taken control of Serfin in 7/99,  the Program
written-off shareholders equity and
- 28 -



started capitalization/sale process
* taken control of Bancrecer in
1 1/99 and, written off shareholders
equity and started capitalization/sale
process
The Government has created a
working group with representatives
from IPAB, SHCP and CNBV to
work with the Bank to determine the
eligibility criteria and verify that
IPAB's bank resolution transactions
comply with agreed eligibility criteria
IPAB's FINANCING
The Mexican authorities have
indicated their intention to ensure the
stabilization of IPAB's debt in real
terms. To achieve this purpose, the
Budget Proposal for 2000, submitted
to Congress, includes a budgetary
allocation of M$35.0 billion to IPAB
The Borrower will transfer the
proceeds of each tranche of the Bank
loan to IPAB to help finance IPAB's
cash-flow needs resulting from the
bank resolution transactions that
comply with eligibility criteria
5. SALE/RECOVERY OF BANK ASSETS HELD BY IPAB
To recover the     IPAB has already initiated the    Second Tranche Actions
maximum amount     auctioning of packages of bank assets  * That IPAB's Asset Disposal Program has
from the bank assets  under its 1999-2000 Asset Recovery  been implemented on a consistent basis, in
under IPAB's       Program                           accordance with its terms
purview, within the  * In 10/99 IPAB auctioned the
time frame provided  administration of the bad loans of  Third Tranche Actions
by the IPAB Law    Serfin                            * That IPAB's Asset Disposal Program has
been implemented on a consistent basis, in
accordance with its terms
Notes:
1. Eligible notes means notes (instrumentos de credito) issued by IPAB for partial financing of an eligible
bank restructuring transaction. These notes must pay in cash at least the real component of the interest rate.
2. Eligible bank resolution transactions means the sale, merger or liquidation of any of the following banking
institutions: Serfin, Bancrecer, Promex, Atlantico and Inverlat, carried out in accordance with the eligibility
criteria described in Attachments Bl, B2, B3, B4 and B5 of the Implementation Letter.
3. Eligible notes means notes (instrumentos de credito) issued by IPAB for partial financing of an eligible
bank restructuring transaction. These notes must pay in cash at least the real component of the interest rate.
4. Eligible bank resolution transactions means the sale, merger or liquidation of any of the following banking
institutions: Serfin, Bancrecer, Promex, Atlantico and Inverlat, carried out in accordance with the eligibility
criteria described in Attachments Bl, B2, B3, B4 and B5 of the Implementation Letter.
- 29 -



Additional Annex 9. Regulatory Reforms, First Stage of Bank Restructuring Program
Re ulatory Reforms Im      lemented in the First Stage of the Bank Restructuring Program
New Rules       Norm        Issued/In             Rule Content                 Implementation
effect
Definition of  SHCP         10/1999       New definition of Tier 1 and Tier 2  Some banks have already
regulatory    Resolution   01/2000 -      elements.                        adopted in full these rules.
capital                     12/2002       New capital instruments.
Substitution of specific provisions
by general provisions.
Limit of 20% for deferred taxes.
Deduction of equity investments
and intangible assets.
New weighing rules for off-balance
sheet items.
Credit portfolio Circular   10/1999       Classification methodology based  Regulations have not
classification  1449       01/2000        on the probability of            entailed the necessity of
rules for credit                          non-repayment.                   additional provisions, but
card loans                                New provisioning rules.          they have resulted in the
earrnarking of existing
provisions to specific credits.
Credit portfolio Circular  01/2000        Classification methodology based  Regulations have not
classification  1460       06/2000        on repayment performance and     entailed the necessity of
rules for                                 probability of default.          additional provisions, but
mortgages                                 New provisioning rules.          they have resulted in the
earrnarking of existing
provisions to specific credits.
Credit portfolio Circular  09/2000        Classification methodology entails
classification  1480       01/2001        comprehensive credit risk analysis,
rules for                                 including country risk, for both the
commercial                                loan and the creditor.
loans                                      Quarterly classification and
provisioning of 80% of the credit
portfolio, including every operation
above certain amount, based on the
probability of default.
The remaining 20% to be classified
and provisioned according to the
repayment experience.
New rules for guarantees.
Disclosure of credit classification.
Risk categories increase from 5 to
7.
Accounting    Circular     10/1999        New accounting standards for assets  As of June 2000 the banks
and valuation  1448        01/2000        securitization and assets transfer.  had carried out valuations of
rules for banks                           New and enhanced valuation rules,  their premises and adjusted
according to international standards  their capital accordingly.
Full implementation of new
valuation rules is likely to
take place in 2001, once the
appraisal of foreclosed assets
is completed.
- 30 -



Transparency  Circular 1448 10/1999      Disclosure of components of     Some banks relinquished
and disclosure                           regulatory capital starting 12/2000.  regulatory forbearance to
Disclosure of regulatory        prevent its disclosure in the
forbearance, including its impact on  12/2000 reports.
the financial conditions, starting
Circular 1484               12/2000.
10/2000
Refines some prudential supervisory
Circular 1488               norms and hence improve financial
information and disclosure.
Regulatory    Circular     10/1999       Forbearance conditioned to the  The CNBV has allowed
forbearance   1448                       existence of a comprehensive    forbearance in special cases,
rehabilitation plan.            which have been
Mandatory disclosure, including its  communicated to the banks
effect in financial statements.  and disclosed to the banks,
the market and the CNBV.
Accounting    Circular     12/1999
and valuation  1456        01/2000
rules for
holding       Circular
companies     1489
- 31 -



Additional Annex 10. Description of IPAB Restructuring Program at Inception
Shares of Total Assets, Dec. 1996
No IPAB
11%   l           New
ISaneamiento
Old Cap/Loan               31%
8%31
Old
Intervened,
New Cap/Loan             1%
49%
- 32 -



Additional Annex 11. Description of Transactions Underwritten by IPAB
Shares of Total Assets, Dec. 1996
8%       11%
* Old Intervened, Sell
o New Cap/Loan
E* Old Cap/Loan
8%  E No IPAB
* New San. (BRFL I)
49%                                                      l C New San. (BRFL 11)
1%
-33 -



Additional Annex 12. Additional Transactions Assisted by IPAB
Shares of Total Assets, Dec. 1996
11%
8%                                                    o- New Saneamiento
1%                                                     0 ts - 'ieie-l .,-,\ \ *Old InteRened, Sell
- 28%  * Old Cap/Loan
*No IPAB
2 -' ;trS6?R;,,,           BBV/Bancomer
0 Other
-34 -



Additional Annex 13. Bank Credit to the Private Sector (% of GDP)
Reprinted from Yacaman (2001).
Bank Credit to the
Private Sector (percentage of GDP)
45%
30%
15%
0%/o  1990  1992              1998     1991        1995        1999
- 35 -



Additional Annex 14. Number of Commercial Banks
Reprinted from Yacaman (2001).
Number of Commercial Banks
60                             ee4inns
_  F         1      IP.UI AL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~disI
45
30
15
0
1980  1982              1988      1991          1995           2000
- 36 -



Additional Annex 15. Past Due Loans as Share of Total Loans
Reprinted from Yacaman (2001).
Past due loans as
a share of total loans
20%
15%
10% 
5%
0%
1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000
- 37 -



Additional Annex 16. Comments from IPAB
(original in Spanish)
1.   Como resultado de la crisis fmanciera de 1995 fue necesario desarrollar mecanismos para fortalecer el
Sistema Nacional de Pagos y salvaguardar los dep6sitos de los ahorradores. En este sentido, el Instituto para la
Protecci6n al Ahorro Bancario (Instituto) ha buscado proporcionar un adecuado Sistema de Seguro de Dep6sitos
que permita ofrecer a los ahorradores una cobertura eficiente, instrumentar una estrategia de administraci6n de
pasivos sustentable en el largo plazo y concluir las operaciones de saneamiento pendientes.
Evaluaci6n y cumplimiento de los objetivos del Prestamo del BIRF (programa)
2.   El objetivo del programa consisti6 en apoyar parcialmente las operaciones de saneamiento y/o resoluci6n
que se encontraban pendientes de realizar de Grupo Financiero Serfm, S.A, Grupo Financiero Inverlat, S.A. de
C.V., Banca Promex, S.A., Bancrecer, S.A., y Banco del Atlantico, S.A. Durante el afio 2000, el Instituto
concluy6 los procesos de saneamiento fmanciero de Banca Promex y Grupo Financiero Inverlat, ademis de
realizar la venta del Grupo Financiero Serfm en el tiempo programado.
3.   En cuanto a la administraci6n de los pasivos del Instituto, se han realizado reestructuras que permitieron
mejorar las condiciones generales de algunas obligaciones en lo que se refiere a plazo, tasa y esquema de
amortizaci6n. Estas acciones lograron modificar el perfil original de vencimnientos, reduciendo con ello
presiones de refinanciamiento durante el periodo 2004 - 2006. Aunado a lo anterior, con las operaciones de
refinanciamiento se redujo el costo financiero del Instituto en 33 puntos base en el periodo comprendido entre
diciembre de 1999 y junio de 2001. En este sentido, el cr6dito otorgado por el Banco Mundial contribuy6 a la
reducci6n del costo financiero de la deuda del Instituto dadas las caracteristicas de tasa y plazo que se
otorgaron.
Sustentabilidad del programa, desempeno del prestatario y actuaci6n del banco
4.   La facultad del Instituto de canjear o refmanciar su deuda, el monto de recursos presupuestarios
requeridos, y los ingresos por cuotas bancarias y recuperaciones que se podrian destinar al servicio de las
obligaciones fmancieras, pernitiran mantener las obligaciones fmancieras del Instituto en una trayectoria
sostenible considerando un comportamiento estable en las tasas de interes reales. En el periodo de diciembre de
1999 a junio de 2001 los pasivos del Instituto disminuyeron 3.3% en terrninos reales.
5.   El Banco Mundial respondi6 en todo momento de manera oportuna a las necesidades de recursos que se
requirieron al otorgar el credito de acuerdo con la solicitud del Instituto y operar satisfactoriamente las
disposiciones una vez cumplidas las condiciones estipuladas en el contrato. Adicionalmente, el Banco Mundial
ha Ilevado a cabo un seguimiento constante al desempefio del Instituto que incluye una comunicaci6n
permanente y visitas en sitio para monitorear el estatus de la operaci6n. El trabajo de coordinaci6n realizado
por el Banco Mundial, la Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico, la Comisi6n Nacional Bancaria y de
Valores, y Nacional Financiera permiti6 llevar a cabo esta operaci6n de manera exitosa y con un ambiente de
trabajo entre equipos altamente capacitados y experimentados. Como resultado de lo anterior, se considera la
actuaci6n del banco como altamente satisfactoria.
Lecciones Aprendidas.
6.   Los sistemas de seguro de dep6sitos operan con uno de dos tipos de cobertura: ilimitada y, limitada. La
experiencia internacional ha reconocido que los seguros de dep6sitos con cobertura ilimitada presentan
problemas, pues reducen la disciplina que el mercado impone a los ahorradores y a los banqueros. Al estar
totalmente protegidos, los depositantes pierden los incentivos para vigilar la condici6n fmanciera y las politicas
de riesgo del banco en el cual depositan su dinero. Por considerar que sus ahorros no corren riesgo, los
depositantes se vuelven indiferentes respecto de la situaci6n fmanciera y la calidad de la administraci6n del
banco en que invierten sus recursos. Es por esto que los sistemas de seguro de dep6sitos han migrado de una
- 38 -



cobertura iliniitada a una protecci6n limitada. El caso de Mexico no ha sido la excepci6n ya que se ha adoptado
un sistema de seguro de dep6sito explicito y limitado, el cual se encuentra en una fase de transici6n con relaci6n
a la cobertura de obligaciones. Ademas, el marco legal del sector bancario ha sido fortalecido a traves de la
expedici6n de la Ley para la Protecci6n al Ahorro Bancario, de la Ley de Concursos Mercantiles, asi como con
las modificaciones a la Ley de Instituciones de Credito, a la Ley General de Titulos y Operaciones de Credito y
al C6digo de Comercio, en materia de garantias, y a todas aquellas disposiciones que han fortalecido al sector
financiero.
7.   Este credito fue el primero que realiz6 el IPAB con organismos fmancieros internacionales. Gracias a
esta operaci6n, el IPAB conto con recursos adicionales para hacer frente a sus obligaciones y estar en
condiciones de concluir algunas de las operaciones de saneamiento explicadas en parrafos anteriores.
Adicionalmente este credito contribuy6 a que se redujera el costo de la deuda del Instituto, por lo que a partir de
esta operaci6n se han tenido acercamientos con el mismo Banco Mundial y algunos otros organismos
intemacionales con el fm de contratar creditos adicionales que contribuyan a reducir la fuerte carga financiera
que represent6 el rescate bancario en Mexico.
- 39 -



