Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P7347 ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED BANK RESTRUCTURING FACILITY ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$505.06 MILLION
FOR
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
November 29, 1999
Mexico Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its content may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization



MEXICO FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November 1999)
9.53 Pesos = US$1.00
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONISMS
BOM          =      Bank of Mexico (Mexico's Central Bank)
CAR                 Capital assets ratio
CAS          =      Country Assistance Strategy
CLPP         =      Capitalization and Loan Purchase Program
CETES               Treasury Certificates (Certificados de Tesoreria de la
Federacion)
CNBV         =      National Banking and Securities Commission
FOBAPROA =          Trust Fund for the Protection of Bank Savings
FSRL         =      Financial Sector Restructuring Loan
GAAP         =      Generally Accepted Accounting Practices
GDP          =      Gross Domestic Product
IDB                 Inter-American Development Bank
IPAB                Bank Sa-vings Protection Institute
IMF          =      International Monetary Fund
MERCOSUR =          Common Market of the Southern Cone
NAFIN               Nacional Financiera S. N. C.
NPLs         =      Non Performing Loans
NYSE                New York Stock Exchange
PDL          =      Past Due Loans
PROCAPTE =          Temporary Capitalization Program
RTC          =      Resolution Trust Corporation
TIIE         =      Interbank equilibrium interest rate
UDI                 Investment Units (Indexed)
SDR          =      Special Drawing Rights
IBRD
Vice President        David de Ferranti
Country Director      Olivier Lafourcade
Lead Specialist       Augusto de la Torre
Sector Manager        Danny Leipziger
Task Manager          Mariluz Cortes
This operation was prepared by a World Bank team composed of: Messrs/Mmes. Augusto de la Torre, Fernando
Montes-Negret,(Sector Leader LCSFP- Mexico); Juan Ortiz, Yira Mascar6 (LCSFP); Vincent Polizatto (BFI); Teresa
Genta-Fons (LEGLA); and James Lacey (consultant). The team was led by Mariluz Cortes (Task Manager) and
worked under the general guidance of Augusto de la Torre (Lead Specialist LCSFP) and Fernando Montes-Negret
(LCSFP- Mexico).



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
PROPOSED BANK RESTRUCTURING FACILITY LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY ........................................................I
I.   THE SETTING. .
A. Economic Context .1
B. Recent Performance                       .1
II.   THE BANKING CRISIS CONTAINMENT POLICIES OF 1995-1998  3
A.   Banking Sector Structural Weaknesses Prior to the 1994-1995 Crisis.  3
B.   The Government's Response to the 1994-1995 Crisis    .5
C.   Evaluation of the Crisis Contention Program of 1995-1998 .10
III.  THE NEW GOVERNMENT STRATEGY FOR BANK
RESTRUCTURING AND RESOLUTION .12
A.   Legal Framework to Improve Incentives in the Financial Sector .13
B.   Regulatory Reforms to Improve Bank's Capitalization and Soundness . 14
C.   IPAB's Bank Capitalization and Resolution Program .17
D.   IPAB's Integrated Program for Residual Asset DisposaL .20
E.   IPAB's Finances: Cash Flow Projections and Liabilities Management . 21
IV.  BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY IN THE BANKING SECTOR .                25
A.   Bank Assistance Strategy in the Banking Sector .25
B.   Bank Experience with, Policy Based Lending in Mexico .26
C.   Coordination with Multilateral Institutions .28
V. THE PROPOSED LOAN .28
A.  Loan Objectives and Description .28
B.   Bank Resolution Transactions to be Supported by the Loan .29
C. Commitments under the Loan .31
D.   Disbursements, Reporting and Auditing .33
E. Impact, Benefits and Risks .34
VI RECOMMENDATIONS .37
ANNEX I          Matrix of Policy Actions for Tranche Release
ANNEX II         Banking Statistics
ANNEX HII        Regulatory Reform
ANNEX IV         Letter of Sector Development Policy
ANNEX V          IPAB's Asset Disposal Program
ANNEX VI         Economic Indicators
ANNEX VII        Status of Bank Group Operations
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ANNEX VIII        Status of IFC Investments
ANNEX IX          Mexico at a Glance



MEXICO
BANK RESTRUCTURING FACILITY LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:               Nacional Financiera, S. N. C. (NAFIN)
Guarantor:              The United Mexican States
Amount and Terms:       US$505.06 million. Fixed-spread Libor based rate, with 10
years of grace period and bullet repayment on December 1,
2009. A 0.85% commitment fee for the first four years and
0.75% thereafter (without waivers), and a 1% capitalized
front-end fee.
Description:            The operation will support the first stage of the
Government's bank restructuring program which includes:
Legal reforms to improve incentives in the banking sector.
Measures already taken by the authorities include: (i)
approval in December 1998 of the IPAB Law establishing a
gradual phase-out of the universal deposit insurance
scheme, replacing it with one with limited coverage; (ii)
presentation to Congress in April 1999 of the Secured
Transactions Law; and presentation to Congress of a new
Bankruptcy Law in November 1999; and (iii) the adoption
of a final debtor relief program ("Punto Final").
Regulatory reforms to improve Banks' capitalization and
soundness. Measures already taken by the authorities
include the announcement, in September 1999, of a series
of regulatory reforms to change the definition of regulatory
capital and require the disclosure of its composition;
improve the definition of risk weighted assets; establish
classification and new provisioning rules based on
repayment capacity; improve accounting practices and
standards; and improve disclosure
IPAB's bank capitalization and resolution program. This
operation will support the restructuring, sale, merger or
liquidation of five banks that are under IPAB's
restructuring program. Bank funds would help finance part
of IPAB's debt-servicing needs arising from the
implementation of its bank resolution program,
complementing other sources of funds available to IPAB,
such  as:  fiscal  transfers,  proceeds  from   asset
disposal/recovery; and fees from deposit insurance premia.



Risks and Benefits       The proposed loan would contribute to ensure banking
soundness by the time when the full deposit guarantee
disappears in Mexico, particularly in 2003 (when interbank
liabilities are excluded) and 2005 (when the maximum
amount of individual insured deposits is reduced to
US$100,000 equivalent. Strong and well capitalized banks
would be in better position to resume prudent lending to the
private sector, which has collapsed in real terms since the
1994-95 crisis, with the attendant beneficial effects on
growth, wider access, and employment. By contributing to
finance IPAB's program, the loan would help the
Government to make explicit the cost of solving the bank
problems and avoid a more costly delay.
There are several risks in this operation. One is that if
IPAB were not able to refinance its debt, it could face
increasing limitations in its capacity to capitalize and sell or
unwind and liquidate the banks. To prevent this from
happening, the executive has introduced in the Budget
Proposal for 2000, fiscal transfers to IPAB for about 0.8%
of GDP and an increase in IPAB's debt ceiling. Another
risk is that if banks cannot increase their capital in response
to the new capital regulations, the authorities could
postpone the schedule of implementation of the regulatory
reform. This is unlikely, because the CNBV has already
explored the capability of the banks to raise the required
capital and it is confident that they will be able to do so.
Another risk is that the large debt issues associated with
IPAB's program could imply higher and more volatile
interest rates. This is also mitigated because the bulk of the
bank resolutions consists in the allocation of historical
losses to the Government's balance sheet, an accounting
exercise of little economic significance. A greater risk is if
the unresolved banking problems aenerate new losses,
which is what the proposed operation is designed to
prevent.
Schedule of
Disbursements:           The full amount of the loan is expected to be disbursed in
calendar year 2000 in three tranches: one tranche upon
effectiveness and two floating tranches linked to agreed
bank resolution transactions.
Closing Date:            June 30, 2001
Project ID Number:       MXPE-P067491



MEXICO
MEMORANDUM OF THE PRESIDENT
PROPOSED BANK RESTRUCTURING FACILITY ADJUSTMENT LOAN
I.    THE SETTING
A.   Economic Context
1.    Following the Tequila episode of 1994-95, the Mexican economy experienced
two years of strong export-led recovery during 1996 and 1997, with annual GDP growth
averaging 6%. Inflation went down from 52% in 1995 to 16% in 1997, and open
unemployment decreased from 8% in 1995 to 3% at the end of 1997. This improving
scenario started to falter in 1998, following a tightening of international capital markets
generated by the Russian and Brazilian crises, and the sharp decline in oil prices, which
was reflected in a widening of the external current account deficit from 1.8% of GDP in
1997 to 3.8% of GDP in 1998. The Government responded to the deterioration in
external conditions by cutting expenditures and managing to keep the fiscal deficit at its
targeted level of 1.25% of GDP in 1998. At the same time, the flexible exchange rate in
effect since 1995 helped absorb the impact of the external shocks without unduly
sacrificing economic activity. In effect, while the currency depreciated by 11.2% percent
in the last half of 1998 (22.7% in the year), GDP decelerated in that year to 4.8%, still a
strong growth rate relative to the region's average. Banco de Mexico (BOM) tightened
monetary policy, with short-term interest rates increasing from 20% by end July 1998 to
31.2% by end December of the same year, but this did not avert a rapid pass-through to
the price level of the nominal exchange rate depreciation. In effect, consumer prices
increased by 18.6% in 1998, compared to the original target of 12%.
B.   Recent Performance
2.    During the first quarter of 1999, external conditions improved with the increase in
oil prices and the improvement in the maturity profile of part of the public sector's
outstanding liabilities (stemming form the drawings on external contingency credit lines
with international banks), as well as the new IMF Stand by Agreement of US$4.2 billion.
Inflation and inflationary expectations, which increased significantly in the second half of
1998, regained their downward trend in 1999. Expected inflation for the year stands at
close to the official 13% target. The balance of payments current account deficit is now
estimated to be US$13 billion, or 2.8% of GDP, largely financed with foreign direct
investment. Nevertheless, international capital markets continue to view Mexico with
caution. As a result, international yield spreads on Mexican bonds remain well above
their level before the Asian crisis, constraining credit to the private sector. Partly due to
the reduced access to international credit markets, but also due to the impact on aggregate
domestic demand of the fiscal and monetary tightening mentioned earlier, a further
1



slowdown in economic activity was registered in the first half of 1999, with a 3.4% GDP
growth rate anticipated for 1999 as a whole. Nevertheless, in the second half of 1999,
Mexico financial markets have calmed down, as the exchange rate has strengthened,
appreciating from 10.6 pesos per dollar in January to a range of 9.2 - 9.5 pesos per dollar
recently. Short term interest rates have decreased from 32% at the beginning of the year
to 20% in April and around 18% in October, and the stock exchange index has risen by
48% in the year. This, together with an improved external liquidity situation, a sharp
rebound in oil prices, and higher demand for non-oil exports (reflecting the strength of
the US economy), has led to a recovery in domestic demand and output.
3.     The financial sector, hit hard by the 1994-95 crisis, has stabilized, but remains
undercapitalized, with non-performing and restructured loans still high. Credit growth to
the private sector in real terms has remained negative since 19951 (see Figure 1), posing a
threat to the sustainability of Mexico's economic recovery and contributing to the
increasing duality of the economy.
Real Credit to the Private Sector
200,000_
I 90,000   -  .                                 _
180,000
o   170,000                   .          _               .__
1 60,000 -
150,000
140,000
2r  c-.2 CO-    C--    V--    C---   C:  0  5 5 05 5 0 
!   I   I   f   '   l   l   l   l   l   l   ]   l   II 
x 5, . 5   -~  C;    G  -n -  5,     -  _C  0  5,    Cl U-  -
05 0r5 ST 05       -    ,n   -5 05        0  5      0
D ate
4.     The lingering problems of the banking sector date back to the unresolved
problems of the peso crisis of 1994-95. The support measures implemented by the
Government to help the banks were successful in averting a systemic crisis and a run on
the banks. However, lack of an adequate legal framework limited, to certain extent, the
ability of the Government to address the needed structural reforms and the effective
resolution of the problem banks.
Between June 1998 and June 1999, outstanding credit to the private sector dropped by 18.55% in real
terms, bringing the level of lending to that of a decade before.
2



5.    The approval, in December 1998, of a law establishing the Banks Savings
Protection Institute (IPAB), puts into effect a gradual phase-out of the universal deposit
insurance and provides the framework and the incentives for a more effective resolution
of the problem banks, in a way that was not possible before. As the authorities embark
into a more effective bank restructuring program, they are also launching a major
program of regulatory reforms to bring prudential norms and accounting and disclosure
standards much closer to international best practice. The Government has also prepared
for Congressional consideration legal reforns on secured lending and bankruptcy
processes which, if approved, should have a major positive impact on contract
enforcement and willingness to pay in Mexico.
11.   THE BANKING CRISIS CONTAINMENT POLICIES OF 1995-19982.
6.    Between mid-December 1994 and the end of the first quarter of 1995, Mexico's
banking system suffered a major systemic, solvency and liquidity crisis, triggered by the
massive (100%) devaluation of the peso. To contain the crisis, the Government
implemented a number of support measures aimed at helping banks, as well as bank
debtors and depositors.
A.    Banking Sector Structural Weaknesses Prior to the 1994-95 Crisis
7.    Many of the root causes of the 1994-95 banking crisis can be traced to policy
mistakes of the 1980s and early 1990s. In 1982, Mexico nationalized 58 of the 60
commercial banks then in operation, initiating a process of consolidation into fewer banks
(see the current banking sector structure in Annex II). The newly transformed public
banks increasingly became a source of financing for the rising public sector deficit, while
the share of bank credit to the private sector in total bank credit declined from about 40%
of GDP in 1980-81 to 25% of GDP in 1986. Misguided policies (exchange controls,
interest rate controls, high reserve requirements and forced lending to the government)
had the effect of substituting the credit judgments of the government for that of
commercial banks.  Starting in 1988, and coinciding with the improvement in
Government finances, the authorities initiated a process of financial liberalization, freeing
interest rates, reducing drastically legal reserve requirements3, and, starting in 1991, re-
privatizing the banks. The process of bank re-privatization ended in mid-1992. Banks
were sold to the domestic private sector (no foreign entry was allowed), at (ex-post) very
high prices, 2.2 to 3.1 times book value, generating about US$12.5 billion for the
Government. It can be argued that the way the banks were re-privatized planted the seeds
of the 1994-95 crisis.
2 This section is based on several financial sector reports prepared by Fernando Montes-Negret, Sector
Leader, FPSI, Mexico Department.
3 The speed of financial sector liberalization was one of the major proximate causes explaining the fall of
the savings rate of the Mexican private sector (see 1997 CEM).
3



8.    Poorly managed and weak banks. During the ten years that commercial banks
were in public hands, they progressively lost their lending and risk-assessment skills and
a large number of their most qualified personnel. Banks systematically under-invested in
modernizing their information technology, in training staff, and in developing
measurement and risk control systems, making them ill-prepared for the liberalization and
privatization that followed. The re-privatization process was carried out without due
diligence to identify the already poor quality of the banks' loan portfolios, and lack of
control over the origin of funds amassed by the buyers. Equally damaging was the fact
that during the re-privatization of the banks, the regulatory and supervisory functions
were weak and the accounting system was opaque. Lack of transparency and disclosure
meant that directors did not have the right incentives to take the ultimate responsibility
for the management of risks, and blunted market discipline.
9.    In spite of being ill prepared to understand and control their risks, starting in 1992
the re-privatized banks went into a lending-spree, which previously credit-rationed
borrowers were eager to take. The banks' loan portfolios grew during those years (1992-
94) at an average annual rate close to 24% in real terms, or more than eight times the rate
of growth of the Mexican economy. Many banks funded their expanding lending with
expensive and volatile inter-bank deposits, and through short-term lines of credit from
foreign banks. The outcome was that in 1994 total average bank assets had risen to close
to 60% of GDP from 42% only a few years earlier (1991). Consumers and corporations
over-borrowed to finance consumption and investment, reaching gearing ratios and
exposures to interest and foreign exchange risks that made them very vulnerable to the
contraction that followed, amplifying and exacerbating the crisis.
10.   The relative overvaluation of the exchange rate of the Mexican peso during the
years preceding the banking crisis led to a rapid increase in the relative prices of non-
tradable goods and to significant asset price inflation, particularly in real state4 and traded
securities. By the end of 1994, housing loans had reached 16.5% of the banks' total
outstanding loans, and an important share of commercial credits had real state as
collateral. During 1994, real estate prices dropped and past due loans increased
considerably. As early as September of that year, the Government had to intervene two
banks and three more were under a special program of close supervision.
11.   Weak regulatory and supervisory environment. Before 1995, poor organization
and management of the banks--particularly of the credit function, combined with
deficient prudential norms, and the limited enforcement capabilities of the then Comisi6n
Nacional Bancaria (CNB, before its merger with the Securities Commission)
compounded the problem. Accounting guidelines for financial institutions varied not
only from Mexican GAAP rules for other Mexican corporations, but had major
4 Real estate prices in Mexico City grew by a factor of 17 between the fourth quarter of 1987 and the fourth
quarter of 1994, or at a rate of 50.6% per year.
4



differences with US-GAAP, making it very difficult to know the true financial condition
of the Mexican banks.
12.   Government Deposit Guarantee. Banking system unsoundness prior to the crisis
was also exacerbated by the implicit guarantee provided by the Mexican Government to
all bank liabilities, including inter-bank deposits. For decades, the Federal Government
had, in practice, granted full protection to bank depositors and most creditors (excluding
only those holding subordinated debt).  In case of bank insolvency, the Federal
Government had traditionally allocated public funds either to take control of the
institution or to pay all the liabilities of the bank. In 1986, the Government created the
Fondo de Apoyo Preventivo a las Instituciones de Banca Mtdtiple, which operated during
the time the commercial baking system was government-owned. In 1990, the Fondo
Bancario de Proteccion al Ahorro (FOBAPROA) was created to carry out preventive
operations aimed at avoiding financial problems in banking institutions.
13.   This universal, implicit deposit guarantee contributed to moral hazard by bank
shareholders, managers and depositors, who acted as if they would be fully protected.
Excessive risk taking by the newly privatized banks resulted in rapid and imprudent
growth in lending. When the crisis began in late-1994, banks were ill equipped to
confront the impact that the rapid depreciation of the peso, high interest rates, and
economic downturn had on their loan portfolios. The new conditions made it difficult for
banks to fund existing portfolios, and for borrowers to honor loan payments.
14.   Weak judicialframework. At the end of 1994 and in 1995, when debtors started
defaulting on their loans, banks had little protection, since in Mexico there are few
consequences if debtors refuse to pay. Mexican bankruptcy legislation, which dates to
1943, is imprecise, cumbersome, and subject to long delays, while leading to inconsistent
interpretations by the judges. The system for pledging movable assets does not function,
because the laws governing enforcement and collection are unclear and offer excessive
protection to debtors. Lack of legal clarity allows the courts frequently to decide on the
side of the debtor, particularly in cases of residential evictions. Since judicial cases to
repossess collateral may take from three to seven years5, and the outcome is uncertain,
many banks opt for out of court settlements, and in many cases only collect on a fraction
of their loans plus interests after expenses.
B.    The Government's Response to the 1994-95 Crisis
15.   When the crisis stroke at the end of 1994, banks, households, and corporations
were extremely vulnerable, since all had been betting on fast, continuous growth, lower
real interest rates and a stable currency. However a current account deficit of 8% of GDP
in 1993 and in 1994, heavily funded with short-term capital inflows (portfolio
5A recent survey among large commercial banks indicates that it takes about 5 years for a bank to
repossess and sell a house mortgaged as collateral for a housing loan. The bank recovers, on average,
about one third of the value of the original loan (after expenses).
5



investments), combined with rapid monetary expansion and a relatively over-valued
exchange rate (a policy tool to reduce inflation), proved not to be sustainable. Foreign
exchange reserves rapidly dwindled, falling by US$ 10 billion prior to the widening of the
foreign exchange band in December 1994. The announcement in mid-December 1994 of
a 15% devaluation of the Mexican peso precipitated massive capital flight6 that forced the
floating of the peso, which depreciated by almost 100% in the first quarter of 1995.
16.   The immediate impact of the crisis on the banking system took the form of a
severe dollar liquidity squeeze, particularly in January 1995, as banks were unable to roll
over foreign currency denominated certificates of deposit and short-term lines of credit.
In addition, banks suffered immediate losses on their uncovered exposures in foreign
exchange. Interest rates increased by a factor of more than five between mid-December,
1994 and March 1995 (jumping from 20% to 110% in the inter-bank market), leading to
large bank losses in the fixed interest instruments they held. Banks' financial positions
were badly damaged, as they were exposed to large term transformation (liquidity) and
interest rate risks on account of the wide gaps between the maturity of their loans and the
short-term funding, and the rapidly increasing cost of funding.
17.   These shocks made most bank borrowers insolvent, unable to service and repay
their debts which, together with high contagion risk fostered by a general fall in
confidence, threatened a systemic crisis in the Mexican banking system. From mid-1995
non-performing loans (NPLs) increased dramatically -even with the deficient accounting
and loan classification standards being followed- forcing significant increases in loan loss
provisions (partly explained by new provisioning requirements)7. The latter was reflected
in bank losses and reductions in the capital to risk weighted asset ratio.
18.   To avoid a financial meltdown, the Government responded with a number of
measures that included an adjustment program with US$50 billion in financial support
from multilateral institutions (mainly the IMF with US$17.8 billion and the World Bank
with a US$1.0 billion loans), and the US Treasury. The banking sector-related measures
implemente.d by the Government included: (a) reform of banking regulation; (b) support
programs for the banks and their borrowers; and (c) the reaffirmation of the universal
guarantee on bank liabilities (including inter-bank deposits, but excluding subordinated
debts). The remainder of this section discusses the first two groups of measures in greater
detail.
Reform of Banking Regulation and Supervision
19.   Towards the end of 1994, significant regulatory changes started to take place.
The supervision methodology and processes were importantly improved by the adoption
6 Foreign exchange reserves losses amounted to US$4 billion in two days: December 20-21
7NPLs (Mexican definition) doubled from 4% to 8% of total loans from 1991 to 1994.
6



of the MACROS system, which is similar to the US CAMEL'. In 1995, the financial
market's regulatory authorities were consolidated in a single entity, the National Banking
and Securities Commission (CNBV)9. The CNBV issued regulations establishing higher
requirements for provisions, equal to the highest total between 60% of past-due loans
(PDL) and 4% of the bank's total loan portfolio. Compliance with these new rules
implied building up M$16.6 billion of additional provisions, an increase of 27% of the
banks' net equity and 50% of existing loan-loss reserves.
20.   In January 1997, the CNBV issued a new set of accounting and prudential rules
affecting the valuation of the banks' investment portfolios, the treatment of non-
performing loans, interest accrual rules, and the treatment of inflation for accounting
purposes. These changes represented a major improvement towards international
standards. Under the new standards, banks were required to prepare and present
consolidated financial statements to the CNBV (after January 1, 1998). Restructured
loans had to remain in non-performing status until at least three payments had been made
and they were deemed current (restructured loans under Mexican Government support
programs are considered performing loans). In addition, deferred taxes were included in
the financial statements according to US GAAP.
21.   TheI995-97 regulatory reforms did not address a number of aspects that are
important for the level and quality of bank capital aspects that are being only dealt with
recently, in the context of a new phase of regulatory reforms (see below). These aspects
include:
* Asset Classification and Provisioning. There was a tendency to emphasize collateral
as the main criteria to classify loans regardless of the debtor's capacity to repay, while
required provisioning percentages were set at levels below international standards'°.
Additionally, banks were not required to establish generic provisions.
* Accounting and valuation. Important differences remained between international and
CNBV accounting rules mainly in inflation accounting, which is not part of US
GAAP, but accepted by IASC. Fixed assets are revalued according to an inflation
index comprising tradable and non-tradable goods, that may lead to overvaluations.
* Definition of regulatory capital. Banks have been allowed to count as Tier 1 items
that are not normally allowed under Basle principles. These items include: (i)
subordinated mandatory convertible debentures, which are included in Tier 1 capital
without a limit; (ii) revaluation of assets, which are included in Tier 1 capital with a
8 CAMEL stands for capital, assets, management, eamings and liquidity.
9The institutional development program of the CNBV was partly funded by a Bank operation.
0 The required provisions are: A Loans = 0%; B Loans = 1%; C Loans 20%; D Loans 60% and E Loans
=100%. Preventive reserves for loans classified under risk categories A and B are too low not only
relative to international standards but also based on Mexican past history.
7



limit of 80% of the revaluation; and (iii) banks being allowed to include as Tier 2
capital provisions for loans classified as B and C with a limit of 1.25% of risk
weighted assets.
The FOBAPROA Programs 1995-1998
22.   To deal with the impact of the peso crisis on the banking system, the authorities
decided to use FOBAPROA as the main vehicle to provide broad and discretional
financial support to the institutions. Starting in January 1995, FOBAPROA implemented
a number of support programs to provide liquidity and capital to the banks and relief to
debtors. The FOBAPROA programs were the following:
23.   Debtor's Support Programs. A number of debtor support programs were created
during 1995 to help debtors families and corporations"1. The total cost of these programs
amounted, as of June 1999, to M$174.3 billion, or about 3.8% of GDP. The last debtor
relief program ("Punto Final") that started in January 1999, aimed at ending all previous
programs for the agricultural, commercial and mid-sized residential housing sectors.
Debtor's support programs may have further undermined willingness to pay in the
country, although without these programs, debtors might have defaulted on a massive
scale, which would have required additional government funds to maintain the banks'
capital.
24.   Bank Support Programs. As the crisis worsened, FOBAPROA implemented a
number of programs to support the banks. The principal programs were:
* Dollar Liquidity Program. This program had the objective of providing banks with
foreign currency denominated loans to repay foreign currency denominated
obligations of a short-term nature. The program succeeded in helping the banks met
their obligations in foreign currency. Since all banks paid the loans received under
this program, it had no cost to the Government.
*  Temporary Capitalization Program  (PROCAPTE).  This program, initiated in
February 1995, provided temporary capital to banks that, due to the new provisioning
rules, were unable to comply with the 8% capitalization requirement but were allowed
time to raise additional capital. Banks under this program issued subordinated
debentures to FOBAPROA and received financing from BOM. Banks joining this
program were not permitted to take on additional term debt, distribute dividends, or
issue additional mandatory convertible subordinated debentures. To exit the program,
banks had to inject new capital.  Some banks did so through the subsequent
FOBAPROA bank support programs. Since all the advances with the exception of
FOBAPROA's debtor support programs included: (i) loan restructuring program; (ii) support for bank
debtors; (iii) support for mortgage debtors; (iv) support for the agricultural and fishing sectors; and
(v) support for small and medium-sized companies. In 1997, an individual mortgage support
program was added to the list.
8



one bank, were repaid, the fiscal cost of this program was negligible. However, as the
crisis worsened, this program proved insufficient to address the banks' problems, and
additional programs were implemented to capitalize the banks.
*  Capitalization and Loan Purchase of Bank Portfolio Program (CLPP). In May 1995,
the Government launched a program to capitalize banks considered solvent, but which
due to the deterioration of their loan assets did not comply with the minimum capital
rules. In most cases, the Government offered to buy two pesos worth of loan
recoveries for each peso of fresh capital injected by the shareholders, with banks
maintaining the title and administration of the loan portfolio. Banks signed a loss-
sharing agreement, by which they had the obligation to pay 25% of the residual
losses12. In exchange for giving FOBAPROA the right to the loan recoveries, banks
received a promissory note from FOBAPROA, which accrues interest periodically but
is paid at maturity (10 years). It was stipulated that the value of the promissory note
at the transaction date would correspond to the net value of the portfolio sold (gross
value minus preventive reserves). Initially, 12 banks participated in the CLPP
program, with liabilities representing 83.4% of the banking system's liabilities.
Currently, five banks remain in the program: Banamex, Bancomer, Bital, Banorte,
and BBV. Serfin was originally part of this group, but it is now under IPAB's
Financial Strengthening "Saneamiento" Program.
* Financial Strengthening "Saneamiento" Program. In a number of CLPP cases, the
owners were unable to put the additional capital agreed to with the Mexican
authorities, which led to the intervention of their banks by FOBAPROA, with the aim
of restructuring them.  In most cases, the stockholders lost control and their
investments, and management was substituted. FOBAPROA granted the bank a line
of credit to be able to continue in operation. Stock in the bank or holding company
was transferred to FOBAPROA. The branches of some of the banks involved in this
program were offered for sale, staff was reduced, and the remaining assets liquidated.
In selling their branches, banks issued interest-bearing notes, guaranteed by
FOBAPROA, to the buying bank, to cover the liabilities of the branches sold. Twelve
banks entered this program, accounting for approximately 12% of the total assets of
the system as of December 1994. These are: Bancen, Banpais, Confia, Mexicano,
Anahuac, Atlantico, Bancrecer, Industrial, Inverlat, Promex, Pronorte, and Sureste.
* Banks intervened by the CNBV which are in the process of being liquidated. The
CNBV intervened several banks, including some in the "Saneamiento" program,
which ceased operating as banking institutions.  These are: Capital, Cremi,
Interestatal, Obrero, Oriente, Union, Anahuac and Pronorte.
12 There was significant discretionality in this arrangement.
9



C.    Evaluation of the Crisis Containment Program of 1995-1998
25.   The numerous programs implemented through FOBAPROA were successful in
preventing widespread contagion and a systemic crisis. However, given the absence of a
legal framework within which to allocate losses, the objective was often to minimize the
immediate monetary impact of the measures taken and the immediate fiscal cost of the
programs. Following is an assessment of the crisis containment strategy followed since
1995 and until recently, along several dimensions.
26.   Effectiveness in containing a systemic crisis. The support programs were
successful in avoiding widespread bank bankruptcies and deposit runs on banks, while
maintaining the course of the tough stabilization program. Although Mexico's 1994-
1995 peso crisis was one of the greatest economic upheavals experienced by the country,
and was accompanied by a deteriorating external financial environment, the Governnent
measures successfully prevented, albeit at great fiscal cost, the loss of trust of the
depositors in the banking system.
27.   Entry of major international banks in the Mexican market. With the relaxation,
in two steps, of foreign bank entry restrictions (through changes in the Law of Credit
Institutions), international banks increased their market share in total bank assets from
about 1.4% in 1994 to about 22% in 1999. This development helped to increase
competition and raise the level of banking skills in the country.
28.   Significant improvement of banking regulation and supervision. As described
earlier, there was a significant improvement in prudential regulations and accounting
practices. In addition, over the last few years, the CNBV has experienced a significant
institutional strengthening, which has been manifested in a broader and deeper pool of
skilled staff, an enhanced capacity to process and analyze informnation, the reorganization
of its operations, systematic training of its staff, and effective use of external consulting
services.  However, also as indicated above, banking regulation still exhibited
shortcomings in the areas of asset classification and provisioning, the definition of
regulatory capital, and accounting standards.
29.   Limited capitalization of banks. Although very limited liquidity was provided to
banks under the banking support programs, the programs led to the re-capitalization of
some banks, and to a large (but still insufficient) increase in loan loss provisions'3.
However, in most capitalization and portfolio purchase programs, the promissory notes
issued by FOBRAPOA were non-negotiable, to be redeemed in ten years, with interest
being capitalized periodically but payable at maturity. The illiquidity of the FOBAPROA
notes increasing the large share of non-performing assets in the banks' balance sheets has
led to negative operational cash-flows for some banks, which had to be covered by
borrowing short-term in the inter-bank market at relatively high interest rates.
13 The CNBV reports that as of June, 1997 banks had 4.6 times the level of provisions of December, 1994.
10



30.   Moral hazard. The successful containment of systemic contagion came at the
cost of increased moral hazard for bank debtors who were led to expect that the
government would absorb their debts.
31.   Institutional and legal shortcomings. The effectiveness of FOBAPROA's
programs was limited by the lack of clarity and clear mandate for FOBAPROA as an
asset disposition and deposit insurance agency. FOBAPROA's charter did not foresee its
participation in the case of a bank's liquidation or intervention and restructuring.
Without a clear legal framework for the resolution and liquidation of troubled banks,
there were significant delays in the effective operation of asset and bank resolution
mechanisms.
32.   The absence of a proper legal framework for the bank support programs made it
difficult to explicitly allocate the losses of the rescue programs and the absorption of the
losses by the government. This resulted in the postponement of bank recapitalizations.
This postponement, together with new debtors' support programs, and new banks that
were intervened or supported, led to the continuous increase of the cost of bank
restructuring resolution from 8.4% of GDP in mid-1997 to 19.3% of GDP in mid-1999.
A more enabling legal framework and a higher tax effort up-front could have reduced
significantly the fiscal cost of the crisis.
33.   Fiscal cost of the support programs. The support programs aimed at averting the
collapse of the banking system generated fiscal costs resulting from: (i) the direct
assistance given to banks and the purchase of non-performing loans by FOBAPROA; (ii)
the reduction or elimination of the debts of selected groups of bank borrowers (SMEs or
mortgage holders); and (iii) the guaranteeing of the liabilities of intervened banks, whose
resolution has been protracted and hence characterized by high loan losses, and high
funding costs.
34.   As of June 1999, the estimated net fiscal cost of the financial support programns
amounted to M$873.1 billion, equivalent to 19.3% of GDP, three times as large as
Mexico's total internal debt. Only a relatively small part of the total cost, M$140.9
billion had been already covered by fiscal transfers between 1995 and 199914
14 Budget allocations to cover the cost have been the following: M$15 billion in 1995, M$20 billion in
1996, M$28 billion in 1997, M$2 billion in 1998, and M$18 billion in 1999. The total amount of
M$140.9 billion is the present value of these transfers.
11



Estimated Net Fiscal Cost of the Bank Support Program
Figures as of June 1999
Program                                  Billion of M$     % of GDP
*  Debtors support                        174.3             3.8
*  Intervention and Saneamiento          579.0             12.8
Restructuring
*  Portfolio purchase                     101.8             2.2
*  Highway loans                         873.1             1903.
Total Fiscal Cost                                            .3%
Source: IPAB
GDP is estimated at M$4,530.8 billion
III. THE NEW GOVERNMENT STRATEGY FOR BANK RESTRUCTURING
RESOLUTION
35.  In December 1998, Congress approved new banking legislation creating the
IPAB. This law, approved after more than nine months of debate, has set in motion, to
some extent, an irreversible process, and put in place adequate mechanisms, to address
the pending issues that had prevented the full resolution of the problems of Mexico's
banking system. This enabling legislation allows the Government of Mexico to make
explicit the cost of the banking resolution and to reach a permanent solution to the
banking problems in a transparent way. The Government's strategy includes improving
market incentives, as well as allowing full participation of foreign investors in existing
Mexican banks, including the largest ones.
36.  IPAB has been created as a decentralized agency of the Federal Govermment with
its own legal status, governing body, and equity. IPAB's Board, approved by Congress
in May 1999, is composed of an Executive Secretary and representatives of the main
agencies involved in the financial area (the Minister of Finance, the Governor of the
BOM, and the President of the CNBV), and four independent members designated by the
executive and approved by the legislature"5. IPAB's objectives are to: (i) set the deposit
insurance fees, and phase out the present universal deposit insurance system; (ii) manage
the different bank support programs aimed at restoring the health of the financial system;
and (iii) assume the functions of a resolution agency for the recovery or sale of residual
assets inherited from FOBAPROA or left in IPAB's hands as a result of bank resolution
activities.
37.   The Government's  strategy  for banking  sector strengthening  and  the
restructuring/resolution of intervened banks includes a number of separate but
15 It should be noted that given the constraints imposed in the Law, BOM and CNBV are not at present
represented in IPAB's Board.
12



complementary components, namely: (i) a legal framework to improve incentives in the
financial sector; (ii) the CNBV's comprehensive program of regulatory reform; (iii)
IPAB's bank resolution and strengthening programs; (iv) IPAB's integrated approach for
the recovery/disposal of residual assets; and (v) the development of a policy and
operational framework for the management of IPAB's cash flow and liabilities. These
components are described in some detail below.
A.   Legal Framework to Improve Incentives in the Financial Sector
38.  Introduction of a Limited Deposit Insurance Coverage. The IPAB Law provides
for a gradual dismantling of the current, unlimited protection for all bank liabilities
(excepting subordinated debt) and its substitution with a limited deposit insurance
coverage, to be administered by IPAB. The coverage of the deposit insurance will
decrease in stages, according to a timetable announced on May 31, 1999. By the end of
January 2003, the guarantee will no longer cover inter-bank deposits, and by January 1,
2005 it will only cover deposit liabilities up to a limit of 400,000 UDIs (about
US$100,000) per depositor, still a significantly high level of coverage by regional
standards. The elimination of the government guarantee on inter-bank deposits will have
a major impact in the banking system, because the banks perceived as weak will be
rationed out of the interbank market on which many banks now depend. The elimination
of this guarantee will be a powerful incentive for banks to strengthen their solvency,
liquidity, and profitability conditions in the next two years, thus injecting an irreversible
momentum to the authorities' program of banking system restructuring and
recapitalization.
39.  Improvements in Contract Enforcement and Creditor Rights. The Government
is aware that to encourage bank capitalization and willingness to lend requires
strengthening the ability of the judicial system to enforce contracts between lenders and
borrowers. These are also preconditions for attracting much needed foreign investments
to the banking sector. In April 1999, the Government submitted to Congress a draft
Federal Credit Guarantee Law, prepared with assistance from the Bank, aimed at
strengthening creditor-debtor relations and, thus, foster financial intermediation.  If
approved, the law would, among other things, strengthen foreclosure procedures and
enhance the provision of credit through the creation of alternative collateral mechanisms.
In addition, the Government intends to modernize, with Bank assistance, the property and
commercial registries to further facilitate the pledging of collateral and the
implementation of the new Bankruptcy Law. Also with assistance from the Bank, the
Ministry of Finance is working on draft legislation concerning bankruptcy processes (Ley
de Concursos Mercantiles) submitted to Congress on November 22,1999. The new law
contemplates the creation of a specialized commission in charge of settling disputes
expeditiously between financial institutions and debtors when the latter files for
bankruptcy. Such commission would arbitrage creditor-debtor disagreements in an
administrative rather than judicial manner, thus saving valuable time compared to the
current cumbersome and protracted process.  Businesses considering filing for
bankruptcy would be given the technical support, along with the input of the creditors, for
13



alternative means of financial restructuring before choosing the last resort option of
bankruptcy.
B.    Regulatory Reforms to Improve Banks' Capitalization and Soundness
40.   In September 1999, the CNBV announced a plan to phase in, between 2001 and
2003, a program of regulatory refonrs to improve the health and stability of the banking
sector. The program seeks to: (i) improve the quality of bank capital by ensuring more
realistic valuations of assets and stricter, more conservative definitions of qualifying
capital; (ii) enhance transparency and disclosure; (iii) further harmonize Mexican
regulatory accounting standards with generally accepted accounting principles and
practices; and (iv) eliminate unjustified and discretionary forbearance. The program is
designed to coincide with the reduction in depositor protection that takes effect in 2003.
The next paragraphs summarize the recent regulatory reform (a more detailed description
of the regulatory reforrn is presented in Annex III).
41.   Capital rules. The changes introduced refer mainly to changes in the definition
of regulatory capital and the requirement to disclose the composition of the regulatory
capital. More specifically it entails the following:
3  The newly issued mandatory subordinated convertible debentures will no longer be
counted as Tier 1 capital. Instead, these instruments will be included in Tier 2,
consistent with the Basle Capital Accord. Most existing debentures will convert to
equity by the end of 2002. Non-cumulative capital securities will be limited up to
15% of Tier 1 capital. Cumulative capital securities will be included in Tier 2 capital
with no limit.
*  The amount of capital represented by deferred tax assets - which today represents
around one third of the systems' capital - will be reduced from a maximum of 80% up
to 20% of Tier 1 capital over the period 2000 through 2003, according to a pre-
announced calendar.
*  All equity investments in non-traded companies, as well as investments representing
more than 15% of the outstanding shares in quoted companies, will be deducted from
Tier I capital. Transitional rules call for the deduction to be phased-in beginning
2000 with full deductibility in 2003. Investments in financial subsidiaries are already
deducted. 6
*  Substitution of specific provisions for general provisions in Tier 2 capital. The
reform allows general provisions, up to 1.25 percent of risk-weighted assets, to be
16 This approach, while acceptable within the Basle framework, differs from the normal practice of
consolidating subsidiaries for the purpose of assessing the capital adequacy of banking groups.
14



counted as Tier 2 capital.  The definition of general provision refers to those
provisions to cover for losses not linked to a specific loan.
.  Improvements in the definition of risk-weighted assets.  The new capital rule
introduces guidelines to better define the items that have a capital requirement. It
provides guidelines to take into account the risk embedded in derivatives and
establishes that goodwill and other intangible assets are to be deduced from capital.
In addition, the value for accounting purposes of assets has to be the same as the
value given to them for capital requirements.
42.   Introduction of new asset classification and provisioning rules. New asset
classification and provisioning rules have been introduced for credit cards, with the new
provisioning requirements taking effect in December 1999. New rules will be issued in
the second quarter of 2000 for residential mortgage loans. New asset classification and
provisioning rules for commercial loans will be issued by the third quarter of 2000.
43.    Accounting and disclosure standards.
i Enhanced transparency and disclosure to the general public. New disclosure
requirements will apply starting January 2000. Among the changes, net regulatory
capital, the capital components, and risk-weighted assets will have to be disclosed.
Enhanced disclosure will be required for derivatives, related party transactions, line-
of-business segments, and troubled debt.
*Strengthened valuations offixed assets. A new regulation will be issued by the third
quarter of 2000 for the valuation of fixed assets. The regulation for the valuation of
foreclosed properties is likely to be issued in the year 2001.
Improved mark-to-market accounting for investments. Securities classified in the
trading account or as available for sale will be marked to market. Transfers from the
trading account or available for sale account to the held to maturity account require
CNBV's approval. Losses must be recognized at the time of transfer. Impairment of
securities due to credit risk will be recognized by a valuation reserve for securities
created through a charge off to the profit and loss account.
* Improvement of accounting principles. The accounting principles have been updated
to bring regulatory accounting practices more in line with generally accepted
accounting practices in areas regarding market valuation of investments and
derivatives. The updated norm is expected to take effect at the beginning of year
2000. Also, accounting standards applicable to asset securitization and asset transfer
have been established.
* Treatment of market risk in the banking book. Existing regulations captures the
market risk that exists in the entire book.  The capital regulation was also
15



strengthened to better define how instruments with embedded options and other
derivatives should be treated.
Consistency between the regulatory andfiscal treatment of provisions. By the end of
2000, the authorities plan to enhance the consistency between the regulatory and
fiscal treatment of provisions.
* Adoption of criteria to grant regulatory forbearance and requirement to disclose
instances of regulatory forbearance. Under the new regulation, forbearance could
only be granted to solvent banks, provided that either systemic issues or individual
restructuring plans are in place. In addition, forbearance has to be disclosed in the
financial statements. Current forbearance has to be ratified by CNBV, explained and
disclosed as well.
44.   The CNBV has taken a gradual approach in introducing the reforns to give the
banks time to meet the new capitalization rules. The CNBV divides the banks in three
groups, according to their needs for additional capital resulting from the new
capitalization rules. One group is composed of four local banks which will, in most
cases, require capital injections from their shareholders to meet the new capitalization
rules. Another group is formed by the banks under IPAB's programs which will be
recapitalized by IPAB before being sold. The rest of the banks are foreign owned or have
foreign participation and will not have difficulties in meeting the new capitalization rules.
Using a dynamic model, the CNBV has estimated the capital need of the first group of
four banks in order to meet a capitalization rate of no less than 10% in the year 2003.
The model uses three different scenarios of loan recovery rates and credit growth. The
results indicate that if these four banks start capitalizing during the first semester of 2000,
they would need additional capital in an amount between US$1.8 billion and US$2.8
billion, to reach a capital ratio of no less than 10% in 2003. Other analysts'7 using non-
dynamic models reach different estimates of additional capital requirements for the
banking system. They estimate that under full Basle-consistent capital rules, Mexican
banks would require additional capital of between US$9.0 billion and US$15.5 billion, in
order to reach a capital to risk asset ratio of 10%.
45.   Introduction of a scheme of Capital Securities to capitalize the banks. As
indicated, the new definition of regulatory capital will require a large capital increase in
the banking system. The Government expects that banks will be able to raise new capital
in the international and the local markets, but this process will not be easy. To facilitate
this, the authorities plan to allow new instruments to help the capitalization process, akin
}7 The estimates vary depending on the criteria used for the calculation of deferred taxes and asset
valuation. Salomon Brothers estimates a capital deficit of US$9.0 billion, Moody's recently
published report estimates a capital deficit of US$13.5 billion, while Standards and Poor's deficit
projections are as high as US$15.5 billion. The estimates are based on published financial statements
as of March 1999, which do not include data on Bancrecer and Inverlat.
16



to convertible debt instruments that could be well received by the market. The new
regulation will allow for the use of Capital Securities to capitalize the banks.
46.   The announced reforms represent an impressive improvement in the regulatory
framework for the operation of Mexican banks. In the longer run, however, certain
aspects of the reforms could be further strengthened. Capital adequacy should be
assessed against the consolidated accounts of banking groups, as well as the individual
entities making up the group. Also, the CNBV should implement a system of prompt
corrective action. That is, a program of mandatory actions triggered by deficiencies in
capital, as well as other early warning indicators. The CNBV has been working on the
possible implementation of this concept, which would require a change in the CNBV law.
C.   IPAB's Bank Recapitalization and Resolution Program
47.   One of the problems with FOPBAPROA was that the legal framework for it to
take over insolvent institutions was inadequate. The IPAB Law sets a clear framework
for bank resolution. It also sets limits to the time IPAB can provide liquidity support (12
months) to banks. In return for granting support to a bank, IPAB may impose conditions
and operational restrictions on it, including the change of directors and managers. The
Law also establishes that IPAB and the assisted bank will agree on a contract that will
induce the bank to pay more attention to the collection and management of the loans sold
to FOBAPROA and held in trust.
48.   By Law, IPAB had to assume FOBAPROA's liabilities and assets (except those
related to operations deemed "illegal" by the special audit commissioned by Congress)
and has to handle the restructuring or resolution operations for troubled banks under its
purview. At present, there are two groups of banks that create liabilities to IPAB. One
group of banks has to be restructured, sold or liquidated by IPAB; the other group
includes banks under private capitalization programs.
Banks under Resolution by IPAB
49.   Banks under the new Financial Strengthening "Saneamiento"Program  These
are banks that will have to be restructured and capitalized before selling or merging them
with stronger banks. This program includes five banks.
Large banks recently intervened. Two banks (Serfin and Bancrecer) have recently
been taken over by IPAB and are to be capitalized and sold or wound-down and
liquidated.
Serfin. On July 8, 1999 IPAB subscribed a majority stock share in Serfin, which
entailed the full write off of shareholders' wealth. Serfin has remained open to the
public and fully operational. The subscription of new stock by IPAB was done
through a capital contributions of M$21.2 billion between July and September 1999,
via a one-year IPAB note that pays capital and interest at maturity. IPAB gained
17



majority administrative and proprietary control of Serfin. An investment bank was
awarded a contract to analyze and make recommendations on the resolution
alternatives for Serfin. This advice led to IPAB's decision to choose the route of
recapitalization and sale of Serfin as a going concern, including its license, given,
among other things, Serfin's franchise value and the significant operational
restructuring and cost reduction it had achieved over the past year.  Another
investment bank has been awarded the contract to act as advisor for the sale of Serfin,
expected to take place around March 2000. The expectation is to have the data room
to open in December 1999, with the most up to date financial and due diligence
information. A full audit will take place as of 31 st December 1999 and the results of
this are expected to be available for the data room on February 2000. The total debt
already issued and to be issued in connection to restructuring/selling Serfin has been
estimated at about M$126.1 billion.
Bancrecer. On November 3rd 1999, IPAB subscribed stock in Bancrecer, after writing
off all shareholders equity. The subscription by IPAB of a capital contribution of
M$ 102.2 billion, was done through a short term facility provided by BOM. IPAB has
taken control of Bancrecer operations. An investment bank was awarded a contract
by IPAB to evaluate and analyze the resolution alternatives for Bancrecer. It has
recently completed a detailed analysis and recommended the option of financial
support and sale instead of liquidation. The investment bank has agreed with IPAB
on a nine month program to sell Bancrecer. The first step, involving the technical
analysis, has been completed. The second stage will involve the development of a
sale strategy which will take into account some of the expectations of anticipated
bidders and will be followed by a marketing campaign which should produce a result
in the first half on 2000.
Banks in the process of being absorbed by larger ones. Three banks in IPAB's
program (Atlntico, Promex, and Inverlat) will be merged with other banks.
Atldntico. In December 1997, Banco del Atlantico and a larger bank, Bital, signed a
Letter of Intent for the clean-up and subsequent absorption of the former by the latter.
The proposed clean up was based on the valuation work that had been previously
performed by an investment bank at the request of the then owners of Atlantico. In
January 1998, Bital assumed the administration of Atlantico by virtue of a Services
Contract, and has since then absorbed it into its financial, administrative, and
operational spheres. In March 1998, FOBABROA injected funds into Atlhntico via
notes that capitalize interest through maturity, and Atlantico's Board of Directors and
high-level management were changed. IPAB has initiated the evaluation and auditing
process of Atlantico with a view to either conclude the operation or formally
intervening it and adopt a least-cost resolution alternative.  The IPAB Law
contemplates the issuing of debt for up to M$27.8 billion to finish the sale of
Atlantico.
18



Promex. In May 1998, Grupo Financiero Promex-Finamex (Promex) and Grupo
Financiero Bancomer (Bancomer) signed a Letter of Intent for the clean-up and
subsequent absorption of the former by the latter. The proposed clean up was based
on the valuation work that had been previously performed by an investment bank and
it involved FOBAPROA's support commitment in terms of (i) covering the identified
deficiency in loan loss provisions and (ii) modifying the conditions of FOBAPROA's
purchases of Promex's bad loan portfolio. Also in May 1998, Bancomer assumed the
administration of Promex by virtue of a Management Contract. Bancomer has been
managing Promex as a separate entity, although it has been rationalizing its
operations. Under the Management Contract, Bancomer and Promex are committed
to maintaining a capital-to-risk-weighted-assets ratio of no less than 10%, defined in
line with Mexican standards. In September 1999, IPAB's Board approved a process
to either conclude the pending absorption of Promex and Bancomer or formally
intervene Promex and immediately adopt a least-cost resolution alternative. The plan
-which is already under implementation- includes an update of the original auditing
and valuation work. The IPAB Law contemplates the issuing of debt for up to
M$25.6 billion to finish the sale of Promex.
Inverlat. This bank was intervened by FOBAPROA in July 1996, recapitalized and a
10% stake was sold to Bank of Nova Scotia. Prior to that, FOBAPROA had granted a
loan to Inverlat, but this was insufficient to restructure the bank. When Bank of Nova
Scotia acquired its 10% holding it took over the management of Inverlat and also
subscribed for an amount in subordinated debt, which gave it the option to acquire a
further 45% of Inverlat prior to March 2000. A further amount will become payable
at that time if the capital of the bank, calculated under US GAAP, exceeds an agreed
limit. Under the terms of the deal with Bank of Nova Scotia, FOBAPROA (and now
IPAB) has a commitment to maintain a capital assets ratio of 9% up to December
1999, and 8% as of March 31, 2000, and make up for Inverlat losses. The debt issues
for the restructuring/selling of Inverlat has been estimated at about M$12.9 billion.
50.  Intervened banks in the final stages of resolution/liquidation. These banks
belong to two groups:
* Intervened banks that will be closed: Capital, Cremi, Interestatal, Obrero, Oriente,
Union, Pronorte and Anahuac. These banks do not maintain operations with the
public anymore, except in the interbank market where they remain active due to lack
of funds, which must be covered by IPAB to close them down definitively. Most of
the funding in the interbank market is done through two of these banks: Cremi and
Banco Uni6n. As of March 2000, only Cremi will operate in the interbank market on
behalf of the mentioned group of banks. Due to the removal of the guarantee on
interbank liabilities, there is pressure for the liquidation of these banks to be
completed by 2002.
19



* Intervened banks to be sold. Two other small intervened banks, Industrial and
Sureste, have some remaining franchise value and may be sold instead of liquidated.
Banks under private capitalization programs
51.   IPAB's program includes a number of banks that received FOBAPROA notes
under two programs:
*  Banks in the Capitalization and Loan Purchase Program, which includes Banamex,
Bancomer, Banorte, BBV, and Bital. These banks are still managed by their original
owners. For these cases, IPAB plans to condition the exchange of old FOBAPROA
notes with IPAB notes with identical terms, to the subscription, by each bank, of a
"Financial Consolidation Plan". These plans would include undertakings by each
individual bank and timetables for the capital increases needed to meet the recently
announced, more rigorous, capital requirements. The exchange of notes is to take
place in November 1999, in line with the IPAB Law.
* Banks under the old Financial Strengthening "Saneamiento" Program. These banks
are: Banpais, Bancen, Santander-Mexicano, and Confia.
D.   IPAB's Integrated Program for Residual Asset Disposal
52.  IPAB has submitted to the Bank its "Asset Disposal Program for 1999 and 2000".
This program focuses on the sale/recovery of credits and other assets amenable to be
treated in large packages. IPAB has a separate plan for the sale/recovery of collateralized
claims on large individual debtors, which call for different methods, based on workouts
and/or the sale of large single asset (e.g., hotel chains, airline shares, etc.).
53.  IPAB's strategy for the disposal of assets in large packages involves initially their
inventorying and valuation with the help of international auditing firms; and then their
appropriate packaging and sale, assisted by international investment banks, via auctions
and other competitive bidding processes, preferably to specialized asset disposal
companies. IPAB has grouped the assets to be sold according to the banks they came
from and to the type of credit. For example, commercial credits and mortgage credits are
to be sold in separate packages, even if they come from the same bank. IPAB has already
awarded a contract to a firm to administer the sale of Serfin's assets and is in the process
of selecting a firm to administer the sale of the assets of Banco Uni6n. The contracts with
the dealers have different characteristics. The most common modality is the one followed
by the RTC in the US, in which the dealer pays 50% of the floor price and the dealer and
IPAB share equally on the recovery.
20



E.    IPAB Finances: Cash Flow and Liability Management
54.   Magnitude and structure of IPAB's debt. The total liabilities of IPAB are
estimated at M$732.4 billion (about US$75.5 billion, or 16% of GDP) at end-December
1999 (see table). Most of this debt is inherited from FOBAPROA. IPAB's total debt can
be classified in the following 5 categories.
* Notes issued by FOBAPROA in connection with the Capitalization and Loan
Purchase Program, amounting to M$156.6 billion"8. These notes have a 10 year bullet
maturity. As they were issued during 1995-97, their maturities are concentrated in
2005-2007. They capitalize interest at an average rate of CETES minus 0.2 through
maturity. Hence, currently this category of IPAB liabilities do not represent a cash
flow burden.
* Notes issued in connection with the old "saneamiento" programs, amounting to
M$213.5 billion. With the exception of M$21 billion issued recently by IPAB for a
first phase recapitalization of Serfin, the rest of these notes were issued by
FOBAPROA. Notes issued by FOBAPROA in this category represent a current
burden on IPAB's cash flow as they pay interest periodically at an average of TIIE
plus I and amortize on a regular basis within a remaining maturity of about 5 years.
The Serfin recapitalization notes have a 1-year bullet and capitalize interest quarterly
through maturity.
* Notes yet to be issued by IPAB in order to complete the resolution (recapitalization
and sale or wind-down and liquidation) of a number of banks under IPAB's purview.
The authorities estimate that, in this connection, IPAB will need to issue new notes
for about M$196.8 billion, more than half of which would be linked to the resolution
of Bancrecer, which was intervened by IPAB in November 1999. The 5 most
important bank resolution cases to be supported by new issues of IPAB notes (Serfin,
Bancrecer, Promex, Atlantico, and Inverlat) constitute transactions that could be
eligible for disbursements under the proposed operation (see below). The maturity,
amortization profile, and interest rate conditions for the new notes are to be
determined, possibly case by case, with a view to achieving successful bank
resolutions.
. Notes issued by FOBAPROA in connection with the sale of bank branches,
amounting to M$24.3 billion. These also pose a current burden on IPAB's cash flow,
as they pay interest quarterly at TIIE plus a margin and amortize regularly.
18 This amount only includes the notes issued to banks currently under private management (Banamex,
Bancomer, Banorte, BBV, and Bital). The notes associated with the capitalization and loan purchase
programs that are in the books of banks under IPAB's control are classified under the saneamiento
program.
21



* Interbank liabilities of banks that were intervened by the CNBV in previous years,
most of which are in an advanced stage towards liquidation. The liquidation of these
banks will require that IPAB formally assume these interbank liabilities, which
amount to an estimated M$139.6 (including M$8.6 of contingent liabilities). Most of
the banks in this category no longer maintain operations with the public, as their
assets and deposits have been already wound down, mainly via the sale of their
branches. These liabilities are very short-term in nature, with interest accruing at a
rate of TIIE plus a margin. Since this category of debt is constantly being refinanced,
it does not currently pose a burden on IPAB's cash flow. However, it is the segment
of IPAB's debt that is growing at the fastest rate.
Structure of IPAB Liabilities
(In MX$ billions; estimated stocks as of December 1999)
Type of liability               Amount   Comments
Notes for capitalization and     156.6      Maturity: 10-years bullet. Interest rate: average of
loan purchase programn                      Cetes-0.2 1; capitalizes quarterly but payable in full at
maturity.
Notes for "Saneamientos"        410.3
Already issued       213.5       For about halfof this debt: Maturity: 5 years with
periodic amortization. Interest rate: varies among
cases; average of TIIE+1, payable quarterly. For the
remainder: Maturity: Most 10 byyears bullet, rest 1-
year bullet. Interest rate: CETES, capitalizes
quarterly but payable in full at maturity.
Pending               196.8       Maturity, amortization profile, and interest rate
conditions to be determined.
Notes for branch sales            24.3      Varying among cases. Average remaining maturity at
5 years with periodic amortizations. Average interest
rate at TIIE, payable periodically.
Guaranteed interbank            139.6       Very short-term maturities, continuously refinanced.
liabilities'                                Interest rate: TIIE + spread.
Total                           732.4
Source: IPAB
'Includes MX$8.6 billions of contingent liabilities.
55.   IPAB's bank resolution program  and cash flow constraints. The viability of
IPAB's program of bank resolution is interdependent with the management of IPAB's
cash flow over time. On the one hand, a sound process of resolution of banks under
IPAB 's purview will call for the issuance of "performing" notes, i.e., notes that would not
only have to accrue interest at a market rate, but that would also have to provide a
22



minimum of liquidity, by paying at least the real component of interest in cash on a
periodic basis, and by being tradable in the market or, if designed to be held to maturity,
by amortizing periodically. Similarly, the strengthening of banks currently under private
management (and hence not under IPAB's purview), whose balance sheets contain a
significant amount of old FOBAPROA notes, will likely require a gradual substitution of
those old notes with new, more liquid, IPAB notes. The need for IPAB notes with market
conditions and minimal liquidity, however, would immediately burden IPAB's cash flow.
56.   On the other hand, given the large size of IPAB's liabilities, the cash flow impact
of the issuance of more liquid notes, both to replace the illiquid old ones and to complete
the resolution processes, can only be absorbed gradually, in line with the constraints that
IPAB faces in terms of its income, legal considerations regarding the limit and capacity to
refinance its debt, the need to prevent an explosive path for IPAB's debt, and the capacity
to manage an orderly placement of large amounts of new notes in the market. These
constraints are briefly discussed in the following paragraphs.
57.  IPAB's sources of cash income
*  Deposit insurance premia. The Law establishes an annual minimum premium of
4/1000 pesos (ordinary quota) and 3/1000 pesos (extraordinary quota), per year on
total bank liabilities (excluding interbank liabilities). This would generate about
M$6.0 billion for 2000, a figure that would grow in the future as a function of
possible changes in the premium and changes in the deposit base. The Law allows
IPAB to use up to 75% of these funds for its bank resolution program; the rest has to
be accumulated into the deposit insurance fund.
* Asset sale/recovery. Mainly as a result of various FOBAPROA programs (e.g., loan
purchases and "saneamientos") and bank resolutions (e.g., assets left in the "bad"
bank), IPAB has a large stock of assets, whose recovery value, in present value terms,
is conservatively estimated at about M$200 billion as of mid-1999. The Law
establishes that by May 2004 IPAB should have disposed of all of the assets inherited
from FOBAPROA. IPAB's program of asset disposal is estimated to generate at least
M$20 billion per year.
*  Transfers from the Federal Government. These have to be determined each year in
the budget approved by Congress. For 1999, Congress approved M$18.0 billion in
transfers to IPAB. For 2000, the Governnent is sending to Congress a budget that
includes transfers to IPAB for some M$35 billion (or 0.8% of GDP). The
Government's intention for the future is to transfer a yearly arnount at least equal to
pay the real component of interest on the total IPAB debt, net of the expected income
to IPAB from expected deposit insurance premia and asset sales. Moreover, to
facilitate a speedier bank restructuring process, the Government would endeavor to
raise the annual transfers above this minimum, by keeping them constant at 0.8% of
23



GDP per year, assumption incorporated into the illustrative projections in Annex II,
Table 2.
58.   IPABs cash outylows would be dominated by debt servicing, whose profile will
likely change as a function of the terms and conditions of the new notes that IPAB will be
issuing, both to replace old notes and to complete bank recapitalization/resolution
processes in addition to the overall interest rate trends in Mexico. Table 2 in Annex II,
assumes that the debt servicing profile of old notes remains unchanged, but that new
notes issued to complete bank recapitalizations and resolutions pay market interest
periodically. Under these assumptions, the amortization profile would be very lumpy,
with major bunching taking place in 2002 (the year after which interbank liabilities will
no longer have IPAB's guarantee) and in 2005-2007 (when the FOBAPROA notes issued
in connection with the Capitalization and Loan Purchase Program mature). As outflows
would vastly exceed inflows, IPAB will have skillfully to manage its debt in order to
smooth out the amortization profile of its liabilities and to adequately meet its debt
refinancing needs.
59.   Stabilization of IPAB's debt to GDP ratio. The authorities are conscious that
continuous refinancing of all debt servicing (interest and principal falling due) would lead
to an explosive growth in IPAB's debt to GDP ratio. Hence, the commitment of the
Federal Government to request to Congress to approve annual fiscal transfers to cover at
least the real component of the interest on IPAB's debt, as explained earlier. This,
combined with a positive real growth of GDP, would ensure that IPAB's debt would fall
gradually as a percentage of GDP, as illustrated in Table 2 in Annex II.
60.    IPAB's liability management.  Even if fiscal transfers are set to avoid an
explosive path for the ratio of IPAB's debt to GDP, the viability of IPAB's cash flow will
require substantial refinancing of the amortizations falling due and of part of the
inflationary component of interest payments. This implies a need for IPAB to implement
a skillful debt management program. One obstacle in this regard is the ambiguity in the
Law regarding IPAB's capacity to refinance its debt. The Law establishes that, with the
exception of debt issued to deal with emergency situations and to resolve cases
specifically mentioned in the Law, IPAB can issue new debt over three-year periods in an
amount not to exceed the equivalent to 6% of bank deposits (about M$70 billion).
According to IPAB's lawyers, it is not clear whether new debt issues aimed solely at
refinancing principal count against this ceiling or not. To gain clarification of this issue,
the Executive has included in the Federal Budget, presented to Congress in mid-
November 1999, a debt ceiling for IPAB that would allow it to refinance its debt in the
market. They expect a favorable outcome, given that the Law already requires the
Congress to provide IPAB with adequate resources to fulfill its functions and meet its
obligations. If adequate resources are not supplied via fiscal transfers, then they can only
be supplied by authorizing IPAB to refinance its debt subject to an appropriate debt
ceiling.
24



61.   IPAB's debt management strategy. Technical staff from the Ministry of Finance
and IPAB are cooperating towards the formulation of a policy and operational framework
for the management of IPAB's debt refinancing needs, the implementation of which
could begin in the second quarter of 2000. While still in its early stages of formulation,
the Authorities have identified certain guiding principles and priorities. IPAB will have
to gradually establish itself as a regular issuer of debt securities in the market, with a view
to raising funds at the same or similar cost faced by the Federal Government."9 This
would require close coordination with the management of the Federal Government's debt,
to avoid market saturation and unnecessary competition in the same market segments. As
the Federal Government is already a well established and highly regarded issuer in the
market, the authorities are contemplating a shift in Government debt toward placements
in relatively more difficult segments, e.g., longer-term maturities, inflation-indexed, fixed
interest rates, etc. Such a shift would make room for IPAB to enter the less difficult
segments of the market -floating interest rates, shorter-term maturities, etc.-thus
facilitating its establishment as a high-quality issuer.
62.   As regards to priorities, the authorities consider that IPAB's debt management
strategy should first aim at refinancing the most onerous debt, namely, the old notes
issued in connection with the old Financial Strengthening "Saneamiento" Program. A
second priority would be to refinance the interbank liabilities (guaranteed by IPAB), and
the liabilities from the sale of branches of intervened banks, because these debts are
growing at the fastest rate. A third priority would be to replace the old notes issued in
connection with the Capitalization and Loan Purchase Program with new, more liquid
notes.
IV. BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY IN THE BANKING SECTOR
A.   Bank Assistance Strategy in Banking Reform
63.   Rationale for Bank Involvement and Strategy.  The Bank has long been
concerned about the weakness of Mexico's banking system and the effect that lack of
credit could have in stalling economic growth. These points are highlighted in the CAS
discussed by the Board in June 8, 1999. The CAS indicates that one of Mexico's
development challenges is to achieve sustainable growth and maintain macroeconomic
stability in the framework of globalization, which requires significant improvement in
the efficiency and transparency of the financial sector. The CAS indicates that there is a
critical role for the Bank in continued support for reform in the legal, regulatory and
institutional framework that will shape post-FOBAPROA banking activity, and more
generally financial intermediation.
19 From the purely formalistic (legal) point of view, IPAB's debt is not Government debt. But IPAB is a
public entity created by Congress and hence, for all practical purposes, IPAB's obligations are likely
to be perceived a public debt by the markets.
25



64.   The Bank's Strategy for Banking Reform in Mexico. Following the approach
sketched in the CAS, the Bank has been providing both formal and informal advise to
policymakers to address issues pertaining to secured transactions and bankruptcy. The
CAS also points out that the Bank will be ready to provide an operation focused on the
modernization of the -financial sector's legal and regulatory framework, to assist in bank-
by bank resolution, possibly in the form of a "bank capitalization trust fund" and provide
direct support in absorbing the incremental fiscal cost of financing the banking sector
restructuring, if an adequate incentive framework is simultaneously put in place. The
proposed operation described in Section V of this report is consistent with these CAS
goals and strategy.
65.   Justification for Adjustment Lending. The proposed adjustment operation would
support the initial stage of the resolution/recapitalization of banks under IPAB's control.
Under the proposed loan, the Government is committed to making a minimum fiscal
transfer per year equivalent to the real component of interest payments on the total debt
of IPAB, net of IPAB's projected income from deposit insurance fees and asset sales (see
above). These transfers are consistent with Mexico's IMF-supported program, which is
designed to accommodate up to the equivalent of 1% of GDP in fiscal transfers to IPAB
for the bank recapitalization/resolution program. Disbursements under the proposed
operation would help IPAB manage its cash flow needs and would be additional to the
fiscal transfers from the Federal Government to IPAB. Thus, the proposed operation
would reduce, albeit marginally, IPAB's need to raise funds in the domestic markets to
service the nominal component of interest payments, hence making a marginal
contribution to avoiding unnecessary crowding out the private sector. The first
disbursement under the proposed operation would directly help to meet the Government
and balance of payments financing needs identified under the agreement with the IMF.
B.    Bank Experience with Policy Based Lending in Mexico
66.   The most relevant experience for any new adjustment operation for Mexico's
financial sector comes from the Financial Sector Restructuring Loan (FSRL), approved
on June 22, 1995. The objectives of the program supported by the FSRL were to: (i)
restore the solvency and soundness of Mexico's banking system, restructure banks and
improve confidence in the financial sector; (ii) reform accounting standards and
prudential regulation for banks, and strengthen supervision to prevent future recurrence of
systemic problems; (iii) improve discipline in the provision of liquidity by the BOM; and
(iv) initiate reforms in development banking lending, accounting practices and regulation
of financial groups, and the deposit insurance system. According to the ICR issued on
May 26, 1998, the outcome of the FSRL was unsatisfactory since a number of the
operation's major objectives were only partially achieved, and progress towards
accomplishing the long-term goals of the program supported by the loan had been too
slow. The main lessons from this experience applicable to new operations in the banking
sector are the following:
26



*  Set limited objectives. Over ambitious objectives, such as the restoration of the
solvency and soundness of the banking system is a long-term goal that goes beyond a
single operation. It is more realistic to support a program of reforms with a
programmatic sector loan, involving a number of sequential operations that can be
approved based on the success of the previous ones;
* Ensure access to good banking information. The condition of the Mexican banks was
much worse than what the information available to the Bank during preparation of the
FSRL indicated. Since banking information may be highly confidential, the Bank
may have to give assurances to the authorities about the confidential handling of this
information;
* Restrict disbursements to specific transactions. Although one of the main objectives
of the FSRL was to support restoring the solvency of the banks, disbursements were
triggered by policy measures and actions that, ex-post, proved insufficient to achieve
this objective. Future banking operations should disburse against the resolution of
specific bank cases; and
* Ensure that the main implementing agency is the main recipient of the Bank
resources. In many adjustment loan, including the FSRL, Bank funds are not
disbursed to the main agency in charge of implementing the policy reforms. This
reduces the incentives of these agencies to work in close collaboration with the Bank.
67.   The design of the proposed sector operation described in Section V takes into
account the lessons learned from the FSRL and other financial sector operations in the
Bank, particularly two transaction-based adjustment operations in Argentina:  The
Argentina Provincial Bank Privatization Loan and the Argentina Bank Reform Loan.
These two loans supported serious restructuring of some of the weakest banks in
Argentina, involving nearly a quarter of the banking. system prior to the 1995
international banking crisis. Some of the lessons learned20 from these loans, which are
relevant to the proposed operation, are the following:
* Structural/ownership change in banking requires resources to re-structure past losses.
These financial resources facilitate acceleration of structural changes that would
otherwise not occur, or occur at a more modest speed.
* Even when sufficient financial resources are available, there will be selection bias in
the roster of potential acquirers. Troubled banks tend not to attract prime-rated
buyers. It is unclear whether program design features alone (such as more incentives)
can overcome that bias. Neither loan analyzed here completely resolved this problem.
* Funds were disbursed only after the careful review of the individual transactions.
* Some of the banks created through these transactions may require additional
restructuring as market conditions change. Some failures need to be anticipated.
20 The Joint Implementation Completion Report of these two loans was issued June 30, 1999. For the
Provincial Bank Privatizations, US$1.3 billion were disbursed to achieve ownership changes at 16
banks with total assets of about US$6.0 billion. The Bank Reform Loan helped nineteen bank
consolidation processes involving private sector banks.
27



* A strong borrower commitment is indispensable in such complicated, time-intensive
transactions.
C.   Coordination with Multilateral Institutions
68.   The Bank is working in close collaboration with both the IMF and the IDB, in
order to ensure a coordinated approach to support Mexico's efforts to restructure its
banking sector. The Stand-by Arrangement with Mexico approved by the Fund Board in
June 1999 (for an amount equivalent to SDR 3,103 million) supports also the
Govermment's program of bank restructuring. The Fund gives particular importance to
the progress in implementing the IPAB Law, including the steps being taken to
restructure banks under distress; and on measures aimed at improving the capitalization
of Mexican banks, including the issuance of new loan classification and provisioning
rules. The IMF strongly welcomes the Bank's involvement in assisting the Mexican
authorities to restructure its banking sector. At the request of the Mexican authorities, the
Bank and the IDB are working in close collaboration, with the IDB considering a co-
financing operation to the Bank operation being proposed here.
V.   THE PROPOSED LOAN
A.   Loan Objectives and Description
69.   The Mexican authorities have requested Bank support for its bank restructuring
program described above. The Bank loan would help finance part of IPAB's debt-
servicing needs arising from the sale, merger or liquidation of five banks under it bank
restructuring/resolution program. The resolution transactions of the five banks would
involve the issuing of new IPAB notes for about US$29.4 billion equivalent. The Bank
funds would complement other sources of financing available to IPAB, including: fiscal
transfers, proceeds from asset disposal/recovery; and fees from deposit insurance premia.
The Borrower would be NAFIN, with a Guarantee from the Federal Government. The
implementation of the bank restructuring/resolution program would be carried out by
IPAB, with the support of the CNBV and the Secretaria de Hacienda y Cr6dito Puiblico
(SHCP).
70.   The proposed US$500.0 million loan would be the first of a series of adjustment
loans in support of Mexico's bank restructuring program. It is expected that one or two
follow up adjustment loans will be presented to the Board in years 2001 and 2002, to
support the resolution of the rest of the banks under IPAB's programn.
71.   The loan would be disbursed in three tranches. A first tranche of US$200 million
would be disbursed upon loan signing in support of up front reform measures already
taken by the Mexican authorites. Two floating tranches of US$150 million each would
be disbursed against agreed tranche conditions. It is expected that the first tranche will be
28



disbursed at the end of December 1999 and that the other two tranches will be disbursed
within the 2000 calendar year.
B.   Bank Resolution Transactions to be Supported by the Loan
72.   The bank resolution transactions supported by this operation would involve the
restructuring, sale, merger or liquidation of five banks under IPAB's new Financial
Strengthening "Saneamiento" Program: Serfin, Bancrecer, Inverlat, Promex, and
Atlantico. The process of evaluation of the capitalization/resolution strategy for Serfin
and Bancrecer is being conducted by international investment banks. The resolution of
both banks could be finalized by the end of the first half of 2000. The resolution of
Inverlat could be the next in line, due to very clear arrangements between IPAB and the
Bank of Nova Scotia, which currently has a call option on the bank due in March 2000.
The resolution of Atlantico and Promex will take longer, but IPAB expects to complete
this process by mid-2000. The resolution of these banks would require IPAB to issue
new debt for M$196.78 billion and to replace part of the old FOBAPROA notes held by
one of these banks for about M$101.2 billion.
WB
"Fical
BANK
$ =F(qaliy o  bak fanscti~sandIPATrash          sflo eeds)
RESTRUCTURING                    -Irls
FACILITY                 ._
_, 'N
.~~I                  L
-  (qult,o dbak bmsctns:an IPA"s cash flow needs



Eligibility Criteria for IPAB's Bank Resolution Transactions
73.   The IPAB's Law  establishes strict audit and evaluation procedures by
international auditing firms and investment banks prior to completion of any bank
resolution transaction. The Law also ensures oversight by Congress, the SHCP and the
CNBV over IPAB's bank restructuring transactions. The Bank and the authorities have
reached an agreement on the minimum criteria for considering each of the five bank
transactions as eligible under the proposed loan. The criteria are described in more detail
in the Implementation Letter, which is not attached to this documentation for
confidentiality reasons. The agreed criteria refer to the following:
*  that the decision of whether to restructure/sale, merge or to liquidate a bank has been
made on the basis of the least cost solution, honoring the commitnents previously
agreed upon, in the case of proposed mergers;
* that adjustments have been made to the balance sheets of the banks in line with the
results of audit reports;
* that new "performing" notes have been issued by IPAB;
* that the bank has been determined to be viable by the CNBV: the existing bank in
case of sales, or the new bank, in case of mergers;
* if the transaction is the sale of a bank, that it should follow best international practices
and the prospective buyer should have been pre-qualified by IPAB with the opinion
of the CNBV; and
* if the transaction is a merger, that it should not weaken the absorbing bank's financial
position and the resulting bank should be viable.
74.   Monitoring of the bank resolution transaction's compliance with Eligibility
Criteria under this Loan. The Government has established a working group with
representatives from IPAB, the CNBV and the SHCP to work with the Bank to ensure
that IPAB's bank resolution transactions comply with agreed eligibility criteria, and on
CNBV's supervision of satisfactory implementation of the agreed bank resolution
transactions.
Subsequent Bank Restructuring Facility Loans
75.   A second and a third Bank Restructuring Facility Loan could be required to
support the resolution transactions of banks in the other three categories of IPAB's
program: (i) banks in the Capitalization and Loan Portfolio Purchase Program
(Banamex, Bancomer, Banorte, BBV, and Bital); (ii) intervened banks that will be closed
(Capital, Cremi, Interestatal, Obrero, Oriente, Union, Anahuac and Pronorte); and (iii)
intervened banks in the process of being sold (Industrial and Sureste).
30



C.   Commitments under the Proposed Loan
76.   Letter of Sector Development Policy. During negotiations, the authorities
submitted a draft Letter of Sector Development Policy describing the strategy that the
Government is following for the resolution of the problem banks under the IPAB
program, both in the short and the long term (the Letter of Sector Development Policy is
presented as Annex IV). The Letter indicates the commitment of the Government to:
ensure the stabilization of IPAB's debt in real terms. To this effect, the Revenues
Law of the Federation for the year 2000 (Budget Law)2", includes an allocation of
funds for IPAB of about 0.8% of GDP, and a debt ceiling that would allow IPAB to
refinance its debt in the market. The Letter also indicates the expectation that similar
transfers will be explicitly reflected in the annual budgets of subsequent years;
* implement the agreed eligibility criteria for bank resolution transactions under this
operation; and
* carry out its Program of Regulatory Reform in a consistent basis, in accordance with
its terms.
First Tranche Actions
77.   A first tranche of US$200 million would be disbursed upon loan effectiveness, in
support of up front measures already taken by the Mexican authorities in the following
areas:
* Legal reforms to improve incentives in the banking sector. These include: (i)
approval in December 1998 of the IPAB Law establishing a gradual phase-out of the
universal deposit insurance scheme, replacing it with one mandating limited
coverage; (ii) the presentation to Congress in April 1999 of the Secured Transactions
Law; and preparation for presentation of the Bankruptcy Law; and the and (iii) the
adoption of a final debtor relief programs ("Punto Final").
* Regulatory reforsn to imnprove Banks' capitalization and soundness. In September
1999, the SHCP/CNBV announced a series of regulatory reforms including: the
change in the definition of bank capital; change in the loan classification norns
according to risk; the phasing out of deferred taxes forn the banks' capital account;
the tightening of provisioning rules; changes in accounting standards (in the direction
of USGAAP) and higher provisioning rules (see Annex ILL).
21 The 2000 budget was presented to Congress in mid-November, 1999, and is expected to be approved
sometime in December 1999.
31



* IPAB's bank capitalization and resolution program IPAB has already taken the
following actions concerning the resolution of the banks under its purview:
(i) in October 1999 IPAB took control of Serfin, wrote-off its shareholders'
equity, capitalized the bank, and started the capitalization/sale process
(ii) in November 1999, IPAB took control of Bancrecer, wrote-off its
shareholders' equity and started the capitalization, restructuring/sale process.
* IPAB's programfor the disposition of bank assets. IPAB has started implementation
of its Asset Disposal Program (described in Annex V), which establishes a timetable
for outsourcing the sale of the mountain of loans purchased from banks to specialized
asset management companies, in compliance with the timetable set in IPAB's law (5
years for banks under operation and 3 years for banks under liquidation). In October
1999, IPAB auctioned the administration of the mortgage, industrial and commercial
loans of Serfin.
Second Tranche Actions
78.   A floating tranche of US$150 million would be disbursed upon:
*  Evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that IPAB has issued Eligible notes22. for an
aggregate amount of at least US$5.0 billion equivalent in support of Eligible Bank
Resolution Transactions23.
*  Evidence that the Regulatory Reform Program has been implemented on a consistent
basis, in accordance with its terms;
=  Evidence that IPAB's Asset Disposal Program has been implemented on a consistent
basis, in accordance with its terms (as agreed in the Implementation Letter); and
*  Evidence that the Budgetary Transfers to IPAB have been made in a timely fashion so
as to allow IPAB to discharge its responsibilities under the Program (as agreed in the
Implementation Letter).
22 Eligible notes means notes (instrumentos de credito) issued by IPAB for partial financing of an eligible
bank resolution transaction. These notes must pay in cash at least the real component of the interest
rate.
23 Eligible bank resolution transactions means the sale, merger or liquidation of any of the following
banking institutions: Serfin,. Bancrecer, Promex, Atlantico and Inverlat, carried out in accordance
with the eligibility criteria described in Attachments B1, B2, B3, B4 and B5 of the Implementation
Letter
32



Third Tranche Actions
79.   A floating tranche of US$150 million would be disbursed upon:
* Evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that IPAB has issued Eligible Notes for an
aggregate amount of at least US$8.0 billion equivalent (potentially including excess
notes from previous bank transactions) in support of Eligible Bank Resolution
Transactions.
* Evidence that the Regulatory Reform Programn has been implemented on a consistent
basis, in accordance with its terms (as agreed in the Implementation Letter);
* Evidence that IPAB's Asset Disposal Program has been implemented on a consistent
basis, in accordance with its terms (as agreed in the Implementation Letter);
* Evidence that the Budgetary Transfers to IPAB have been made in a timely fashion so
as to allow IPAB to discharge its responsibilities under the Program; and
* Issuance of new regulation by SHCP/CNBV for loan classification and loan-loss
provision for either mortgage loans or for commercial loans.
D.   Disbursements, Records and Auditing
80.   Loan disbursement would be made under simplified FSAL disbursement
procedures. The Borrower would be required to open and maintain a Deposit Account in
dollars in BOM. As funds are released, the Borrower will submit a simplified withdrawal
application against which the Bank will disburse the loan proceeds into the Deposit
Account for the Borrower's use. The Borrower, acting as an authorized financial agent of
the Guarantor, will lend the counterpart funds equivalent to the respective amounts of
each disbursement to IPAB, with Government Guarantee. If after deposited in the
Deposit Account, the proceeds of the loan are used for ineligible purposes, the Bank will
require the Borrower to either: (a) deposit into de Deposit Account an amount equal to
the amount of said payment, or (b) if the Bank shall so request, refund such amount to the
Bank, in which case, the Bank would credit the amount refunded to the Loan Account for
cancellation.
81.   Upon the Bank's request, the Deposit Account shall be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. Copies of the Deposit Account audits will be submitted
to the Bank no later than four months after the date of the Bank's request for such audits.
Receipt of a satisfactory audit report of a prior tranche would be a condition of
subsequent tranche releases.
82.   Prior to second and third tranche release, the Guarantor will submit to the Bank a
progress report on the implementation of the Regulatory Reform Program. Before third
33



tranche disbursement, the Guarantor will provide evidence that either the new
classification and loan loss provision rules for mortgage loans or the classification and
loan loss provision for commercial loans has been issued. Before second and third
tranche disbursement IPAB will notify the Bank on the compliance of each bank
transaction with the agreed eligibility criteria", and on its progress in implementing its
Asset Disposal Program. Also before second and third tranche disbursement, the SHCP
will present to the Bank copy of its letter to IPAB informing it of the date, modality and
amount of the budgetary transfers. This letter should show that prior to second tranche
disbursement, the SHCP has transferred to IPAB at least half of the approved budgetary
allocation, and that prior to the third tranche disbursement it has transferred to IPAB at
least 80% of the approved budgetary allocation. The Guarantor will inform the Bank of
any proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which would reverse
the objectives of the bank restructuring programn.
E.    Impact, Benefits and Risks
83.   Social Impact. The proposed loan would have little social impact in the short-
run. In the longer run, however, the measures supported by this operation would have
important social implications as they would stimulate the resumption of prudent lending
to the private sector, with the associated benefits in terms of output growth and
employment generation. The ultimate objective of the bank restructuring/resolution
process supported by the proposed operation is a better functioning banking sector, able
to withstand external shocks and better able to lend to the private sector, opening access
to groups and enterprises today largely excluded from bank financing (micro, rural and
SME financing). Greater access to credit by small and medium enterprises would create
more job opportunities, an important objective in a country with a high level of disguised
unemployment. A banking system less vulnerable to crises will be better able to sustain
growth and, therefore, avoid poverty.
84.   Environmental Impact. The bank restructuring program to be supported by the
proposed loan are not expected to have any environmental impact. The loan is ranked C
for enviromnental purposes.
85.   Benefits. An important weakness that threatens the sustainability of Mexico's
economic recovery is the collapse of private sector credit in real terms since the 1994-95
crisis. The proposed loan would contribute to ensure banking soundness by the time the
full deposit insurance guarantee is phased out, particularly in 2003 (when interbank loans
would be excluded) and 2005 (when the maximum amount of individual insured deposits
is reduced to 400,000 UDIs, or about US$100,000 equivalent). Strong and well
capitalized banks would be in better position to resume prudent lending to the private
24 IPAB will provide: (i) copy of the Specific Agreement of IPAB's Board (Junta de Gobiemo); (ii)
contract signed for the completion of the transaction; and (iii) opinion of the CNBV with respect to
each transaction.
34



sector, with the attendant beneficial effects on growth and employment. Also, by
contributing to finance IPAB's program, the loan would help the Government to make
explicit the cost of solving the bank problems and avoid further delays, which would
make the eventual resolution of the bank problems even more expensive for Mexican tax
payers.
86.   Risks. There are several risks associated with this operation. One key risk is that
if IPAB is not explicitly authorized by Congress to refinance its debt, it will face
increasing limitations in its capacity to capitalize and sell, or unwind and liquidate,
troubled banks. As mentioned earlier, particularly complex refinancing challenges will
be faced by IPAB when the FOBAPROA notes issued in connection with the old
capitalization and loan purchase programs fall due between 2005 and 2006. Also as
mentioned earlier, the solution of intervened banks which are in the final stages of
liquidation will also call for the refinancing of sizeable interbank liabilities, which must
occur by end-2002 given the removal of the guarantee on this type of liabilities. This risk
is mitigated by the inclusion in the 2000 Budget of a proposal for a debt ceiling for IPAB,
which would allow it to refinance its debt. This provision is likely to be approved
because the IPAB Law clearly requires Congress to provide enough resources to IPAB to
carry out its bank resolution responsibilities.
87.   A related risk is that if IPAB's new notes do not pay in cash at least the real
component of the interest rate, the resulting restructured institutions may not be viable,
because they would be saddled with a large proportion of their assets illiquid, non
performing and with a negative carry-over in some instances. Also, there would be few
foreign buyers interested in the restructured banks under those circumstances. This
would limit the number of transactions that would be eligible under the proposed loan.
This risk is reduced by the fact that the IPAB Law specifically mentions the capitalization
needs of three banks including the third largest (Serfin). If the capitalization needs of
these banks are higher, IPAB could invoke the clause in the Law that allows it to
mobilize extraordinary resources in case of emergency. Most importantly, from the point
of view of this operation, disbursement of Bank funds would support specific transactions
that have been carried out following agreed criteria, aiming at resolving each case on a
permanent basis.
88.   An additional risk is that the regulatory authorities, concerned with the effect of
stronger loan classification, provisioning and capital rules on the banking system, would
continue the previous practice of regulatory forbearance.  The likelihood of this
happening is diminished in various ways. The CNBV has already explored the capability
of the banks to rise the required capital and is confident that they will be able to do so.
There is also the publicly announced commitment by the CNBV to enforce stricter
requirements, including disclosure specifically oriented towards eliminating discretionary
regulatory forbearance (see above). Then there is the fact that the IPAB Law, by
removing the protection on interbank liabilities by January 1, 2003, will effectively
introduce a harsh market discipline on undercapitalized banks or on banks subject to
unwarranted forbearance. From the point of view of this operation, this risk is
35



diminished by conditioning loan disbursements to compliance with the agreed regulatory
reform program. A related risk is that Mexican banks may not be attractive to new or
existing investors due to their low returns; and the uncertainty of the political
process/cycle leading to presidential elections in July 2000 and a new administration in
December. However, early interest of potential buyers in the upcoming sale of Serfin and
Bancrecer, indicate that these risks might not be too high.
89.   Another risk is that debtors' willingness to pay, which may have been weakened
in recent years by the proliferation of bailout schemes might not improve significantly if
Congress fails to pass the bankruptcy law and the law for secured transactions. These
laws are in Congress, and it is not advisable to wait for their passage before approving the
proposed operation, because nothing is gained and much would be lost if the bank
resolution process is delayed. However, a prerequisite for the Bank to consider a follow
up loan would be that the legal environment to improve borrowers' willingness to pay has
been strengthened.
90.   Finally, there is the risk that IPAB's large debt issues associated with the bank
capitalization/resolution process could imply higher and more volatile interest rate than
otherwise. There are important reasons to believe that this risk is not high. In the first
place, the bulk of the bank recapitalization/resolution process consists in the allocation of
historical losses to the Government's balance sheet-essentially an accounting exercise,
admittedly complicated from the political point of view, but of little aggregate economic
significance. In effect, at a given point in time, the insolvency or undercapitalization of
banks is the reflection of losses already absorbed in the past by the economy in the forn
of failed investment projects, bankrupt or troubled debtor enterprises in the real sector, or
poorer debtor households. In the second place, to the extent that the Government
guarantees, as it does in Mexico, all bank liabilities, the historical losses are already,
albeit implicitly, in the Government's books, for it stands behind those liabilities.
Consequently, IPAB debt issues to recognize explicitly the historical losses has no
crowding out implications, so long as depositors do not shift out of the domestic
economy, an event whose probability diminishes with sound macroeconomic policies and
with stronger banks emerging from the capitalization process. The real risk lies with new
losses, which would increase if the process of bank resolution and capitalization were
postponed, which is precisely what the proposed operation is designed to help prevent.
36



VI. RECOMMENDATION
91.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the articles of agreement of the
Bank, and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfenson
President
By Sven Sandstrom
Washington, D. C.
November 29, 1999
Attachments
37



ANNEX I
MEXICO
PROPOSED BANK RESTRUCTURING FACILITY ADJUSTMENT LOAN
MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS FOR TRANCHE RELEASE
1. MACROECONOMIC POLICY FRAMEWORK
Maintenance of Supportive    *  Maintenance of sound macroeconomic framework consistent    *  Maintenance of sound macroeconomic policy
Macroeconomic Program          with policy objectives and program described in Letter of    framework consistent with policy objectives and
Sector Policy                                                program described in Letter of Sector Policy
2. REFORM OF LEGAL FRAMEWORK
Improve incentives in the  The Mexican authorities have:
financial sector           *  Obtained, in December 1998, Congressional approval of new
legislation creating the Institute for the Protection of Bank
Savings (IPAB). The Law phases-in a limited deposit
insurance to replace the existing universal insurance guarantee
between June 1, 1999 and December 31, 2004 (with the
elimination of coverage on interbank liabilities by 01/003)
* Allowed full participation of foreign investors in existing
Mexican banks
* Submitted to Congress, in 04/99, a draft Federal Credit
Guarantee Law, which if approved would strengthen
foreclosure procedures and create conditions for lending based
on movable collateral
* Has prepared and is ready to submit to Congress a draft of a
new Bankruptcy law.
3. STRENGTHENING OF BANKING REGULATION
To raise banking sector    The Mexican authorities have:                                 Second Tranche Actions
regulation towards         In September 1999, the SHCP/CNBV announced a series of           That the Regulatory Reform Program has been
international standards to:    regulatory reforms to be introduced gradually between January  implemented on a consistent basis, in accordance
  Improve the quality of   2000 and December 2002. Within this program, regulations have   with its terms                                             t  4
banks' capital         been already issued in respect of:
*  Enhance accounting and                                                               Third Tranche Actions                                         ii
disclosure standards   *  Changes in the definition of regulatory capital which includes:   u  That the Regulatory Reform Program has been            H
*  Eliminate unjustified       (i) limiting the weight of deferred taxes in Tier I capital; (ii)  implemented on a consistent basis in accordance      o
forbearance                defining the characteristics of the non-cumulative subordinated                   s, 



. .JECIIA?F~S        ACTIONS TA%(EN  BY MEXICT TA  1)ATE (EisM Trt0,hi)                          d Ihia Tr
Improve loan               debentures that could be counted as Tier I capital; (iii)   with its terms
classification and         deducting all equity investments in non-traded, non-financial  I lssuance of new regulation for loan classification
provisioning rules         companies from capital; and (iv) substituting specific      and loan loss provision for either mortgage or
provisions for general provisions in Tier 2 capital         commercial loans
*  requirements to disclose the composition of regulatory capital
*  improvements in the definition of risk weighted assets
*  new classification and provisioning rules for credit card loans
*  new criteria to grant regulatory forbearance and requirements
to disclose instances of regulatory forbearance
*  requirements to disclose "troubled "debt, financial information
by business segment and aggregate information on transactions
with related parties
 improvement of accounting practices towards international
standards regarding market valuation of investments and
derivatives
*  introduction of accounting standards applicable to assets
securitization and assets transfers
4. RESTRUCTURING/RESOLUTION OF BANKS BY IPAB
To restructure, sell, merge or  BANK RESOLUTION TRANSACTIONS                           Second Tranche Actions
liquidate banks under                                                                  *  That IPAB has issued Eligible notes' in an
IPAB's bank restructuring    The IPAB Law, approved in 12/98, enables IPAB to assume the   aggregate amount equal to at least US5.0 billion,
program                    functions of a deposit insurer and a resolution agency to:      in support of Eligible Bank Resolution
*  Manage the bank support programs and accelerate the financial  Transactions2
strengthening of currently undercapitalized banks, and the sale   *  That budgetary transfers to IPAB have been made
or liquidation of intervened ones                           in a timely fashion so as to allow IPAB to
*  sell the assets purchased by FOBAPROA from banks under       discharge its responsibilities under the Program
Eligible notes means notes (instrumentos de credito) issued by IPAB for partial financing of an eligible bank restructuring transaction. These notes must pay in
cash at least the real component of the interest rate.
2 Eligible bank resolution transactions means the sale, merger or liquidation of any of the following banking institutions: Serfin, Bancrecer, Promex, Atlantico  0 H
and Inverlat, carried out in accordance with the eligibility criteria described in Attachments B 1, B2, B3, B4 and B5 of the Implementation Letter.



previous bank support programs within a time frame of up to 5 Third Tranche Actions
years                                                    *  That IPAB has issued Eligible notes3 in an
aggregate amount equal to at least US8.0 billion,
IPAB has already taken the following actions:                   in support of Eligible Bank Resolution
*  taken control of Serfin in 7/99, written-off shareholders equity  Transactions4
and started capitalization/sale process                      That budgetary transfers to IPAB have been made
*  taken control of Bancrecer in 11/99 and, written off         in a timely fashion so as to allow IPAB to
shareholders equity and started capitalization/sale process  discharge its responsibilities under the Program
The Government has created a working group with representatives
from IPAB, SHCP and CNBV to work with the Bank to determine
the eligibility criteria and verify that IPAB's bank resolution
transactions comply with agreed eligibility criteria
IPAB's FINANCING
The Mexican authorities have indicated their intention to ensure the
stabilization of IPAB's debt in real terms. To achieve this purpose,
the Budget Proposal for 2000, submitted to Congress, includes a
budgetary allocation of M$35.0 billion to IPAB
* The Borrower will transfer the proceeds of each tranche of the
Bank loan to IPAB to help finance IPAB's cash-flow needs
resulting from the bank resolution transactions that comply
with eligibility criteria
3 Eligible notes means notes (instrumentos de credito) issued by IPAB for partial financing of an eligible bank restructuring transaction. These notes must pay in
cash at least the real component of the interest rate.
4                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H
4 Eligible bank resolution transactions means the sale, merger or liquidation of any of the following banking institutions: Serfin, Bancrecer, Promex, Atlantico  0
and Inverlat, carried out in accordance with the eligibility criteria described in Attachments B 1, B2, B3, B4 and B5 of the Implementation Letter  v-h



~~~~~~~0- -
5 SALE/RECOVERY OF BANK ASSETS HELD BY IPAB
To recover the maximum     IPAB has already initiated the auctioning of packages of bank  Second Tranche Actions
amount from the bank assets  assets under its 1999-2000 Asset Recovery Program         *  That IPAB's Asset Disposal Program has been
under IPAB's purview,      *  In 10/99 IPAB auctioned the administration of the bad loans of  implemented on a consistent basis, in accordance
within the time frame          Serfin                                                      with its terms
provided by the IPAB Law
Third Tranche Actions
*   That IPAB's Asset Disposal Program has been
implemented on a consistent basis, in accordance
with its terms
(I'
0
Frh



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
Table 11-1 Market Participation
(As of June 1999; in billion of MX$ and %)
Total Asset                  Liabilities          Accounting Capital
Banks                                         Amount    %                  Amount    %                 Amount    %
Mexican Banks 1                                      1,285.1    100.00           1,177,3    100.00            107.8    100.00
Banamex                                            264.1      20.6             231.0      19.7             32.1      29.8
Bancomer                                           249.3      19.4             226.9      19.3             22.4      20.8
Serfin                                             170.9      13.3             161.3      13.7              9.6       8.9
Bital                                              116.0       9.0             109.6       9.3              6.4       6.0
Mercantil del Norte                                 42.0       3.3              37.6       3.2              4.4       4.1
Inbursa                                             39.5       3.1              26.7       2.3             12.7       11.8
Banpais                                             31.8       2.5              30.2       2.6              1.6        1.5
Centro                                              22.3       1.7              20.9       1.8              1.4        13
Interacciones                                       10.4       0.8              10.0       0.9              0.4       0.4
Afirrne                                              6.0       0.5               5.5       0.5              0.5        0.5
Ixe                                                  4.5       0.4               4.0       0.3              0.5        0.5
Del Bajio                                            3.4       0.3               3.0       0.3              0.4       0,4
Mifel                                                3.0       0.2               2.6       0.2              0.4       0.3
Quadrum                                              2.4       0.2               2.0       0.2              0.4       0.4
Invex                                                2.7       0.2               2.2       0.2              0.4       0.4
Banregio                                             2.1       0.2               1.4       0.1              0.7        0.6
Bansi                                                1.2       0.1                .9       0.1              0.3        0.3
Foreign subsidiaries                                   233.2      18.1             212.2      18.0             21.0       19.4
Bilbao Vizcaya                                      81.7       6.4              76.3       6.5              5.4        5.0
Santander Mexicano                                  61.5       4.8              56.8       4.8              4.8       4.4
Citibank                                            65.7       5.1              61.3       5.2              4.4       4.1
J. P. Morgan                                         4.1       0.3               2.8       0.2              1.4        1.3
Dresdner Bank                                        3.1       0.2               2.8       0.2              0.3        0.3
Comerica Bank                                        2.8       0.2               2.6       0.2              0.2       0.2
B. N. P.                                             1.2       0.1               1.1       0.1              0.2        0.1
I.N.G. Bank                                          2.2       0.2               1.7       0.2              0.5       0.5
Republic National Bank of New                        2.1       0.2               1.5       0.1              0.7       0.6
York
Chase Manhattan                                      1.3       0.1               0.6       0.1              0.7        0.7
Banco de Boston                                      1.5       0.1               1.3       0.1              0.2        0.2
G. E. Capital                                        1.2       0.1               0.8       0.1              0.5       0.4
Bank of America                                      1.2       0.1               0.5         0              0.7        0.7
Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi                             1.4       0.1               1.1       0.1              0.3        0.3
FujiBank                                             0.2         0                 0         0              0.2        0.2
A.B.N. Amro Bank                                     0.7       0.1               0.6        0.1             0.1        0.1
Societe Generald                                     0.3         0               0.1         0              0.2       0.2
American Express                                     0.5         0               0.3         0              0.1        0.1
First Chicago Bank                                   0.3         0               0.1        0.0             0.2        0.2
I The total includes AtiAntico y Promex. These banks are not presented individually because they are in a process of merging.
Their participation is about 6.3% of total assets, 7.5% of liabilities, with negative capital; Serfin's figures are as of March 1999.
Bancrecer's last published financial statements in June 1997 and is thus, not included in the June 1999 total. It's total assets
in 1997 were MX$89,727.4 million (9.1% of the 1997 total) and MX$86,550.12 millions in liabilities (9.6% of 1997).



Table 11-2 Illustrative Scenario of IPAB's Cash Flow
(In MX$ billions)
2000       2001       2002        2003       2004       2005       2006        2007
Inflows                                         25.7       26.5       27.2        28.1       19.0       14.9        15.9       10.9
Deposit insurance premia                        5.7        6.5        7.2         8.1        9.0        9.9       10.9        10.9
Recovery/sale of assets                       20.0        20.0       20.0       20.0        10.0        5.0        5.0          0
Outflows                                        63.1        99.4      341.8      147.1      152.0      329.6      370.7       254.1
Administrative costs and
accumulation of deposit insurance fund          1.4        1.6        1.8         2.0       2.2         2.5        2.7         2.7
Debt service                                  61.7        97.8      340.0       145.0     149.8       327.1      368.0      251.3
Interestpayments                              60.4       96.2       126.5      137.5     142.3        193.8      198.4      208.7
Amortization                                   1.6        1.5       213.5        7.6       7.5        133.4      169.6       42.7
Net outflows before fiscal transfers           -37.4      -72.9      -314.5     -119.0    -133.1       -314.7    -354.9      -243.2
Fiscal transfers                              35.0        42.5       48.4        54.4      60.8        67.7       74.9        82.6
Refinancing needs                               2.4       30.4      266.1        64.6      72.3       247.0      279.9       160.6
Memo items and key assumptions:
IPAB'sdebtas%ofGDP                           15.9%      15.6%       15.3%      15.0%     14.7%        14.5%      14.2%      14.0%
Net outflows before fiscal transfers
as % of GDP                                  -0.8%      -1.1%      -4.1%       -0.8%     -0.9%        -2.6%      -2.7%      -1.2%
Fiscal transfers as % of GDP                  0.8%       0.8%       0.8%        0.8%      0.8%         0.8%      0.8%        0.8%
Refinancing needs as % of GDP                 0.1%       0.5%        3.9%       0.9%      0.9%         2.6%      2.7%        1.4%
Real GDP growth rate                          5.0%       4.5%        4.5%       4.5%      4.5%         4.5%      4.5%        4.5%
Real interest rate                            7.0%       7.0%        7.0%       7.0%      7.0%         7.0%       7.0%       7.0%
Inflation rate                               10.0%       9.0%       7.5%        7.0%      6.5%         6.0%       5.5%       5.0%
World Bank forecast based on IPAB's estimation of its liabilities as of December 1999.
O(D
NJ



ANNEX III
Recent Regulatory Reform in Mexico
1.   The Mexican authorities announced a comprehensive program of regulatory reform
in September 1999. Important regulations were issued immediately after the
announcement and additional nortns are to be issued over the next year or so.' The
reforms will bring Mexican regulation of financial entities closer to international
standards, promoting the safety and soundness of the system. It will also reinforce two
equally important processes: IPAB's program for the recapitalization/resolution of
insolvent and intervened banks, and the already announced timetable for the gradual
dismantling of the universal guarantee on bank liabilities. Due to a number of current
weaknesses in the system, most of the changes will not be completely effective until
2003, when the universal guarantee will be substantially reduced.2
2.   The regulatory reform  complements a process that started in  1995, which
significantly improved prudential regulation relative to pre-crisis standards. The reform
aims mainly at addressing the low quality of banks' capital and complements major legal
reforms already in place (IPAB's Law) or under consideration (Collateral/Guarantees
Law and Bankruptcy Law). The regulatory reform program comprises changes in the
following areas:
. Capital Rules
. Loan Classification and Asset Provisioning Rules
* Accounting and Disclosure Standards
* Assets Valuation
* Regulatory forbearance
Capital Rules
3    The changes to the capital rules refer mainly to the components of regulatory
capital and affect the treatment of deferred taxes assets, subordinated debt and eqdity
investments, the definition of risk weighted assets, and general provisions.
These regulatory changes do not apply to publicly-owned development banks, but the authorities expect
to move in that direction in the near future. Development banks in Mexico are mostly second tier
institutions that do not take deposits.
2 As from January Im 2003, interbank deposits will no longer be covered by the guarantee. The gradual
shift towards a limited guarantee on deposits (about US$100,000 per depositors) was introduced via
the Law for Bank Savings Protection. This law created the Institute for Bank Savings Protection
(IPAB) to substitute the Bank Fund for Savings Protection (FOBAPROA). The law provides IPAB
with ample legal powers to intervene and restructure banks, which FOBAPROA lacked.



4.   Deferred tax assets. The new rule still allows deferred tax assets to be part of Tier
1 capital, but with a limit equivalent to 20% of Tier 1 capital effective as from 2003,
which is closer a treatment to international practices. A timetable is provided to phase in
this measure, with a gradual decrease in the limit starting in January 1, 2000, when
deferred tax assets could not account for more than 80% of Tier 1 capital, and decreasing
20 percentage points annually until the 20% limit is reached. Importantly, the limit on
deferred tax assets is to be calculated as a percentage of adjusted Tier I capital (i.e., after
Tier 1 is reduced by the effect of other aspects of the capital rule, as explained below),
thus making the limit more stringent.
5.    Deferred tax assets can mainly arise from two sources: (i) current losses (negative
pre-tax income) and (ii) excess loan loss provisioning. According to Mexican fiscal rules,
the first type of deferred tax assets can be used if profits are generated in the future, as a
credit to offset future taxes liabilities, during a period of 10 years following the
occurrence of the loss. Deferred tax assets can also build up if provisions constituted in
one year exceed 2.5% of the average loan portfolio, which is the limit imposed by the
fiscal authorities on the amount of provisions that can be deducted from taxable income.
Unlike current losses, the excess provisions constituted into a deferred tax asset can be
used to offset future tax liabilities without a time limit.
6.   The Mexican system currently has a very large percentage of deferred tax assets as
part of regulatory capital (31%) with some banks reaching more than 50%. Excess loan
loss provisions have been a major contributor to this result, reflecting both the aggressive
increase in provisions registered during the last years3 and the insufficiency of the fiscal
deduction limit. The CNBV, under existing accounting rules can ask a bank to write
down deferred tax assets if its capacity to generate profits in determined to be impaired.
7.   The Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico (SHCP) is studying a possible
revision of the 2.5 percent limit on provisions that can be deducted from taxable income.
It is expected that a modification of the fiscal treatment of provisions will be introduced
by the end of year 200,4improving consistency with the regulatory treatment.
8.   Subordinated  debt.   Until the new  capital rule, mandatory  convertible
subordinated debt could count as Tier 1 capital up to the equivalent of 30% of Tier 1
capital. The international best practice classifies this type of debt as part of Tier 2. In the
Mexican system as a whole, subordinated debt currently accounts for 7% of regulatory
capital.  The new  capital rule states that new  issues of mandatory convertible
subordinated debt will no longer count as part of Tier 1 capital; but they could count in
Tier 2 capital. There is no change in the treatment of non-mandatory convertible
3The ratio of provisions to non-performing loans has increased from 62.8 in the fourth quarter of 1997 to
72.5 in the second quarter of 1999.
4This change in the tax deduction regime does not require a change in the law; it could be introduced via a
Misceldnea Fiscal.



subordinated debt, which counts as Tier 2 capital.  Subordinated debt currently
heretofore treated as Tier I will remain under old rules until their maturity in 2001/2002.'
9.   Quasi-equity securities. The new capital rule allows certain capital debt hybrid
instruments to be considered as part of regulatory capital according to certain
guidelines.6 The underlying instruments must have a 1O years minimum term; would be
unsecured and deeply subordinated (i.e., would be paid after subordinated debt and
before stocks); and may be cumulative or non-cumulative, according to whether interest
payments that do not take place in any given year due to losses or insufficient profits may
be accumulated to future years.7
10. Non-cumulative capital securities could constitute up to 15% of Tier 1 capital,
subject to CNBV authorization, to be given if the securities are issued as part of a
comprehensive capitalization program. By contrast, cumulative capital securities could
only form part of Tier 2, except that issues of 2000-2001 could be part of Tier 1 capital
up to 10% until maturity, within the mentioned 15% limit. The 15% limit (Basle
Committee) reflects the benchmark utilized by Standard & Poor's to classify an
investment as riskier and thus avoids the downgrading of these securities. Two years
prior to maturity, these securities would be reduced for regulatory capital purposed by
20%; and one year prior to maturity, they would be further reduced by 50%. An
important aspect of the quasi-equity securities is that they may enable Mexican banks to
attract international institutional investors, particularly from the USA, that are prohibited
from investing in stocks.
11. Equity investments in non-financial companies. Another important change
refers to investments in non-financial and non-traded companies. Before the new
capital regulation, these investments were not deducted from Tier 1 capital. The new rule
will fully deduct them from Tier 1 capital, in the sarne way that investments in financial
companies are deducted (rather than consolidated). This measure intends to avoid double
leveraging (otherwise the investment would count as capital in both the non-financial
company and the bank). The new capital rule allows for some exceptions, in particular
the investments that result from debt capitalization, in order not to undermine debt
workout. The full deductibility of investments in non-financial companies from Tier 1
capital will be phased in starting in 2000, when 20% of the investments will be deducted.
The percentage deduction will increase to 40% in 2001, 60% in 2002, and to 100% in
2003.
'Yet some banks have expressed to the CNBV their interest in converting these debentures before
maturity, motivated by the potential for issuing quasi-equity securities (see below).
6 These securities are similar to those used by Banco Bilbao-Vizcaya (BBV) and Banco Santander
throughout Latin America. The CNBV took into account that these international banks have an
important participation in the Mexican system (about 11 percent of total assets), as well as in many
Latin American countries, and that enabling Mexican banks to issue such equity investmnents would
level the playing field in the system.
7Thus, non-cumulative equity securities resemble stocks in that they pay dividend only in good years.



12. Definition of risk-weighted assets for the capital ratio. The new capital rule
introduces guidelines when the assets have no capital requirements. Following US
FAS 125, it clarifies the conditions under which an asset would be considered transferred
and, hence, susceptible of being taken off the balance sheet fully and not subject to
capital requirements. These conditions include that: a) the cash-flow from the asset is
transferred to a third party; b) the third party is at full freedom to transfer the asset; and c)
the bank that transferred the asset not have a repurchase agreement on the transferred
asset.
13. The new rule also provides guidelines to take into account the risk embedded in
derivatives. Furthermore, it established that goodwill and other intangible assets are to be
deducted from capital. Additional related changes involve the harmonization of the
accounting treatment of assets with the value given to them for capital requirements.
14. General provisions. Until recently, Mexican regulation did not require general
provisions/reserves and allowed specific provisions for certain classes of loans to
constitute part of Tier I capital. The reform moves towards international standards by
allowing only general provisions, up to 1.25% of risk-weighted assets, to be counted as
Tier 2.
Loan classification and provisioning rules
15. Provisioning requirements for credit risk have been mostly based on the value of
the collateral and past payment record, with insufficient emphasis given to capacity to
pay.   The Mexican authorities realize that loan loss provisions in the system  are
insufficient, albeit improving. ° The CNBV has issued new provisioning rules for credit
card loans and is preparing new rules for mortgages and commercial/corporate loans.9
16.  Credit card  loans.   Hitherto, credit cards had  no  regulatory  provisioning
requirements and the CNBV relied on the banks own practices. New rules have been
already issued in this regard which establish guidelines to classify credit card risks based
on the repayment history of the borrower. In order to establish appropriate provisioning
percentages for different non-payment records, the authorities estimated default
probabilities using a statistical model.10 The results were materialized in a prudential
norm that contains the following minimum requirements for credit card loan loss
provisions. Provisions will be estimated globally, that is, summing up the requirements
for each category, and on a monthly basis. Provisions cannot be freed and restored to
income if subsequent calculations yield a lower requirement.:
8 The difference between current prudential and fiscal rules are an incentive for banks to underprovision.
9No new provisioning rules are envisaged for repossessed assets, as the CNBV authorities consider that the
current treatment is appropriate. Repossessed collateral is accounted in the banks' book at the lower
of book value and reposition cost. They are not revalued in line with inflation (as are other fixed
assets) and come into the books with the provisions that existed for the loan prior to the collateral
repossession.
10 The model was based on Markov chains and transition probabilities of default. It used as a benchmark
the worst-case scenario of the crisis years (1994-1995) to determine the classification of loans into
buckets of different risk which, unlike the ongoing rule, are continuous rather than discrete.



Number of consecutive non-payments    Provisioning percentages
0                                     0.5%
1                                     10%
2                                     45%
3                                     65%
4                                     75%
5                                     80%
6                                     85%
7                                     90%
8                                    95%
9 or more                             100%
17. Mortgage loans. Currently, loans are provisioned according to the bank's own
rules. The CNBV's announcement envisions new provisioning rules for mortgages to be
issued in early 2000. Technical work, including statistical modeling of credit risk taking
into account collateral values, payment records, etc., is currently underway. This work
would feed into the design of a provisioning norm that would distinguish benchmark risk
categories and their corresponding provisioning percentages.1 8. Commercial   loans.
Currently, commercial loans are classified and provisioned according to the following
five risk levels:
Loan Classification                  Provisioning percentages
A                                      0%
B                                      1%
C                                     20%
D                                     60%
E                                    100%
18. The CNBV is preparing a new rule. Given the complexity of credit risk in
commercial loans, there will likely be different approaches according to the size of the
loan. Loans larger than 1.5 million pesos would be provisioned according to an
"extensive procedure," i.e., a loan by loan analysis that is based on the borrowers'
capacity to pay and their payment history. The "simplified procedure" will apply to
smaller loans, with risk categories and provisioning percentages to be based on statistical
analysis of default probabilities, using parametric models. The CNBV expects to issue a
new regulation on commercial loan provisions around mid-2000.



Accounting and disclosure standards
19. The recently issued Circular 1448 is significantly inspired in Statements of US
Financial Accounting Standards Board (SFAS).
20. On accounting, the modifications include: (i) the improved use of market
inforrnation and "price vendors" (see above) to determnine the fair value of the security
(SFAS 115 and IAS 39); (ii) criteria for credit and embedded derivatives (SFAS 133);
(iii) guidelines to determine whether an asset has been transferred or is used as a
collateral (SFAS 125); (iv) standards applicable to asset securitization (SFAS 125).
21.  Securities classified in the trading account or as available for sale will be marked to
market. Transfers from the trading account or the available for sale account to the held to
maturity account require CNBV's approval and losses must be recognized at the time of
transfer. Impairment of securities due to credit risk will be recognized by a valuation
reserve for securities created through a charge off to the profit and loss account.
22. On disclosure, there will be a requirement to disclose "troubled" loans, in line with
SFAS 114 and 118, i.e., identifying performing loans likely to become non-performing
and viceversa. This disclosure requirement will become effective once the rules for
commercial loan classification and provisioning are issued, i.e., probably around mid-
2000. In addition, further into the future, banks will be required to related party
transactions, derivatives, and financial information classified by business segments
(SFAS 131 & IAS 14). Starting in 2000, banks will be required to disclose the
components of regulatory capital, at least in their annual reports. There will also be
greater reliance on standards issued by the Mexican Institute of Public Accountants
(MIPA). In particular, accounting criteria for banks will rely on IMCP standards in
respect of: liabilities, stockholders' equity, deferred taxes, inflation accounting,
consolidation of financial statements, and foreign currency translation.
Valuation of fix assets
23   The reforn programn envisions valuation programs for fixed assets and repossessed
assets. It is believed that banks' premises are currently overvalued in the balance sheets,
which would overstate capital. The CNBV is planning to adjust the book value of these
assets. The method of correcting the overvaluation of fixed assets is under consideration.
For repossessed assets, a bank-by-bank approach would be needed but has not yet been
designed.
Regulatory forbearance
24. There is a widespread perception of lack of transparency in Mexican financial
statements, partly associated to the perception of ad-hoc and discretionary regulatory
forbearance. To correct this problem the authorities have included new rules in the
accounting regulation that establishes conditions under which the CNBV could grant
authorizations for accounting practices/criteria that differ from the general accounting
standards (i.e., forbearance).  Forbearance could take the form  of a "general"



authorization in the case of systemic issues or circumstances that affect a group of banks,
or particular authorizations granted to individual banks in the case of restructuring.
25. In order to implement these new standards, by January 31, 2000, banks have to
provide to the CNBV a list of all instances of regulatory forbearance they have been
granted. The CNBV will review these lists and decide which instances of forbearance
remain warranted and which should be eliminated. Forbearance instances ratified by the
CNBV will have to be published in the financial statements starting in March 2000,
disclosing also the impact on the balance sheet and an explanation of the reasons why
these remain.



ANNEX IV
SECREt ARIA DE HACIFNDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
SI CRETARIA PARTTCIJLAR
SLCHk ,AWIA
DE                        Oficio No. I 1   2 2
I4CIENOA Y CRfO IT FURI ICO
Mexico,D.F., 26 de noviembre de 1999
Mr. James 1). Wolrenso}ui
President
Thc World Rank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U1.S.A.
D)ear Mr. Wolfenisohn:
TIhis letter of Sector Development Policy describes Mexico's current economic
conditionis arid its on-going process of finahcial sector refomis in order to address the
pending issues resulting from the severe 1994-95 banking crisis. The propused reforms
include modifying the incentivcs faced by the different economic agents, strengthening
the legal and regulatory framework, continuing the improvement of the accoutiing
principles, as well as completing the rcstructuring/rusolution of the banks that wcre
negatively affected by the banking crisis. ro implement these reforms und mantage the
associated fiscal -costs the Government requests financial assisuamce from the World
Bank.
1. Macrocconomic Framework
The Mexican economy has continued to grrow strongly in recenl years, in spite of
adverse cxternal events such as the financial crises of Russia in late 1998 and of Brazil in
early 1999, and, until very recently, low oil prices. Annual real GDP gmwth in 1998 was
4.8 perccnt, after averaging 6 percent during the 1996-1997 recovcry. (irowth will
probably be slightly more than 3 perceat in 1999. Timely adjustments in fiscal and
monetary policy, a flexible exchange rate, and continued tradc liberalization both within
NAK IA and with Lhe rest of the world, have hclped suvstain our growth.
Public expenditure reductions derived from the dculine in oil priccs (totaling 0.7
percent of GDP) kept the fedcral deficit at thc target of 1.25 percent of GDP in 1998, and
we arc commiLted to achieve Tnon-rinancial federal public sector deficits of 1.25 percent
of (;i)l' in 1999 and 1.0 percent in 2000. We have kept real public spending below the
level of 1998. At the same time, social exptndlilures increased as a proportion of total
budget. In the last two years sociai spending amounted to 60 percent of federal budget.
We expect this trend to continuc next year.



SrCRETR[IA
DE
HACIENOA Y CREOITO PUBLUCO
1The Bank of Mexico tightencd monetary policy several times in 1998 to reduce
the pass-through to inflation of dhe nominal depreciation of the peso. In I 999, continued
tight money, ia combinati on with a slight nominal appreciation, has madlc inflation
targets of 13 aind 10 percent, realistic for 1999 and 2000 respectively, anid is contributing
to the stability of the exchange rate.
M=nulf;Lu;cd good:S Cxports and total imports have continued tn prow at rdtcs
close to 10 pcrccnt, and total tradc flows alrcady more than doubled over the past five
years sincc NAFTA cntered into force. Our strategy of eculnomic intugration in NAFTA
continues to attract a high level of Foreign Direct Investment, which finances over two-
thirds of the currenit account deficit (2.8 perecat of GJOP in 1999). We have successfully
imTplemented a debt management strategy to improve our dubt service profilc and to
reduce our external public fiiancing rcquirements.
We plan to continiue thc main elemcnts of current macroeconomic policies,
emphasizing fiscal disciplinc and reduction of inflation. We are s.rongly anid publicly
cornmittod to keeping stability through the politin.,l transitions in the year ahead.
L. Financial Sector Reforrns
We are taking measures to strengthen the banking systern, which still poscs an
importalt elemcnt of uncertainty in our economy-both as a fiscal burden and as a
challenge to sustainable growth and healthier private investment. As a background to
cxplain our current strategy in the financial sector, let me indiwae t20 you that in responsc
to the 1994 crisis, the (Govermment implemented a nunmber of ineasurcs that were
instrumental in averting the collapsc of the banking system. Thnese measures included: (i)
a number of bank- support programs, including liquidity support to provide banks with
rorcign currency with which to pay their foreign debts, actions to reuapitalizc the banks in
exchange for the purchase of non-performing loans, the salk of a number of weak
domestic banks to foreign investors, and programs to restructure, sell or liquidatc banks
intervened because their owners could not provide additional capital to meet the new
regulations. These measures wvcre iinplemented through the Baik Savings Protection
Fund (FOBAPROA); (ii) debtors' support programs to help famnilies and corporations to
service and repay thcir debts; and (iii) reform of Mexico's accounting principles, banking
regulations and supervisory and enforcemernt practices.
2



H.14.    o
SECRE )ARIA
flE
NHCIENOA Y CREDITO PUBI tCO
The banking lcgislation approved in December 1998 allowed full participation of
foreign equity invcsEors in existing Mexicaa banks and created a new deposit insurance
agency, the Institute for the Protection of Bank Savings (IPAB). The law that created the
IFAI3, Law for the Protcction of Bank Deposits (L.PAI3), providcs a legal framework
anld a clear timetable Lo improve inccntivcs in the financial sector. anid creates a
mechanism for thc transparent resolutiou of undercapitalized and insolvent banks. In
additiotn, the regulatory authorities have initiated a profound program of regulatoiy
reforms to strengthen the quality of the banks' capital, enhance accounting and disclosure
standards, climinate discretioniary £urbuardncu, and improve loan classification and
provisioining rules. Finally, the Government has submiitield bills uf law that, when
implemented, will strengthien the incentivc systern to honor debt obligations in Mexico
and reduce the risks faced by banks in their lending uperations. Some of the details of
our llCw strategy tbr t1hc bauking system are explained below.
Creation of a Legal Framework to Improve Incentives in the 1'inancial Sector
Introduction of a Limited Deposit Insurance System. Until the approval of
LPAB, the Govwrnment guaranteed, without limits, all bank liabilities with the exceptioa
or subordinated dcbts and liabilities derived from irregular/illegal uperations. l.l'AH
rcquircs thc phasing in of a progrdm to n:duce the guiirantee olt bank deposits in stagcs,
according to the rulcs for notes exchange issued by IPAB's Board on May 31, 1999. The
laner mandates that by the end of January 2003, Lhe guarantee will exclude inter-bank
deposits, and that by January 1, 2005 it will only cover bank deposits up to a limit of
400,000 UDIs (about US$1100.000) per depositor. Wc cxpect Lhat the elimination of the
govemment guarantce oni inter-banik deposits will be a powerful incentive for the banks
to improve their sounidncss m the next two years.
Modernization of the Legal and Judicial Framework. To enucurage banks to
increase their capital anid to establish  lcCcssary prcconditions to resume lending it is
essential to strengthen the legal certanty as well as the ability of the judicial system to
enforce contracts between lenders and borrowcrs at a lower cosl than al present These
reforms are also preconditions for attracting muclh nccded roreign investment to the
banking sector. In April 1999, we submitted to Congress a draft Federal Credit
Guarantec  Law  aimed at strengtheninig creditor-debtor rulaions, foster financial
intemiediation -reducing thh uncerLainty faced by lenders and consequently the cost of
borrowing- as well as broadening the access to private borrowers (notably SMlEs),
largely excluded from bank credit today. If approved, the: law would strengthen
forcclosurc procedures and cnhanceu the provision of credit through the creation of an
3



Gfll
S ECETARIA
DE
HACIENDA Y CREDITO l'UBLCO
optional collateral mechalism and improve the transparcacy of the legal framework for
crcditors and debtors. In addition, we intend to modcrnize tlhe propurty anLd coinmercial
registries to further facilitate the pledging of collateral and the implcmenTation of the
proposed legislation. A group of senators has also recently subuiiud to Congress a draft
Bankruptcy Law that conLemplaws the creation of a nuw commission in charge of
settling dispules bctwecn financial instituLions and debtors when thc latter file for
bankruptcy.   [Ihe Commission  would  arbitrage  creditor-dcbtor disputes in  an
administrative rather thaan judicial manner, thus saving valuable LiMn  to judges. Iirms
filing for bankruptcy would bc given technical support, along with the inpuL from
creditors, for alternative mcans of financial restructuring before filina fbr bankruptcy,
leaving thc lattcr as the optiop of last resort. Cascs which cannot be resolved under this
uption would be turnied to the judiciary systcm for final liquidation.
Strengthening Banking Regulation
In Septcuiber 1999, we announiced a program of regulatory reformn to improvo thi:
health and stability of Lhc banking, system. The programii secks to; (i) improve the quality
of bank capital by establishing a stricter definition of eligible capital - more in
acuurltnc  with L3IS practices; (ii) enhance transparency and disclosure; (iii) achicvc
additional hurmanizadon of risuluLury uswuaiii  with &.ener-lly aocc*ptd accouniting
principles and practices; and (iv) eliminate discretiohary forbearance. In addition we
havQ lakc;u a grtdual approach in introducing the refomzs, giving banks time to meet the
new capital rules. I he program starts in January 2000 and it will be fully implemented
by 2003, coinciding with the reduction in depositor protcction. Specific actions on the
reform agenda include:
C Changes in the definition of regulatory capital and the requirement to disclose the
composition ofregulatory capiral. More specffically it entails ihcefollowing:
I The newly issued manda(wry subordinated convertible debentures will no
longcr count as Tier I capital. Instead, these instruments will bc includcd in
Tier 2, consistent with the Basle Capital Accord. Most exisuing debentures
will conver to equity by thc cnd of 2002. Non-cumulative capital securities
will be limited up to 15 percent of Tier I capital. Cumulativc capiral sccuritics
will he included in ITier 2 capital with no limit.
* The anmount of capital r.prcscntcd by dceferred tax assets - which today
represems around one third of rhe banking system 1s capital - wi Il be reduced
4



SCCRETARIA
DE
HACIENDA Y CRFDIJW PUBLICO
*  from a maximum of 80 percent up to 20 percent of Tier I capital over the
period 2000 through 2003, according to a pre-anlounced calendar.
.  All cquity investm-ents in non-traded compallies, as well as investzents
representing more than 15 pcrcAnL of tho; ouwsLanding shan:s in quoLed
companies, will be doductcd from Ticr I capital. Transitional rules call for
the deduction to be phased-ia begianing 2000 with full deductibility in 2003.
Invcstments in financial subsidiaries are already dcductcd. '
*  Substitution of specific provisions for gclcral provisions in Ticr 2 capital.
The reform allows gencral provisions, up to 1-25 percent of risk-weighted
asscts, to be counted as Tier 2 capital. Thu dufinition of gcnural provision
refers to Lhosc provisions to cover for losses not linked to) a specific loan.
  Improvements in the definition of risk-weighted assets. The aew  capital ruic
introduces guidelinus tu beuttr dcfi the items that have a capiLa! requirement. It
providcs guidelines to tak-e into account the risk  nmbuddcd in derivativcs and
establishes that goodwill and other initangible assets are to be deduced from capital. In
addition, the value for accounLing purposes of asseis has to be th; samc as thu value
giVt to ithc-urfor capital requirements.
  Introduction  o/ new  asset classification  and provisioning  rules. New  asset
classification and provisioniing rules have buen introduced for credit cards, with the
new provisioning requirements taking effect in Dccembcr 1999. New rules will he
issued in the firsL quarler of 2000 for residential mortgage loans. New asset
classification anid provisioii  ru lecs ror commercial loans will he issued in the second
quarter of 20007
*  Adoption of criteria to grant regulatory forhearance and requirument to disclose
inistances of regulatoryfit,drearunce.
A  Enhanced transparency and discloswe to the general public. New  disclosure
rcquircments will apply starting January 2000. Among the changes, net regulatory
capital, tho capital uomponents, and risk-weighted assots will huve to bc disclosed.
Enhanced disclosure will be required for derivalives, related party Lransactions, line-
of-business scgmcnts, and troubled debL
This approacls, whilc acceptable within cte Basic lmwncworkc, differs from rhe nonual practice ol
uonsulidating subsidiaries for the purposc of assesing the capital adequacy of banking groups.
5



GAI
SECREIARIA
DE
MCENDA Y CREDITO PUBULCD
*  Stricter criteria for valualionv nffixed assets. A new regulation will be issucd by the
third quarter of 2000 for the valuation of fixed assets. The regulationi for the
valuation or loreclosed propcrties is likely to be issued in the year 2001.
*  Improved mark-to-market accounting for investments. Securities classified in the
trading account or as available for sale will be marked Lo iymarket. Transfers ruom the
trading account or available-for-sale account lo the held-to-maturity account require
CNBV's approval. Losses must be recognized at the timc of tawisfer. Impairment of
securities due to credit risk will be recognized by a valuation rescrvc for securities
created through a chargc to the income statemcntt
*  Improvement of accounlingprinciples. Thc accounLing priniciples have been updated
to bring regulaLory accounting practices more in line with generally accepted
accounting pracLices in areas regarding market valuation of investments and
derivatives. The updated norm is expected to Lake effect at the beginning of ycar
2000. Also, accounting standards applicable to assel securitization and asset transfer
have bccn vstablished.
  Treatment of market risk in the banking book, Existing regulations capture the market
risk that exisus in the cntire book. The capital regulation was also strengthened to
better define how instruments wiLh embedded options and other derivatives should be
treated.
 C:onsistency hetween the regulatory andfiscal treatmenl ol provisions. By the end of
2000, we plan to better harmonizc the reguJatory and fiscal treatment of provisions.
Resolution of Undercapitalized and Insolvent Banks
The LPA13 sets a clear framcwork- for restructuring undercapitalized and rcsolve
insolvent banks, whereby IPAB assumes payment of the guaranteed obligationis of the
failed institutions. There are fbur groups of banks that will require funds from IPAfl:
*  Banks in the Capitalization and Loan Portrblio Purchase Program. *Ihese arc banks
that received FOBAPROA notes in exchangc for their non-performiag portfolios
(Banamex, Bancomer, lianorte, BBV, and Bital). IThe total value of the FOBAPROA
notes held by these banks will amount to an estimated M$156.57 billion, as of
December 1999. These notes capitalizc interest and principal until maLurity (3/8"h of
these notes mature in 2005 and 5/8"' in 2006). IlAB will exchange the FOBAPROA
notes ftr identical rPA]3 notes after approving financial consolidation plans to be
6



(0.14.
SCCRt ThRIA
DE
HACIENDA Y CREDir0 PUSLICO
presented by thcse banks during November 1999. It is required that the CNIV give
an opinion on the consolidationr plaLis.
*  fanks unler the old bYnancial Strenglhening "Saneamiento, " Program. These are
banks that reccived FOBAPROA notes under its restructuring program (Banpais,
lancen, Santander-Mexicano, Confia, and Serfin). T'he notes hcld by these banks
will amounl to MS213.48 billion by year end. l hesc arn notes paying higher nominal
intcrest with periodic amortizations.
*  Ranks in ihe new Financial Strengthening "Saneamienio "Plrogram. Thcse are banks
that will have to be restructured and capitalizcd bclrc selling or merging them with
stronger banks. Two banks (Serfin and Bancreccr) have been taken over by IPAB to
be capitalized prior to their sale. Two other banks (Ailantico and Proinex) will be
mcrged with other banks. An additional bank (Inverlat) has also been capitalized prior
to its sale. Tfwo imall intcrvened banks are likely to be sold (Industrial and Surestw).
All seven banks taken together uril require additional capital estimated at about
M$196.88 billion. IPAB will issue performing notes to cover the additional capital
requirements to rcstructure these banks. The capital iceeds of Bancrecer, AtlAintiCo
and Promex are explicitly contemplated in LPAB.
*  flankv that had been intervened by c(NBV and rffat will he closed (Capital, Cremni,
lnterestatal, Obrcro, orientw, IJnion, Anaihuac and Pronorte). These banks dt) niot take
deposits from the public nor grant new credits anymore, though they remain active in
the inter-bank market (which must be covercd by IPAL3 to close them  down
definitely). The notes issucd to cover the borrowings of thicse banks in the interbank
market amounted to MS1 14.0 billion, as of June 1999. lhe sale oF some of the
brauches of thew banks have generated indirect liabilities of about M$21.6 billion. To
close themn down dcfinitively will require IPAB funding.
*  Qwdi4ty A csurance of IPAB's Bank Restructuring Program-. i.PAB establishes strict
audit and cvaluation prowedures by presigious specialized professionals or firms prior
to completion of any bank resolution transaction. The Law also ensures oversight of
Congress, the SIICP and the CNBV over IPAW's bank restructuring transactions.
Financing of IPAB 'v Bank restrucigrlg/resOlution prpgram   I -he Law provides
for several sources uf rinanice for lPAB including: (i) deposit insurance premia of 0.4%
(ordiniary quota) and 0.3% (extraordinary quota which is not currently applied), per year,
7



GM.I
SECRfTARiA
DE
HACENDA Y cHlDirO PuWl ICo
on total bank liabilitics (three fourLhs of which can be used to finance IPAB's bank
restructuring program); (ii) new debt issued by IPAB for up to 6 pcrcent of total bank
liabiliLies to be raised to addrcss an emcrgency in a particular hank; (iii) proceeds from
the sale/recovery of assets received from FO1APROA; and (iv) budgetary transfers fium
the Fuderal GovemrnenL.
In order to bc able to scrvice 1 PAB's obligations the Mexican Goverinment will
proceed as follows:
* lmplemeniation of an aggressive program of asser sale/recovery. The Law givcs
IPAB 5 years io dispose of the assets purchased by FOBAPROA under previous bank
support programs. IPAB cxpects to be able to recover 2() percent of the book value of
lhese assets.  IPAB  has preparod a program  of asset sale/recovery through
independent dealcrs with the aim of recovering most of the recoverable value within
the next lwo ycus.
* Issuing of new LPJAB debt in the market. Approval fTom Con,gress has been requested
to allow rPAB to r±fmice its debt. If approved, starting in the first quarter of 2000,
IPAH will issue notes similar to those issued by the Fedural Ciovernmcnt to refinane:
its more expepsive debts acid service debts falling due.
* Transjer qf fiscal resources lo IPAB so as 1o maintain its debt in real terms.
Budgetary transfers to IPAB of about 0.8 percent oF GDP have been included in the
2000 Federal Budget, submitted tc) Congress in mid-November 1999. lThis levcl of
iransters will allow IPAB to cover the real interest payments oil its debt. Wc expect
that in thc future fiscal transfcrs for IPAB will be sustained relative lo GDP to stop
IPAB's debt frum growing in real terms.
Sequencing of the IPA's Bank Restructuring/Resolution Progrwn   ln order to
carry out a bank rcstructuring resolution prograrn in an orderly fashion, IPAB has
established a sequencing of bank resolution transactions. Thus far, we have included in
our prograxn the restricturing and sale of Serfin and Bancrecer; the sale of Inverlat; and
the completion of the mergers of Promex and Atlantico. Going forward, IPAB's notes
will bh  exchanged frir rurfhrmine nniem to those banks in the capiLalization progran
implcmenting the financial consolidation plans agrced with IPAB ard complete the
liquidation of the remaining inltrvcned banks.



,.H. 1
SFCRltARI
DE
;aCENII Y CREDIIO i£u0c
IlI. World Bank Support
The above synopsis demonstrates our commitment to a strong program of reforms of the
financial sector, which includes the rcsolution or the remaining undercapitalized and
insolvent banks. We belicvc that the World Bank's assistance (financial and technical)
will be beneficial lo tis program.
Sincerely,
Angcl Gurria
9



ANNEX V
IPAB'S Asset Disposal Program
OPERATIONS AND TYPE OF PROGRAMS                  TYPE OF ASSETS               BIDDING
PORTFOLIO SALE
Bancrecer - Administration with capitalization   Industrial and commercial    Q4 1999
Bancrecer - Administration (recovery through sale)  Mortgages                 Q4 1999
with capitalization
Serfm - Administration with capitalization       Commercial, industrial and   Q I 2000
mortgages
Banco Union - Transfer of rights and administration  Commercial and industrial  Q I 2000
Banco Mexicano - Direct sale                     Commercial and industrial    Q2 2000
Banco Inverlat - Administration                  Commercial and industrial    Q3 2000
Intervened banks' and Serfm Fideicomiso - Sale   Mortgages and personal       Q3 2000
without recourse
Intervened banks' Transfer of rights and administration  Commercial and industrial  Q3 2000
or sale
Banca Cremi - Transfer of rights and administration or  Commercial and industrial  Q4 2000
sale3
Banco Mexicano - Direct sale                     Commercial and industrial    Q4 2000
Mortgage Fideicomiso Bancomer - Sale withour     Mortgages                    Q4 2000
recourse
Mortgage Fideicomiso Banamex - Sale without      Mortgages                    Q4 2000
recourse
SALE OF REAL STATE ART WORKS AND
OTHER
Bancrecer/Serfin - Administration and sale       Real state and art work      Q2 2000
Intervened banks4 - Individual sale or in packages  Large real state and parks  Q2, Q3, and
Q4 2000
Intervened banks - Sale of several packages or   Smaller real state           Q2 and Q3
administration and capitalization                                             2000
Intervened banks - Sale of packages              Art work, furniture,         Q3, Q4, 2000
equipment, other
IThis is the portfolios from: Cremi, Union, Obrero, Oriente, Interestatal and Capital
2This is portfolios from: Capital, Interestatal, Sureste and Pronorte
3The type of program will depend on the results of the transfer of rights and administration of the portfolio
of Banco Union
and the transfer of rights of the portfolio of Banco Mexicano.
4Cremi, Union, Obrero, Oriente, Capital, Interestatal, Anahauac, Serfm, Pronorte.



ANNEX VI
Page I of 6
Mexico
Bank Restructuring Facily Adjustment Loan
Key Economic Indicators
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)
Gross Domestic Product       100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0         100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0
Agriculturea                5.7    5.5    6.3    5.7    5.4          5.2    5.0    4.9    4.8
Industrya                 26.9   27.9   28.4   28.5   29.1          29.3   29.2   29.3   29.5
Services'                 67.4   66.6   65.4   65.8   65.5          65.6   65.8   65.7   65.7
Total Consumption             83.1    77.5   74.7   74.0   77.6         76.9   76.7   76.7   76.4
Gross Domestic Investment     21.7    19.8   23.2   26.0   24.4         24.3   24.5   24.7   24.9
Government Investment      3.8    3.3    3.0    3.1    2.4           2.0    2.0    2.2    2.2
Private Investment         15.6   12.8   14.8   16.4   18.9         22.3   22.5   22.6   22.8
Increase in Stocks          2.4    3.7    5.4    6.6    3.1          2.7    2.4    2.4    2.4
Exports (GNFS)b               16.8   30.4   32.1   30.3   31.2          31.0   32.2   32.5   33.1
Imports (GNFS)                21.7   27.8   30.0   30.4   33.2          32.1    33.4   34.0   34.5
Gross Domestic Savings        16.9   22.5   25.3   26.0   22.4          23.1    23.3   23.3   23.6
Gross National Savings'       14.7   19.2   22.5   24.1   20.6          21.5   21.3   21.1    21.3
Memorandum items
Gross Domestic Product     420,776 286,167 332,909 401,682 410,302   473,033 506,677 545,311 587,464
(US$ million at current
prices)
Gross National Product per   4,590   3,800   3,650   3,700   3,970     4,460   4,710   5,090   5,380
Capita (US$, Atlas method)
Real Annual Growth Rates
(%/o, calculated from 1993
prices)
GDPatmarketprices           4.4   -6.2    5.1    6.8    4.8          3.4    4.5      5.0    5.0
Gross Domestic Income       4.5   -7.9    5.3    7.7    4.2          3.9    4.4    4.9    4.9
Real Annual per Capita
Growth Rates (%/e, calculated
from 1993 prices)
GDPatmarketprices           2.5   -7.8    3.3    4.9    3.1          1.0    2.7    3.1    3.1
Total Consumption           2.5  -10.0    0.1    4.1    3.6          0.3    2.3      3.0    2.6
Private Consumption         2.7  -11.1     0.5    4.6    4.6         0.5    2.2    3.0    2.3
(Continued)



ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 6
Mexico
Bank Restructuring Facility Adjustment Loan
Key Economic Indicators (Continued)
Public finance
(as % of GDP at current
market prices)d
Current revenues                  22.8   22.8   23.0   23.0   20.6       21.3   21.9   21.9   21.6
Current expenditures              19.2   19.6   19.2   19.9   18.3       19.4   19.5   19.5   19.2
Current account surplus (+)        3.5    3.2    3.8    3.1    2.3        1.9    2.4    2.4    2.4
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditure                3.7    3.2    3.9    3.7    3.4        3.2    3.4    3.4    3.4
Overall Balance                   -0.1    0.0    0.0   -0.7   -1.3       -1.3   -1.0   -1.0   -1.0
Monetary Indicators
M2/GDP (at current                28.6   29.1   26.5   28.4   27.2       ...
market prices)
Growth of M2 (%)                  19.3   31.7   25.3   34.6   14.2              .       .       .
Private sector credit growth/      1.4   -0.3   -3.3   -8.4    0.3       ...
total credit growth (%)
Price indices (1993=100)
Merchandise export price index   108.0  114.0  115.9  114.8  108.0    114.4  116.9  119.5  122.2
Merchandise inportprice index    102.5  108.1  108.5  109.2  108.4    110.7  113.5  116.3  119.3
Merchandise ternns of trade index    105.3  105.5  106.8  105.1   99.6    103.4  103.0  102.7  102.4
Real exchange rate (LCU/US$)e    105.3  152.9  134.5  113.9  112.5    103.8  103.8  103.8  103.8
Consumer price index               7.0   35.0   34.4   20.6   15.9        15.4   10.5    9.1    7.2
(% growth rate, period average)
Consumer price index               7.1   52.0   27.7   15.7   18.6       13.0   10.0    8.0    6.0
(% growth rate, end of period)
GDP deflator                       8.3   37.9   31.0   17.7   13.8        13.2    9.7    8.0    6.0
(% growth of rate)
a. GDP components estimated at factor cost, as a % of GDP at factor cost.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services".
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital.
d. Consolidated non-financial public sector
e. "LCU" denotes "local currency units". An decrease in LCU/US$ denotes appreciation.



ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 6
Mexico
Bank Restructuring Facility Adjustment Loan
Balance of Payments
Balance of Payments
(US$ m)
Exports (GNFS)a           71,184  89,207 106,779 121,701 129,387    146,680 162,916 177,498 194,644
Merchandise FOB       60,882  79,542  96,000 110,431 117,460    134,231 149,518 163,079 179,110
Imports (GNFS)a           91,616  81,454  99,700 121,608 137,859    152,056 168,999 185,217 202,633
Merchandise FOB       79,346  72,453  89,469 109,808 125,373    139,222 155,253 170,422 186,695
Resource balance         -20,432   7,753   7,079    94  -8,473     -5,376  -6,083  -7,719  -7,989
Net current transfers      3,782   3,960   4,531   5,247   6,012    5,881   6,176   6,487   6,812
(including official current
transfers)
Current account balance  -29,662  -1,577  -2,330  -7,448 -15,958    -13,101 -15,908 -19,811 -21,579
(after official capital grants)
Net private foreign direct  10,973   9,526   9,186  12,830  10,238  11,000  12,100  13,310  14,641
investment
Portfolio investment       1,858 -13,340   3,708   3,800   -452     1,000   1,500   2,500   3,500
Long-term loans (net)      4,630  16,344   4,442   1,440  11,443    5,046   4,554   5,328   5,355
Official                -585  10,352  -7,681  -4,563   -776     -1,262    781     84    231
Private                5,214   5,992  12,123   6,003  12,219    6,308   3,773   5,244   5,124
Other capital (net, including   -4,986 -13,504 -11,184   3,312  -2,071  -769   -766   -632   -636
errors and omissions)
Net use of IMF resources  -1,204  12,144  -2,052  -3,439  -1,063   -3,147   -951    -55  -1,077
Change in gross reserves  18,391  -9,593  -1,768 -10,494  -2,137      -30   -529   -639   -204
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of      -4.9    2.7    2.1    0.0   -2.1         -1.1   -1.2   -1.4   -1.4
GDP at current market
prices)
Current account balance     -7.0   -0.6   -0.7   -1.9   -3.9         -2.8   -3.1   -3.6   -3.7
(% of GDP at current
market prices)
Real annual growth rates (%)
(1993 prices)
Merchandise exports     17.3   30.6   20.7   15.0    6.4          14.2   11.4    9.1    9.8
Merchandise imports     21.4   -8.7   23.5   22.7   14.1          11.2   11.5    9.8    9.5
a. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services".



ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 6
Mexico
Bank Restructuring Facility Adjustment Loan
Key External Debt Indicators
Total debt outstanding and    140,002 166,780 157,848 149,690 159,962    164,532 167,969 173,210 177,452
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)a
Net disbursements (US$m)a       6,491  26,466  -4,843  -3,560  10,380      4,399   3,853   5,548   4,581
Total debt service (TDS)       21,941  26,886  40,792  42,452  26,778     39,072  39,342  37,025  47,310
(US$m)a
Debt and debt service indicators
(%/6)
TDO/XGSb                     187.5   179.6   142.2   118.3   118.5      107.8    99.3    94.1    88.1
TDO/GDP                      33.3    58.3    47.4    37.3    39.0       34.8    33.2    31.8    30.2
TDS/XGSb                     29.4    28.9    36.7    33.5    19.8       25.6    23.3    20.1    23.5
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRDDS/publicDS               15.0    13.8     8.1     6.6    11.8        9.2     8.7    11.2     8.8
Preferred creditor/          30.9    27.4    19.5    20.9    24.7       36.6    25.8    18.0    18.3
public DS (/o)C
IBRD DS/XGSb                  2.7      2.6     2.1     1.7     1.5        1.4     1.3     1.1     1.1
IBRD TDO (US$m)d            13,475  14,295  13,078  11,906  12,109     11,233  11,839  12,040  12,548
Present value             437     472      510     550     595       429      116       0       0
of guarantees (US$m)
Share of IBRD portfolio (%/)  11.9    12.0    11.5    10.5     9.3       8.5      8.6     8.5     8.6
IFC (US$m)
Loans                         534     550     528     495     338      ...     ...      ...     ...
Equity and quasi-equity'       51      57      65      76       78     ...     ...      ...     ...
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-term capital.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. Preferred creditors are defined as IBRD, IDA, the regional mltilateral development banks, the IMF, and the Bank of
International Settlements.
d. Includes present value of guarantees.
e. Includes equity and quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.



ANNEX VI
Page 5 of 6
Mexico
Bank Restructuring Facility Adjustment Loan
External Financing Requirement and Projected Sources of Financing
(in millions of U.S. dollars)
Financing requirements:
1. Current Account Deficit                              7,072             15,908              19,811
2. External Debt Amortizationa                         19,869             18,438              13,898
a. Public and Publicly Guaranteed                   10,207              10,989              6,384
of which IMF                                       2,998               2,894                 52
of which IBRD                                        698               1,368              1,294
b. Private                                           9,662               7,449              7,514
3. Change in gross reserves (-decline)                     11                529                 639
4. Gross Financing Requirements                        26,951             34,875              34,349
(I +2+3)
Sources of Financing:
5. Private Investment Flows (Net)                       6,061             13,600              15,810
6. External Debt Contracteda                           20,890             21,275              18,539
Public and Publicly Guaranteed                        8,490             11,275               5,539
Multilateral and Bilateral Gross                     3,418               4,936              2,508
Disbursements
of which IMF                                        2,100              2,100                   0
of which IBRD                                        362               2,090               1,924
Private Creditors                                    5,072               6,339              3,032
Private Non-Guaranteeda                              12,400             10,000              13,000
7. Total Sources of Financing                          26,951             34,875              34,349
(5+6)
a. Includes short-term external debt amortization and refinancing during 1999-2nd half and part of 2000, except for
interbank credit lines of the commercial banking sector of an amount of US$ 15,524 millions.
Source: Bank staff estimates, SHCP.



ANNEX VI
Page 6 of 6
Mexico
Bank Restructuring Facility Adjustment Loan
Total Debt Flows and Stock with IBRD
(US$ million)
Debt Outstanding             14,951  13,322  12,251  11,363  11,540         11,858  11,942  12,190
of which guarantees          462     499      539     572     424          429      116       0
Share of IBRD portfolio (%)     13.3    11.9    11.3     9.8     9.2          9.0      8.6     8.5
Commitments                   2,387     527    485   1,767       950         1,700   1,900   1,500
Disbursements                 1,113   1,473     943   1,024   1,309          1,698   1,740   1,667
Repayments                     1,223   1,461   1,363   1,268   1,285         1,385   1,343   1,302
Net Disbursements              -110       12   -421    -244       24          314     396      364
Interest                        948     937     892      750     816          789     814      841
Net Transfer                  -1,058    -925  -1,313    -994    -793         -475    -417    -476
1/ As per information available as of December 1999
Source: Bank staff estimates



Mexico
Bank Restructuring Facility Adjustment Loan
Status of Bank Group Operations in Mexico
Operations Portfolio
As of 23-Nov-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                  and actual                  Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                                             disbursements a!        Supervision Rating b/
Project ID    Year                Borrower                            Purpose
_IBRD      IDA       Cancel.      Undisb.       Orig    Frm Rev'd   Dev Obj   Imp Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 121
Active Proects
MX-PE-7667       1992   NAFINSA                           IRRIG SCTR                              400.00        0.00         0.00        30.70        80.70        4.00       S           S
MX-PE-7723       1993   BANOBRAS                          HWY RHB & SAFETY                        480.00        0.00         0.00        84.20        42.60        0.00       S           S
MX-PE-7648       1993   BANOBRAS                          MEDIUM CITIES TRANSP                    200.00        0.00        23.00       113.70      123.00        47.10       S           S
MX-PE-7725       1994   NAFIN                             PRIM.EDUC.II                            412.00        0.00         0.00       110.30      154.30        93.30      HS           S
MX-PE-7710       1994   BANOBRAS                          N. BORDER I ENVIRONM                    368.00        0.00         0.00        65.40      306.40        39.30       S           S
MX-PE-7707       1994   BANOBRAS                          WATER/SANIT II                          350.00        0.00         °.00       171.50      171.50         0.00       S           S
Mx-PE-7701       1994   NAFIN                             ON-FARM & MINOR IRRI                    200.00        0.00         0.00        60.40        85.40       13.70       S           S
MX-PE-7612       1994   BANOBRAS                          SOLID WASTE 1I                          200.00        0.00        53.10         1.50       -4.50         1.50       S           S
MX-PE-34490      1995   NAFIN                             TECH EDU/TRAING                         265.00        0.00         0.00       142.70      170.00         6.30       S           S
MX-PE-41811      1995   NAFINSA                           E'INANCIAL SEC T.A. SUPPLM               14.00        0.00         0.00         9.80         0.00        0.00       #           9
MX-PE-7702       1995   SEDESOL                           SECOND DECENTRALZTN                     500.00        0.00         0.00       144.10      144.10       126.70       S           U
MX-PE-7713       1996   GOM                               WATER RESOURCES MANA                    187.00        0.00         0.00       152.70        44.80        6.20       S           S
MX-PE-7689      1996   NAFIN                              BASIC HLTH II                           310.00        0.00         0.00       164.00       89.20        64.30      HS          HS
MX-PE-7732      1997   GOVERNMENT                         RURAL FIN. MKTS T.A.                     30.00        0.00         0.00        28.30       26.00        12.30       U          U
MX-PE-7726       1997   GOVERNMENT                        AQUACULTURE                              40.00        0.00         0.00        39.10         8.80        0.00       U          U
MX-PE-7700      1997   GOVT OF MEXICO                     COMMUNITY FORESTRY                       15.00        0.00         0.00         9.30         1.30        0.00       S           S
MX-PE-43163      1997   BANOBRAS                          FEDERAL ROADS MODZTN                    475.00        0.00         0.00       475.00      146.70         0.00      HU           U
MX-PE-55061      1998   BANOBRAS                          HLTH.SYSTEM REF. TA                      25.00        0.00         0.00        23.00         6.40        0.00       S           S
MX-PE-49895      1998   MINISTRY OF FINANCE               HIGHER ED. FINANCING                    180.00        0.00         0.00       180.20        23.90        0.00       S           S
MX-PE-44531      1998   GOM                               KNOWI.EDGE & INNOV.                     300.00        0.00         0.00       278.70         4.10        0.00       S           S
MX-PE-40199      1998   MEXICAN GOVERNMENT                BASIC EDC. DEV.                         115.00        0.00         0.00        89.90         8.40        0.00       S           S
MX-PE-7720       1998   BANOBRAS                          HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM                    700.00        0.00         0.00       350.00       116.70        0.00       S           S
MX-PE-7711      1998   NAFIN                              RURAL DEV. MARG.AREA                     47 .00       0.00         0.00        41.50        12.20        0.00       S           S
MX-PE-48505     1999   NAFIN                              AGRICULTURAL PRODUCT                    444.00        0.00         0.00       366.00        11.90        0.00       S           S
MX-PE-7610       1999   BANOBRAS                          EOVI RESTRUCTURING                      505.00        0.00         0.00       505.00       161.70        0.00       S           S
Total                                                                                           6,762.00        0.00        76.10    3,637.00   1,935.60         414.70
Active  roects c/    C           s        c/      Total c/
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                2,460.79           21,404.70              23,865.49
of which has been repaid:                 122.08            12,731.48              12,853.56
Total now held by TERD and IDA:                5,543.73            9,173.74               14,717.47
Amount sold                                        0.00                92.34                  92.34
Of which repaid               :                 0.00               92.34                   92.34                                                                                                (D
Total Undisbursed                :             3,205.02                52.82               3,257.84                                                                                                 , 
-   
a. Intended disbursemDents to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.                                                                                                   th H
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS 5 highly Satisfactory, S   satisfactory, U   unsatisfactory,    H
HU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
c. As.of 31-Oct-99.



ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 1
Mexico
Bank Restructuring Facility Adjustment Loan
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31-Aug-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                              Disbursed
1WC                                     IFC
FY Approval                 Company             Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic    Loan         Equity    Quasi    Partic
1988/91192/93/95           Apasco                          14.40     0.00      0.00      57.60     14.40     0.00      0.00     57.60
1994/96/98                 Aurum-Heller                     0.00     0.82      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.82      0.00      0.00
1998                       Ayvi                            10.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1990/92/96                 BANAMEX                        100.00     0.00      0.00      71.06    44.33      0.00      0.00     71.06
1997                       Banco Bilbao MXC                80.00     0.00     30.00      0.00     76.10      0.00     30.00      0.00
1992                       Banorte-SABROZA                 3.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      3.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1995/96                    Baring Mex. FMC                 0.00      0.03      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.02      0.00      0.00
1995/99                    Baring Venture                  0.00      2.73      0.00      0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
1998                       CIMA Mexico                      0.00     4.80      0.00      0.00      0.00      4.80      0.00      0.00
1998                       CIMA Puebla                      7.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      3.50      0.00      0.00      0.00
1994                       CTAPV                           4.18      0.00      2.53      0.00      4.18      0.00      2.53      0.00
1997                       Comercializadora                3.50      0.00      2.50      7.50      3.50      0.00      2.50      7.50
1990/91                    Condumex                         0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1993                       Derivados                       4.40      0.00      0.00      6.02      4.40      0.00      0.00      6.02
1997                       Fondo Chiapas                   0.00      5.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.31      0.00      0.00
1998                       Forja Monterrey                 13.00     3.00      0.00      13.00     13.00     3.00      0.00      13.00
1991/96                    GIBSA                          24.34      0.00      10.00    81.86     24.34      0.00      10.00    81.86
1993                       GIDESA                           8.75     8.00      0.00      12.75     8.75      8.00      0.00     12.75
1996                       GIRSA                          27.00      0.00      9.29    110.00     27.00      0.00      9.29    110.00
1993                       GOTM                             1.09     0.00      0.00      0.66       1.09     0.00      0.00      0.66
1997/98                    Gen. Hipotecaria                0.00       1.20     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1998                       Grupo Calidra                  12.00      6.00      0.00      10.00     12.00     6.00      0.00     10.00
1989                       Grupo FEMSA                      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1997                       Grupo Minsa                    20.00      10.00     0.00     30.00     20.00      10.00     0.00     30.00
1992193/95/96/99           Grupo Posadas                   0.00      15.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      15.00     0.00      0.00
1992/96/97/98              Grupo Probursa                   0.00      1.32     0.00      0.00      0.00       1.32     0.00      0.00
1998                       Grupo Sanfandila                10.00     0.00      0.00      5.00      6.67      0.00      0.00      3.33
1994                       Interceramic                    10.00     0.00      6.00      7.00      10.00     0.00      6.00      7.00
1993                       Masterpak                       4.80      0.00      0.00      6.48      4.80      0.00      0.00      6.48
1998                       Merida III                     30.00      0.00      0.00     73.95     22.42      0.00      0.00     55.28
19S4/87/94196              Metalsa                         0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1995/99                    Mexplus Puertos                  0.00      1.41     0.00       0.00     0.00       1.41     0.00      0.00
1996                       NEMAK                           0.00      0.00      6.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      6.00      0.00
1990                       Petrocel                        2.60      0.00       1.20      1.40     2.60      0.00       1.20      1.40
1998                       PuntaLangosta                   4.00       1.00     0.00      7.00      2.76      1.00      0.00      4.84
1988/94/95                 Sigma                            0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1997                       TMA                             4.87      0.00      0.00      9.60      4.87      0.00      0.00      9.60
1992                       Toluca Toll Road                7.39      0.00      0.00      0.00      7.39      0.00      0.00      0.00
1991/92                    Vitro                           0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1991                       Vitro Flotado                    8.26     0.00      0.00      3.45      8.26      0.00      0.00      3.45
1998                       ZN Mxc Eqty Fund                 0.00    25.00      0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Portfolio:                     414.58     85.31     67.52    514.33    329.36     51.68     67.52    491.83
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan     Equity    Quasi    Partic
1997                       ALTAMIRA                        17.80     0.00       1.00    38.00
1999                       BANAMEX LRF 11                  50.00     0.00      0.00       0.00
1999                       BARING BMPEF FMC                 0.00     0.06      0.00      0.00
1998                       CIMA HERMOSILLO                  7.00     0.00      0.00       0.00
1999                       CORSA                           13.00     3.00      0.00      0.00
1999                       GRUPOPOSADAS V                 25.00      0.00      10.00     35.00
1999                       NEMAK RI                        0.00      0.00      0.70      0.00
2000                       NEMAK RI II                      0.00      0.00      0.83      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:                 112.80      3.06     12.53     73.00



APE IX
Page 1 of 2 pages
Mexico at a glance                                                              9/3/99
Latin   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        America   middle-
Mexico   & Carib.  income       Development dlamond
1998
Population, mid-year (millions)                     95.9       502       588                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                 3,970     3,940     4,860                 L
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                   380.9     1,978     2,862
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (Y.)                                      1.8       1.6       1.4
Labor force (%Y)                                     2.6       2.3       2.0   I GNP                             Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-98)                            per                            primary
capita                     enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  ..        .
Urban population (% oftotalpopulation)                74        75        77
Life expectancy at birth (years)                     72         70        70   i
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              31        32        27   |
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)            14         8                         Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                95        75        79
Illiteracy (% of,population age 15+)                  10        13        11
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  115     113       108   |         Mexico
Male                                               116        ..        ..             Upper-middle-income goup
Female                                             113        ..        ..
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977    1987       1997      1998
Economic rattoa
GDP (US$ billions)                         87.4    140.2     401.7    410.3
Gross domestic investrnentVGDP             21.6     19.2      26.0      24.4
Exports of goods and services/GDP           8.6     19.5      30.3      31.2                    Trade
Gross domestic savingsvGDP                 20.6    25.3       26.0      22.4
Gross national savings/GDP                 18.2    21.8       24.1      20.6
Current account balance/GDP                -2.2      3.0      -1.9      -3. 8      oesi
Interest payments/GDP                       1.8      5.5       2.1       2.0       omesc                     Investment
Total debt/GOP                             35.7    78.1       37.3      39.0     Savings
Total debt service/exports                 57.4    40.1       32.4      18.8
Present value of debt/GDP                     ..      ..      36.0      36.2
Present value of debt/exports                ..       ..    110.3    106.0
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98    1997      1998   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                2.2      2.9      6.8       4.8       4.8               Mexico
GNP per capita                     0.1      0.5      6.0       2.9       2.9               Upper-middle-income group
Exportsofgoodsandservices          9.4    12.3      10.8       9.7       6.9    _        _      _       _      _
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY                                                                _____
1977    1987       1997      1998   r Growth rates of output and Investment (/6
(% of GDP)                                                                     l
Agriculture                                10.2      8.6       5.7       5.4
Industry                                   30.7    35.9       28.5      29.1    20-
Manufacturng                              22.4    25.7       21.4      21.9             5
Services                                   59.1     55.5      65.8      65.5             93     9497   9
-20
Prvate consumption                         69.6     65.9      64.1      68.2     -
General govemment consumption               9.8      8.8       9.9       9.4   |GDO                    -     GDP
Imports of goods and services               9.6     13.4      30.4      33.2
(average annual growth)                 197747  1988-98       1997      1998     Growth rates of exports and Imports 1%)
Agriculture                                 2.2      1.6       0.2       0.5
Industry                                    2.7      3.5       9.3       6.6
Manufacturng                               2.3      3.9      10.0       7.4    20Q 
Services                                    2.1      2.7       6.4       4.4
Prvate consumption                          2.2      2.5       6.4       6.4           993   954 96   97   95
General government consumption              5.2      1.8       2.9      -1.3                                            .
Gross domestic investment                  .4.6      4.1      25.0       8.4   -20
Imports of goods and services              -1.3    12.1       22.8      14.2                  Exprts     Ompcs
Gross national product                      2.6      2.4       7.9       4.7
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



ANNEX IX
Page-2 of 2 pages
Mexico
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987       1997      1998     Inflation t%)
Domestic prices
40 
(% change)
Consumer prices                                ..   131.8       20.6      15.9    30.-
Implicit GDP deflator                        25.6    137.3      17.7      13.8    20
Government finance                                                                10
(% of GDP, includes curent grants)                                                 0
Current revenue                                ..    29.5       23.0      20.6            93   94   95   98   97   90
Current budget balance                         ..   -10.3        3.1       23                 -GDP deflator       CPI
Overall surplusideficit                        ..   -15.0       -0.7      -1.3      ,
TRADE
(UJS$ millions)                             1977    1987       1997      1998      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                            ..  22,093   110,431   117,500     15o0,.O -
Oil                                          ..   8,630    11,323    7,147
Agriculture                                  ..   1,543      3,828    3,954
Manufactures                                  ..  11,344    94.802  105,933    100'00
Total imports (cif)                            ..  13,306   109,808   125,242
Consumer goods                                ..    768      9.326   11,108      90.000  jj         *f
Intermediate goods                           ..   9,907    85,366    96,805
Capital goods                                 ..   2,631    15,116   17,329 o
92  93  9gA    93 D   97  98
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..      93        101       99
Import price index (1995=100)                  ..      80        101      103                a Exports     nmporls
Terms oftrade (1995=100)                       ..    115         100       9B
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977     1987      1997     1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
(USS militonsl
Exports of goods and services               7,792   27,509   121,701   129,427     0
Imports of goods and services               7,665   18.387   121,608  137,729
Resource balance                             127    9,121         94   -8,302      2
Net income                                 -2,151   -6,801   -12,790  -13,497
Net current transfers                         88    1,919      5,247     6,012    -4 -i I             N           f,
Current account balance                    -1,936    4,239    -7,448  -15,786         il
Financing items (net)                       2,558    1,861    17,942    17,923
Changes in net reserves                      -622   -6,100   -10,494    -2,137    .8 -
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)         ..  12.590    28,815   29,0e2
Conversion rate (DEC, local/USS)          2.26E-2      1.4       8.8       9.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987      1997      1998
(USS millions)                                                                     Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS miIlons)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       31,179  109,459   149,590  159,962
IBRD                                      1.374    7'347    11,356    11,514           G:28,507      A 11,514
IDA                                          0        0          0        0                                 C: B,030
Total debt service                          4,715   12,083    42,453   26,294                                     C: 12,863
IBRD                                       152    1,072      2.102    2,027.
IDA                                          0        0          0        0
E: 5.475
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              9       75         29
Official creditors                         299      888    -4,563       129                                    /
Prvate creditors                         4,407    2.891      6,003    3,943
Foreign direct investment                  556    3,246    12,478   10,238
Portfolio equity                             0        0      3,215     -666
World Bank program                                                                              F: 93.573
Commitments                                162    1,695       530      2,212     A- (BRO                     E- Bilateral
Disbursements                              202      983       995      1,986     B- IDA    0 - Other multilaterai  F - Private
Principal repayments                        50      567      1,311     1,257     C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                  152      416       -316      729      _       _ _         _     _      _
Interest payments                          102      505       791       769
Net transfers                               50       -89    -1,107      -41
Development Economics                                                                                               9/3/99



