Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER
7003-ME
Loan Agreement
(Bank Restructuring Facility Adjustment Loan)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
Dated December
14, 1999
LOAN NUMBER
7003-ME 
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December
14,
1999, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank) and NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C. (the 
Borrower).
WHEREAS
(A) the Bank has received from the United Mexican States (the Guarantor) 
a letter dated November
26, 1999, describing a program of actions, objectives and 
policies designed to achieve adjustment of the Guarantor
’s banking sector
(hereinafter
called the Program), declaring the Guarantor’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the
execution thereof;
(B)
the Guarantor’s Comisión Nacional Bancaria y de Valores (CNBV) has 
participated in the preparation of the Program and supports the actions described in
Parts A.2
and B.2 of Schedule 1 to the Guarantee Agreement (as hereinafter defined); 
(C)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set
forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and
(D)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan
in three tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section
1.01. The 
“General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modifications set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read:
“‘Project’ 
means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan
Agreement, in
support of which the Loan is made.”;
(b)
Section 5.01 is modified to read: “The Borrower shall be entitled to 
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of the Loan Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
(c)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(d)
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to 
read as follows:
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower
shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Program referred to in the
Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the performance by the Borrower, the Guarantor and the
Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the Guarantee
Agreement, and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”
(e)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and
9.09
are renumbered, respectively, Sections
9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.
Section
1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings
:
(a) “CNBV” 
means Comisi
ón Nacional Bancaria y de Valores, the Guarantor's 
banking regulatory and supervisory agency established and operating pursuant to the
provisions of the Guarantor's Law
(Ley de la Comisión Nacional Bancaria y de Valores), 
published in the Guarantor’s Official Gazette on April 28, 1995; or any successor 
thereto;
(b)
“Deposit Account” 
means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(c) “Disbursed 
Amount” 
means, in respect of each Interest Period, the
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in said
Interest Period;
(d)
“IPAB” 
means Instituto para la Protecci
ón al Ahorro Bancario, the 
Institute for the Protection of Bank Savings of the Guarantor, established and
operating pursuant to the provisions of: (i) the Guarantor’s Law (Ley de Protección al 
Ahorro Bancario)
published in the Guarantor’s Official Gazette on January 19, 1999; 
and
(ii)
Estatuto Orgánico del Instituto para la Protección al Ahorro Bancario dated 
October
4,
1999, or any successor thereto;
(e) 
“Maturity Fixing Date” 
means, for each Disbursed Amount, the date on
which the amortization schedule for said Disbursed Amount is established, such date
being the first day of the Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which
said Disbursed Amount is withdrawn; and
(f)
"Peso" 
means the currency of the Guarantor
.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Page  3
Section
2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to five hundred
five million sixty thousand Dollars
($505,060,000), as such amount may be converted 
from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of
Section
2.09 of this Agreement.
Section
2.02. (a) The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from the Loan 
Account an amount equal to five hundred million nine thousand four hundred Dollars
($500,009,400) in support of the Program, subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), 
(c), (d) and (e) of this Section. 
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first 
request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in Banco de
M
éxico, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit
Account.
The Borrower shall not allow any other amounts from any source to be
deposited in the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule
1
to this
Agreement.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the
Loan shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit 
Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or
(ii) if the Bank shall so 
request, refund such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such 
request shall be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account after the aggregate of 
the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account shall have reached the
equivalent of two hundred five million sixty thousand Dollars
($205,060,000), unless 
the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views, as described in Section
3.01(a) of the Guarantee Agreement, based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (A) 
with the progress achieved by the Guarantor, IPAB and CNBV in the carrying out of the
Program;
(B) that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Guarantor is satisfactory, 
as measured on the basis of indicators agreed between the Guarantor, the Borrower and
the Bank; and
(C) that the actions described in Part A of Schedule 1 to the Guarantee 
Agreement have been taken in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
If, after
said exchange of views, the Bank is not so satisfied, the Bank may give notice to the
Borrower and to the Guarantor to that effect and, if within ninety
(90) days after 
such notice, the Borrower and the Guarantor shall not have taken steps satisfactory to
the Bank in respect of
(A), (B), and (C) above, then the Bank may, by notice to the 
Borrower and the Guarantor, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part
thereof.
(e)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account after the aggregate of 
the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account shall have reached the
equivalent of three hundred fifty five million sixty thousand Dollars
($355,060,000), 
unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views, as described in
Section
3.01(a) of the Guarantee Agreement, based on evidence satisfactory to the 
Bank: (A) with the progress achieved by the Guarantor, CNBV and IPAB in the carrying 
out of the Program;
(B) that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Guarantor is 
satisfactory, as measured on the basis of indicators agreed between the Guarantor, the
Borrower and the Bank; and
(C) that the actions described in Part B of Schedule 1 to 
the Guarantee Agreement have been taken in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank.
If, after said exchange of views, the Bank is not so satisfied, the Bank may
give notice to the Borrower and to the Guarantor to that effect and, if within ninety
(90) days after such notice, the Borrower and the Guarantor shall not have taken steps 
satisfactory to the Bank in respect of
(A), (B), and (C) above, then the Bank may, by 
notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or
any part thereof. 
Section
2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
such later date.
Section
2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to five million fifty thousand six hundred Dollars
($5,050,600). The Borrower 
Page  4
agrees that on or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee.
Section
2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one percent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section
3.02
of
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section
2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period
equal to the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period,
pay interest on such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV
of the General Conditions. 
Section
2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on June
1
and December
1
in each year.
Section
2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the loan in full 
on December
1,
2009.
Section
2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: a 
change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan,
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; a change of the interest rate basis
applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable
Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and the setting of limits on the Variable Rate
applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on
said Variable Rate. 
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a
“Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions 
of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
(c)
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium
be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any
premium payable in accordance with Section
4.04
(c)
of the General Conditions.
(d)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, requests 
for Conversion shall not be furnished to the Bank prior to February
1, 2000, unless 
otherwise agreed by the Bank.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section
3.01. (a) The Borrower, acting as authorized financial agent of the 
Guarantor, shall enter into, and comply with the terms of, contractual arrangements
with IPAB, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank providing, inter alia,
for the transfer of the proceeds of the Loan to IPAB, in pesos, in accordance with
written instructions issued by the Guarantor. 
(b)
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or 
fail to enforce any provision of the contractual arrangements referred to in paragraph
(a) of this Section.
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under such contractual
arrangements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Guarantor
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
The Borrower shall promptly
inform the Bank or the Guarantor of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the performance of the Borrower or IPAB under the contractual
arrangements referred to in paragraph
(a)
of this Section.
Page  5
Section
3.02
The Borrower shall participate in the exchanges of views referred
to in Section
3.01 (a) of the Guarantee Agreement.
Section
3.03. Upon the Bank's request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the date of the Bank's request for such audit, a certified copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account 
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section
4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be
carried out. 
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section
5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section
12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that the contractual arrangements referred to in Section
3.01 (a) of this Agreement have been entered into. 
Section
5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section
12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely that the contractual arrangements
referred to in Section
3.01 (a) of this Agreement have been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower, IPAB and the Guarantor, have been duly executed by them, and
are legally binding upon the Borrower, IPAB and the Guarantor in accordance with their
terms.
Section
5.03. The date March 14, 2000 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section
12.03 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section
6.01. The Director Internacional of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section
6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818
H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Page  6
Washington, D.C.
64145
(MCI)
Facsimile:
(202) 477-6391
For the Borrower:
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
Direcci
ón Internacional
Torre IV, piso
8
Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur
1971
01020
México , D.F.
México
Cable address: 
Telex:
NAFIN
NAFIME 383-1775765
Mexico City
Mexico City
Facsimile:
(525) 325-7097
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
/s/
David de Ferranti
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
By
/s/
Jesús Rodríguez Montero
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section
2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Guarantor;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision
3
(SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
Page  7
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by
the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
-
Alcoholic beverages
121
-
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122
-
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525
-
Radioactive and associated materials
667
-
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel
elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals
(except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths
’
or silversmiths’
wares
(including set gems)
971
-
Gold, non-
monetary
(excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term
"environmentally hazardous goods” 
means goods, the manufacture, use or import
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Guarantor or international agreements to
which the Guarantor is a party);
6.
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or
(b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower, of
the Guarantor or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of
such contract, without the Borrower or the Guarantor having taken timely and
appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation.
