Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7003-ME
Guarantee Agreement
(Bank Restructuring Facility Adjustment Loan)
between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 14, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 7003-ME
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 14, 1999, between UNITED MEXICAN STATES (the 
Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Guarantor a letter dated November 26, 
1999, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
adjustment of the Guarantor's banking sector (hereinafter called the Program), 
declaring the Guarantor's commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution thereof;
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided, in 
support of the Program, to provide such assistance to the Guarantor by making a loan 
in an amount of five hundred and five million sixty thousand Dollars ($505,060,000) to 
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C. (the Borrower), on the terms and conditions set forth in 
the Loan Agreement, of even date herewith, but only on condition that the Guarantor 
agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan and to 
undertake such other obligations as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower 
and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01.  The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read: “ ‘Project’ means the 
program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, in support of which the 
Loan is made.”;
(b)
Section 5.01 is modified to read: “The Borrower shall be entitled to 
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of the Loan Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
(c)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(d)
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to 
read as follows: “(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower 
shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Program referred to in the 
Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the performance by the Borrower, the Guarantor and the 
Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the Guarantee 
Agreement, and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.” 
(e)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to and Section 1.02 of the Loan 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Asset Disposal Program” means a program of actions for the sale, 
auction, administration or recovery of credits and other assets from banking 
institutions under IPAB's purview, to be undertaken by IPAB, pursuant to the 
provisions of Article 61 of the Guarantor’s law (Ley de Protección al Ahorro Bancario) 
published in the Guarantor’s Official Gazette on January 19, 1999, and in accordance 
with the provisions of Attachment C1 of Annex C to the Implementation Letter; 
(b)
“Budgetary Transfers” means funds transferred by the Guarantor to IPAB 
(as hereinafter defined), as a budget item in the Federal Budget (as hereinafter 
defined), in accordance with the provisions of the letter referred to in the WHEREAS  
clause (A) of the Preamble to this Agreement;
(c)
“Eligible Bank Resolution Transaction” means the sale, merger or 
liquidation of any of the following banking institutions: (i) Serfín; (ii) Bancrecer; 
(iii) Atlántico; (iv) Promex; and (v) Inverlat;  carried out in accordance with the 
eligibility criteria detailed in Attachments B.1, B.2, B.3, B.4 and B.5 of Annex B to 
the Implementation Letter; 
(d)
“Eligible Notes” means notes (instrumentos de crédito) issued by IPAB and 
guaranteed pursuant to the provisions of Article 45 of the Guarantor’s Law (Ley de 
Protección al Ahorro Bancario) published in the Guarantor’s Official Gazette of 
January 19, 1999, in accordance to the conditions detailed in paragraph 4 of Annex B 
to the Implementation Letter; 
(e)
“Federal Budget” means the Guarantor’s annual budget, as approved by the 
Guarantor’s Congress (Presupuesto de Egresos de la Federación) and enacted through a 
Congressional Decree issued pursuant to the Article 74 (IV) of the Guarantor’s Federal 
Constitution in each Fiscal Year (as hereinafter defined) during the execution of the 
Program;
(f)
"Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Guarantor, beginning on 
January 1 of each calendar year;  
(g)
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Guarantor to the Bank, containing technical criteria and indicators to be used in 
Page  3
monitoring and evaluating the implementation of the Program; 
(h)
“Regulatory Reform Program” means a series of regulatory reforms intended 
to improve the health and stability of the Guarantor’s banking sector, approved or to 
be approved by SHCP, CNBV and IPAB, as the case may be, during the execution of the 
Program, pursuant to the provisions of the letter referred to in the WHEREAS clause 
(A) of the Preamble to this Agreement; and 
(i)
“SHCP” means Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público, the Guarantor's 
Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit, or any successor thereto. 
ARTICLE II 
Guarantee; Transfer of Loan Proceeds
Section 2.01.  Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally 
guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment 
of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if 
any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the punctual performance of all other 
obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02.  (a) The Guarantor shall ratify the contractual arrangements 
referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of the Loan Agreement. 
(b)
The Guarantor shall exercise its rights under the contractual 
arrangements referred to in paragraph (a) above in such manner as to protect the 
interests of the Guarantor and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  
ARTICLE III 
Other Covenants
Section 3.01 (a) The Guarantor and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Guarantor shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Guarantor shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program or any action taken under the Program, including any 
action specified in Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Director General de Crédito Público of the Guarantor is 
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 4.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Dirección General de Crédito Público
Insurgentes Sur 826 (piso 9)
Colonia del Valle
03100 México, D.F.
México
Page  4
Telex:
1777313-SHOCME
Facsimile:
53257097
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
Facsimile:
(202) 477-6391
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By /s/ Jesús Reyes Heroles
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ David de Ferranti
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1 
Part A. Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 
(d) of the Loan Agreement 
1.
IPAB has issued Eligible Notes in an aggregate amount equal to at least 
$5,000,000,000, in support of Eligible Bank Resolution Transactions. 
2.
The Regulatory Reform Program has been implemented on a consistent basis, in 
accordance with its terms. 
3.
The Asset Disposal Program has been implemented on a consistent basis, in 
accordance with its terms. 
4.
The Budgetary Transfers have been made in a timely fashion so as to allow IPAB 
to discharge its responsibility under the Program.
Part B.  Actions referred to in Section 2.02 
(e) of the Loan Agreement 
Page  5
1.
IPAB has issued additional Eligible Notes in an aggregate amount equal to at 
least $8,000,000,000, in support of Eligible Bank Resolution Transactions, including 
in such amount any Eligible Notes issued in excess of the amount referred to in Part 
A.1 of this Schedule.
2.
The Regulatory Reform Program has been implemented on a consistent basis, in 
accordance with its terms, including the issuance by CNBV of regulations on loan 
classification and loan loss provisioning for mortgage or commercial loans, pursuant 
to the provisions of paragraph 4 of Annex A to the Implementation Letter.
3.
The Asset Disposal Program has been implemented on a consistent basis, in 
accordance with its terms.
4.
The Budgetary Transfers have been made in a timely fashion so as to allow IPAB 
to discharge its responsibility under the Program.
