Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19485
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURKINA FASO
EDUCATION IV PROJECT
(Credit 2244-BUR)
June 28, 1999
Human Development III
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



EXCHANGE RATES
Monetary unit = CFA franc (CFAF)
The CFAF is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio of FF I to CFAF 100 following the January 12, 1994 devaluation
of the CFAF from a ratio of FF I to CFAF 50. The French Franc is currently floating.
1992    US$ = CFAF250          1996    US$ = CFAF550
1993    US$ = CFAF270          1997    US$ = CFAF590
1994    US$ = CFAF470          1998    US$ = CFAF640
1995    US$ = CFAF490          1999    US$ = CFAF607
SDRI = US$1.36 (May 1999)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
FISCAL YEAR OF THE BORROWER
January I - December 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AME   Association des Meres Educatrices (Teaching   ENEP    Ecole Nationale des Enseignants du Primaire
Mothers Association)                               (National School for Basic Education Teachers)
APE    Association des Parents d'Eleves (Parents  GAP      Groupes d'Animations Pedagogiques
Association)                                       (Pedagogic Advisors Groups)
APL    Adaptable Program Loan                    GER       Gross enrollment ratio
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy               GNP       Gross National Product
CIDA   Canadian International Development Agency   ICR     Implementation Completion Report
CEG    College d 'enseignement general           IA        Instituteurs Adjoints (Auxiliary Teachers)
CEP    Certificat d'Ecole Primaire (Primary School    ICB  International Competitive Bidding
Certificate)                             IDA       International Development Agency
CPI    Conseiller Pedagogique Itinerant (Travelling   IEPD  Inspecteur Enseignement du Premier Degre
Pedagogic Advisor)                                 (Primary school inspector)
DAAF  Direction des Affaires Administratives et   INSE     Institut National des Statistiques et de I 'Emploi
Financieres (Directorate for Administrative        (National Institute for Statistics and Employment)
and Financial Affairs)                   IPB       Institut Pedagogique du Burkina (Pedagogic
DEBP   Direction de l'Enseignement de Base Prive           Institute)
(Directorate for Private Basic Education)  ITF     Interim Trust Fund
DEC    Direction des Examens et Concours         MEBA    Ministry of Basic Education and Literacy
(Directorate for Exams and Competitive   MESSRS  Ministry of Secondary and Higher Education and
Examinations)                                      Scientific Research
DCA    Development Credit Agreement              MTR       Mid-term Review
DEP    Direction des Etudes et de la Planifcation  NCB     National Competitive Bidding
(Directorate for Studies and Planning)   NGO       Non-governmental Organization
DES    Division de l'Edition scolaire (Directorate for   PER  Public Expenditure Review
Textbook publishing)                     PPEP      Post-primary Education Project
DOB    Direction de l'Orientation et des Bourses  SAL      Sectoral Adjustment Loan
(Directorate for advising and scholarships)  SAR   Staff Appraisal Report
DPEBA Direction Provenciale de I'Education de Base   SDR   Special Drawing Rights
et de 1'Alphabeitisation (Regional Directorate   SNP  Service National Populaire (People National
for Basic Education and Literacy)                  Service)
SPEF     Service Promotion de I 'Education des Filles
(Department Promotion of Girls' education)
UNICEF  United Nations Children's Fund
Vice President:                   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Director:                         Hasan Tuluy
Sector Manager:                   Helena Ribe
Resident Representative:          Manga Kuoh
Task Team Leader:                 Makha Ndao



BUJRKINA FASO
EDUCATION IV PROJECT  FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
(CREDIT 2244-BUR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE  ............................................. ..
EVALUATION SUMMARY .............................................                           II
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ..............................................1
I.  INTRODUCTION                                                                         I
A.  Macroeconomic Setting ......................................1..
B.   The Bank's Role in the Country and the Sector ......................................l
11.  PROJECT OBJECTIVES ........................................2
A. Original Project Objectives                           .2
B. Project Description and Components                        .3
C. Credit Covenants and Special Agreements                     ..3
D. Risks..4
E. Evaluation of Project Objectives                        ..4
III. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS ............................................5
A.  Assessment ofProject's Success and Sustainability  .......................:..................5
B.  Summary of Project Costs .......................................  :.9
C. Summary of FinancingArrangements                          ..9
D.  Implementation Schedule ....................................... ..               10
E.  Analysis of Key Factors Affecting Project Implementation  .     .10
F.  Assessment of the Bank's and Borrower's Performance   .        .11
G. Assessment of Project's Outcome .. 11
IV. SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS, AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED .......... 12
A.  Important Findings of Project Implementation Experience . ............................................... ....-.-..12
B.  Future Operations and Sustainability ....................................................................  12
C.  Lessonsfor Future Projects in the Sector in Burkina Faso . ........................................................... 13
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES ..........................                                     15
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS .16
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK CREDITS .17
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE .                                                            18
TABLE 4:    CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL AMOUNTS         .      19
TABLE 5A: PERFORMANCE INDICATORS .20
TABLE 5B:   KEY INDICATORS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .....................................  21
TABLE 6:  STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT .30
TABLE 7A: PROJECT COSTS (BY COMPONENT).                                                 3 1
TABLE 7B:   PROJECT AMOUNT (BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURES) .32
TABLE 7C: PROJECT FINANCING .32
TABLE 8:    ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS .....................................          : 32
TABLE 9:  STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS .33
TABLE 10: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS .39
TABLE I IA: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS .40
TABLE 11 B:  WORLD BANK RESOURCES: SUPERVISION MISSIONS .41
APPENDICES
A. ICR mission's Aide Memoire
B. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



BURKINA FASO
EDUCATION IV PROJECT
(CREDIT 2244-BUR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Education IV Project in
Burkina Faso for which Credit 2244-BUR was approved on May 21, 1991, in the amount of SDR
17.8 million (US$24.0 million equivalent) and was made effective on January 3, 1992. The
Credit was closed on December 31, 1998. It was disbursed up to the amount of SDR 17.77
million (US$26.0 million equivalent) and the undisbursed amount of SDR 33,820 (US$ 45,100
equivalent) was canceled on June 25, 1999.
2.    The ICR was prepared by Makha Ndao (Sr. Education Specialist, AFMBF), Celine
Gavach (Language Team Assistant, AFTH3), Sakhevar Diop (Textbooks Specialist, AFTH3),
and Souleymane Zerbo (Consultant/Civil Works). Nicole Hamon (Language Team Assistant,
AFTH3) provided inputs on the statistical tables; Johanne Angers (Sr. Operations Analyst,
AFTH3) and Ross Pfile (consultant) edited the report. The report was reviewed by Helena Ribe
(Sector Manager, AFTH3), Hasan Tuluy (Country Director for Burkina Faso), Celestin Monga
(Economist, AFM4), Manga Kuoh (Resident Representative in Burkina Faso), Francoise Perrot
(Operations Analyst, AFC 15), and Irene Xenakis (Senior Implementation Specialist, AFTH3), as
well as by members of the Burkina Faso Country Team and advisors in the Education sector.
3.    The Bank's supervision mission in June 1998 began the preparation of this ICR. The
report is based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Development Credit Agreement, supervision
reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, discussions with other donors and
beneficiaries, and other relevant records. A short mission undertaken in January 1999 allowed
the mission team the opportunity to discuss the key lessons of the draft ICR with the Borrower.
The Borrower contributed to the ICR preparation by discussing the aide-memoire of the Bank's
final supervision mission, commenting on the draft ICR, and preparing its own evaluation of the
project's execution, which can be found in Appendix B. The Government contribution to the
ICR was discussed with both donors and stakeholders and was presented and approved by the
Council of Ministers. In addition, the Ministry of Basic Education and Literacy (MEBA)
received praise from the President, who instructed the Minister of Basic Education and Literacy
to award decorations (Palmes academiques) to project staff responsible for the various
components. The Minister of Basic Education and Literacy has confirmed in a letter dated June
2, 1999, his agreement to the content of the ICR.



BURKINA FASO
EDUCATION IV PROJECT
(CREDIT 2244-BUR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    The Bank's Role in the Country and the Sector. The project under review is the fourth
of five IDA-funded projects aimed at supporting the education sector in Burkina Faso. The other
projects include the First Education Project (Cr. 430-UV for an amount of US$2.8 million,
approved in 1973); the Second Education Project (Cr. 956-BUR for an amount of US$14.0
million, approved in 1979); the Primary Education Development Project (Cr. 1598-BUR, for an
amount of US$21.6 million, approved in 1985); and the Post-primary Education Project (ITF
N0070-BUR for an amount of US$26.0 million, approved in 1997) (para. 4). The 1996 World
Bank's country assistance strategy for Burkina Faso stressed the need for a sound
macroeconomic environment to enable equitable growth and poverty reduction. It also stressed
the need for accelerated provision of social services to the poorest Burkinabe to allow them to
fully benefit from new income and growth opportunities. The strategy specifically emphasizes
three objectives: (a) to achieve macroeconomic stability by sustaining real GDP growth at 5
percent and by raising domestic revenue and public savings; (b) to provide social services in
education and health; and (c) to create income opportunities in the sectors of agriculture, mining,
finance, infrastructure, water, and the environment (para. 3).
2.    Objectives of the Education IV Project. The main objectives of the current project
were to assist the Government in further improving the quality of primary education and
increasing the enrollment rate from 31 percent in 1989/90 to 40 percent by 1996/97; improving
the quality of general secondary education; and strengthening key sectoral institutions. The
project also aimed for the improvement of resource allocation and utilization in order to increase
access to primary education (para. 5).
3.    Evaluation of Project Objectives. Overall, the project was successful in broadly
achieving its objectives. The main objectives of the project were essential for achieving the
Government's overall goal for the education sector. The Government drew from the experience
gained through former projects and decided to provide education through formal primary
education under the Education III project, which helped increase the primary school enrollment
rate from 15 percent in 1980 to 31 percent in 1989/90. Based on these results, the Government
developed specific reform measures aimed at increasing resources for primary education and
improving effectiveness in the use of those resources, limiting expenditures related to student
subsidies in secondary and higher education, and promoting private provision of education (para.
12).



Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Assessment of Project's Success and Sustainability Improving the quality of primary
and secondary education, and access to primary education The project supported reforms to
improve the quality of education through pre-service and in-service teachers' training. As a
result, the proportion of qualified teachers increased from 18.6 percent in the whole country in
1990/91 to 54.5 percent in rural areas and 80.8 percent in urban areas in 1997/98 (para. 13).
5.    The initial quantitative targets of the project-building  1,200 classrooms and
rehabilitating 300 classrooms-were exceeded, in that 1,829 classrooms were constructed and
591 rehabilitated. Nevertheless, the strategy calling for grants for local community labor costs
was not implemented because of its complexity. At the Mid-term Review (MTR), it was decided
to implement the civil works program through: (a) delegation of the responsibility for
management and implementation of civil works to Faso Baara (the executing management
agency); (b) use of private engineering consulting firms (maitrise d'oeuvre deleguee); and (c)
community participation through a classroom normalization strategy. However, the quality of
some classrooms and housing built is uncertain. Finally, the maintenance guide for construction
to be distributed to the Parents' Associations (APE) was not developed, and building
maintenance currently depends on the APE's initiative (para. 15).
6.    The project succeeded in the areas of textbook development, production, distribution, and
capacity building in book publishing. The use of private authors contributed to reducing the
average manuscript writing time from 12 to 6 months. This approach helped complete the
publishing program ahead of schedule, reduce the cost of textbooks by about 63 percent, and
provide schools with better quality textbooks. However, the textbook rental scheme did not
function as expected because many students experienced difficulties in paying the rental fees.
Following the MTR, books were loaned free of charge to students in schools implementing
efficiency measures (double-shift and multigrade teaching) and to girls in areas where the
proportion of female students is less than 10 percent. The proceeds from textbooks sold to
students were deposited into a Textbook Fund, as well as 5.4 percent of the recurrent budget for
primary education for teaching materials and textbooks. This allowed for the reprinting and
editing of new textbooks (para. 16).
7.    The project has substantially met its goals to increase access of primary education and
improve the quality of primary and secondary education. The overall primary school gross
enrollment ratio (GER) reached 41 percent in 1997/98. The overall share of girls increased from
37 percent in 1990/91 to 40 percent in 1997/98 (from 31 percent to 39 percent in the public
school system during the same period, compared with a stagnant 42 percent in private school
systems). Total enrollment increased from 472,979 students in 1988/89 to 777,691 in 1997/98,
an average rate of increase of 6.4 percent per year. The total enrollment of female students
increased from 179,646 in 1990/91 to 310,496 in 1997/98, representing an average rate of
increase of 7.1 percent, compared with 6.0 percent for boys. The combined system of double-
shift and multigrade teaching helped enroll approximately 80,000 additional children, who would
not otherwise have had a chance to attend school. Enrollment in private schools rose from
43,629 students in 1991/92 to 89,017 students in 1997/98. At the same time, the number of



iv
student years funded to produce a primary school graduate has been reduced from 26 to 12, while
the success rate in the Primary School Certificate (CEP) exam rose from 24 percent to 53
percent. In addition, in 1985, out of a cohort of 1,000 students, only 690 completed primary
school, compared with 800 students in 1997. Finally, the grade repetition rate decreased from 17
percent in 1990/91 to 14 percent in 1997/98 (para. 17).
8.    Strengthening key sectoral institutions on policy formulation and implementation and
improving operational efficiency. The project supported training of staff in: (a) personnel
management and budget preparation and control; (b) data collection and analysis; and (c)
educational policy. Support given by the project and the French Cooperation allowed for
increased capacity in data collection and analysis and in the development of school mapping.
The support provided by the European Union and the project improved the budget preparation
system and led to budgeting by objectives. Capacity for policy analysis also improved (para. 18).
9.    Key policy measures. The average annual rate of increase of the Government's budget
devoted to primary education was 9.5 percent from 1991 to 1997, compared with 8.4 percent for
post-primary education, which includes lower and upper secondary, technical and vocational
training, and tertiary education. The rate of increase for the education sector as a whole was 9
percent. From 1995 to 1999, MEBA's budget increased by about 1.3 percent, compared with an
increase of 1.2 percent for the Government budget; internal allocations of the budget have
become more efficient. The proportion of MEBA's budget devoted to salaries has decreased
from 84.66 percent in 1995 to 69.7 percent in 1999 due to efficiency measures. New teachers
were hired each year through the Government budget, demonstrating the priority given to
primary education through the provision of teachers. Additional teaching staff also helped
reduce the student/teacher ratio from 57 to 47 between 1990/91 and 1997/98 (para. 19).
10.   Total student social subsidies in secondary and higher education decreased from CFAF
4.8 billion to CFAF 3.1 billion. The project's efficiency measures continue to be satisfactorily
implemented: (a) the proportion of higher education students with scholarships decreased from
97 percent in 1988/89 to 36 percent in 1998, and higher education scholarships awarded have
been limited, with priority given to female students enrolled in scientific fields; (b) 60 percent of
university dormitory places are allocated to female students; and (c) secondary school
scholarships are being progressively eliminated, decreasing from 22,750 to 6,303. Only girls
from the ten provinces with the lowest enrollment rates are eligible for the remaining
scholarships. Burkina Faso has made progress in increasing cost recovery. To increase
efficiency in the use of primary school teachers and classrooms, multigrade teaching was
introduced in 1,847 classrooms and double-shift teaching in 950 classrooms (compared with the
project's target of 840 and 590 classrooms, respectively). These measures helped increase total
enrollment by 23 percent (para. 20).
11.   To promote private initiatives in the provision of education, incentive measures were
implemented: deregulation of fees, easy access to land for school construction, and provision of
teachers' in-service training. As a result, enrollment in private schools rose from 43,629 students
in 1991/92 to 89,017 students in 1997/98 (para. 21).



v
12.   Sustainability. Because primary education was developed with a view to future
sustainability, several factors are expected to contribute to project sustainability: (a) budget
reallocation in favor of primary education; (b) more efficient resource use; (c) increased
community participation; and (d) capacity to produce low-cost textbooks and construct low-cost
classrooms. The adjustment measures that affected teachers and students (double-shift teaching
and reduction of students' social subsidies) have matured and are well internalized. To
strengthen the education reformns, the Government has prepared a post-primary education
programn supported by the PPEP (ITF 007-BUR) and is finalizing a Basic Education Ten-Year
program. Thus, the project's sustainability can be rated as "likely" (para. 22).
13.   Summary of Project Costs and Financing Arrangements. Total project expenditure
amounted to US$39.4 million, compared with an appraisal estimate of US$46.4 million
equivalent. Of this amount, IDA contributed 66 percent; the Kingdom of Norway, 9 percent; the
European Union (EEC), 9 percent; the Kingdom of Belgium, 15 percent; local participation, 1
percent; and the Government, 1 percent. These amounts compare with the financing percentages
established at the time of Board Presentation: IDA, 52 percent; Kingdom of Norway, 8 percent;
EEC, 16 percent; Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), 19 percent; local
participation, 4 percent; and Government, 2 percent. CIDA was to cofinance the project but later
decided to finance activities to improve education quality outside the Education IV Project.
After the Mid-term Review, a grant from the Kingdom of Belgium helped finance the
construction program. Also, outside the framework of the Education IV Project, a grant from the
Netherlands provided additional resources for construction and rehabilitation. The foreign
exchange component was estimated at the time of appraisal at US$32.0 million equivalent (69
percent). Due to modification of the originally planned construction implementation strategy,
construction expenditures, as well as those activities financed by the Belgian grant, were in local
currency. Therefore, the actual foreign exchange component amounts to only US$4.8 million
equivalent (12 percent of total project costs) compared with US$34.8 million equivalent (88
percent of total project costs) for local costs. IDA's credit was disbursed at 99.8 percent of the
total credit amount (SDR 17.77 million over SDR17.8 million) (paras. 24-26).
14.   Analysis of Key Factors Affecting Project Implementation. At appraisal, two key
issues were identified: (a) increasing budgetary allocations for primary education and reducing
student subsidies; and (b) the ability of communities to effectively contribute 10 percent of
school construction costs. The first was identified as a risk because of pressure for the status quo
from ministries and the educational establishment To overcome this pressure, wide-ranging
consultations were organized, leading to strong support for primary education. The second risk
was overcome by starting the project with the pilot program conducted during the Education III
project. Implementation faced several difficulties: (a) donors' various classroom-delivery
approaches led communities to question the rationale for having to contribute to classroom
construction under the IDA project when other donor-supported schemes did not require cost-
sharing; and (b) the high incidence of poverty (45 percent of the population in 1995) and the
cumulative effect of cost-sharing in various activities (health, agriculture, education, etc.)
constituted an obstacle to sustained financial contributions by the communities. It was therefore



vi
decided during the MTR to rely on small, local contractors for school construction, following a
selection process involving local communities. The issue was addressed to both the Bank's and
the Government's satisfaction (para. 28).
15.   Assessment of the Bank's and Borrower's Performance. The Bank's performance
was, overall, satisfactory during project identification and preparation. The risks were correctly
identified. However, a sound monitoring and evaluation system should have been established to
assess the project's outcomes during implementation. Project implementation started in an
uncertain environment that was further complicated by the high turnover of local counterparts.
Under these circumstances, the Bank's supervision was effective. Adequate efforts were made to
preserve continuity in task management. The Bank also demonstrated understanding and
flexibility with regard to the changes that the country experienced.  The delegation of
responsibility, in 1997, to the Resident Mission and the strengthening of the Resident Mission's
capacity with regard to procurement matters also contributed to improving communications and
informnation exchanges between the Bank and the local project team. Furthermore, the project's
MTR was the catalyst for donor coordination, which culminated in the current sound dialogue
among donors and between donors and the Government. The Borrower's performance was
satisfactory during the project preparation phase, but deficient during project start-up, due to a
large turnover of key civil servants. This required some adjustment during project
implementation. After this adjustment, there was continuity in the project team and key staff of
the ministry, which helped to substantially improve project execution and led to a satisfactory
implementation (paras. 29-30).
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
16.  Important Findings of Project Implementation Experience.  For the most part,
execution of this project and disbursements were on schedule throughout the life of the project,
and covenants were in compliance. Disbursement procedures were regularly followed, resulting
in no rejections from the Bank and in unqualified opinions from the auditors. The project was
supervised regularly. Changes in the task management did not have any negative impact.
However, the opportunity cost of education remains high for poor families, which impedes a
more dynamic demand for education among Burkinabe households. Addressing demand-side
issues is therefore an important factor to overcome resistance to schooling (para. 32).
17.   Although the project met its goals, the following lessons should be taken into account for
future operations (para. 34):
* The Government should, at an early stage, develop a comprehensive policy franework for an
effective intervention of all donors in the sub-sector.
* To guide implementation and build momentum, reasonably detailed implementation
arrangements covering the first year should be developed before the project becomes
effective.



vii
*  Faster development of primary education is constrained by high education unit costs and
inefficient resource use and allocation. To further address this issue, the Government is
considering recruiting more teachers at a lower salary, developing low-cost pedagogical
materials, reducing grade repetition, and increasing the share of basic education in the total
education budget.
*  While the supply of education has helped increase enrollment, there are localities where the
provision of a school itself is insufficient to increase access. The Government would have to
develop a demand-side approach to overcome resistance to schooling prior to investment.
* Standardized assessment of student learning should be made available. Although testing and
evaluation system is integrated in the ongoing Post-primary Education Project, the
Government will create, as part of the future operation, an "Observatoire de 1'education" to
deal with the monitoring of quality and access and to identify sectoral issues at an early stage
in order to provide early corrective measures.
*  For school construction programs, it would be more efficient to: (a) engage small, private,
local contractors to use a kit of standard construction materials and plan for a maximum of
three classrooms; and (b) delegate more responsibility to local communities to do the work
themselves or contract the work to local artisans or small entrepreneurs, with financial and
technical assistance from the project.
*  A technical evaluation of current construction programs is underway in order to determine
the different types of interventions, costs, and timeframe to be recommended for future
operations.



BURKINA FASO
EDUCATION IV PROJECT
(CREDIT 2244-BUR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I.    INTRODUCTION
A.   Macroeconomic Setting
1.    Burkina Faso is a resource-poor, landlocked country in a transitional zone
between the Sudano-Guinean regions and the Sahel.  Although fragile, soils are
comparatively fertile. The majority of Burkina Faso's population of roughly 10 million
depends mainly on agriculture and raising livestock. Poverty remains widespread in
Burkina Faso with an estimated 45 percent of the population living under the poverty
threshold; a GNP per capita estimated at US$220 in 1998; and low social indicators.
Low health indicators in Burkina Faso, even by sub-Saharan standards (life expectancy of
45 years), and the low health status of the population remain a major constraint to
economic and social development. Considerable progress has been made in recent years
to raise school enrollment, but educational levels in Burkina Faso are still very low.
Gross primary school enrollment was estimated at 42 percent in 1998, and the illiteracy
rate of 78 percent remains one of the highest in sub-Saharan Africa. Universal primary
education is still a distant goal.
2.    Burkina Faso has established an extended adjustment track record under
successive programs supported by the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund
since 1991. Under these programs, the Government of Burkina Faso implemented a
broad range of reforms that have largely succeeded in their basic objective of redirecting
the economy from a centralized to a market-oriented mode and of restoring a viable
macroeconomic position and laying the groundwork for a major effort to improve social
conditions in the coming years. Substantial progress has been made in the management
of public expenditures, with increasing amounts allocated to the improvement of basic
health and education services.
B.    The Bank's Role in the Country and the Sector
3.    Fifty credits have been approved for Burkina Faso, amounting to US$897 million.
IDA strategy, articulated in 1996, is to support the Government in its goal to achieve
sustainable development and poverty reduction through increased economic growth and
better targeted human resource development. The strategy emphasizes three objectives:
(a) achieve macroeconomic stability by sustaining real GDP growth at 5 percent and by



2
raising domestic revenue and public savings; (b) provide social services in education and
health; and (c) create income opportunities in the sectors of agriculture, mining, finance,
infrastructure, water, and the environment. In education, the strategy is to increase school
enrollment at the primary and secondary levels, increase the gender ratio in favor of girls,
and increase the participation of the private sector. The Bank's current portfolio, with
commitments of US$282 million (undisbursed amount of approximately US$152 million
equivalent), includes 11 projects under supervision in agriculture, education, transport,
health, the urban environment, private and public sector assistance, and mining.
4.    The First Education Project (Cr. 430-UV, US$2.8 million, closing date
November 1980) was designed to: (a) support informal sector training by providing rural
youth with basic literacy and agricultural training; and (b) strengthen the teaching of
science in secondary schools. The Second Education Project (Cr. 956-BUR, US$14.0
million, closing date August 1986) continued support for the rural youth training program
started under the first project, including in-service training for agricultural project
managers and public works personnel. The Primary Education Development Project
(Education III Project, Cr. 1598-BUR, US$21.6 million, closing date March 1994)
supported the development of primary education and the reduction of per pupil costs
through: (a) restructuring teacher training and teacher salary scales downward; (b)
providing low-cost textbooks and teaching materials; (c) developing cost-effective
methods of school construction; and (d) improving sector management through assistance
to the Ministry of Basic Education and Literacy (MEBA), the Ministry of Secondary and
Higher Education and Scientific Research (MESSRS), and the Ministry of Rural
Cooperatives. The Fourth Education Project -Education IV- (Cr. 2244-BUR,
signed on July 5, 1991, for US$24.0 million) built directly on the results of the Education
III Project. The ongoing Post-primary Education Project (PPEP, ITF N0070-BUR,
US$26.0 million, effective since October 1997) assists the Government through: (a) the
promotion of cost-effective and equitable use of public education resources; and (b)
increased access to, and quality of, education through: (i) construction of and provision of
equipment for Colleges d'enseignment general (CEGs), (ii) reform and improvement in
pre-service and in-service teacher training, (iii) greater availability of textbooks and
pedagogic materials, and (iv) improvement of existing secondary education programs.
The Project also aims at improving MESSR's capacity to manage and plan secondary and
higher education and scientific research and to coordinate ongoing education projects in
Burkina Faso.
II.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES
A.   Original Project Objectives
5.    The main objectives of the Education IV Project were to assist the Government in
further improving the quality of primary education and increasing the enrollment ratio
from 31 percent in 1989/90 to 40 percent by 1996/97; improving the quality of general
secondary education; and strengthening key sectoral institutions. Given the promising



3
progress made during the implementation of Education III, which laid the foundation for
formal primary education, it was necessary to improve resource allocation and utilization
in order to increase access to primary education.
B.    Project Description and Components
6.    The project's first component aimed at improving the quality of and increasing
access to primary education by: (a) upgrading teaching in schools; (b) increasing the
availability of high-quality textbooks and teaching materials; (c) increasing the number of
primary school classrooms; (d) improving students' health and nutritional status; and (e)
promoting girls' participation in education. The second component aimed at improving
the quality of general secondary education by: (a) upgrading teachers' skills; and (b)
increasing the availability of low-cost textbooks and teaching materials. The third
component aimed at strengthening key sectoral institutions by providing support to the
MEBA and MESSRS to further strengthen their capacity for policy formulation and
implementation and to improve their operational efficiency.
7.    The project included key policy measures to improve the allocation of and
increase efficiency in the use of sector resources by increasing budgetary expenditures for
primary education; to increase efficiency in the use of primary school teachers and
classrooms; and to reduce secondary and higher education student subsidies. It also
included measures to promote private initiatives in the provision of education through
incentives for establishing and operating private and community schools.
C.   Credit Covenants and Special Agreements
8.    Covenants and special agreements were developed to assist the project in reaching
its objectives (Table 9). The following conditions of credit effectiveness were agreed
upon: (a) submission to IDA, for its review and comments, of two studies concerning,
respectively, the establishment and operation of primary schools and secondary schools
by individuals, private groups, and communities, and the proposed liberalization of fees
charged by such schools; (b) raising the ceiling applicable to such fees by no less than 10
percent as of the 1991/92 school year; (c) establishment of an accounting system in the
Project Directorate adapted to meet the specific requirements of the project and selection
of an independent auditor, acceptable to IDA, for the auditing of project accounts; and (d)
submission of a plan, acceptable to IDA, for the introduction, effective as of the 1991/92
school year, of a book rental scheme for primary schools, which would include provisions
for: (i) the purchase and rental of textbooks; (ii) the continued operation of a Textbook
Fund to ensure a continuous supply of textbooks; and (iii) measures to supplement the
resources of the Textbook Fund, through appropriate budgetary allocations, in accordance
with paragraph 6 (b) of Schedule 5 to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA).
9.    All the above conditions of credit effectiveness were complied with by the
Borrower to the satisfaction of the World Bank, and the Credit was declared effective on
January 3, 1992.



4
10.   Modifications and amendments. The DCA was amended twice. The first
amendment was made on August 28, 1995, following the project's Mid-term Review
(MTR). It allowed the involvement of small and medium enterprises to construct
classrooms, an increase in the amount of the authorized allocation for the purpose of the
Special Account (from US$600,000 to US$1,200,000), and the reallocation of credit
funds (from categories 5-Pedagogical materials, 7-Training, and Unallocated, to
categories 1-Civil works, 2-Construction of classrooms and 3-Grants for rehabilitation).
The second amendment was made on March 10, 1998, to provide for community
participation as one of the acceptable procurement procedures. The project closing date,
initially June 30, 1998, was extended for a period of 6 months, to December 31, 1998,
following a request from the Government to extend the closing date of categories 6
(Specialist service) and 8 (Operating costs) to enable the Government to support the
preparation of its contribution to the ICR and facilitate the preparation of its Basic
Education Ten-Year Program.
D.   Risks
11.   The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) identified two main risks. The first risk was
the possible difficulties faced by the Government to increase budgetary allocations for
primary education and to reduce student subsidies. This risk was mitigated by the
Government's consensus-building approach toward policy changes, widespread support
for increasing allocations for primary education, and the already reduced number of
scholarships in higher education at the time of project appraisal. The second risk
identified concerned the ability of communities to contribute the required 10 percent of
school construction costs in cash or in kind.
E.    Evaluation of Project Objectives
12.   Overall, the project was successful in broadly achieving its objectives. The
Government drew from the experience gained through former projects. After choosing
the mechanism of nonformal, rural training to provide education in the 1980s, the
Government came to realize that this alternative system was not replicable on a large
scale due to its unit costs of about US$143 per trainee, versus US$38 in primary
education. Therefore, the Government decided to provide education through formal
primary education under the Education III project, which was the first project with this
focus. Primary school enrollment, which was 5 percent in 1960 and 15 percent in 1980,
reached 31 percent in 1989/1990. Based on these encouraging results, and given the
financial constraints and inefficiencies that inhibited orderly and sustained development
of the education sector, the Government developed specific reform measures aimed at
increasing resources for primary education and improving effectiveness in the use of
those resources, limiting expenditures for student subsidies in secondary and higher
education, and promoting private provision of education. The strategy for further
improvements and expansion of education was firmed up following discussions based on
sector analysis and investment priorities among the Government, IDA, and other donors.



5
III. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
A.   Assessment of Project's Success and Sustainability
13.   Improving the quality of primary and secondary education and access to
primary education. Upgrading teaching skills. The project also supported reforms to
improve the quality of education. A total of 1,700 existing teachers (of which 250 came
from private schools) and more than 5,000 new auxiliary teachers (IA) were trained,
resulting in 80 percent of the primary school teaching force receiving pre-service or in-
service training. Training activities improved the proportion of qualified teachers: 54.5
percent in rural areas and 80.8 percent in urban areas, compared with 18.6 percent
nationally in 1990/91. To improve the management at the school level, 1,200 school
directors and 500 pedagogic advisors, inspectors, and administrative staff were trained.
More than 2,000 secondary school teachers were trained in six basic subjects in order to
upgrade their teaching skills. It was, however, determined that large and centralized
regrouping was costly and ineffective for in-service training. Therefore, GAP (Groupes
d'Animations Pedagogiques) were created to conduct decentralized in-service training for
primary school teachers in a network of closely located schools. GAPs were provided
with 300 pedagogic kits and with professional books. In-service training for secondary
education teachers was provided through mobile training teams, who visited the field and
emphasized scientific and mathematics teaching skills.
14.   Improving students' health and nutritional status and promoting girls' education.
The project financed pre-service and in-service training that included modules on health
and nutrition, environment, and promotion of girls' education. Health and nutrition topics
were also added to new textbooks. Micronutrients and de-worming tablets, 2,272 first aid
kits, and health cards were distributed to primary school students in 15 provinces.
Furthermore, all new construction included latrines.
15.  Increasing the number of primary school classrooms. The initial quantitative
targets of the project -building 1,200 classrooms and rehabilitating 300 classrooms-
were exceeded: 1,829 classrooms were constructed and 591 rehabilitated. Nevertheless,
the strategy calling for grants for local community labor costs was not implemented
because of its complexity. The main constraint was the capacity of local organizations to
participate in monetary terms given Burkina Faso's level of poverty. In addition, local
communities questioned the rationale of cost-sharing when other donors intervening in
the same zone were not requesting financial participation. At MTR, it was decided to
implement the civil works program through: (a) delegation of the responsibility for
management and implementation of civil works to Faso Baara; (b) use of private
engineering consulting firms (martrise d'oeuvre dc'leguee); and (c) community
participation through a classroom normalization strategy. This strategy allowed the
construction of 1,829 new classrooms (including 785 classrooms executed through the
local community approach), the rehabilitation of 591 classrooms, and the construction of



6
546 teachers' residences. Cost savings were achieved through the construction of smaller
buildings, a reduced number of teachers' residences in favor of transfer to local
communities, the types of intervention (mostly delegation of responsibility for
management and implementation of civil works, as well as the use of small enterprises
and local jobbers), and the involvement of local communities from the planning stage to
the completion of the construction. However, the quality of some classrooms and
housing built is uncertain. A technical evaluation of the construction program under this
project is recommended to determine the different types of interventions, costs, and
timeframes to be recommended for future operations. Finally, the maintenance guide for
construction to be distributed to the Parents' Associations (APE) was not developed. To
date, maintenance depends on APE's initiative.
16.  Increasing the availability of books and teachers' manuals. The project succeeded
in the areas of textbook development, production, distribution, and capacity building in
book publishing. In primary education, the project produced and distributed about 4.5
million textbooks and 114,000 teachers' guides, far more than the 1.4 million textbooks
and 60,000 teachers' guides planned at appraisal. The use of private authors selected
through national competitive bidding contributed to a reduction of the average manuscript
writing time from 12 to 6 months. Private publishers selected through international
competitive bidding transformed the manuscripts into finished books. This approach
helped complete the publishing program ahead of schedule, reduce the cost of textbooks
by about 63 percent, and provide schools with better quality textbooks. The project
started implementing a textbook rental scheme in a few schools. However, the scheme
did not function as expected because many students, mainly in rural areas, could not pay
the rental fees. To improve access to textbooks, following the MTR, books were loaned
free of charge to students in schools implementing efficiency measures (double-shift and
multigrade teaching) and to girls in areas where the proportion of female students was
less than 10 percent. Proceeds from textbooks sold to students who could afford to buy
them were deposited into the Primary Textbook Fund. An amount equal to 5.35 percent
of the recurrent budget for primary education for teaching materials and textbooks was
also deposited into the Primary Textbook Fund. At the end of the project, its balance was
near CFAF 1.2 million. The project also contributed to developing capacity in textbook
development, procurement, production, and distribution in MEBA's Pedagogic Institute
(IPB) and Directorate for Administration and Financial Affairs (DAAF). About 233,000
books were purchased and distributed to lower secondary schools. Books were rented to
students for CFAF 500 per book. Rental fees, supplemented by an annual CFAF 3
million in Government subsidies, were deposited into the Lower Secondary Textbook
Fund.
17.   The project has substantially met its goals of increasing access to primary
education and improving the quality of primary and secondary education. The overall
primary school gross enrollment ratio reached 41 percent in 1997/98: 48 percent for boys
and 33.4 percent for girls. The overall share of girls increased from 37 percent in
1990/91 to 40 percent in 1997/98. However, this masks a tremendous effort within the
public school system, where Burkina Faso has developed a clear strategy for promotion



7
of girls' education. The share of girls increased from 31 percent to 39 percent in the
public school system during this time period, compared with a stagnant 42 percent in
private school systems. Total enrollment increased from 472,979 students in 1988/89 to
777,691 in 1997/98, an average rate of increase of 6.4 percent per year. The total
enrollment of girls increased from 179,646 to 310,496, representing a rate of increase of
7.1 percent, compared with 6.0 percent for boys. The combined system of double-shift
and multigrade teaching contributed to enroll approximately 80,000 additional children,
who would not otherwise have had a chance to attend school. In 1985, out of a cohort of
1,000 students, only 690 completed primary school, compared with 800 students in 1997.
Within the same time frame, the number of student years funded to produce a primary
school graduate was reduced from 26 to 12 years, while the success rate in the Primary
School Certificate (CEP) exam rose from 24 percent to 53 percent. The repetition rate
decreased from 17 percent in 1990/91 to 14 percent in 1997/98.
18.   Strengthening  key  sectoral institutions  on  policy  formulation  and
implementation and improving operational efficiency. The project supported training
of staff in: (a) personnel management and budget preparation and control; (b) data
collection and analysis; and (c) educational policy. Regarding educational planning, the
support given by the project and the French Cooperation allowed for increased capacity
in data collection and analysis and in the development of school mapping. The support
provided by the European Union and the project improved the budget preparation system
and led to budgeting by objectives. Capacity improvement in policy analysis is reflected
in the development of a draft Basic Education Ten-Year Program by the Ministry of
Basic Education and Literacy. However, MEBA's capacity needs to be further increased
and adjusted, given the large number of civil servants employed in the education sector
and the ongoing decentralization process in the country.
19.   Key policy measures. The average annual rate of increase of the Government
budget devoted to primary education was 9.5 percent from 1991 to 1997, compared with
8.4 percent for post-primary education, which includes lower and upper secondary
schools, technical and vocational training, and tertiary education. The rate of increase for
the education sector as a whole was 9 percent. From 1995 to 1999, MEBA's budget
increased by about 1.3 percent, compared with an increase of 1.2 percent for the
Government budget; internal allocations of the budget were more efficient.  The
proportion of MEBA's budget devoted to salaries decreased from 84.7 percent in 1995 to
69.7 percent in 1999 due to efficiency measures. During the same period, the share of
other categories increased: (a) materials and equipment from 5.5 percent to 10 percent;
(b) transfers from 5.6 percent to 8.8 percent, due to the opening of new Teachers'
Training Colleges; and (c) investments from 4.2 percent to 11.5 percent. On average, 950
new teachers were hired each year through the Government budget and 1,500 national
voluntary service teachers who had no training and commitment to the profession were
replaced. This provision of new teachers demonstrates the priority given to primary
education. This effort helped erase the deficit in teachers observed in early 1990, and lay
the foundation for primary school development. It also helped reduce the student/teacher
ratio from 57 to 47.



8
20.   Total student social subsidies in secondary and higher education decreased from
CFAF 4.8 billion to CFAF 3.1 billion. The project's efficiency measures continue to be
satisfactorily implemented: (a) the proportion of higher education students with
scholarships decreased from 97 percent in 1988/89 (when total enrollment was 5,300
students) to 36 percent in 1998 (with a total enrollment of 12,000 students), and higher
education scholarships awarded were limited to 500 per year, with priority given to
female students enrolled in scientific fields; (b) 60 percent of university dormitory places
were allocated to female students; and (c) secondary school scholarships were
progressively eliminated -the total number of scholarships awarded to secondary school
students decreased from 22,750 to 6,303 - and only girls from the ten provinces with the
lowest enrollment rates were eligible for the remaining scholarships. Burkina Faso has
made progress in increasing cost-recovery: (a) university fees range from CFAF 7,500 to
CFAF 11,000 (depending on the field of study) for regular students and CFAF 25,000 for
student workers, compared with an average CFAF 5,000 in most countries in the sub-
region; (b) secondary school students pay a registration fee of CFAF 5,000, and 75
percent of these fees are held by schools for pedagogical inputs; and (c) the Centre
National des Oeuvres Universitaires and the management of university restaurants were
transferred to the Ministry of Higher Education and to a private operator respectively,
leaving the university free to focus on academic matters. To increase the efficiency in the
use of primary school teachers and classrooms, multigrade teaching was introduced in
1,847 classrooms and double-shift teaching in 950 classrooms (compared with the
project's target of 840 and 590 classrooms, respectively). These efficiency measures
helped increase total enrollment by 23 percent.
21.   To promote private initiatives in the provision of education, incentive measures
were implemented: deregulation of fees, easy access to land for school construction, and
provision of teachers' in-service training. As a result, enrollment in private schools rose
from 43,629 students in 1991/92 to 89,017 students in 1997/98.
22.   Sustainability.  During project implementation, four factors contributing to
sustainability of the development of primary education were taken into account: (a)
budget reallocation in favor of primary education; (b) more efficient resource use; (c)
increased community participation; and (d) the capacity to produce low-cost textbooks
and construct low-cost classrooms. The adjustment measures that affected teachers and
students (double-shift teaching and reduction of students' social subsidies) have matured
and are well internalized. To strengthen the education reforms, the Government has
prepared a post-primary education program supported by the PPEP (ITF 007-BUR) and is
finalizing a Basic Education Ten-Year Program. Traditionally, ministries of education
have had a relatively weak bargaining position vis a vis ministries of finance. The
integration of education issues in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), along with the
macroeconomic dialogue and the PER and HIPC conditionalities on the share of budget
going to education, will secure the sector. Thus, the project's sustainability can be rated
as "likely." However, given the level of poverty in Burkina Faso, external financing and
assistance will be critical to support the Government in further sustaining the results



9
achieved and providing quality education for the majority of Burkinabe. Good donor
coordination will also facilitate a more efficient allocation of external resources.
B.   Summary of Project Costs
23.   The total cost of the project (see Table 7A) was estimated at appraisal at US$46.4
million equivalent (net of taxes and duties) with a foreign exchange component of
US$32.0 million equivalent (69 percent). Base cost estimates were in April 1991 dollars.
Due to the modification of the originally planned construction implementation strategy, it
was decided to implement the civil works program through: (a) the delegation of
responsibility for management and implementation of civil works to Faso Baara (the
executing management agency); (b) the use of private engineering consulting firms; and
(c) community participation through a classroom normalization strategy (para. 15). As a
result, construction expenditures, as well as activities financed by the Belgian grant, were
in local currency. Thus, the actual foreign exchange component amounts to only US$4.8
million equivalent (12 percent of total project costs) compared with US$34.8 million
equivalent (88 percent of total project costs) for local costs, for a total project cost of
US$39.6 million equivalent. The breakdown of the project costs in local and foreign
currencies is given in Tables 7A, 7B, and 7C.
C.   Summary of Financing Arrangements
24.   Total project expenditures amount to US$39.4 million, of which IDA contributed
66 percent; the Kingdom of Norway, 9 percent; the European Union (EEC), 9 percent; the
Kingdom of Belgium, 15 percent; local participation, 1 percent; and the Government, 1
percent. These figures compare with the financing percentages established at the time of
Board Presentation: IDA, 52 percent; Kingdom of Norway, 8 percent; EEC, 16 percent;
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), 19 percent; local participation, 4
percent; and Government, 2 percent.
25.   The grant from the Kingdom of Norway (US$3.8 million equivalent, signed on
September 24, 1991) financed textbooks for primary schools as well as health and first
aid supplies. The EEC (US$7.3 million equivalent) financed budgetary aid in the context
of the adjustment program for teachers' training, as well as implementation of double-
shift teaching and strengthening of the management capacities of the Ministry of Basic
Education, instead of classroom construction as originally planned. After the MTR, a
grant from the Kingdom of Belgium (US$6.6 million equivalent, signed on July 24,
1996) helped finance the construction program. At project appraisal, CIDA was to
provide cofinancing in the amount of US$8.7 million equivalent, but later decided to
finance other activities to improve education quality. A separate grant from the
Netherlands also provided additional resources for primary school classroom
construction, as well as construction, equipment, and rehabilitation of the Teachers'
Training Colleges. Activities financed by both CIDA and the Netherlands were carried
out directly in terms of financial management, procurement, and programming.



10
However, the components they both financed were within the description of the project as
initially planned. The involvement of additional donors who were not originally expected
to contribute to the project shows the success of project implementation. Actual amounts
cofinanced are shown in Table 7C.
26.   Total disbursements of IDA Credit at ICR preparation (UJS$26.0 million) were
higher than projected at appraisal due to exchange rates changes (US$/SDR and
US$/CFAF) (see Table 4); 99.8 percent of the SDR amount was disbursed. The estimated
and actual disbursements are given in Tables 7A, 7B, and 7C.
D.   Implementation Schedule
27.   Project preparation took two and one-half years. The first identification mission
took place in 1988, with Board Presentation on May 21, 1991, and the signing of the
DCA on July 5, 1991. The Project became effective on January 3, 1992, and closed 6
years later on December 31, 1998 (a 6-month extension of closing date was granted in
June 1998). The non-disbursed balance of SDR 33,820 (UJS$ 45,100 equivalent) was
canceled on June 25, 1999. A MTR took place in April 1995, confirmed that the
objectives remained current and consistent, and refocused several activities. Key actions
following the MTR included: (a) minor reallocations of credit funds; (b) minor
amendments to the DCA to reflect the changes in the classroom construction program
strategy; and (c) an amendment to the procurement arrangements to facilitate annual
reprinting of textbooks.
E.   Analysis of Key Factors Affecting Project Implementation
28.   At appraisal, there were at least two key issues deemed essential for reaching the
project's objectives. The first was increasing budgetary allocations for primary education
and reducing student subsidies. These were difficult and risky objectives to achieve given
the lack of commitment at the level of the Ministry of Finance and within the educational
establishment. To overcome the allocation issue, wide-ranging consultations were
organized, leading to strong support for primary education by all concerned ministries
and by the donor community. In addition, these measures were included as conditions of
release of the second and third tranches of the first SAC. The project's annual reviews
and public expenditure reviews (PERs) exercise helped monitor the implementation of
these measures. The second issue was the ability of communities to effectively contribute
the required 10 percent of school construction costs in cash or in kind: this was a
challenge given the financial burden that it would place on the rural populations. To
facilitate implementation of the second issue, the project started with the pilot program
conducted during Education III. Implementation faced several difficulties: (a) the variety
of classroom-delivery approaches among donors led communities to question the
rationale for having to contribute to classroom construction under the IDA project when
other donor-supported schemes did not require cost-sharing; and (b) given the high
incidence of poverty (45 percent of the population in 1995), cumulative cost-sharing in
various activities (health, agriculture, education, etc.) constituted an obstacle to sustained



11
financial contributions from communities. It was decided during the MTR to rely on
small, local contractors, following a selection process involving local communities. The
issue was addressed to both the Bank's and the Government's satisfaction.
F.    Assessment of the Bank's and Borrower's Performance
29.   The Bank's performance was, overall, satisfactory during project identification
and preparation. The risks were correctly identified. However, a sound monitoring and
evaluation system should have been established to assess project outcomes during
implementation. This will be reflected in the next operation. Project implementation
started in an uncertain environment that was further complicated by the high turnover of
local counterparts. Under these circumstances, the Bank's supervision was effective.
Adequate efforts were made to preserve continuity in task management. The Bank also
demonstrated understanding and flexibility with regard to the changes that the country
experienced. Disbursement percentages for certain expenditure categories were increased
(DCA amendment dated November 14, 1995) and the closing date was extended. The
delegation of Task Management responsibility to the Resident Mission in 1997, and the
strengthening of the Resident Mission's capacity in terms of procurement matters, also
contributed to improving communications and information exchanges between the Bank
and the local project team. Furthermore, the project's MTR was the catalyst for donor
coordination, which culminated in the current sound dialogue among donors and between
donors and the Government.
30.   The Borrower's performance was satisfactory during the project preparation
phase, but deficient during project start-up, due to the factors identified in Section E
above. The subsequent turnover of key civil servants required some adjustment during
project implementation. After this adjustment, there was continuity in the project team
and key staff of the ministry, which helped to substantially improve project execution and
led to a satisfactory implementation at project closing.
G.   Assessment of Project's Outcome
31.   The Education IV Project can be classified as satisfactory in its effort to expand
formal primary education and mobilize more resources for primary education. The 40
percent gross enrollment ratio (GER) target was reached.  This is an important
achievement given that, at independence in 1960, Burkina Faso had a GER of 5 percent
and, in 1985, a GER of 23 percent. An innovative pilot program that developed and
successfully extended approaches for increasing girls' enrollment was implemented. The
project had a positive impact on public policy, infrastructure, and institutional
development. The Government completely reoriented its primary education system
through the project, focusing on the six years of formal primary education. The previous
system offered rural youth training that was not sustainable because of high unit costs and
the perception that it provided a second-class education. The infusion of resources
dramatically improved the quality of basic infrastructure, teacher training, and textbook



12
development. The project helped substantially strengthen the capacity of MEBA in
procurement, accounting procedures, and other administrative, financial, and planning
activities. Because of its strong achievements, additional donors (Belgium and the
Netherlands) decided to cofinance the project during the MTR. The project made
considerable progress in helping the Borrower achieve major efficiency gains by: (a)
reducing the cost of textbooks and classrooms construction; (b) reducing students' social
subsidies and utilizing teachers and classrooms more efficiently; and (c) laying the
foundation for better quality education.
IV. SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS, AND KEY
LESSONS LEARNED
A.   Important Findings of Project Implementation Experience
32.   For the most part, execution of this project and disbursements were on schedule
throughout the life of the project, and covenants were in compliance. Disbursement
procedures were regularly followed, resulting in no rejections from the Bank and
unqualified comments from the auditors. Further, regular supervisions took place.
Changes in task management responsibilities did not have any negative impact.
However, the opportunity cost of education remains high for poor families, and this is an
important impediment constraining a more dynamic demand for education among
Burkinabe households. Based on the results of the Enquete Prioritaire, the single most
important reason for not sending children to school is the high cost of schooling (24
percent of children not attending school), followed by parents' refusal to send their
children to school (22 percent), the absence of a school or its location (15 percent), and
the perception of schooling as being completely useless (11 percent). Addressing
demand-side issues is therefore an important factor to overcome resistance to schooling.
B.   Future Operations and Sustainability
33.   Future operations will be developed in accordance with the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) under preparation, which will focus on long-term human capital
development for faster improvements in social sectors. The country's low level of human
capital adversely affects the economic returns to investment in all sectors, and its long-
term growth prospects are seriously limited by the population's low educational
attainment and skill levels. Future operations that will derive from the new CAS would
be based on sector-wide approaches. The ongoing Post-primary Education Project (PEPP
-Cr. ITF 007-BUR) builds directly on, and seeks to further, the positive results of the
Education IV Project. The PEPP (secondary and tertiary education, technical and
vocational training) currently under implementation aims to: (a) restructure the sector to
use resources more efficiently; (b) increase the participation of the private sector in
secondary education to free up resources for the expansion of public primary education;



13
(c) improve quality and efficiency; and (d) define a national policy for technical
education and vocational training. At the basic education level, the decision to rank
primary education as a national priority will be upheld and consolidated. The enrollment
effort will be pursued and intensified in order to reach an enrollment rate of 70 percent
and an adult literacy rate of 40 percent by the year 2010, as well as to improve the quality
and efficiency of education.
C.   Lessons for Future Projects in the Sector in Burkina Faso
34.   Although the project met its goals, the following lessons should be taken into
account for future operations:
(a)   The Government should, at an early stage, develop a comprehensive
policy framework for an effective intervention of all donors in the sub-
sector. This lesson will be reflected in the Government's Basic Education
Ten-Year Program, which is under preparation with the interactive
participation of donors and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs)
operating in the education sector.
(b)   To guide implementation and build momentum, reasonably detailed
implementation arrangements covering the first year should be developed
before the project becomes effective. This lesson is already reflected in
the PPEP and will be further integrated in the first phase of the Basic
Education Ten-Year Program (Education Adaptable Program Loan [APLI)
under preparation.
(c)   Faster development of primary education is constrained by high education
unit costs and inefficient resource use and allocation. To further address
this issue, the Government is considering recruiting more teachers at lower
salary, developing low-cost pedagogical materials, reducing grade
repetition, and increasing the share of basic education in the total
education budget. This lesson will be reflected in the Basic Education
Ten-Year Program.
(d)   While the supply of education has helped increase enrollment, there are
localities where the provision of a school itself is insufficient to increase
access. The Government would have to develop a demand-side approach
to overcome resistance to schooling prior to investment, in the context of
the preparation of the Basic Education Ten-Year Program.
(e)   Standardized assessment of student learning should be made available.
Although testing and evaluation system is integrated in the ongoing Post-
primary Education Project, the Government will create an "Observatoire
de l'education" as part of its future operation, which will deal with the



14
monitoring of quality and access and will identify issues at an early stage
in order to provide early corrective measures.
(f)    For school construction programs, it would be more efficient to: (a)
engage small, private, local contractors to use a kit of standard
construction materials and plan for a maximum of three classrooms; and
(b) delegate more responsibility to local communities to do the work
themselves or contract it to local artisans or small entrepreneurs, with
financial and technical assistance from the project. This lesson has already
been tested following the Education IV project's MTR and will be further
integrated in the future operation.
(g)   A technical evaluation of current construction programs is underway in
order to detennine the different types of interventions, costs, and time
frame to be recommended for future operations.



15
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related Bank Credits
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Amounts
Table 5A:   Performance Indicators
Table 5B:    Key Indicators of Project Implementation
Table 6:     Studies Included in the Project
Table 7A:    Project Costs (by component)
Table 7B:    Project Costs (by category of expenditures)
Table 7C:    Project Financing
Table 8:     Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 9:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 10:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 11 A:  Bank Resources: Missions
Table 1 IB:   Bank Resources: Supervision Missions



16
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives            Substantial        Partial         Negligible        Not Applicable
Macroeconomic Policies                 O                 O                 Cl 
Sector Policies                        0                 0                 0                  a
Financial Objectives                   E3                0                 [                   0
Institutional Development              Ol                0                  l 0                0
Physical Objectives                    El                O                 O                   O
Poverty Reduction                      El                0                 E 0                 0
Gender Issues                          Ol                0                 0                   1El
Other Social Objectives                O                 Ol                O                  [H
Environmental Objectives               Cl                0                 a                  0
Public Sector Management               O                 cm                E                   a
Private Sector Development              O                0                 [                  0X
(including nongovermmental sector)
B. Project Sustainability                 Likely                    Unlikely                    Uncertain
0l                          0                           0
C. Bank Performance                        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 Deficient
Identification                         0                          0                            El
Preparation Assistance                 Ol                         03                           O
Appraisal                              al                         0X                           a
Supervision                            El                         0                            E
D. Borrower Performance                    Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 Deficient
Preparation                           [O                         E0                            E
Implementation                         0                          E                            E
Covenant Compliance                    E                          0                            E
Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome                  Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  Deficient
E                         0                            E



17
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK CREDITS
Credit Title        Objectives                                          Year of    Status
approval
Preceding
Operations
Cr. 430-UV     The First Education Project (for an amount of US$2.8    1973        Closed
equivalent), closed in November 1980, was designed to: (a)
support informal sector training by providing rural youth with
basic literacy and agricultural managers; and (b) strengthen the
teaching of science in secondary schools.
Cr.956-BUR    The Second Education Project (for an amount of US$14.0    1979       Closed
million equivalent), closed in August in 1986, continued support
for the rural youth training program started under the first
project, including in-service training for agricultural project
managers and public works personnel.
Cr. 1598-BUTR   The Primary Education Development Project (for an amount  1985     Closed
of US$21.6 million equivalent), closed on March 31, 1994,
supported the development of primary education and the
reduction of per pupil costs through: (a) restructuring teacher
training and teacher salary scales to lower costs; (b) providing
low-cost textbooks and teaching materials; (c) developing cost-
effective methods of school construction; and (d) improving
sector management through assistance to MEBA, MESSRS, and
the Ministry of Rural Cooperatives.
Following
Operations
ITF N0070-     The ongoing Post-primary Education Project (for an amount    1997    Ongoing
BUR            of US$26.0 million equivalent), effective since October 16, 1997,
assists the Government in the implementation of its program
through: (a) the promotion of cost effective and equitable use of
public education resource; and (b) the increase of access to and
the quality of education through: (i) the construction of and
provision of equipment for CEGs, (ii) the reform and
improvement of pre-services and in-service teacher training, (iii)
the increase of the availability of textbooks and pedagogic
materials, and (iv) the improvement of existing education
programs, at the secondary level.  The Project should also
improve MESSR's capacity to manage and plan secondary,
higher education and scientific research, and to coordinate
ongoing education projects in Burkina Faso



18
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle                   Date Planned           Actual Date/
Latest Estimate
Identification                               n.a.                   08/88
Preparation                                  n.a.                   10/89
Appraisal                                    n.a.                   07/90
Negotiations                                 n.a.                   04/91
Board Presentation                           n.a.                   05/91
Signature                                    n.a.                   07/91
Effectiveness                                n.a.                   01/92
Mid-term Review                             09/94                   04/95
Project completion                           n.a.                   06/98
Credit closing                              06/98                   12/98
n.a. = not available



19
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL AMOUNTS
(US$ Million)
Fiscal year      Appraisal estimate      Actual amount        Actual amount as %
of estimate
1992                      2.4                    0.6                     25
1993                      6.8                    0.6                      9
1994                     11.6                    2.5                     22
1995                     17.6                    9.5                     54
1996                     22.0                   18.7                     85
1997                     23.8                   23.6                     99
1998                     24.0                   25.4                     106
1999                     24.0                   26.0                     108
n.a.: not applicable
Source: Staff Appraisal Report (April 24, 1991) for the appraisal estimate and Loan database (June 27, 1999) for the
actual amounts.
Note: 108% of the US dollar amount was disbursed. However, because of changes in the exchange rate of
various currencies used (SDR, US$, CFAF, etc.), 99.81% of the SDR amount was disbursed.



20
TABLE 5A: PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Indicators                         1990/91    Objective     1997/98
Enrollment rates                                        31%         40%         40%
(89/90)
Repetition rates                                         17%       _13% (97/98)
Government budget for basic education                               + 8.5% in    Achieved
nominal
terms
Primary education budget allocated to the financing of              6%          5.35%
pedagogical material and textbooks
Teacher/student ratio                                   1/57                    1/47
Creation of: multigrade classes                                     840          1,847
double-shift teaching                                    590            950
Rate of qualified teachers                              18.57% in               54.5% rural
the whole              areas
country                80.8% urban
areas
Number of students reaching CM2 level                   690/1000                800/1000
(85/86)
CEP success rate                                        24%                     53%
(85/86)
Number of years/students spent                          26 (85/86)              12
Price of textbook at the primary level                  3,500                   1,300 CFAF
CFAF
Number of students per class                            59                      52
Proportion of girls: in public and private schools      37%                     40%
in public schools                       31%                     39%
Students in private schools                             43,629                  89,017
Number of scholarship recipients: secondary level       22,750                  6,303
higher education             6,123                   4,000
(91/92)



21
TABLE SB: KEY INDICATORS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Objective                       Strategy/Indicators        -                Fulfillment/Impact
Component 1: Reinforcement of Quality for Basic Education and Enlargement of Access to this Education
1.1 Improve allocated sectoral resources  Increase budget credits earmarked for    Government budget for basic education: 12.65% (yearly
and make sure that they are utilized more  primary education by 8.5% in nominal   average: 9.5%)
efficiently                         terms
Recruitment of 950 primary school   Achieved.
teachers per year                   Shortage of teachers eliminated. Allowed to replace the
1,500 primary school teachers of the Peoples National
Service (SNP). 1 teacher for 47 students in 1997/98.
16,422 teachers in 1997/98
Set up a system of multigrade classes in   Creation of 1,847 multigrade classrooms and of 950
about 840 classes with an average of at   double-shift classrooms: enrollment of about 80,000
least 40 students per teacher.      additional children - increase by about 23% of education
Set up a system of double-shift classes in offered
about 590 classes with one teacher for 2   Compensatory allowance of CFAF 15,000 paid monthly
cohorts (55 students per cohort) by  per teacher
paying an adequate bonus to teachers
participating to the program
Creation of 12 regional pedagogical teams for a
community strategy. Training of 4,184 teachers and of
588 pedagogical trainers (200% of teachers in charge of
innovated classrooms)
Training modules included in the National School for
Primary School Teachers (ENEP)
Program trimming and distribution of 2,000 copies of
programs in schools involved
Free availability of about 58,000 textbooks in the schools
involved in the program trimming
Equipment in furniture, supplies, and school materials.
Organize an information campaign in    Information campaigns organized in practically all
1991/92 on multigrade and double-shift  provinces
classrooms



22
Objective             |        Strategy/Indicators                        Fulfillment/Impact
Component 1. Improvement of Teaching Quality
1.2 Improvement of teachers'        Upgrading of skills for approximately    Training of more than 5,000 new teachers
competencies                        4,000 untrained teachers            Training of 1,200 current teachers (out of which 250
were private schools teachers)
80% of current teachers benefited from initial or
continued training
Orientation of approximately 1,100 SNP  Training done. Thanks to the hiring of 950 new teachers
teachers per year                  per year, teachers of the Peoples National Service (SNP)
could be replaced.
Development of training guidelines for auxiliary teachers
(IA), tenured teachers (IP), CPI, Directorate of the State
Pedagogical Institute (IEPD) personnel and for the
National School of Primary School Teachers (ENEP).
Training and awareness campaign for civil servants of
the Ministry of Basic Education and Literacy (MEBA)
regarding implementation of guidelines
Done by CIDA: Training to identify the needs for
upgrading the skills of school directors, setting up
development programs, and organizing continued
learning sessions - ongoing partnership with the
University of Quebec in Montreal
1.3 Reinforced school management and  Training of approximately 3,000  Training of 1,200 school directors, increased training of
inspection                          directors and approximately 200     500 pedagogical trainers, and primary school
inspectors and pedagogical counselors in  inspectorates equipped with logistical and operational
the areas of school management,    instruments
teaching methods, monitoring of
students' learning, and supervision of
teachers
Training periods abroad for 12 trainer-of-trainers
Creation of GAP brought training closer to working sites
of teachers and worked toward decentralization. GAP
equipped with 300 pedagogical kits.



23
Objective                       Strategy/Indicators                         Fulfillment/Impact
Material, furniture, and vehicles   Rehabilitation of buildings in 31 DPEBA to shelter
equipped resource centers. Supply of books and
pedagogical manuals. One hundred motorcycles for the
Pedagogical Institutes (IP) and CPI to more closely
manage teachers in the field
1.4 Improvement of the evaluation and  Institution of normalized tests during the  Not achieved
examination system for students     third year of study to evaluate and
compare the results of students and to
identify non-performing schools prior to
the sixth year of study
Modification of the CEP concept     Developed action plan: launch of the separation of CEP
and the admission exam to secondary school, implement
legislative texts, define subjects and provide them with a
code, inform and sensitize partners, train trainers,
develop evaluation instruments, set up a computer
management plan to ensure that the DEC is equipped
with appropriate materials
Analysis of data and wording of     Set up of a program and appropriate software to improve
recommendations by the DEC and of the  and accelerate the processing of files related to exams
Directorate for Studies Related to  and competitive entrance exams, consultants' services,
Planning and Programming (DEPP) of   and training of DEC personnel
the Ministry of Basic Education and
Literacy (MEBA)                     Files related to exams and competitive entrance exams
processed in a timely fashion. Availability in the system
of teachers based on needs expressed at the start of the
school year in compliance with the date set up for the
new school year
1.5 Increased availability of textbooks   Textbooks more affordable to parents    Average price of a book reduced by 63% between
and of pedagogical material                                               1990/91 and 1997/98 (from CFAF 3,500 to CFAF 1,300)
Creation of a publication commission to  Publication commission created, but did not function.
provide advice and coordinate activities   Therefore, subject panels were created to vet out
related to the distribution of textbooks    manuscripts submitted by private authors
Elaboration of 24 titles            24 titles were written by private authors selected through
NCB



24
Objective                      Strategy/Indicators                        Fulfillment/Impact
Integration of the promotion of girls'    Achieved
enrollment and of nutritional, health, and
environmental education in textbooks
and pedagogical material
Financing of the production and    About 4.5 million textbooks and 1 14,000 teachers
distribution of about 1.4 million  manuals were produced and distributed
textbooks and 60,000 teachers' manuals
Reinforcement and improvement of the   Set up of a stock management system
planning and distribution system   Training of 91 central and regional managers
Reinforced capacity of the central warehouse
Installation and equipment of 3 regional warehouses
Establishment of a textbook rental  Rental scheme experimented in a few schools, but did not
scheme in schools to improve access to  function; however, the cost of books dropped and many
textbooks                          more parents were able to buy books. In addition,
because of inability of parents to pay rental fees, decision
during MTR to rent textbooks for free to students of
multigrade or double-shift classes, as well as to girls in
areas where female enrollment rate is lower than 10%
Payment to the Fund of rental fees for    The rental system did not function (see above).
textbooks in order to replenish supply    Proceeds from textbooks sale supplemented by 5.5% of
the recurrent budget for primary education were
deposited into the Textbook Fund for textbook stock
renewal
Purchase of pedagogical, nutritional, and  Achieved with CATWEL
health materials prepared by DESA and
UNICEF
Training of DES personnel in the writing  Training of DES and of Directorate for Administrative
and publishing of manuals/quality  and Financial Affairs (DAAF) personnel in the
control                            development of manuscripts, production management,
monitoring of pedagogical quality, procedures regarding
the procurement of existing textbooks and stock
management
Reinforcement of the Directorate for    Training of managers, accounting system, equipment,
Administrative and Financial Affairs  material and logistics
(DAAF) (training and logistical support)
to monitor the rental system and to



25
Objective                       Strategy/Indicators                         Fulfillment/Impact
perform an audit
Allocate at least 6% of primary     Only textbooks under external financing
education budget to the financing of  Allocated to pedagogical material: 2.82% in 1996, 4.23%
pedagogical material and of textbooks    in 1997, 5.35% in 1998, 1.80% in 1999
1.6 Increased number of classrooms    Construction and equipment of 1,200  Increase by 75% of school properties
classrooms and rehabilitation of 300  945 new classrooms being constructed
classrooms                          591 rehabilitated classrooms, 785 normalized classrooms,
52 students per class in 1997/98
Improved techniques at the community   Strategy changed at MTR given the difficulty of
level regarding the construction and  implementation
management of schools by: (a) the
reinforcement of the Provincial
Directorates of the Ministry of Basic
Education and Literary (DPEBAM) in
their consultative and monitoring
functions; (b) selection of contractors
and local craftsmen who have sufficient
experience and materials; (c) distribution
of standardized and low-cost
construction plans; and (d) measures
meant to make communities more
capable to construct schools and to carry
out maintenance
1.7 Improved health and nutritional    Training of teachers and inclusion of  Achieved
status of students                   information in textbooks
Building of wells and sanitary      Only latrines were included in the construction
installations in newly constructed
schools
Distribution of vitamin A & iodine  Achieved with delay in 15 provinces
capsules twice a year, and of vermifuge
three times a year
Creation of an interministerial committee An interministerial committee was not created
to plan the purchase, storage, and  Letter of understanding signed with CATWEL, which is
distribution of nutritive microelements   in charge of ordering, distributing, and monitoring the
and to advise on the finalization of  operations
pedagogical material               I_I



26
Objective                        Strategy/Indicators                          Fulfillment/Impact
Distribution of first aid kits in schools    Ongoing distribution of 2,272 first aid kits and health
record booklets
1.8 Promotion of girls enrolled in    Training of teachers and inclusion of  Achieved
schools                              information in textbooks
Studies on the obstacles preventing the   Implementation of a national plan to increase enrollment
enrollment of girls in schools and   of girls in schools; this plan was translated into 4 national
proposed solutions                   languages and was widely disseminated
Thanks to a workshop to set up a nonformal training
program for girls and women, specific needs were
identified and literacy documents (translated into 4
national languages) developed
SPEF being transformed into a Directorate
Supply of logistical means of training to SPEF personnel.
Creation of AME and equipment of those AME to enable
them to create income-generating activities
Seminar to reflect on the promotion of women through
the media
Since the MTR, free rental of textbooks to girls in the
areas where female enrollment rate is lower than 10%;
distribution of 5,196 textbooks in 110 schools
1.9 Promotion of private initiative in    Liberalization of school enrollment fees  Liberalized school enrollment fees
education                             Starting in 1991/92, raising of the  Number of students in private schools: 89,017 in 1997/98
ceilings applicable to paid rights by at
least 10%.
Ensure private system access to the  Retraining of 250 teachers, opening of structures and
training of teachers, textbooks and  services related to pre-service and in-service training, and
pedagogical material, and inspectorate   to private inspectorate and managerial staff
services                             Incitement to open new schools through easy access to
bank credits and land-related grants
Establishing opening and operating criteria for private
schools; closing of schools facilities that do not respond
to quality and security standards
Creation within the Ministry of Basic Education and



27
Objective                      Strategy/Indicators                        Fulfillment/Impact
Literacy (MEBA) of the Directorate for Private Basic
Education (DEBP) toward the promotion and research of
strategies aimed at energizing this sector
Component 2: Improved Quality of the General Secondary Education
2.1 Improved competencies for       Supply of equipment and materials   Supply of audio-visual equipment to allow for the
teachers and school inspectors      necessary during the pre-employment    installation of a studio
training of the National Institute for
Statistics and Employment (INSE)
Training of INSE personnel in the  Not achieved
preparation of audiovisual materials used
for training
Organization of on-the-job pedagogical  Retraining of over 5,000 teachers (all subjects, including
training of approximately 2,000 teachers  930 mathematics teachers)
(3 seminars between 1992 and 1996) on
teaching methods and on main subjects
of the secondary curriculum, integration
of education with nutrition, health and
population, and monitoring of the
knowledge acquired by students
Training of 29 inspectors          Training abroad of 6 inspectors
Logistical support to increase the  Purchase of vehicles, office equipment, gasoline and
frequency of visits to schools and to  operating materials
facilitate teachers' training
2.2 Improved availability of low-cost
textbooks and pedagogical material
Purchase and distribution of about  Establishment of the list of titles,  About 233,000 books purchased and distributed to
228,000 lower secondary books       purchase, and distribution of the books   schools
to the schools
Establishment and operation of a textbook  Distribution of textbooks to students  Rental scheme functioned in 60 lower secondary schools
loan scheme                         through a rental system             Rehabilitation of 60 libraries and training of 60 librarians
Set up of a textbook fund to re-supply    Development and distribution of a guide for textbook
textbooks provided under the project    stock management
A revolving fund for the re-supply of  Rental fees collected and deposited into  Textbooks rent to students for CFAF 500 per book
textbooks                           the revolving fund                  Rental fees and annual CFAF 30 million deposited into a
Lower Secondary Textbook Fund



28
Objective                      Strategy/Indicators                        Fulfillment/Impact
Component 3: Reinforcement of Key Sectoral Institutions
3.1 Development of planning and     Training of the Directorate of Studies on Logistical support toward the elaboration and the
management tools at MEBA            Planning (DEP) staff on the economic implementation of mapping and of school statistics
Reinforcement of DEP to analyze and  aspects of education in relation to the Installation of offices at DEP and at the Bureau of
publish data related to education and to   elaboration of a development policy and Education Projects (BPE)
define and implement general policy  of continued training in the field of Studies on: school mapping, primary school statistics,
measures (in particular in the area of  statistics related to education and the pedagogical innovations
resource utilization and of teaching  establishment of school mapping   Symposia on private education and basic education
quality)                            Personnel and logistical support made    Think-tank days on the expansion of basic education
available                          Training of the heads of the DPEBA Studies and
Planning Services
Training of 2 agents in education planning
Workshops on school mapping to help SEP
Workshops on school statistics to help SEP
Training of 2 agents in documentation and record
management
Study tours and exchanges of experiences
Improvement of budget and
administrative procedures of MEBA as
well as of the system related to data
collection, analysis, and dissemination of
information on personnel budget and on
students between different departments
3.2 Development of tools for planning   Improved management system at the  Computer guidelines for scholarship management at the
and management of the Ministry for    Directorate for Scholarship Orientation   secondary and higher education levels
Secondary and Higher Education and   (DOB) and at the university
Scientific Research (MESSRS)
Studies on strategies to develop post-    Logistical support to improve pilot capacities
primary education and training     Seminars for regional directors and public and private
school directors
Study tours
Training of 2 managers in economics and education
planning
Training of 3 agents in school statistics
At the University of Ouagadougou:
Purchase of 2,000 books and 70 periodicals to reinforce



29
Objective                         Strategy/Indicators                           Fulfillment/Impact
the university library and the necessary filing material
Training of secretaries and laboratory technicians
Study tours on scholarship management, rental systems
to students, involvement of the private sector in the
management of university operations, Virtual University
3.3 Support to the Directorate of the  Rehabilitation of existing building   Achieved
Education Project
Training, material, vehicles, consultant   Achieved
services, salaries, recurrent costs   Set up of an electronic system for follow-up training on
software usage



30
TABLE 6: STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT
Year                    Study                                      Objectives                       Status          Impact of the study
1998    Assessment of MEBA institutional,        Improve management and planning capacities of the    Completed    Preparation of the BETYP
organizational and management capacities  education system                                                                           l
1998    Study on quality of Basic Education in   Improve quality of basic education               Completed    Preparation of the BETYP
Burkina Faso                                                                                                                         l
1998    Assessment of economic, social, pedagogic  Measure the impact of the Education IV Project on  Completed    Preparation of the BETYP
and technical impact of the Education IV  the beneficiaries and on the management of the
Project                                  education system
1997    Study on girls' education and adult literacy  Improve females' education and literacy     Comnpleted    Preparation of the BETYP
1997    Reasons for girls low enrollment          Identify causes; elaborate and implement an action  Completed    MEBA is now implementing an
plan                                                          action plan on girls' education.
A Ministry of Promotion de la
Femme has been created. Girls'
enrollment in schools has
notably increased.
1996    Study on higher education                                                                 Completed
1995    Study on the assessment and examination   Elaborate a strategy to separate CEP examination  Completed    Separation ongoing
system                                   from the examination for entry to secondary school
1994    Accelerating Basic Education              Identify strategies for faster development of basic  Ongoing
1995                                              education in Burkina Faso
1995    Seminar on Private Education              Identify strategies for faster development of private    Competed    Report transmitted to MESSRS
schools in Burkina Faso that are better integrated in
the education system                                                                       l
1994    Study on technical and vocational education    Establish diagnosis of the situation       Completed    Report transmitted to MESSRS
1993    Study on schools statistics              Improve the content and production and reduce    Completed    Statistics reports are timely.
publishing delays of MEBA data reports.                       Quality has improved.
1993    Study on secondary education              Establish a diagnosis and elaborate a development  Completed
action plan
1992    Study on primary schools mapping          Set up a school mapping                         Completed    MEBA now has management
and planning tools
1992    Study on pedagogic innovations            Identify implementation conditions for multigrade and  Completed    1,847 multigrade classrooms and
double-shift teaching                                        950 double-shift classrooms are
operating.
1992    Seminar on higher education               Identify strategies for development of higher   Completed    Report transmitted to MESSRS
education more suitable to country's needs



31
TABLE 7A: PROJECT COSTS (BY COMPONENT)
(US$ Million)
Component                      Appraisal Estimate                    Actual Costs
Local    Foreign             %     Local   Foreign             %
Costs    Currency  Total           Costs   Currency  Total
1. Improving the quality of and     10.2     18.5     28.7      62    33.4         2.6   36.0   91
increasing access to primary
education
1.1 Upgrading the quality of         3.4      0.8      4.2             11.2        0.1   11.2
teachers
1.2 Increasing the availability of   1.1      4.8      5.9              1.1        2.5    3.6
textbooks and teaching materials
1.3 Increasing the number of         5.7     12.2     17.9             20.5       0.00   20.5
classrooms
1.4 lmproving students' health and  0.0       0.5      0.5              0.7       0.00     0.7
nutritional status                                   I__
1.5 Promoting female participation  0.0       0.2      0.2             0.04       0.00   0.04
in education
2. Improving the quality of          0.7      4.9      5.6      12      0.3         2.2    2.5     6
general education                 ___
2.1 Upgrading teacher skills and     0.5      0.8       1.3             0.1         0.0    0.1
school inspection
2.2 Increasing supply of low-cost    0.2      4.1      4.3              0.2         2.2    2.4
textbooks and teaching materials
3. Strengthening key sectoral        1.0      2.2      3.2       7      1.0         0.1    1.1     3
institutions                                         I                      I__
3.1 Further developing the           0.2      0.6      0.8              0.9       0.01     0.9
planning and management capacity
of MEBA
3.2 Developing the planning and      0.0      0.6      0.6             0.01       0.04     0.1
management capacity of MESSRS  |                  _
3.3 Education Project Directorate    0.8      1.0       1.8             0.1       0.01    0.1
Physical contingencies           0.8      2.5       3.3       7        -          -      -
Price contingencies              1.7      3.9       5.6      12        -          -  X
TOTAL                    14.4     32.0     46.4     100    34.8         4.8   39.6   100
Totals may not add up due to rounding.
Sources: Staff Appraisal Report; MEBA; Loan Database of June 27, 1999.



32
TABLE 7B: PROJECT AMOUNT (BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURES)
(US$ Million)
Category                      Appraisal Estimate                   Actual Costs
Local    Foreign                 Local     Foreign
Costs    Currency    Total       Costs    Currency    Total
1. Civil works                            0.2        0.4        0.6         1.9       0.00         1.9
2. Classrooms                              4.2        8.2       12.3       11.7       0.00        11.7
3. Goods (equipment, furniture,            0.6        5.7        6.3        9.6         1.6       11.2
vehicles)
4. Pedagogic materials                     0.0        0.5        0.5        0.3       0.00         0.3
5. School books and manuals                0.0        6.8        6.8        3.3        2.7         6.0
6. Consultant services                     0.9        2.2        3.1        5.0         0.6        5.6
7. Training                                3.7        1.1        4.8        2.0         0.0        2.0
8. Operating costs                         2.2        0.9        3.1        0.9        0.0         0.9
Physical contingencies                 0.8        2.4        3.2          -           -          -
Price contingencies                    1.7        3.9        5.6          -           -          -
TOTAL                                 14.4       32.0       46.4       34.8         4.8       39.6
Totals may not add up due to rounding.
Source: Staff Appraisal Report; MEBA; Loan Database of June 27, 1999.
TABLE 7C: PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ Million)
Source                    Appraisal Estimate                     Actual Costs
Local      Foreign                  Local      Foreign
Costs     Currency      Total       Costs     Currency      Total
IDA                            5.7        18.3        24.0        23.7         2.3         26.0
Kingdom of Norway              0.0         3.8         3.8         0.9         2.5          3.4
EEC                            2.1         5.2         7.3         3.7         0.0          3.7
CIDA                          4.0          4.7         8.7        0.0          0.0          0.0
Belgium                        0.0         0.0         0.0         5.8         0.0          5.8
Local participation            1.8         0.0         1.8         0.5         0.0          0.5
Goverment                      0.8         0.0         0.8         0.2         0.0          0.2
TOTAL                         14.4        32.0        46.4       34.8          4.8         39.6
Totals may not add up due to rounding.
Source: Staff Appraisal Report; MEBA; Loan Database of June 27, 1999.
TABLE 8: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
No attempt was made at appraisal to estimate net present value (NPV) or economic rate of return (ERR)
and therefore there is no baseline against which to judge a re-estimate for evaluation purposes.



33
TABLE 9: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Section    Covenant Present  Original    Revised                  Description of Covenant                             Comments
Type    Status  Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date       Date
3.03           13       C                          The communities to benefit from  the schools to be
constructed under Part C.3 of the Project shall be selected by
________ _the Borrower pursuant to criteria agreed with the Association.
3.04           05       C                          The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Directorate is at all
times staffed with a Project Director, an administrator in
charge of monitoring of Project Implementation, a
procurement specialist, a construction specialist and an
accountant, all of whom shall have qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Association.
3.05 (a)       09      CD                          The Borrower and the Association shall, not later than Mid-term Review took place in April 1995.
September 30, 1992 and, thereafter, not later than September Project  was  reviewed   annually  in
30 of such subsequent year, undertake a joint review of the accordance with the DCA.
Project or, in the case of the review to be undertaken not later
than September 30, 1994, a mid-term review, during which
they will exchange views on matters relating to the progress
of the Project and the performance by the Borrower of its
obligations under this Agreement.
3.05 (b)       09       C                          Not later than one month prior to each such review, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for its comments, a
report on the progress and status of the Project, and in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
3.05 (c)       09       C                           Following each such review, the Borrower undertakes to act
3.05(c)       09       C                          promptly and diligently, in order to take any corrective action
deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the
implementation of the Project, or to implement such other
measures as may have been agreed upon between the parties
in furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
4.01 (a)       09       C                           The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect to the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the



34
Section    Covenant Present   Original      Revised                       Description of Covenant                                   Comments
Type    Status  Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date        Date
Project or any part thereof.
4.01 (b) (i)     01        C                              The Borrower shall have the records and accounts referred to Audit reports have been received on time,
in paragraph (a) of this Section, including those for the and  Project  is  audited  according  to
Special Account, audited for each fiscal year in accordance principles outlined by IDA.
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association.
4.01 (b) (ii)    01        C                              The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
4.01 (b) (iii)   01        C                              The Borrower shall furnish to the Association such other
4.01 (b) (iii)  01        C                             information concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
_________ __ _  _request..
4.01 (c) (i)     01        C                              For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures.
4.01 (c) (ii)    01        C                              The Borrower shall retain, until at least one year after the All reports received on time
Association has received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account or
payment out of the Special Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures.
4.01 (c) (iii)   01        C                              The Borrower shall enable the Association's representatives
to examine such records.
4.01 (c) (iv)    C1        c                              The Borrower shall ensure that said accounts and records
4.01 (c) (iv)   01        C                              shall be audited on a semiannual basis by said auditors, who
shall prepare audit reports accordingly and furnish them to
the Association, not later than three (3) months after the end
of such semiannual audit period, along with an opinion as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such
period, together with the procedures and internal controls
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support
the related withdrawals.
6.01 (a) (i)     12        C                              The Borrower has submitted to the Association, for its review



35
Section    Covenant Present  Original    Revised                  Description of Covenant                             Comments
Type    Status  Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date       Date
and comments, the fndings of the two studies concerning,
respectively, the establishment and operation of the schools
referred to in paragraph 4 of schedule 5 to this Agreement,
and the proposed liberalization of fees charged by such
schools
6.01 (a) (ii)  II      NC                          The Borrower has raised the ceiling applicable to such fees Fees have been liberalized
._____ __________             by not less than ten percent (10%) with effect from 1991-92
6.01 (b)       01       C                          The auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement
have been appointed, and the accounting system of the
Project Directorate duly adapted to meet the requirements
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement.
6.01 (c))      12       C                          The Borrower has submitted a plan, acceptable to the
Association, for the introduction, with effect from 1991-92,
of a book rental scheme for primary schools, which shall
include provisions for: (i) the purchase and distribution of
textbooks on a rental basis to primary school students; (ii) the
continued operation of a Textbook Fund to ensure a
continuous supply of textbooks for students; and (iii)
measures to supplement the resources of the Textbook Fund,
through appropriate budgetary allocations, in accordance
with paragraph 6 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Schedule 5.1   12      CP                          The Borrower shall not later than March 31, 1992, furnish to The standardized assessment has been
(a) (   .1                                         the Association the draft rules governing the proposed applied only to innovative approaches
standardized student assessment to be introduced in Grade 3 (double-shift and multigrade teaching and
as a diagnostic tool to assess and  compare student satellite schools). The CONFEMEN
performance across the country, and identify problem areas assisted the Govermment in conducting a
in the curriculum prior to Grade 6; and               broader students' assessment.
Schedule 5.1.    12    CP      3/31/92             The Borrower shall not later than March 31, 1992, furnish to The new design has been limited to delink
(a) (ii)                                           the Association the draft rules governing the new design of the certificate examination and the
the primary education certificate examination, which shall admission to secondary level.
include an optional paper for those seeking admission to
secondary level; and
Schedule 5.1   12      CD      3/31/92             The Borrower shall, following an exchange of views with the The separation of the two exams has been
(b)                                                Association on such draft rules, proceed to have them applied starting 1995/96.
adopted, not later than June 30, 1992, for actual
_  implementation not later than beginning 1992-92.
Schedule 5.2   12      CP      6/30/91             The Borrower shall, with effect from beginning 1991-92, take The system was fully implemented up to
appropriate steps to implement the plan referred to in Section the MTR when it was decided to loan
I          1_ ___6.01 (c) of this Agreement.                      textbooks free of charge because 45% of



36
Section    Covenant Present  Original    Revised                   Description of Covenant                               Comments
Type    Status  Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date       Date
country lives below poverty line. However
the Government contribution continues to
be made. At the end of the project, the
balance of the textbook funds was CFAF
1,187,028,181.
Schedule 5.3   C1               9/30/91              The Borrower shall, not later than beginning  1991-92,
proceed to implement an action plan, agreed upon with the
Association and designed to reduce its expenditures on
subsidies for students in secondary and higher education by
five percent (5%) in 1991-1992 and by ten percent (10%)
annually, thereafter, until 1996-97, in accordance with a time
table which shall have been agreed upon with the
Association.
Schedule 5.4    9       C       12/3/91              The Borrower shall take appropriate steps, on the basis of the
findings of studies referred to in Section 6.01 (a) of this
Agreement, to promote the establishment and operation of
primary and secondary schools, by individuals, private
groups and communities and, to this end,
Schedule 5.4    9       C       12/3/91              The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1991,
(a)                                                  announce its decision to decontrol the fees charged by such
schools with effect from 1992-93;
Schedule5.4CD 12/3/91  The Borrower shall, with effect from  1991-92, establish
Schedule 5.4    9       CD                           guidelines for the operation of such schools, and provide
them with easy access to teacher training, textbooks, teacher
guides and inspectorate services, with a view to maintaining
minimum levels of quality and standards.
Schedule 5.5   11       CD      4/20/92              The Borrower shall: (a) not later than April 30, 1992, submit
a detailed plan acceptable to the Association, for the
establishment and operation of a textbook loan scheme for
secondary school students, which shall include provisions for
a revolving fund for the supply of textbooks in each
secondary school; and (b) not later than beginning 1992-93,
proceed to implement such plan.
Schedule 5.6   1 1      C                            The Borrower shall take appropriate steps to secure the
resources required to improve the quality and increase the
enrollment rate in primary schools and, to this end
Schedule 5.6   12       CD                           The Borrower shall, with effect from beginning 1991-92,



37
Section    Covenant Present  Original    Revised                   Description of Covenant                              Comments
Type    Status  Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date       Date
(a)                                                 strengthen the teaching cadre in its primary schools through
an actual increase in the number of teachers, as indicated
below for each of the following six years: 1991-1992 (660),
1992-93 (750), 1993-94 (870), 1994-95 (1,000), 1995-96
(1, 130) and 1996-97 (1,260).
Schedule 5.6   1 1      C                           The Borrower shall allocate not less than six percent (6%) of
(b)                                                 the overall recurrent budget for basic education for teaching
materials and textbooks, and for all other items of non-salary
expenditures, in primary schools;
Schedule 5.6   13       C                           The Borrower shall allocate such an amount for operational
(c)                                                 costs of primary school inspectors, as shall have been agreed
upon with the Association; and
Schedule 5.6   13       C                           The Borrower shall increase the primary school budget by an
(d)                                                 annual average of eight and a half percent (8.5%) in nominal
terms, of such other percentage as may be appropriate, to
meet he additional commitments involved in paragraphs (a)
through (c) above.
Schedule 5.7   10                                   The Borrower shall introduce and generalize multi-grade
(a)                                                 teaching in primary schools, beginning with a total of not less
than 280 classrooms in 1992-93 and increasing progressively
to not less than 560 classrooms in 1994-95 and not less than
__________  _______     _840 classrooms in 1996-97;
Schedule 5.7   12       c                           The Borrower shall introduce  a double-shift system,
(b)                                                 involving one teacher for two (2) cohorts of 55 pupils each
and an appropriate salary supplement for teachers concerned,
beginning with Grade 1 in 1992-93, and expanding annually
one grade at a time, over the following five-year period, in
order to attain, in terms of minimum number of classrooms,
the targets set as follows: 1992-92 (60); 1993-94 (140); 1994-
95 (250); 1995-96 (400) and 1996-97 (590).
Schedule 5.7   09       C                           The Borrower shall have an evaluation of the double-shift
(c)                                                 system conducted in the context of the mid-term review
referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement and, in the
light of the results of such evaluation, take appropriate
measures to generalize the system.
Schedule 5.8   10      CD                           The Borrower shall have the studies on constraints to female



38
Section    Covenant Present  Original    Revised                    Description of Covenant                              Comments
Type    Status  Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date       Date
(a)                                                  participation in education completed not later than April 30,
1992, and the recommendations thereof discussed with the
Association not later than September 30, 1992
Covenant Type:
1. = Accounts/audits                            8. =  Indigenous people
2. = Financial Performance/ revenue generation  9. =  Monitoring, review and reporting
from beneficiaries                         10. = Project implementation
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds      11. =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or
4. = Counterpart funding                               other resource allocation
5. = Management aspects of the project or       12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
executing agency                                  regulatory/institutional action
6. = Environmental covenants                    13. = Other
7. = Involuntary resettlement
Present Status:
C = Complied with
CD = Complied with Delays
CP=  Complied with partially
NYD= Not yet due
NC - Not complied with



39
TABLE 10: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of Project Cycle        Estimated                Actual
Weeks        US$       Weeks       US$
('000)                ('000)
Preparation to appraisal       n.a.        n.a.       85.0       150.7
Appraisal                      n.a.        n.a.       78.8       156.3
Negotiations to Board          n.a.        n.a.        2.1         4.4
Presentation
Supervision                    n.a.        n.a.      181.2       143.4
Completion                     n.a.        n.a.        8.2        20.8
TOTAL                         n.a.        n.a.      355.3       475.6
n.a.: not available
Source: Costs Accounting System (FACT, May 19, 1999).



40
TABLE 1 1A: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance Rating
Stage of           Month!       Number    Days         Specialized      Implement.       Develop.       Types of
project cycle          year          of         in        staff skills       Status       objectives      problems
persons     field      represented
A. To Appraisal:
Identification             02/88          5         15     A, EC, ED, RM
Preparation              04/24/88-        2          10     ES, ED
05/1/88
Preparation                08/88          2          10     ED, RM
Pre-evaluation             02/89          6          16     ED, RM, A,
E,TP
Preparation                04/90          2          15     ED, 00                                                       II
B. Appraisal through
Board Approval:
Evaluation               06/24/90-        8         26      ED, POP/IEC,
07/19/90                          MGT, WID,
RM, VET, IS, A
C. Board Approval          06/91          2          15     ED, RM
through Effectiveness
Supervision               11/91 to       59         211    A, E, ED, HE,            2              2
12/97:                           EP, FA, HS,
17 missions                        IEC, IS, PR,
LTA, MGT, PH,
PO, RM, WID,
TP, PES, HRE,
TRG, NSHS
2              2
Completion                 01/99                     10     ED, IT, RM,
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   LTA,  A
Specialization:
A: Architect; DC: Division Chief; EC: Economist; ED: Principal Education Planner; ES: Education Specialist; FA: Financial Analyst; HRE:
Human Resources Specialist; IEC: IEC Specialist; IS: Implementation Specialist; IT: Implementation Team Member; LTA: Language Team
Assistant; PEV: EPI Specialist; PH: Public Health Specialist; PR: Procurement Specialist; MGT: Project Management Specialist; NSHS:
Nutrition and School Health Specialist; OA: Operations Analyst; 00: Operations Officer; PES: Public Expenditures Specialist; PG: Planning
Specialist; PO: Project Officer; PR: Procurement Specialist; RM: Resident Mission staff; SOO: Sr. Operations Officer; TP: Textbook
Specialist; TRG: Training Specialist
Types of problems for performance:
AOF: Availability of Funds; CLC: Compliance with Legal Covenants; DL: Disbursement Lag; OS: Overall Status; PDO: Project Development
Objectives; PMP: Project Management Performance; PF: Procurement Progress; SP: Studies Progress; TAP: Technical Assistance Progress; TP:
Training Progress
Performance Rating: 1: Highly satisfactory; 2: Satisfactory; 3: Unsatisfactory; 4: Highly Unsatisfactory; n.ap: not applicable; na: not available



41
TABLE 11B: BANK RESOURCES: SUPERVISION MISSIONS
Performance Evaluation
Stage of Project   Month  # of    #of    Spec. staff
Cycle       /Year   persons   days      Skills     OS    PDO    CLC    PMP    AOF    PP   TP    TAP    SP             DL
_ ___  _____              represented               I                         ______
Supervision I     05/91     3       10   A, ED         2    1         2       2       1       2    1       2       2       0
Supervision 2     11/91     1        7    TP
Supervision 3     02/92     5       12   ED, IS, PA,   3      2       2       3       1       3    1       3       2       10.7
TP
Supervision 4     07/92     5       15   A, ED, IS,    2      2       2       2       1       2    1       2       2       9.6
00, PES
Supervision 5     10/92     3       17   A, ED, HRE,  2       2       2       2       1       2    na    na        na      75.5
Supervision 6     02/93     3       8    ED, HRE, A    2      2       2       2       1       2    2       2       2       77.8
Supervision 7     05/93     3       7    ED, 00, PH    2      2       2       2       1       2    2       2       2       86.4
Supervision 8     09/93     1       7    ED            n.ap   n.ap    n.ap    n.ap    n.ap    n.ap  n.ap   n.ap    n.ap    n.ap
Supervision 9     10/93     3       9    ED, FA, OO,  2       2       2       2       1       2    1       2       2       (4.6)
HP
Supervision 10    12/93     2       13   ED, EC, FA    n.ap   n.ap    n.ap    n.ap    n.ap    n.ap  n.ap   n.ap    n.ap    n.ap
Supervision 11    01/94     2        5    ED, HP,      2      2       2       2       1       2    2       2       2       87.5
Supervision 12    04/94     3       9    ED, 00        2      2       2       2       1       2    2       2       2       87.0
Supervision 13    06/94     1        5    HP
Supervision 14    07/94     7       18   ED, CE, FA,   n.ap   n.ap    n.ap    n.ap    n.ap    n.ap  n.ap   n.ap    n.ap    n.ap
MGT, TRG
Supervision 15    10/94     2       15   00, ED        n.ap   n.ap    n.ap    n.ap    n.ap    n.ap  n.ap   n.ap    n.ap    n.ap
Supervision 16    11/94     3       13    DC, ED,      2      2       2       2       1       2    na    na        na      67.8
OO, TRG
Supervision 17    04/95     5       8    ED. IS, 00,   2      2       2       2       1       2    2       2       2       42.5
NSHS,
Supervision 18    10/95     3       19   ED, 00        2      2       2       1       1       1    1       2       2       19.2
Supervision 19    05/96     4       23   ED, IS, 00    2      2       2       1       1       1    1       2       2       6.6
Supervision 20    04/97     1       13   A, ED, 00,   2       2       2       1       1       1    na    na        na      7.7
PR, FA
Supervision 21    12/97     7       12   A, ED, IS,    2      2       2       2       2       2    na    na        na      4.1
MGT, 00
Supervision 22     5/98     4       4    ED, PR, A,    2      2       2       2       2       2    na    na        na      2.4
_ _ _ _ _ _ _     _  _TP                                                                   __           .  _     _    _
TOTAL                       71     249                                                                                     _____
Specialization:
A: Architect; DC: Division Chief; EC: Economist; ED: Principal Education Planner; ES: Education Specialist; FA: Financial Analyst;
HRE: Human Resources Specialist; IEC: IEC Specialist; IS: Implementation Specialist; IT: Implementation Team Member; LTA:
Language Team Assistant; PEV: EPI Specialist; PH: Public Health Specialist; PR: Procurement Specialist; MGT: Project Management
Specialist; NSHS: Nutrition and School Health Specialist; OA: Operations Analyst; 00: Operations Officer; PES: Public Expenditures
Specialist; PG: Planning Specialist; PO: Project Officer; PR: Procurement Specialist; RM: Resident Mission staff, SOO: Sr. Operations
Officer; TP: Textbook Specialist; TRG: Training Specialist
Types of problems for performance:
AOF: Availability of Funds; CLC: Compliance with Legal Covenants; DL: Disbursement Lag; OS: Overall Status; PDO: Project
Development Objectives; PMP: Project Management Performance; PF: Procurement Progress; SP: Studies Progress; TAP: Technical
Assistance Progress; TP: Training Progress
Performance Rating: 1: Highly satisfactory; 2: Satisfactory; 3: Unsatisfactory; 4: Highly Unsatisfactory; n.ap: not applicable; na.: not
available



Appendix A
Mission d'Achevement du Projet Education IV (Cr. 2244-BUR)
et d'Appui au Programme Decennal
Novembre 1998 - Janvier 1999
1.   Une mission de 1'IDA en plusieurs phases composee de Mmes/MM.: Sakhevar
Diop, Specialiste en Manuels Scolaires; Souleymane Zerbo, Ingenieur Urbain; Nicole
Hamon, Assistante, et Celine Gavach, Assistante, s'est deroulee sur la periode de ces
trois derniers mois. Toutes ces missions ont ete dirigees par M. Makha Ndao, Charge de
Projets. De meme, les questions de decaissements et de passations des marches ont et6
regulierement suivies, respectivement, par Korka Diallo (Charge de Programmes), et
Celestin Bado (Charge de Programmes) de la Mission Residente de Ouagadougou.
2.   L'objectif de cette mission etait l'evaluation finale et la preparation du rapport
d'achevement du Projet Education IV.
3.   La mission tient a remercier les autorites du MEBA et le personnel de la Direction
du Projet Education IV, ainsi que les partenaires au developpement qui ont cofinance
directement ou de maniere parallele le Projet Education IV (les Pays-Bas, l'Union
Europeenne, le Canada, la Norvege, et la Coop6ration Belge) pour leur collaboration.
4.   La mission a pris connaissance du rapport d'achevement pr6liminaire realise par le
MEBA, et tient A feliciter l'6quipe pour ce travail de qualite. Apres discussions, la
mission a suggere au MEBA de revoir le format du rapport. Celui-ci sera transmis A
l'IDA avant fin fevrier 1999.
5.   La mission a constate que les objectifs initiaux en terme de taux de scolarisation
general, de scolarisation des filles, d'augmentation du nombre de salles de classes,
d'augmentation de la part du budget national accorde A l'enseignement de base, ainsi que
les mesures d'efficacite ont ete atteints et parfois meme depasses (voir tableau Annexe 1).
6.   Scolarisation:   Le taux de scolarisation primaire a atteint les 40% prevus; le
taux de redoublement a baisse de 17% a 14%; et le nombre d'annees eleves pour un
diplome de CEPE est passe de 26 A 12 (voir annexe).
7.  Innovations Pedagogigues: Pour une utilisation plus efficace des enseignants et
des salles de classes, la mise en place d'environ 1.847 salles de classes multigrades et 950
salles de classes A double-flux, a conduit A la scolarisation d'environ 80.000 enfants
supplementaires, et a permis un accroissement de l'ordre de 23% de l'offre educative.
585 encadreurs pedagogiques ont ete formes A cette approche, et 12 equipes
pedagogiques regionales ont e  creees pour permettre un suivi plus rapproche. 4.184
maitres ont e  formes, et des modules specifiques de formation ont ete inclus dans les
ENEP. Afin d'ameliorer les conditions de travail, les maitres ont beneficie d'une
indemnite mensuelle complementaire, les classes ont recu du mobilier, des fournitures et
du materiel scolaire, et 58.663 manuels scolaires ont ete gratuitement mis a leur
disposition. Enfin, des campagnes d'information ont e  menees dans pratiquement



toutes les provinces, A l'intention de tous les partenaires et des beneficiaires (voir annexe
2). Une evaluation de l'approche a ete faite de facon independante par le Gouvemement
qui a souligne la pertinence de la formule A condition que les mesures d'accompagnement
soient mieux etudiees.
8.   Formation des enseignants: Pour ameliorer la formation des enseignants du
primaire, 5.000 instituteurs adjoints ont e  formes. En outre, le recrutement direct a ete
reduit grace A une meilleure planification des recrutements. Ainsi, environ 80% des
maitres en poste ont beneficie d'une formation initiale ou continue, et 54,5%
d'instituteurs dans les zones rurales et 80,8% d'instituteurs dans les zones urbaines sont
qualifies (ils n'etaient que 18,56% a etre qualifies dans 1'ensemble du pays en 1990/91).
Un schema directeur de formation pour les personnels ont ete formes et sensibilises pour
la mise en oeuvre de ce schema directeur, en meme temps que les possibilit6s de
formation initiale et continue etaient ouvertes aux enseignants du prive (voir annexe 2).
9.   Gestion des ecoles: La gestion des ecoles et de l'inspection a ete renforcee grAce A
la formation de 1.200 directeurs d'ecoles et de 500 encadreurs pedagogiques, et par la
dotation en moyen logistiques et operationnels des inspections d'enseignement primaire.
12 formateurs de formateurs ont pu beneficier de formations A l'etranger. La mise en
place d'un programme et de logiciels appropries, la formation du personnel de la DEC et
l'appui de consultants ont permis une acceleration du traitement des dossiers des examens
et concours. L'elaboration d'un plan d'action d'organisation de la rentree a egalement
permis l'affectation sans delais des enseignants necessaires des la rentree des classes.
10.  Manuels scolaires:  L'edition et l'impression ont et6 confiees a des editeurs
selectionn6s par AOI; les copyrights et les films sont la propriete du MEBA. Environ
1.8 million de manuels ont pu &re distribues A cofit reduit (environ 63% de moins entre
1990/91 et 1997/98), grace A la renegociation des accords d'exclusivite signes avec des
editeurs prives au cours du Projet Education III. Un systeme de gestion des stocks a ete
mis en place, et 9lgestionnaires centraux et regionaux ont e  formes. Les delais de
reimpression des manuels et donc de ruptures de stocks ont par consequent ete
considerablement reduits. De plus, la capacite de l'entrep6t central a ete renforcee et
trois magasins au niveau regional ont e  amenages et equipes. Le personnel de la DES
et de la DAAF a ete forme dans l'ellaboration des manuscrits, dans la gestion et la
production, le contr6le de la qualite pedagogique, les procedures d'acquisition de livres
existants et la gestion des stocks (voir annexe 2).
11.  Constructions: L'objectif quantitatif initial du projet qui 6tait de construire 1.200
salles de classe et de rehabiliter 300 classes a e  atteint et depasse. Les economies de
cofit realisees a la fois sur la reduction de la taille des complexes et les modes
d'intervention mis en oeuvre ont permis de depasser cet objectif. La situation A la fin du
Projet est de 1.829 salles de classe construites dont 87% en zone rurale, 591 classes
rehabilitees et 546 logements. Toutefois, la delegation de la maitrise d'ouvrage A Faso
Barra a connu des insatisfactions au triple point des cofits, des delais d' execution et de la
gestion des fonds del6gues. L'approche de la normalisation des classes qui n'etait pas
prevue dans le montage initial du projet sera amellioree au niveau de: (i) la faiblesse de la
participation communautaire; (ii) l'execution des travaux par les tacherons (voir annexe



4); et (iii) des modalites de la prise en charge des ecoles par les collectivites locales dans
le sens d'un partenariat bien compris avec tous les acteurs.
12.  Sante/nutrition: Les modules de sante et de nutrition ont ete incorpores dans la
formation des enseignants et dans les manuels scolaires.  Toutes les nouvelles
constructions d'6coles ont prevu des latrines. L'execution de cette composante avait
connu du retard dui au manque d'experience et de competences au sein du MEBA pour
mettre en oeuvre les activites prevues. La gestion de la composante a e  finalement
d6l6guee a CATWEL. Cela a permis la distribution de micronutriments, des trousses de
sante, des carnets de sante, et la formation des enseignants dans 15 provinces (voir
annexe 2).
13. Afin de permettre la finalisation de son rapport d'achevement preliminaire, la
mission a demande au Projet de bien vouloir lui communiquer au plus t6t des donnees
concernant le financement du Projet, telles que presentees dans les tableaux en Annexe 3.
Pour la mission IDA
S        e      ation Principa



Appendix B
Summary of the Government's Report on Project Implementation
Education IV Project (Cr. 2244-BUR)
Burkina Faso obtained Credit 2244-BUR in order to continue the human resources support activities begun in the
Education HI project. The project was financed with fumds coming from IDA, the Government of Burkina Faso
(which ultimately contributed 7.54 percent of the total costs), the Kingdom of Norway, Canada, and the European
Union. Belgium contnbuted an additional grant to complete the project's construction program.
Prior to the launching of the project, the enrollment rate in Burkina Faso was 31 percent, with a literacy rate of about
13 percent. The inequalities faced by the education sector variedbetween regions, between rural and urban zones,
and between boys and girls. To overcome these inequalities, the overal objective of the project was to promote
quality basic education which was accessible to a large number of children, and to achieve a 40 percent enrollment
rate by 1996. To this end, the project:
*  Rehabilitate 591 classrooms compared with 300 initially planned, which resulted in an additional 60,000 places
and an increase in the enrollment rate from 30.69 percent in 19991/92 to 40.9 percent in 1997/98;
* Studied the reasons for girls under-enrollment and now possesses a clear strategy to promote girls and women's
education which has realized an annual growth rate of 9 percent since 1993;
* Improved pedagogical innovations, including the introduction of double-shift teaching in 950 classrooms (a 160
percent execution rate) and of multigrade teaching in 1,847 classrooms (a 219 percent execution rate), allowed
for a 23 percent increase in the number of student places and the acceptance of approximately 80,000 new
students;
*  Revised the student evaluation system;
* Trained approximately 1,200 teachers;
* Improved school management through training, equipment, materials, and logistical means;
v Promoted private education, which also regained its credibility and greatly assisted the expansion effort;
+  Improved the students' health and nutritional status through the purchase of micronutrients and 2,272
emergency health kits; and
+ Produced 12 student textbooks (of which 4,462,000 were distributed) and 12 teacher's manuals (of which
114,000 were distributed) and succeeded in reducing the cost by 63 percent and reaching a ratio of one textbook
per two students.
At the institonal leveL the project strengthened the analyticaL planning and sector management capacities which
have aided in the development of two programs-the Post-primary Education Development Project and the Ten-
year Basic Education Development Plan.
The Bank facilitate project implementation by increasing the amount of the Special Account, authorizing a change in
the construction strategy, conducting organized supervision mission which assisted project implementation. Finally,
the placement of the Task Manager witbin the Resident Mission allowed for rapid disposition of procurement
documents. On a less positive note, the frequent change in project supervision and the long delays in disposing of
procurement documents at the begmning of the project hindered the implementation of project actvities.
The stability of the project team at the Government level greatly contributed to the achievement The bidding
procedures were improved, the mobilization of counterpart funds was accelerated, and annual increases in the
budget respected. However, project documents submitted to the various administrative stctures were subject to
bureaucratic delays.
The following are the lessons learned from the project:
* Rational and effecdve management of existing resources, as well as those placed by the project at the
disposition of the Mrinstry responsible for education allowed for the achievement of satisfactory results in the
entire education sector,
* The strategies used in both the increase in places and the demand for basic education, as wel as its improved
quality constuitte a capital improvement in the advances in the education sector and must be strengthened; and
* A long break in external financing may, however, slow the progress already made.



MINISTERE DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT DE BASE                  BURKINA FASO
ET DE L'ALPHABETISATION
-                                 UnitN-Progris-Justice
SECRETARIAT GENERAL
N99          /MEBAICAB/CONF/CM.
Ouagadougou, le
RAPPORT EN CONSEIL DES MINISTRES
A
Monsieur le President du Faso,
Pr6sident du Conseil des Ministres
OUAGADOUGOU
OBJET: Rapport d'achevement du
Projet Education IV.
Monsieur le President du Faso,
J'ai I'honneur de soumettre a votre tres haute attention ainsi qu'6 cello
du Conseil des Ministres, le rapport d'achevement du Projet Education IV, n6goci6
avec la banque Mondiale en 1991 pour le financement de trois grands programmes
du 2 Plan quinquennal de d6veloppement quantitatif et qualitabf de l'Education de
Base de notre Pays.
Le Projet Education IV a t6 6labor6 et n6goci6 en tenant compte de la
strat6gie globale de d6veloppement de I'Education de Base, d6finie par le
gouvemement pour la poursuite d'un taux de scolarisation de 40% a I'horizon 1997.
Le projet a permis la mobilisation de ressources intemes et ext6rieures
pour le financement de programmes qui poursuivalent les objectifs suivants:
- d'accroissement des capacites d'accueil, avec un accent particulier pour la
scolarisation des Filles et la r6duction des in6galit6s entre los diff6rentes
Provinces et I'am6lioration de la qualite de lenseignement primaire;
..J...



- d'am6lioration de l'enseignement secondaire par I'acquisiffon de manuels
scolaires et la formation du personnel enseignant et d'encadrement
p6dagogique;
- de renforcoment des capacit6s de planification de gestion et d'6valuation
des programmes du secteur.
Le Projet Education IV est veritablement le premier du secteur de
l'Education de Base a prendre en compto nos pr6occupations en matibre de
developpement scolaire, les objectifs et les strategies mis en oeuvre ayant et6
arr6t6s d'accord partie avec la Banque Mondiale et les autres partenaires financiers.
Les deux parties sont ainsi arrivees pratiquement aux m6mes conclusions en
termes d'6valuation des besoins et de d6finition des strategies de mobilisafions des
ressources ndcessaires.
Quatre (04) composantes principales ont et6 d6veloppees dans le cadre
de ce projet:
- une composante d'am6lioration de l'accbs et de l'accessibilit6 a l'6cole grace
a la mise en oeuvre d'un vaste programme de construction et d'6quipoment
de salles de classe, de r6novation et de rehabilitation d'infrastructures
scolaires et de promotion de la scolarisation des filles;
- une composante d'amdlioration de la qualit6 et de la pertinence de
1'enseignement par une amelioration de l'enseignement dispens6 dans les
6coles, le renforcement de la disponibilit6 des manuels scolaires et des
mat6riels p6dagogiques, I'am6lioration de la sant6 et de l'6tat nutritionnel
des 6lbves;
- une composante d'am6lioration de l'enseignement secondaire g6n6ral par
I'6l6vation de la comp6tence des enseignants, le renforcement du contr6le
p6dagogique par les inspecteurs et la mise a disposition des e1lves et des
onseignants de manuels scolaires;
- une composante de renforcement des instituftons du sectour pour une
meilleure formulation et ex6cution des politfques sectorielles par la
foumiture d'un appui logistique aux structures, la formation de sp6cialistes,
la mise on oeuvre d'6tudes qui ont favoris6 une meilleure connaissance de
notre systbme educatif de base.
Le projet a permis au d6part la mobilisation d'environ 46,4 millions de
Dollars, soit environ 13 Milliards 161 Millions de F CFA avec le plan de financement
suivant:
IDA                   24 Millions de Dollars - soit environ 6,81 Milliards FCFA
Royaume de Norvege    3,8 Millions de Dollars -soit environ 1,079 Milliards FCFA



Union Europ6enne     7,3 Millions de Dollars - soit environ 2,073 Milliards FCFA
ACDI                 8,7 Millions de Dollars - soit environ 2,470 Milliards FCFA
Collectivit6s        1,8 Millions de Dollars-soit environ 511,200 Millions FCFA
Contrepartie Nationale  0,8 Millions de Dollars-soit environ 227,200 Millions FCFA
L'intervention de l'IDA a fait l'objet d'un accord de pret ; toutes les autres
interventions sont des subventions. La gestion administrative financiere et
comptable des ressources 6tait assur6e par le Bureau des Projets Education du
Ministere de l'Enseignement de Base et de l'Alphabetisation b 1'exception du
financement de I'ACDI qui a recrute une agence canadienne pour la gestion de sa
contribution. La CEE a 6galement modifie la nature et le niveau de sa contribution
pour ne prendre que les frais d'int6ressement des maftres responsables des classes
innov6es a hauteur de 3.67 Millions de dollars.
Le Royaume de Belgique est egalement intervenu en cours de projet
pour le financement d'un programme compl6mentaire de constructions de salles de
classes pour environ 5,8 millions de dollars soit environ 3,190 milliards de FCFA.
Le cout de base r6vis6 du projet est alors de 39,87 millions de dollards
soit environ 13 288 000 000 F CFA. Ce montant sera port6 a 19 785 057 562 F CFA a
la cl6ture du Projet soit environ 43,16 millions de dollars.
Les autres directions du Ministere, responsables des composantes
mises en cmuvre ont 6t6 les maitres d'xuvre de leurs propres plans d'action,
approuv6s annuellement par la conf6rence des directeurs de service.
Les resultats enregistr6s confortent l'id6e que les objectifs initiaux en
terme de taux de scolarisation g6n6rale, de scolarisation de filles, d'augmentation
du nombre de salles de classes, d'augmentation de la part du budget national
accord6 a 1'enseignement de base, ainsi que les mesures d'efficacit6 ont 6t6 atteints
et parfois meme d6pass6s.
Du point de vue de l'am6lioration de l'offre de l'enseignement primaire,
l'onsemble de l'offre educative a 6te am6lior6 de 7% avec:
- la construction et l'6quipement de 1823 Salles de classes nouvelles dont 785
au titre de la politique de normalisation;
- la r6habilitation de 591 Salles de classe
L'objectif initial du projet qui 5tait de construire 1200 Salles de classe et
de r6habiliter 300 classes a 6t6 donc atteint et d6pass6.



Le taux brut de scolarisation est ainsi pass6 de 31% en 1991 A 40,9%
en 1997 et le nombre d'ann6esI616ves pour obtenir le Cortificat d'Etudes Primaire
(CEP) est passd de 26 A 12. (sur une cohorte de 1000 61lves, iI faut en moyenne
aujourd'hui douze (12) annees A un eleve moyen pour obtenir le C.E.P), (entre 26
ans en 1985).
Le taux de scolarisation des Filles avoc une progression moyenne
annuelle de 9% est pass6 de 24,3% en 1991 a 33,4% en 1997.
Pour une utilisation plus efficace des maitres et des salles de classes,
la mise en place d'onviron 1847 Salles de classes multigrades et de 950 Salles de
classes a double-flux, a conduit A la scolarisation de 80 000 enfants
supplementaires et a pennis un accroissement de l'ordre de 23% de l'offre
6ducative.
- L'enseignement priv6, encourag6 par la mesure de lib6ralisatfon des frais
de scolarit6 a doubI6 ses effectifs qui sont pass6s, de 43 600 61&ves a 89 000
entre 1991 et 1997.
Au plan de I'amdlioration de la qualite de l'enseignement et de sa
pertinence, le systeme dispose d6sormais:
- d'un systeme de formation initiale des maitres elargi et performant avec la
cr6ation des 04 Ecoles Nationales des Enseignants du Primaire (ENEP) qui
ont permis de supprimer progressivoment le recrutement direct. Le nombre
des maitres ost pass6 de 8232 en 1991 A 16 422 en 1997 et tous ont
ban6fici6 d'une formation initiale: 5000 Instituteurs adjoints ont 6t6 form6s.
Ainsi environ 80% des Maitres en poste ont b6n6fici6 d'uns formation initfale
et contifnue, 55% des instituteurs des zones rurales et 80% d'instftuteurs
dans les zones urbainos sont qualifl6s. Un sch6ma directeur de formation
pour les mattres, le personnel d'encadrement et pour les ENEP a 6te
elabore, en meme temps que les possibilitds de fornation initfale et continue
sont ouvertes aux enseignants du priv6;
- d'un systeme d'encadrement rapprochd par la cr6affon et l'Equlpement de
Centres de Ressources P6dagogiques dans les Provinces et la miss en
place progressive de groupe d'action pedagogique aupres des Inspections.
La gestion des ecoles et de l'inspection a 6t6 renforc6e grace a la formation
de 1200 Directeurs d'6coles et de 500 Encadrours pedagogiques et par la
dotation en moyens logistiques et operationnels des Inspections
d'enseignement primaire. L'elaboration et la mise en awuvre d'un plan
d'action d'organisation de la rentr6e scolaire ont 6galement permis
l'affection des enseignants et la distribution des manuels scolaires
necessaires des la rentr6e des classes;



- d'un dispositif performant de producfion et de distribution de manuels
scolaires de qualit6 et A cofts r6duits developp6 avec l'appui de r6dacteurs
priv6s burkinab6 avec un encadrement technique de l'lnstitut P6dagogique
du Burkina (IPB): environ 3,8 Millions de livres scolaires ont 6te acquis et
distribu6s dans ce cadre. En outre la vente des livres a permis la constitution
du fonds d'edition qui permet les r6impressions des manuels scolaires avec
des d6lais reduits.
Des modules de sante et de nutrition ont ete incorpores dans la
formation de maitres et dans les manuels scolaires.
Au niveau de l'enseignement secondaire gen6ral du point de vue
l'amelioration de sa qualite, le projet a permis:
- la formation de plus 700 Professeurs toutes disciplines confondues;
- la formation en evaluation de six (6) Inspecteurs;
- I'acquisitdon de 215 000 Uvres du secondaire mis A la disposiffon des
professeurs et des 6leves dans les bibliotheques des etablissements
secondaires.
Du point de vue du renforcement des capacit6s d'analyse et de
planiflcation du secteur, plusieurs 6tudes ont et6 entreprises et les services cles du
secteur ont b6n6fici6 d'appuis multiformes qui ont am6lior6 leurs capacit6s de
pilotage des programmes du secteur.
L'aam6lioration de la gestion du Projet a conduit A un taux global
d'ex6cution d'environ 98%. Ce taux satisfaisant a 6t6 obtenu grAce aux effets
combin6s:
- d'une meilleure planification, et ex6cution des activites par le
Bureau des Projets et des Directions Techniques, responsables des.
composantes du Projet;
- d'un traitement diligent des dossiers par la Banque Mondiale qui a organis6
pour le secteur un encadrement rapproch6 avec l'affectation d'un sp6ciallste
de l'Education A la mission r6sidente A Ouagadougou;
- d'une meilloure organisation de I'appui apporte au BPE par les services
comptebnts du Ministere de I'Economie et des Finances (MEF) dont la
Direction G6n6rale de la Coop6ratfon.



Las bonnes performances justifi6es par le bon niveau des r6alisations
techniques et Is fort taux de d6caissement expliquent 6galement le renforcement de
la capacit6 de mobilisation de ressources additionnelles du secteur qui fait quo le
budget de l'enseignement de base, aides ext6rieures comprises est passe de
10,31% en 1991 a 12,65% des depenses totales de l'Etat en 1996.
Jo joins on annexe, le tableau des indicateurs de performance du Projet
dress6 par la demi6re mission de supervision du projet effectuee par la Banque
Mondiale qui constate que les objectifs de d6veloppement assign6s au projet sont
atteints et f6licite mes services pour la maniere satisfaisante dont le P.E.IV a Wt6
ex6cut6.
Les r6sultats positifs enregistr6s ne doivent cependant pas occulter les
problemes rencontr6s qui sont a 1'6tude au niveau de mon d6partement dans une
perspective d'am6lioration de I'action future. II en est ainsi de:
- l'insuffisance de mobilisation des partenaires techniques, financiers et
sociaux et des ben6ficiaires autour des enjeux et des objectifs des
programmes;
- I'absence d'un vritable dispositif de suivi-6valuation de 1'ex6cution
technique et financiere du Projet;
- la lenteur, des rigidit6s et lourdeurs administratives constat6es au niveau
des proc6dures de passation des marches et des d6calssements, causes
majeures des longs d6lais d'ex6cutfon.
Les r6sultats atteints apparaissent cependant comme une dimension
nouvelle de l'effort et de la riguour dans la gestion du secteur. Los acquis sont de ce
fait utilis6s comme une base nouvelle a l'identification de nouveaux objectifs et de
strat6gies mieux adaptees pour le plan decennal de developpement de l'Education
de Base.
L'objectif strategique de ce plan est d'atteindre un taux de scolarisation
du primaire de 70% on I'an 2008 et un taux d'alphabetisation de 40% pendant la
m6me p6riode.
Les grandes orientations, qui prennent appui sur les conclusions des
Etats g6n6raux de l'Educaffon organis6s en Septembre 1994 et la lettre dintention
de politique de d6veloppement humain durable discut6es avec tous les actours et
tous nos partenaires visent a:
- mettre en place une strat6gie efticace de valorisation des ressources
humaines;
- considerer 1'expansion, I'6quit6, la qualite et la pertinence comme
etroitement solidaires;



- porter une aftention particulibre a la promotion des initiatives priv6es et
communautaires;
- promouvoir la coordination des partenaires techniques et financiers.
Le processus de finalisation du plan qui va servir de r6f6rence pour
l'engagement des partenaires entre dans une phase d6finitive m6me si les debats et
discussions en cours n'ont pas 6puis6 toutes les questions. La r6flexion se poursuit
notamment sur les questions de:
- la validation de la strat6gie d'amelioration de la qualit6 de I'education pour
renforcer les apprentissages et inciter la demande en 6ducation;
- la hi6rarchisation a opdrer dans la programmation des interventions, en
tenant compte du fait quo ce Plan va se d6velopper en phases successives
de trois (3) annees chacune avec des objectifs et des strat6gies appropriees;
- I'harmonisation des approches et des strategies relatives A l'introduction
des langues nationales dans l'enseignement, au statut et au niveau de
rdmun6ration des enseignants, a la capacite organisationnelle et
institutionnelle du ministere pour la pnse en charge de ce vaste programme.
Je vous prie d'agr6er, Monsieur le Pr6sident du Faso, I'assurance de
ma tres haute consid6ration.
Baworo Seydou SANOU



