Document of
The World Bank
FOR CFFICIAL USE ONLY
ci  /~       L- -/ L/    7 
Report No. 9119-BUR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BURKINA FASO
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
APRIL 24, 1991
Population and Human Resources
Operations Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official du0es. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank anthorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                      -             CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1                        =             CFAF 284 (April 1991)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Im                                 =             l.lyd
1 km                                             0.6 mi
1 m2                               =             1.2 sq yards
I km2                                            0 0.38 sq mi
I ha                               =             2.5 acres
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB          African Development Bank
APE           Parent/Teacher Association (Association des Parents d'Eleves)
BAC           Baccalaureate diploma
BEPC          Lower secondary school diploma (Brevet d'dtudes du premier cycle)
CAP           Certificat d'Aptitude Professionnelle
CEP           Certificat d'Etudes Primaires
CET           Lower Secondary Technical School (College d'Enseignement Technique)
CIDA          Canadian International Development Agency
CONFEMEN  Conference of National Education Ministers (Conference des Ministres de l'Education Nationale)
CPGEE         Committee for the Management of Educational Establishments (Comite Populaire de Gestion des Ecoles
et des Etablissements)
DAAF          Directorate of Administrative and Financial Affairs (Direction des Affaires Administratives et Financieres)
DEC           Directorate of Examinations (Direction des Examens et des Concours)
DEP           Directorate of Studies and Planning (Direction des Etudes et de la Planification)
DEPEP         Directorate of Studies, Programs and Pedagogical Evaluation (Direction des Etudes, des Programmes et
de l'Evaluation P6dagogique)
DES           School Publishing Directorate (Direction de l'Edition Scolaire)
DESA          Directorate of School Health and Hygiene (Direction des Etudes de la Santd et de l'Assainissement)
DEUG          Diploma in Jeneral University Studies (Dipl6me d'Enseignement Universitaire General)
DGEP          Directorate General of Primary Education (Direction Gdnerale de l'Enseigr.eraent Prirnaire)
DOB           Directorate of Guidance and Fellowships (Direction de l'Orientation et des Bourses)
DPEBAM        Provincial Directorate of the Ministry of Basic Education and Mass Literacy (Direction Provinciale du
Ministere de l'Enseignement de Base et de l'Alphabetisation de Masse)
DSP           Directorate of Family Health (Direction de la Santd Familiale) - Ministry of Health and Social Action
EDF           Etropean Development Fund
ENEP          Primary Teachers College (Ecole Normale des Enseignants du Primaire)
EPD           Education Project Directorate
FAC           French Ministry of Cooperation (Fonds d'Aide et de Coopdration)
FJA           Rural Youth Training (Formation des Jeunes Agriculteurs)
GTZ           German Technical Assistance Corporation
INA           National Literacy Institute (Institut National d'Alphabetisation)
INSE          National Institute for the Science of Education (Institut National de la Science de l'Education)
IPB           Pedagogical Institute of Burkina (Institut Pedagogique du Burkina)
MACP          Ministry of Rural Cooperatives (Ministere de I'Action Cooperative Paysanne)
MEBAM         Ministry of Basic Education and Mass Literacy (Ministere de l'Enseignement de Base et de
l'Alphabdtisation de Masse)
MESSRS        Ministry of Secondary and Higher Education and Scientific Research (Ministere des Enseignements
Secondaire, Supdrieur et de la Recherche Scientifique)
SNP           National Service (Service National Populaire)
Fiscal Year                                                         School Year
January 1 - December31                                                September - June



BURKINA FASO
FOURTH EDUCARION PROJC
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page Nos.
DOCUMENTSIN THF.PROJECT FILE ................................. i
CREDIT AND PROJECTSUMMARY   ..........                             ......................  ii-iv
I. INTRODUCTION  ..............................................  1
.THE  EDUCATION SECTOR   ................. ..................... 
A.    Structure of the Education System         .............1................. 
B.    Main Issues in Education   ...........               ........................ 2
1.    Low Leve! of Basic Education ............................. 2
2.    Poor Quality of Education ............................... 3
3.    Poor External Efficiency of Higher Education ................... 6
4.    Budgetary Constraints and Inefficient Use of Resources ....            ......... 6
5.    Weak Planning and Management of Education   .................. 8
C.  The Government's Sectoral Strategy ................                                        8
D. The Bank Group's Role                      ......................                           9
JII.   HEPR SET  ............................... ....... 1
A.    Project Objectives and Description  ...........................  11
B. The Investment Program                    ..11
1.    Improving the Quality of and Increasing Access to
Primary Education .11
2.    Improving the Quality of General Secondary Education .18
3.  Strengthening Key Sectoral Institutions .19
C. The Policy Measures    ..20
1.    Improving the Allocation and Increasing Efficiency in the Use
of Soctor Resources .20
2.    Promoting Private Initiatives in the Provision of Education.                     21
D.    Project Cost and Financing Plan ............ .............  22
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Burkina Paso in June 1990, comprising
Messrs/Mmes D. Hamilton (Education Planner, Mission Leader), B. Abeille (Architect/lmplementation Specialist), M.
Zymelman (Principal Advisor in Education), G. Gauthier (Technical Education Specialist), B. MoU-Drueckar (Education
Specialist-Consultant), C. Denning (Textbook Specialist-Consultant), L. Vandevelde (Educator-Consultant), and G. Alain
(Higher Education Specialist-Consultant). Ms. Barbarm Searle, Principal General Educator reviewed the documents. Ms.
S. Giroux provided secretarial support in the preparation of the report. Mr. T. Agueh and Ms. K. MarshaU arn the
managing Division Chief and the Department Director, respectively, for the operation.
This document has a restricted distribution rlnd may be used by recipients only in the perf :mance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank atstLiorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
IV. PROJECT IM         PLIMM     ON   ........................................... 25
A.   Status of Project Preparation and Readiness ........................ 25
B.   Project Management ............                .........                         26
C.   Procurement, Disbursement and Accounting  ....................... 27
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ...............                        ..................  31
A.   Benefits .............................................. 31
B.    Risks  .     ..............................................  31
VI. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ....                               ........ 32
ANNEXES
1-1 Social Indicators of Development (1989) .34
1-2 Basic Data .36
2-1   Organization Chart of the Ministry of Basic
Education and Mass Literacy ..................................... 37
2-2 Structure of the Education System .38
2-3   Statistical Profile of the Education System
(Analytical Tables on Sector Issues) .42
3-1   Increasing the Availability of Textbooks and Teaching
Materials in Primary Schools.                                                         54
3-2   Primary School Classrooms Construction/Accroissement de la
Capacite d'Accueil des Ecoles de l'Enseignement Primaire .62
3-3 Project Costs and Financing Plan .74
4-1 Supervision Plan .123
4-2A  Summary of Local and Foreign Training  ..........           ..................  125
4-2B  Summary of Local and Foreign Specialist Services  .......         ...............  133
4-3   Disbursement Profile .......................................    137
MAP: IBRD 22999



BURKINA FASO
FOURTH EDUCAnON PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.     "CoOto. Ffiancement at Politique de l'Education au Burkina Faso",  Atafn mingat and Jean-Pierre
Jarousse, IREOU, Mao, 1987
2.     "Etude Sur L'Enseignemont a Flux Multiplo au Burkina Faso", DEP, Ministere de l'Education Natioal,
A0ot 1987
3.     "Etude our l'Organisation et la Gestfon du Ministore de l'Education NationaL" DEP, Ministere do
l Education NatIonal, AcOt 1987
4.     "Etude Socio-Economique du Milieu Etudimnt A L'Universitd de Ouagadougou" DEP, Ninistire do
l'Enseignement Supedrieur et do La Recherche Scientifique, Avril, 1988
5.     "CoOts, Production et Difficuttis de l'Enseignement SupErieur au Burkina Faso", J.P. Jarcusse  nd
M.T. Rapiau, IREDU, Avril, 1988
6.     Sdminaire NationaL sur t'Enseignement Superfeur au Burkina Faso - "Bilan et Perspectives" -
Ministere de l'Enseignement Superiour et de la Recherche Scientifique, Avril, 1988
7.     BURKINA FASO - 3ieme et 4ieme Projet Education, Rapport de Supervision du 3ieme et 4ieme Projet
d'Education, Carmelle Derning, Book Development Council, London
8.     "Diagnostic du Narchi du Travail  et du Systime d'Enseignement  Technique  et de Formation
Professionnelte, Kelly and Martin, BIT, 1988
9.     Requtte de Financoment presentee 3 ta Banque Mondiale, Government of Burkina Faso, January, 1989
10.    "Journ6e de Reflexion sur l'Enseignement au Burkina Faso" NEBAN and MESSRS, Mai, 1989
11.    "Etude Architecturale sur les Savoir-Faire au BurKina Faso" CRATerre, Grenoble, Juin, 1989
12.    "Science Education on the Secondary Level in Burkina Faso and Ivory Coast", Brit N. Holtedahl,
Consultant, 1989
13.    "Plan D'Amelioration de ta Gestion des Bourses Nationales et Etrangires du Secondaire et Stperiour"
Dianda et al., DEP, MESSRS, Fdvrier 1990
14.    wEsquisse de Programme de Construction et d'Equipement d'Infrastructures Scolaires, de Formation
Initeiae et Continue des Personnets d'Enseignements et d'Encadrement Pour Is periode 1991/96" Dianda
et al., DEP, MESSRS, Fevrier 1990
15.    "Education de Base pour Tous au Burkina Faso" DEP, MEBAM, Fdvrier 1990
16.    "Evaluation de Prototypes d'Ecole Primaire et de Logements de Maltres a Nomgane", CRATerre,
Grenoble, Mars 1990
17.    "Quantitetif et Estimation du CoOt du Projet", CRATerre, Grenoble, Mars 1990
18.    "Amelioration de ta Qualitd de I'Enseignoment de Base", L. Vandevelde, ULS, Bruxelles, 190
19.    "BURKINA FASO -  Fourth Education Project-Textbooks and Teaching Materials", July 1990
20.    "Amelioration de ta Quatitd de l'Enseignement Secondaire Base", L. Vandeveldo, ULB,Bruxelles, 1990
21.    "Banque Mondiale-Mission d'Evaluation pour to Project d'Education IV au Burkina Faso" -    Guy
ALLAIM, July 1990:



- ii -
BURKINA FASO
EOURTH EDU!QATION PROJEC
CREDI ANID PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowyer:      Burkina Faso
Beneficiaries:  Ministry of Basic Education and Mass Literacy, and Ministry of Secondary and
Higher Education and Scientific Research.
Credit Amount:   SDR 17.8 million (US$24.0 million equivalent)
TmA:            Standard, with 40 years maturity
Project Objectives
The project would assist the Govermnent in further improving the quality of
primary education and increasing the errollment ratio from 31 % in 1989/90 to
40% by 1996/97, improving the quality of general secondary education, and
strengthening key sectoral institutions by helping to:
(a)  Improve the quality of and increase access to primary education by:
(i) upgrading teaching in schools; (ii) increasing the availability of good
quality textbooks and teaching materials; (iii) increasing the number of
primary school classrooms; (iv) improving students' health and nutritional
status; and (v) promoting female participation in education;
(b)  Imrove the quality of general secondary education by: (i) upgrading the
skills of teachers; (ii) strengthening the Secondary School Inspectorate;
and (iii) increasing the availability of low-cost textbooks and teaching
materials; and
(c) Strengthen key sectoral institutions by providing support to the Ministries
of Basic Education and Mass Literacy (MEBAM) and Secondary and
Higher Education and Scientific Research (MESSRS) to further strengthen
their capacity for policy formulation and implementation and to improve
their operational efficiency.
The project would Include key policy measures to: (a) improve the allocation
and increase efficiency in the use of sector resources by increasing budgetary
expenditures on primary education, increasing efficiency in the use of primary
school teachers and classrooms, and reducing secondary and higher education
student subsidies; and (b) promote private initiatives in the provision of education
through incentives for establishing and operating private and community schools.



- ill -
SUMMARY OF PROJECTCOST ESTIMATES
(Net of Taxes and Duties)
LOt    EQUN   TC1rL
USS MUlion-
1. Jlpmgring Ouality of and Increasing Access to Primary  10 2  15
E-ducation
1.1. Upgrading the Quali.y of teaching
(a) Improving the skills of teachers            3.4       0.2       3.6
(b) Strengthening school management & inspection  0.0     0.4       0.4
(c) Improving student assessment and examination  0.0     0.2       0.2
1.2 Increasing the Availability of Textbooks
and Teaching Materials                          1.1       4.8      5.9
1.3 Increasing the Number of Classrooms            5.7       12.2     17.9
1.4 Improving Students' Health and Nutritional Status  0.0   0.5       0.5
1.5 Promoting Female Participation in Education    0.0       0.2       0.2
2. Improving the Ouality of General Secondary Education  Q.7    42        5.
2.1 Upgrading Teacher skills & school inspection   0.5        0.8      1.3
2.2 Increasing Supply of low-cost textbooks
and teaching materials                          0.2       4.1       4.3
3. Strengthening Key Sectoral Institutior                       2.2
3.1. Further Developing the Planning and
Management Capacity of MEBAM                   0.2       0.6      0.8
3.2. Developing the Planning & Management
Capacity of MESSRS                              0.0       0.6       0.6
3.3. Education Project Directorate                 0.8        1.0      1.8
Total Base Cost                                   1L12 
Physical Contingencies                             0.8        2.5      3.3
Price Contingencies                                 1.7       3.9      5.6
Total Project Cost
Flinancing-Plan
IDA                                                 5.7      18.3     24.0
Kingdom of Norway                                  0.0        3.8      3.8
EC                                                  2.1       5.2      7.3
CIDA                                                4.0       4.7      8.7
Local Participation                                 1.8       0.0      1.8
Government                                         _.        _.        Q
Total                                             MA   i, {
stima    Disbursemet       _AIDA Fiscal Year
19993 19i4  i19        5  19 7 
_i USS million-
Annual                           2.4   4.4   4.8   6.0   4.4   1.8   0.2
Cumulative                       2.4   6.8  11.6  17.6  22.0  23.8  24.0



- iv .
Economi Ro
ogljum:  Not Applicable
Bmnefi:   The project would assist i further developing human resources in Burkina Faso by
increasing the level of basic education in the country, thus improving the overall quality
of the labor force. The project would increase the primary school enrollment ratio from
31% in 1989/90 to 40% in 1996/97 by creating about 200,000 additional school places.
This would imply a rapid increase in student enrollment from 470,000 in 1989/90 to
about 800,000 in 1996 and I million in the year 2000. Introduction of multigrade and
double-shift teaching would increase student enrollment by about 62,000 over the
project period and 24,000 annually thereafter; lower pe. pupil costs would yield total
cost savings over the project period of about CFAF 774 million (US$3.0 million) and
CFAP 313 million (US$1.2 million) annually thereafter, and would also increase access
to education in both sparsely populated as well as urban areas. Quality improvement
in secondary education would help meet middle-level skill requirements by improving
the employability and trainability of secondary school graduates. Reduction of student
subsidies (including fellowships) in secondary and higher education *vould save about
CFAF 3,000 million (US$11.5 million equivalent) over the project period, which could
be applied toward improving the quality and quantity of education inputs. Targeting
of fellowships would help direct students toward priority areas and reduce overcrowding
in some areas. Incentives to promote private and community schools would help
increase resources for the sector and improve utilization of these resources. In addition,
efforts to improve knowledge and awareness of issues related to health/nutrition,
population and the environment, and to increase female participation in the education
system would have broad positive impacts on the society at large. The project would
also help strengthen the institutional framework for effective policy development and
implementation in the education sector.
Rida:      A major risk derives from difficulties the Government may face in meeting the
conditions to increase budgetary allocations for primary education and in reducing
student subsidies. This risk is mitigated by the Government's consensus-building
approach toward policy changes through wide-ranging consultations, and initial steps
towards that goal have proven successful. There is now widespread support for
increasing allocations for primary education, which have been increased in the 1991
budget; also, the number of new fellowships awarded for higher education was
markedly reduced in recent years. The Government's performance in meeting these
conditions would be monitored during annual reviews of project implementation, and
release of the second and third tranches of the SAL would be subject to the Government
meeting these conditions. A second risk concerns the ability of communities to
contribute the required 10% of school construction costs in cash or in kind. This risk
would be addressed by duplicating the experience of the Primary Education
Development Project, where communities were effectively mobilized to contribute
materials and labor to school construction, and by limiting the contribution of
communities to 40% of labor costs and 10% of total construction costs, which is less
than the amount that can be contributed in unskilled labor or local materials. This risk
would be further reduced by greater decentralization of the responsibility for the
establishment and operation of schools to the Provincial Directorates. Furthernore,
Burkina Paso has a strong tradition of successful community participation in similar
construction works.



BURKINA-EASO
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1        The Government of Burkina Faso has requested IDA's assistance in financing a project
designed to help further develop good quality primary education, improve the quality of general
secondary education, and strengthon key sectoral institutions. Total project cost is estimated at
USS46.4 million equivalent (net of taxes and duties), with a foreign exchange component of US$32.0
million. The Government and local communities would contribute US$2.6 million equivalent. Co-
financing is expected from the Kingdom of Norway (US$3.8 million equivalent), the European
Community (EC) (US$7.3 million equivalent) and from Canada (CIDA) (US$8.7 million equivalent).
The remaining US$24.0 million would be financed by IDA.
1.2        The proposed project would be IDA's fourth contribution to the development of
education in Burkina Faso. The policy measures and investment program were developed through
a dialogue based on sector studies prepared between 1987 and 1989. The social indicators of
development for Burkina Faso are shown in Annex 14; and the basic data sheet is found in Annex
1-2.
IH. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
A. Structure of the Education System
2.1        The formal education system consists of: (a) six years of primary education, (b) seven
years of secondary education, made up of two cycles of four and three years; and (c) higher
education comprising 11 schools of the University of Ouagadougou; the National School of
Administration; and three regional institutions ("ecoles inter-dtats") that provide higher technician
training in hydraulics and rural engineering, radio communications, and engineering education.
Priniry school teachers are trained at the "Ecole Normale des Enseignants Primaires" (ENEP)
located near the capital. Admission to the one-year primary school teacher training program requires
successful completion of the first cycle of secondary education (BEPC Diploma). The University's
Institute of Science of Education (INSE) provides training for secondary school teachers. Private
schools account for about 10% of enrollments at the primary level and 40% at the secondary level.
Apart from the formal system, Ministries run in-house training programs. Madarassa schools, run
by Muslim organizations to teach the Koran and basic education, are found in many villages and are
financed from private resources, including external religious organizations. Burkina Faso's education
system includes a rural youth training program ("Formation des Jeunes Agriculteurs" - FJA), which
provides literacy training and basic agricultural skills In centers located throughout the country. The
Ministry of Basic Education and Mass Literacy (MEBAM) and the Ministry of Secondary and Higher
Education and Scientific Research (MESSRS) share responsibility for the formal education sector.
The Ministry of Rural Cooperatives (MACP), together with MEBAM, is responsible for adult
education and literacy. Communities participate in the financing and management of schools through
the "Comites Populaires de Gestion des Ecoles et Etablissements" (CPGEEs) and the "Associations
des Parents d'Eleves" (APEs). In Annex 2-1 is an organization chart of MEBAM. The structure of
the education system is described in detail In Annex 2-2, and a statistical profile of the system is set
out in Annex2.



-2 -
B. Main Issues in Education
2.2        Introduction. Burkina Faso has made great strides in developing its education system
since independence. The primary school enrollment ratio trebled from 5% in 1960 to about 15% in
1980, and doubled again in the last ten years to 31%. The enrollment ratio of secondary education
also increased fromr. 4% in 1985/86 to 6% in 1988/89. However, as evidenced by the low enrollment
ratio, access to primary education is limited, and this is compounded by unequal access for children
in rural communities and girls. The quality of primary and secondary education is threatened by
scarcity of school inputs and by inadequate supervision of teachers and monitoring of the learning
process. There is also a growing excess supply of graduates from higher education. Institutional
constraints limit efficient planning and management of the sector.
1.   Low Level of Basic Education
2.3        Low and inequitable access to primary education. Burkina Faso's literacy rate of 13%
is the lowest among the Sahelian countries (average of 25%). Its gross primary enrollment ratio of
31% (1988/89) is much lower than the average of 52% for the Sahel and 77% for the rest of sub-
Saharan Africa. The enrollment ratio also varies widely among the provinces, ranging from 88% to
6%, and between the sexes - 37% and 23%, respectively, for males and females. The low
enrollment ratio is largely due to inadequate supply of teachers and classrooms rather than to limited
demand for school places. The average pupil/teacher ratio (57:1) is more than 30% above the
average for the Sahel (43:1), and has been at this level since 1981/82. The average class size is 64,
and 63% of all classes contain morc than 55 pupils. In addition, more than 60% of all primary
schools have only three classrooms and are forced to adopt a system of alternate year intake for
pupils.   The lower enrollment ratio for girls is partly due to lack of school places and cultural
attitudes toward girls' education in rural areas. The proportion of girls in urban schools is 49%, in
contrast to about 28% in some rural areas. Parents in rural commun;.ies have lower expectations of
modern sector employment for girls and prefer to educate boys when school places are scarce. In
addition, some parents are unwilling to send children to non-religious sche"- or long distances to
attend school, and also often prefer girls to stay at home to be prepared for marriage. To address
the issue of girls' education, in 1989 the Government established within MEBAM the Service g
Promote th-e Education of Girls to develop and monitor implementation of measures to improve
female education.
2.4        Inaduaute development of adult edur,&Qn. To help improve the literacy rate, the
Government is supporting the development of adult education with the assistance of several donors
(among them, CIDA, as well as IDA through the ongoing Primary Education Development project).
The National Literacy Institute (INA), under MEBAM, is responsible for literacy program design,
development and production of materials, as well as training monitors and supervisors who run the
programs. INA, in collaboration with other ministries, initially experimented with literacy programs
six-weeks in duration, with limited success. Consequently, a new approach based on training
duration of 4-6 months provided in literacy "centers" in the communities has been developed and is
being tested. Successful implementation of these activities is, however, hampered by the lack of
reliable data, as well as INA's inadequate institutional capacity for program development and
supervision. As part of its renewed basic education development strategy, the Government has
established an interministerial commission to address these issues and make recommendations on the
future development of adult education, including the link between basic literacy and informal sector
skills development, a national structure for integrating the efforts of the various ministries, and better
coordinating the activities of the various donors involved in this area. The Government has expressed
its intention to submit this plan to participating donors.



2.   por Qualily of Education
2.5        Measured in terms of internal efficiency and examination pass rates, the quality of
education is poor in both primary and secondary education. In prima,y   c   repetition rates
range from 12% to 17% between Grades 1 and 5 and reach 43% in Grade 6. More than 30% of
students drop out prior to Grade 6, and only 45% pass the final certifying examination (CEP). The
low internal efficiency and poor quality of education are attributable to the poor quality of the
teaching cadre, inadequate supplies of textbooks and teaching materials, insufficient pedagogical
support and control, and inefficient and inappropriate monitoring and evaluation of student learning.
The deficient nutritional and health status of primary school children also hampers student learning.
2.6        Poor quality of primary school teachers. Because of the high proportion of unqualified
teachers and the lack of opportunities for continuing their education and training, the quality of the
teaching cadre is poor. In 1988/89, 1,800 teachers (25% of the cadre) were untrained, mainly
because of the low output of qualified teachers. Between 1984/85 and 1988/89 when, on average,
560 teachers were recruited annually, ENEP's capacity was only 350. Hence unqualified secondary
school leavers and those required to performn "Service National Populaire" (SNP) are recruited to
meet the teaching deficits. To address this issue, the Government plans to increase teacher training
output to about 1,000 annually by establishing two new colleges, to be financed by OPEC and AfDB.
Unqualified teachers are also encouraged to qualify through taking the teacher-qualifying
examinations, but teachers have to prepare for ibis through self-study as there are no training
programs Lo designed to assist them.
2.7       Inadequate supplies of textbooks and teaching materials. Through the ongoing Primary
Education Development Project (Cr. 1598-BUR), new low-cost textbooks and teacher guides are being
produced and distributed by MEBAM; however, the publishing program will not be completed under
that project because of scheduling constraints. In add;ion, continued attention needs to be paid to
firther reduc..ng the production and user-cost of textbooks and materials. As the number of textbook
titles increases, the total cost of the textbooks will exceed what some families can afford, and the
need to lower costs will become more urgent. Although textbook costs have been reduced, they
could be fur;her lowered through less reliance on specialist publishing services and through more
cost-effective manufacturing specifications. To achieve this, the local capacity for the production of
textbooks and teaching materials needs to be further developed to limit costs due to copyright sharing
(as some books are adapted from existing publications), and a book rental scheme needs to be
introduced in the schools. The recently introduced system of book sales through Faso Yaar (a
national food and materials distributor), private book stores for Ouagadougou and Bobo Diolasso, and
Inspectorate offices for rural areas not served by Faso Yaar, will continue to operate in parallel with
the proposed book rental scheme. A Textbook Fund has been established to help finance the re-
snipply of books. As it was set up without adequate planning following a rather sudden decision to
'e11 books instead of loaning them to students, no clear regulations were established for use of the
Fund; hence guidelines for its management have been established under the ongoing Primary
Education Development Project to ensure that it is used only for the re-supply of books. In addition,
management of the Fund is being upgraded to improve efficiency in the collection and use of
revenues. With the introduction of the book rental scheme, the guidelines will be revised to take into
account the requirements of the rental scheme.
2.8       Insufficient pedagogical support and control. The effectiveness and coverage of the
Inspectorate system, which is being supported under the Primary Education Development Project with
transportation and equipment, need to be further improved. Long distances between schools and
regional directorates in some areas make school visits infrequent, and recommendations in reports



- 4 -
of school visits have limited impact on school improvement decisions. The training role of inspectors
should also be expanded to provide more effective support to new and unqualified teachers,
particularly those in remote areas. Many school directors have limited skills in school administration
or teacher supervision, especially in smaller schools where the most senior teacher assumes headship
without formal training. The skills of these directors need to be improved to ensure efficient operation
of these schools.
2.9        Inefficient and inappropriate monitoring and evaluation of student lening. While only
45% of Grade 6 students pass the CEP examination set by MEBAM to certify completion of primary
education, between 70% and 80% are promoted between Grades 1 and 5. This may be partly
attributable to the use of the CEP examination for multiple and conflicting purposes, as it also serves
as a selection instrument for entry to secondary education. In addition, prior to Grade 6, monitoring
of student learning is the responsibility of individual schools, which makes it difficult to compare
student performance across schools; identification of weak schools is therefore difficult and hampers
timely remedial action. The high proportion of unqualified teachers and scarcity of teaching materials
also suggest that student assessment between Grades I and 5 may be inefficient as many teachers may
have only limited skills in designing tests and do not have access to teaching materials to help them
do so. Increasing attention is being paid to this in the new teacher guides being prepared under the
Primary Education Development Project. The Government proposes : introduce better monitoring
and student assessment systems to help improve student learning.
2.10       Deficient nutritional and health status of primary school children. Research findings
on the relationship between nutrition and educational achievement show that malnourished students
perform less well than well-nourished children. Protein energy malnutrition, iodine deficiency,
intestinal parasites, and vitamin A deficiency have all been linked to diminished aptitudes and lower
school attendance. A 1987 study on primary school pupils in foul provinces of Burkina Faso
revealed that 18% to 46% suffered from acute malnutrition, and 35% to 68% of children between
age 5 and 10 suffered from chronic malnutrition. Vitamin A and iodine deficiencies are particularly
common among this age group, and about 90% of school children have a high parasite load
(compared to 22-26% for Niger, Mauritania and Senegal), due largely to the scarcity of potable water
and inadequate solid waste disposal in many communities. Malnutrition among school children is also
attributed to seasonal food shortages in some parts of the country as well as to traditional practices
that prevent the younger members of a household from obtaining a balanced diet during family meals.
2.11       The Government has started addressing these issues, but efforts made so far need to be
ftulrther improved and expanded. The school lunch program, supported by the World Food Program,
is inadequately prepared to compensate fully for the students' poor nutritional status. MEBAM is
working with Parent/Teacher Associations (APEs) to improve the diet with vegetables. A pilot
program for distributing vitamin A to all children age 6-10 has been implemented in four of the 30
provinces with the help of UNICEF. The future of the program, which is being implemented by the
Directorate of Family Health (DSF) and its Regional Offices in the four provinces concerned, is
uncertain because of inadequate funding and the effort needed to develop the distribution capacity of
the Ministry of Health to deliver the vitamin A capsules to all 30 provinces. Until this capacity can
be developed, the Government proposes to distribute the capsules to students through the school
system. Public information programs on improved nutritional/health practices are often limited to
urban areas and are of variable quality, and efforts to Include aspects relating to nutrition and the
environment in school programs are still at an embryonic stage. The UNICEF materials ('Facts for
Life") which provide prototype resource materials in nutrition and health to be used in developing
public information and school programs has been introduced in Burkina. The Ministry of Health and



. 5 -
Social Action plans to use these materials to prepare an information program for adults, while
MEBWM will use the materials for integrating nutrition topics in teacher and student materials.
2.12       In secondary education, 92% and 84% of all students complete the first and second
cycles, respectively, but the overall internal efficiency in both cycles Is low. In the first cycle, pupil
years per graduate is 9.6 instead of 4 because of high repetition rates (which range from 20% to 35%
between year one and four), and a low pass rate of 41% in the BEPC examination (1988). In the
second cygle, pupil years per graduate is 8.5 instead of 3. Similar to the first cycle, repetition rates
are high, ranging from 16% to 35%, and success in the BAC examination is low 30% (1988). The
lowest pass rates are recorded for science students (25%). A new science curriculum was introduced
in 1986/87, but overall quality is adversely affected by inadequate learning materials and equipment,
shortages of qualified teachers, and limited pedagogical s" port of teachers.
2.13       Scarcity of learning materials and equipment. Most students, especially those in the first
cycle of secondary education, do not have textbooks because of their high cost and limited availability
outside the main urban areas. The complete set of textbooks per grade costs about CFAF 20,000
(US$77 equivalent) annually, which many students cannot afford. The high textbook costs are partly
due to the inadequate procurement and distribution system (para 2.7). Only a few suppliers are able
to import textbooks because of lack of capital, and the books are sold to students through several
middle-men who each take the allowed mark-up of 26.5%, making the cost of books prohibitive both
to students and smaller dealers outside the main urban centers. To alleviate this problem, some
schools have established student book loan schemes and book replacement funds replenished from
moderate rental charges. Many schools, however, lack the initial resources to establish such
schemes.
2.14       Laboratory equipment and materials are also in short supply. Although most public
secondary schools have laboratories, only a small number are adequately stocked and even these do
not operate fully because of the high cost of supplies and limited maintenance. Given the current
budgetary constraints and difficulties in maintenance of equipment, it is unlikely that reaching science
by providing each student with a work space and complementary equipment and supplies would be
a viable option. The Government therefore proposes to emphasize the provision of basic equipment
and materials for use by teachers in demonstration, especially in the first cycle where practical work
by students is less critical.
2.15       Lack of qualified teache-rs. In 1988/89 only 44% of secondary school teachers were
qualified, and about 90% of these teachers were qualified to teach only in the first cycle. The low
proportion of qualified teachers is explained by the absence, until 1986, of pre-service training for
secondary school teachers and the inappropriate structure of the course established then. The three-
year pre-service training established at INSE for students with the BAC provided pedagogical
training, but also duplicated academic subjects taught in other departments of the university. The
length of the course limited the output of teachers. New regulations approved in March 1989 provide
for recruitmont of students with the Diploma in General University Studies (DEUG) and higher to
attend a one-year course in pedagogy. The new regulations also require specialization in two or three
subjects to improve teacher utilization. INSE needs to be supported with staff training and equipment
to implement this new policy.
2.16       Inadequate pedagogical support of secondary school teachers. The system for monitoring
school performance and providing support to teachers is well designed, but the number of inspectors
and the facilities at their disposal are inadequate to meet the needs of secondary education. The
teacher/inspector ratio is high: 209:1 for French, 103:1 for natural sciences, and 330:1 for math.



-6 -
Inspectors also lack transportation and other logistical support to visit and observe teachers;
supervision of individual teachers is therefore infrequent. To cope with the large number of
unqualified teachers, emphasis is placed on in-service training; but these training sessions are held
only once every two years in each subject.
3.   Poor External Efficiency of Higher Education
2.17       Higher education responds slowly to changes in the demand and supply of trained
manpower in Burkina, and the market for this type of manpower is increasingly characterized by
surpluses rather than shortages. In the period immediately following independence, provision of
higher education was very limited, and there were severe shortages of trained manpower f'ir the civil
service and the modern sector; priority was therefore to expand secondary and higher education.
However, since 1975 employment of professionals has been threatened by the modest growth of the
modern sector economy in contrast to the more rapid growth of secondary and higher education.
Between 1975 and 1985, employment of professionals grew at about 4.6%, reaching 23,000 in 1985
(18,000 in mid-level jobs and 5,000 in senior professional jobs), while about 10,500 graduates were
produced by secondary schools (more than the number of new jobs created over the period), 4,000
of whom w e,nt on to graduate from the university. The Govermment has started addressing this issue
by discontinuing the automatic recruitment of graduates into the civil service and giving priority in
fellowship awards to students wishing to study the sciences and math; it has also started limiting the
number and reducing the benefits of fellowship awards to reduce incentives to pursue university
education.
4.   Budgetary Constraints and Inefficient Use of Resources
2.18       The share of primary education in total recurrent education expenditures increased from
41% to 43% between 1988 and 1990, which helped increase the enrollment ratio from 28% to 31%
during the same period. However, the enrollment ratio is still low compared to the 52% average for
the Sahel region. Further increase of the enrollment ratio has been constrained by high average
teacher costs in spite of a teacher/pupil ratio of 1:57 and a 3.4% annual growth of the school-age
population.
2.19       Teacher salaries in Burkina are also high, averaging 13 times the GNP per capita,
compared to 8.4 times the GNP per capita for the Sahel. To reduce teacher costs and increase
output, the Government as part of the Primary Education Development Project reduced the training
period for new primary school teachers to one year, starting in 1985, and reclassified them on a
lower salary scale. However, additional measures need to be taken to increase the enrollment ratio
from 31% to 40% by 1996/97 as planned. Simulations of future growth of primary education show
that if current financing patterns continue until 2000, the enrollment ratio would fa;l to about 25%
by that year. Also, as primary education expands to low population density areas, unit costs are
likely to rise and efficiency measures such as multigrade teaching would need to be introduced to
control costs. In urban areas, increasing the enrollment ratio, which is still below 100%, could be
more easily achieved by introducing the double-shift system.
2.20       High Der student costs in secondary and higher education. Secondary school per student
costs in 1987 were over two times the GNP per capita-the highest in the Sahel-and more than double
the average for the region. Per student costs in higher education are 11.8 times the GNP per capita,
the highest in the Sahel, and over 1.5 times the average for the region. These high per student costs
are the result of generous student subsidies and inefficient use of resources at both levels. In
Burkina, Government expenditures on student subsidies (fellowships, cafeteria, medical care, travel,



-7-
etc.) in secondary ard higher education are, in fact, the highest in the Sahel. In 1989/90, expenditures
on student subsidies accounted for 31 % of total public expenditures. on education ann 30% and 80%,
respectively, of expenditures on secondary and higher education (comparable figures for Sahelian
countries are 159% and 57%, respectively.) The high level of expenditures on student subsidies has
been due to: almost guaranteed fellowship awards to all "Bacheliers" 21 years of age and younger,
who comprise more than 99% of university entrants; high levels and attractive conditions of
fellowship awards; and waste due to inefficient management of the fellowship system.
2.21       To address this problem in secondary education, student boarding has been abolished,
and the proportion of students awarded fellowships was reduced from 68% in 1970 to 38% in 1986.
In higher education, the Government limited the number of new "Bacheliers" awarded fellowships
to 1,000 in 1988 and 750 in 1990 instead of about 2,000 who qualified for fellowship awards.
Nevertheless, total expenditures on fellowships have continued to increase (by 6% between 1989 and
1990) because of increases in the costs of fellowships in some countries outside Burkina Faso.
2.22       Inefficient use of resources. High teacher cost in secondary education (26 times the
GNP per capita and double the average for the Sahel) is explained by the single subject specialization
of teachers, which limits their use in small schools. In higher education, high per student costs are
also generated by underutilization of staff and high average salaries. The student/staff ratio (15: 1)
is slightly below the average for the Sahel (17: 1), but average staff salaries are much higher-46 times
the GNP per capita, compared to 33.5 times the GNP per capita for the Sahel. The high average
salaries are due to the small number of hours that teaching staff are contracted for, which necessitates
widespread use of part-time staff and overtime payment to regular staff. The high proportion of non-
teaching staff at the university also contributes to the high costs. As a first step to address this
problem, the university reviewed its operations in 1988 and has introduced a new system to monitor
the use of staff time and facilities to identify inefficiencies and improve the management of higher
education resources.
2.23       Constraints to the develoDment of private sector and community education. The growth
of private sector education has been hampered by a decision in 1985/86 to impose fee ceilings in
private educational establishments. Between 1970/71 and 1985/86, the private sector contributed
increasingly to the provision of education. At the primary level, this sector's share of total
enrollment increased from 4% in 1970 to 9% in 1986, while in general secondary education its
contribution increased from 36% to 49% over the same period. However, in 1985/86 the primary
level fees were reduced to CFAF 10,000 from 30,000 and at the secondary level to CFAF 40,000
from 70,000. Consequently, although at the primary level the share of the private sector has
remained at 9%, schools have had to increase the student/teacher ratio from 50:1 in 1984/85 to 70:1
in 1988/89 in order to generate enough revenues to operate. At tbe secondary level, the share of the
private sector fell from about 49% in 1985/86 to 40% in 1987/88, partly because the growth of
enrollments in private general secondary education fell from about 23% annually between 1983/84
and 1985/86 to about 7% annually between 1985/86 and 1987/88. An increase in the fee ceilings
for private establishments introduced in 1988 seems to be reversing these trends, with an increase of
23% in enrollments in private general secondary education between 1987/88 and 1988/89.
2.24       Limited community participation in education. Increasingly, communities build and
sometimes operate their own schools (including paymnent of teacher salaries in a few instances) at both
the primary and secondary level. Madarassa schools (para 2.1), an important type of community
school, have no fixed school curriculum or calendar, a limited number of textbooks, and poor quality
teachers. Parents would like Government support to improve the operation of these schools so that
they can provide adequate primary education as well as reli;lous education. The Government has



-8-
initiated discussions with concerned organizations on appropriate kinds of support to make these
schools more effective. Communities, which are largely responsible for school construction, make
considerable efforts to construct new classrooms but are inhibited by high costs and limited
construction skills. Under the Primary Education Development Project (Cr. 1598-BUR), construction
costs have been reduced and the transfer of construction skills to communities has increased;
however, this new approach to school construction needs to be transferred to a wider range of
communities.
5.   Weak Planning and Management of Education
2.25       Progress has been made under the ongoing Primary Education Development Project to
improve MEBAM's planning capacity. Educational data are now computerized and published on a
timely basis, and the Ministry has also started contributing to policy analysis and development.
Further staff training and experience would help it to play a more effective role in this area. The
Ministry is also concerned that its present organizational structure impedes timely and efficient
decision-making. The Directorate General of Primary Education (DGEP) and the Pedagogical Institute
of Burkina (IPB) are considered too large to supervise the majority of the directorates of the Ministry,
which slows down decision-making. In addition, MEBAM would like to integrate project preparation
and implementation more effectively into the Ministry and also improve aid coordination. A
consultant is being recruited under the ongoing project to advise on restructuring the Ministry. In
addition, the Planning Unit of MESSRS, established in 1988, has been hampered by frequent changes
in staff and location; it has thus been difficult to establish an effective planning structure.
Strengthening the analytical and management capacity of these units to design and implement policies
and investment programs is therefore needed.
C. The Government's Sectoral Strategy
2.26       The Government's strategy for the education sector aims to increase the level of basic
education in the country, including adult education, and improve the quality of education at all levels.
Special emphasis is also being placed on improving access of females. In addition, the strategy seeks
to increase both private and public sector resources devoted to education, and increase efficiency in
the use of those resources. The Government aims to promote socioeconomic development through
the integration of population, health, nutrition and environmental education into school programs.
Significant progress is being made in implementing this strategy and the primary school enrollment
ratio continues to increase (para 2.18). The share of the education sector in the Government budget
increased from 22.6% in 1988 to 23.8% in 1990, and the share of primary education in the education
budget increased from 41% to 43% over the same period. The Government has also raised the fee
ceilings for private schools, which resulted in increasing their growth rate between 19b8 and 1990
(para 2.23). Increased efficiency in the use of sector resources is being achieved by: (a) reducing the
unit costs of primary education through restructuring teacher training, reclassifying entry-level
teachers to a lower salary scale, and introducing lower cost textbooks and school construction
methods; and (b) controlling expenditures on secondary and higher education fellowships through
limiting the number of fellowships awarded annually. To improve quality at the secondary level, the
curriculum is being revised to emphasize science and math, and the teacher training programs have
been restructured to increase the output of qualified teachers. In technical secondary education, the
training programs are being revised and shortened to make them more responsive to skill demands
and more cost effective. A comprehensive review of informal sector training is also being carried
out to develop an appropriate strategy for the sub-sector. Adult education programs, including the
FJA program, are being improved and expanded to better serve the needs of adults. To expand
implementation of its strategy, the Government proposes to improve the quality of education and



Increase the enrollment ratio of primary education from 31 % to 40% in 1996, and 46% by the year
2000. This would imply a rapid increase in student enrollment from 470,000 in 1989/90 to about
800,000 in 1996, and 1 million In 2000. In addition, increasing attention will be given to improving
the efficiency, quality and relevance of post-primary education and to increasing the role of the
private sector and communities in the provision of education.
D. Bhe Bank Group's Role
2.27       This would be the fourth IDA-financed project in the education sector in Burkina Faso
and the second that supports formal education system. The First Education Project (Cr. 430-UV for
US$2.8 million), closed in November 1980, was designed to (a) support informal sector training by
providing rural youth with basic literacy and agricultural skills and training agricultural managers;
and (b) strengthen the teaching of science in secondary schools. The Second Education Project (Cr.
956-BUR for US$14.0 million), closed in August 1986, continued support for the rural youth training
program started under the first project, including in-service training for agricultural project managers
and public works personnel. The ongoing Primary Education Development Project (Cr. 1598-BUR
for US$21.6 million), signed in June 1985, supports the development of primary education and the
reduction of per pupil costs through: (a) restructuring teacher training and teacher salary scales to
lower costs; (b) providing low-cost textbooks and teaching materials; (c) developing cost-effective
methods of school construction; and (d) improving sector management through assistance to
MEBAM, MESSRS and the Ministry of Rural Cooperatives.
2.28       The Project Completion Report of the First Education Project states that the project
succeeded in providing rural youth with basic literacy and agricultural skills as a second-chance
alternative to the traditional primary school, but that it was too early to judge whether the program
had succeeded in encouraging rural youth to stay on the land and become more productive. The
science laboratories financed under the project were also well designed and cost effective, but only
five of the 18 planned laboratories were constructed, due to implementation delays, and insufficient
attention was paid to future equipment maintenance and teacher training in the use of the new
equipment. Training of agricultural managers went considerably beyond appraisal estimates; the
training programs were well designed and implemented, although the ratio of trainers to trainees was
high.
2.29       The Second Education Project assisted in consolidating the rural youth training program,
strengthening its institutions, and improving the skill level of its staff, thereby making a significant
contribution to the productivity of communities and improving their living conditions. It also
upgraded the Public Works Training Center by improving its physical facilities and providing training
and equipment. However, the Project Completion Report concluded that the unit costs of training
were too high and should be reduced if the program were to be expanded. Also, attainment of the
project objectives was hampered by conflicting views of the FJA program as, on the one hand, skill
training for rural youths and on the other hand as an alternative to basic education for rural children;
parents in particular held the former view and wanted formal primary education for their children.
In preparing the Primary Education Development Project, IDA concluded that although priority
should continue to be on the development of basic education, this should be pursued through
expansion of primary schooling rather than through the FJA system, because of the non-replicability
of the latter on a large scale.
2.30       Implementation of the ongoing Primary Educatior -nject is now proceeding at a steady
pace, following a difficult start-up period (up to 1988) ca sed y indecision on the part of
Government. All major contacts for civil works, materials, textbooks, furniture, and equipment have



- 10-
been awarded; and about 75% of available funds have been committed. Similarly, disbursement
rates, which had lagged behind commitments (in part, due to an estimated 37% increase in the US
dollar value of the SDR credit amount), are now back on track. In ternis of meeting its objectives,
the project (which is expected to close in July 1992, as scheduled) has made considerable progress
in helping the Government to achieve major efficiency gains through reducing unit costs of primary
education, contributing to a significant expansion of enrollment at this level, and improving overall
management of the education sector. Specifically, the training period for new primary school
teachers has been reduced to one year, and they have been reclassified on a lower salary scale. The
cost of textbooks has been reduced to about 30% of previous prices, and unit costs of primary school
construction have decreased by about 50% setting the stage for expansion of and quality
improvements in the education system.
2.31       The Fourth Education Project will build directly on - and seek to carry further - the
positive results of previous and ongoing investments in the sector, particularly in terms of cost
savings and quality improvements. Achievements in reducing costs will continue to be made through
the introduction of multigrade and double-shift teaching. Moreover, measures aiming to further
increase the involvement of communities in the provision of primary education will be provided for
with a view to further expanding access to education of presently underserved population groups.
2.32       Rationale for IDA involvement. The Bank Group's strategy supports the high priority
given by the Government to the development of human resources. In the education sector, because
of the low primary school enrollment ratio, emphasis will continue to be on expanding access to and
improving the quality of primary education to raise the general educational level of the population,
and thereby their productivity, and to facilitate the introduction of improved technologies. Support
for post-primary education will aim to improve the overall quality of general secondary and higher
education, and to help design and implement good quality, low-cost training programs to meet basic
technical skills requirements. As concerns sectoral reforms, prospects for further improvements and
expansion in the scope of education reforms have been firmed up following discussion of recently
completed sectoral analyses and investment priorities among the Govermment, IDA, and other donors.
Given the financial constraints and inefficiencies that inhibit orderly and sustained development of
the education sector, IDA would assist the Government in introducing specific reform measures,
including: increasing resources for primary education and improving effectiveness in the use of those
resources; limiting expenditures on student subsidies in secondary and higher education; and
promoting private initiatives in the provision of education. The project would thus complement
corresponding efforts being made at the macroeconomic level.
2.33       Assistance from other donors. Several donor agencies are providing assistance to the
development of the education sector in Burkina. The Government of Austria is supporting the
improvement of technical education and training through teacher training, and is also providing
technical assistance, equipment and supplies for the "Centre Austro-Burkinabe"; GTZ is helping
develop artisanal and informal sector training; and FAC is providing technical assistance personnel.
In addition, CIDA is financing in-service teacher training for primary schools; the development of
a system for certification of skilled workers; and quality improvements in basic education. AfDB and
the OPEC Fund are financing the construction and equipping of primary school classrooms; and the
Swiss Government is providing assistance to the development of adult education.



- I1 -
Ill. THE PRiOJECT
A. proiect Objectives and Description
3.1        The project would assist the Government in further improving the quality of primary
education and increasing the enrollment ratio from 31 % in 1989/90 to 40% by 1996/97, improving
the quality of general secondary education, and strengthening key sectoral institutions by helping to:
(a)  Improve the quality of and increase access to primary education by (i) upgrading
teaching in schools, (ii) increasing the availability of good quality textbooks and
teaching materials, (iii) increasing the number of primary school classrooms, (iv)
improving students' health and nutritional status, and (v) promoting female participation
in education;
(b) Improve the quality of general secondary education by (i) upgrading the skills of
teachers, (ii) strengthening the Secondary School Inspectorate, and (iii) increasing the
availability of low-cost textbooks and teaching materials; and
(c)   Strengthen key sectoral institutions by providing support to the Ministrias of Basic
Education and Mass Literacy (MEBAM) and Secondary and Higher Education and
Scientific Research (MESSRS) to further strengthen their capacity for policy formulation
and implementation and to improve their operational efficiency.
3.2         The project would include key policy measures to: (a) improve the allocation of and
increase efficiency in the use of sector resources by increasing budgetary expenditures on primary
education; increasing efficiency in the use of primary school teachers and classrooms and reducing
secondary and higher education student subsidies; and (b) promote private initiatives in the provision
of education through incentives for establishing and operating private and community schools.
B. The Investment Program
1.   Imoroving the Ouality of and Increasing Access to Primary Education
3.3         The five sub-components of this component are described below.
a. Upgrading the Ouality of Teaching
3.4         This sub-component would (a) improve the skills of teachers, (b) strengthen the primary
school inspectorate, and (c) improve student assessment and educational evaluation. The strategy for
upgrading the skills of teachers would be to train inspectors and school directors as trainers for
unqualified teachers and SNP personnel in the programs to be financed by the project, train teachers
while carrying out their routine functions, and decentralize training to the 62 districts. The training
programs for untrained teachers and SNP personnel would integrate teaching methodology, including
multigrade and double-shift teaching, promotion of female education, nutrition and health education,
environmental education, and student assessment. Orientation to the new teaching materials produced
under the project would be carried out separately, as they are geared toward teachers in the different
grades.
3.5        Improvine the skills of teachers. Complementing the Government's efforts to expand
teacher training capacity (para 2.6), the project would upgrade the skills of about 4,000 untrained



- 12 -
teachers (those already in service and those to be appointed between 1990/91 and 1996/97), and
provide orlentation training for about 1,100 new SNP teachers annually during the project period.
The program for untrained teachers would focus on mastery of the primary school curriculum and
materials, teaching methods (including multigrade and double-shift), school and classroom
organization and management, and student assessment. The program would be taught over a 14-
month period in each of the 62 districts starting in July of each year, starting with a three-week
seminar, followed by 12 months of self-study supervised by inspectors and school directors, and
completed by another three-week seminar the following July. Participating teachers would qualify
by taking the teacher certification examination, as is currently the practice for untrained teachers.
Requirements for enrollment in the course would give preference to teachers with one year of
teaching experience. The program would start in school year 1992/93 with about 900 teachers (about
15 per district) from the stock of 1,800 untrained teachers in 1990/91. In the second year of the
program, the second group of 900 teachers from this group would be trained, along with about 500
new unqualified teachers appointed in 1991/90 (total 1,400). About 500 new unqualified teachers
would be trained annually in 1993/94 and 1994/95, and 250 annually from 1995/96 when graduates
from the new ENEP start joining the teaching force, increasing the number of qualified teachers
appointed annually to about 700. Training for the 1,100 SNP teachers to be recruited annually would
be conducted in two-week seminars held in the 62 districts for groups of 15-20 teachers, to
familiarize them with the primary school curriculum and teaching skills. The Directorates of Teacher
Training and/or Primary Education and the Primary School Inspectorate would be responsible for
planning and implementing the program. The DroQect would finance equipment and operating costs
related to running the teacher training program, as well as a 25% salary supplement for teachers
participating in the double-shift program (para 3.31 (b)) (total base cost US$3.6 million).
3.6        Strengthening primary school management and inspection.  To improve school
management and teacher support, the project would support training for school directors, inspectors
and trainers of inspectors, and logistical support for the Primary School Inspectorate. The training
programs for school directors and teacher supervisors would focus on school management, teaching
methods (including multigrade and double-shift teaching), student assessment and evaluation, and
teacher supervision. The two-week training for school directors would be provided by the
inspectorate staff in the districts, and would start during the Easter vacation in 1992 with the training
of about 2,000 existing school directors (about 30 per district), followed by annual training sessions
for new school directors (about 200 annually). Training of about 200 inspectors and pedagogical
advisers would be conducted in annual one-week seminars held at three sites. The objective of their
training would be to develop their skills as trainers, given their previous experience as teacher
supervisors. Staff of the Directorates of Teacher Training and of Primary Education would be
responsible for planning and implementing this training; they would be prepared in three refresher
training seminars, to be held for about 120 staff in 1992, 1994 and 1996, and in 12 six-month
regional fellowships.
3.7         To strengthen the Primary School Inspectorate, the project would help improve its
operational guidelines and would provide logistical support for existing Inspectorate offices and
equipment and furniture for the proposed ten new Inspectorate offices. Improvement of the guidelines
for teacher supervision and school inspection would include procedures for monitoring (a) the
participation of girls in the education system, (b) the program for improving students' health and
nutritional status, (c) implementation of multigrade and double-shift schools, and (d) school and
community collaboration. To implement this sub-component, the Droiect would finance operating
costs for running training seminars, fellowships for trainers, and equipment, vehicles and logistical
support for Inspectorate offices and for coordinating the program (total base cost US$0.4 million).



- 13 -
3.8       Improving student assessment and examinations. To improve student assessment and
examinations, the project would support the use of exercises, tests and student assessment as tools
for teaching rather than simply for grading students. Exercises and test items to be included in the
new teaching materials being produced for schools would provide a guide to teachers in the
development and scoring of tests and school-based examinations. Standardized testing will be
introduced in Grade 3 as a diagnostic tool to assess and compare student performance across the
country and identify problem areas in the curriculum prior to Grade 6. The results of this test along
with other school characteristics will be used to identify schools which need special assistance. The
CEP examination will be redesigned to comprise tests to certify completion of primary education and
for selection for entry into secondary school. To ensure that the results of student and school
evaluation are taken into account in decisions to improve quality, and to assess the impact of new
policies on the system, MEBAM's Directorates of Examinations (DEC), Primary Education and
Planning would collaborate to analyze the data and make recommendations. DEC staff would be
trained in assessment and evaluation skills, and provided with a guide to examinations, materials and
equipment to help in the administration and analysis of examination results. During negotiations the
Government gave assurances that it will submit to IDA for review by March 31, 1992, the draft rules
governing the standardized student assessment in Grade 3, and the improved examination combining
certification of completion of primary education and entry into secondary school; and based on
agreements reached following the review, it will approve these regulations by June 30, 1992, and
begin implementing them in school year 1992/93. The project would finance fellowships for staff
of the Department of Evaluation, specialist services, and equipment (total base cost US$0.2 million).
b.  Increasing the Availability of Textbooks and Teaching Materials
3.9        To help ensure the regular supply of low-cost textbooks and teaching materials, a Book
Publications Commission, comprising DEP, DAAF, DES, DGEP and DEPEP with the Secretary
General as President, would be established to advise on and coordinate the activities of the units
responsible for textbook development and distribution, including the Directorates of Publishing (DES)
and Administration and Finance (DAAF), which have the key role in textbook development and
distribution. Within this framework, this sub-component would: (a) complete the publishing program
started under the ongoing Primary Education Development Project; (b) improve tdw aality of
textbooks and teaching materials; and (c) further develop a viable system for providing books to
students.
3.10       Publishing program. The textbook development program, started under the ongoing
IDA Project, would be completed by financing the development, production and distribution of a total
of about 1.4 million textbooks and 60,000 teacher guides. Textbooks for Grade 6 French, Grade 4
science and math, and Grades 4, 5 and 6 history would be authored and edited by DES, assisted by
an experienced publishing firm, which would provide further training and support in the final stages
of publishing. Textbooks for Grades 5 and 6 science and math, and for Grades 3, 4, 5 and 6
geography would be adapted from existing textbooks, provided adaptation rights can be obtained from
the original publishers at an economic cost or be authored by nationals. All teacher guides would
be published locally by DES and printed by local printers. In the case of science, CONFEMEN
("Conference des Ministres de l'Education Nationale") teacher guides (the only subject in which these
materials are available) would be used as a resource in the development of manuscripts. The printing
capacity of DES would be gradually developed to permit in-house printing of the teacher guides and
supplementary teaching materials; this would be more efficient than private sector printing because
of the low printing runs.



- 14 -
3.11       In preparing the textbooks and materials, efforts started under the Primary Education
Development Project to promote female education and nutrition/health and environmental education
would be continued. Focus would be on removing female stereotypes and developing positive images
of women, especially in non-traditional roles that require mastery of mathematical and scientific
concepts. Teaching of nutritiopn/ealth and environmental education would be integrated with the
other subjects, and the project would finance the procurement and distribution of nutrition/health
education materials being prepared by the Directorate of School Health and Hygiene (DESA) with
the help of UNICEF.
3.12       Textboogualty would be addressed by upgrading the skills of staff responsible for the
authorship and publishing of books, and by expanding the application of quality control procedures
to cover the entire book development process. DES staff would receive additional training through
local seminars and training abroad to improve their skills as editors and expand their activities to
cover the full publishing cycle. The quality of authors would be improved through better selection
procedures, training and greater editorial scrutiny of their work.  Procedures for monitoring and
evaluating the quality of books would be prepared and introduced, including the establishment of an
internal committee that would read manuscripts as they are prepared to provide feedback to the
authors and editorial staff. Also, first editions of textbooks would be tested in a limited sample of
classrooms before finalization. To ensure that adequate quality-control standards are maintained, a
Book Publications Commission, with a secretariat at the Directorate of Studies, Programs and
Pedagogical Evaluation (DEPEP), would be established to supervise the quality-control process and
recommend manuscripts for publication.
3.13       Textbook distribution. To ensure continuous availability of textbooks and materials in
schools, the project would help introduce a textbook rental sch. me in schools, and the system for
planning and financing book supplies and for book distribution would be strengthened and improved.
MEBAM would continue to procure all books and teacher guides, and the capacity of the central
warehouse would be increased to allow the ordering and storage of books for several years. The
current system of selling textbooks to students through Faso Yaar, private book stores, and the
Inspectorate would be continued; however, a major effort would be made under the project to
introduce and generalize a textbook rental scheme. Under this system, students would be issued a
set of books for each grade at the start of each year, for which they would pay a rental fee equivalent
to about half of one-third the cost of the books (since books are designed to last about three years).
The rental fees would be paid into the Textbook Fund, through the Inspectorate and be used for the
re-supply of textbooks. Textbooks would be distributed to the main Inspectorate offices in the
provinces by private transporters, from which the schools would collect their supplies. The Book
Publications Commission would be responsible for supervising the operations of the rental scheme
and for directing overall use of the Fund.
3.14       As the number of titles increases, the level of book rental fees that would permit 100%
financing of book replacements from the Textbook Fund would be more than many families can
afford (para 2.7). Rental fees thus need to be subsidized to make the books affordable for parents.
Provision should also be made to finance the increased number of books required as student
enrollment increases. Estimates of the cost of textbook requirements and projections of revenues
from book rental would be made annually to assess the appropriate levels of rental fees and subsidies,
as well as additional funds for increasing the book supply, which may need to be financed through
the primary education budget. Replacement of teacher guides in public schools would be financed
100% from the MEBAM budget, while private and community schools would be expected to
purchase their own. DAAF would be strengthened through training and logistical support to monitor
and audit the rental scheme, and the Directorate of Studies and Planning (DEP) would include



- s -
availability of textbooks and teacher guides in its annual statistical survey of schools as a further
measure to monitor book supply. During negotiations the Government gave assurances that it will
introduce a book rental scheme in primary schools, with regulations acceptable to IDA, starting in
school year 1991/92. A condition of credit effectiveness would be submission of a plan, acceptable
to IDA, for the establishment and operation of the textbook rental scheme, starting in school year
1991/92, including operation of the Textbook Fund, arrangements for the collection, safekeeping and
use of fees collected, and Government's contribution to the Fund to cover book replacements. A
detailed description of this component is found in Annex 3-1. The project would finance the
procurement of textbooks and teacher guides to be published under the project, staff training and
specialist services, and furniture, equipment and vehicles necessary for implementation of this sub-
component (total base cost US$5.9 million).
c. Increasing the Number of Primary School Classrooms
3.15       In order to reach the 40% enrollment ratio target in 1996/97, construction of about
4,000 new classrooms and maintenance of existing facilities would be required during the six-year
period 1991/92-1996/97. To help rehabilitation/construction programs, the project would, in the
seven project areas (Annex 3-2, para 7 (d) (ii)), assist local communities in their efforts to rehabilitate
300 and construct 1,200 classrooms. Of the remaining 2,800 classrooms, about 1,200 would be
financed by local communities, leaving 1,600 to be financed by other sources.
3.16       Under the ongoing Primary Education Development Project, techniques and practices
which are labor-intensive, and which also increase the technical skills of local artisans, have been
developed to reduce construction costs by 50%. Key elements of these approaches are: first, a series
of prototypes have been developed based on a survey of traditional skills and construction materials
locally available; second, to reduce the administrative burden and delegate more responsibility to local
commrunities, contractors/artisans are currently recruited directly by communities, while project
supports provide the financing of labor services, a kit of construction materials, and technical
guidance. Under the proposed project, it was agreed that the provis-on of fixed grants to
communities covering part of labor costs would simplify and accelerate the implementation process.
3.17       Improvement-of community school construction and management skills. To improve
the capability of local communities to organize community resources for the construction and
maintenance of classrooms, the project would support: (a) the strengthening of Provincial Directorates
(DPEBAMs) of the Ministry of Basic Education and Mass Literacy in their advisory and supervisory
functions; (b) the selection of local contractors or artisans with sufficient experience and materials;
(c) the diffusion of standardized low-cost building designs; and (d) the development of a school
construction and maintenance capacity in the communities. Reinforced by regional construction teams
and with assistance, where available, from government services (Secretariat d'Etat I l'Habitat),
DPEBAMs would provide communities (CPGEEs and APEs) with information on ways of accessing
support for school construction. They would help determine school needs and resources required to
carry out school construction programs. Local builders recruited by communities would receive
technical support and guidance from regional construction teams. The builders would have to
participate in the construction of a model school, during which they should demonstrate their
technical skills, in particular, for the construction of foundations, roofs and woodwork/ironwork.
Following the probation period (2-3 weeks), the builders would receive an agreement equivalent to
a pre-qualification to build schools for communities. The technology developed during the ongoing
project would remain derived from traditional building practices to facilitate maintenance by the
communities. The project would support the IDA Environmental Management Project being
processed in parallel by providing, where feasible, the education infrastructure and services required



- 16 -
by the beneficiary communities. Regional Construction Teams would assist the CPGEEs and APEs
in preparing applications to be submitted to the DPEBAMs for the grant allowance; at the same time,
building designs and materials to be used would be agreed. During the construction phase,
supervision of construction would be carried out by the Regional Construction Teams. Improving
the capacity of communities to decide on and organize the construction of their own schools would
not only help increase communities' commitment to maintaining and managing their schools, but
would also reduce capital costs, as well as represent a seedbed of skills and potential small entrepre-
neurs for the informal sector.
3.18       Rehabilitation of 300 and construction of 1.200 classrooms. Criteria have been set up
for the delivery of project support and allocation of grants to assist community school rehabilita-
tion/construction programs. All rehabilitation programs supported by the project would be financed
at 60% of the estimated cost on a grant basis, not to exceed CFAF 330,000 per classroom. All new
construction programs supported by the project would be financed up to a total of 90% of total cost
by the project except those in urban areas in which double-shift teaching will be introduced, and those
to be established and operated as non-government schools by communities, which would be supported
at 75%. On the basis of the designs chosen, a package of standard construction materials and a grant
would be given to the communities for new construction. This grant would represent 60% of the
estimated labor costs and be paid on condition that tranches of work have been delivered with the
agreed quantities and quality. The purchase and transportation of construction materials to project
areas would be carried out directly by the project through private entrepreneurs. The communities
would be responsible for the provision of labor services, locally available building materials, and on-
site security during the construction period. On this basis, unit construction costs are estimated at
CFAF 7.5 million per bloc of three classrooms (including facilities for a director's office, storage,
latrines, and teacher housing). The CPGEEs and APEs, representing the communities, would apply
to MEBAM for the use of funds through the DPEBAMs, which would make recommendations for.
final approval to coordinating committee, including representatives of the Ministry of Education.
Once the regional programs are approved, the DPEBAMs, with assistance from the Regional
Construction Teams, would assume primary responsibility for monitoring and supervising school
rehabilitation/construction. Seven of these technical teams would be established in the project areas
to assist the communities and supervise the delivery of project inputs. The main link between the
communities and MEBAM would be through the DPEBAMs, which would prepare quarterly reports
on the delivery of construction materials and the use of school construction funds in their areas.
MEBAM would, however, maintaiii overall supervision through a locally hired construction
coordinator. This sub-component is described in more detail in Annex 3-2.
3.19       The proiect would finance: (a) in urban areas and in the periphery of urban areas where
the enrollment ratio is above 40%. 60% of the rehabilitation cost of 50 classrooms where double-shift
teaching methods would be introduced, and 100% of the construction materials cost for the
construction of about 100 classrooms in community schools; (b) in urban areas, in the periphery of
urban areas and in rural areas where the enrollment ratio is below 40%, 60% of the rehabilitation
cost of 250 classrooms, 100% of the construction materials cost, and 60% of the cost of labor
services for the construction of about 1,100 classrooms; (c) 100% of school furniture, pedagogical
materials and repair kits for classrooms constructed or rehabilitated; (d) 100% of equipment and
consultant services for the Regional Construction Teams and the central coordinator posted at the
Education Project Directorate; (e) 100% of short-term technical services and printing of construction
and maintenance guides; and (f) 80% of operating costs for the Regional Construction Teams (total
base cost US$17.9 million).



- 17 -
3.20       During negotiations, agreement was reached on: (i) the criteria for selecting the
communities to be included in the school construction program, and (ii) on the location of the schools
to be built during the first year of the project. The Government also gave assurnces that it will
select the communities to be included in the school construction program in accordance with the
agreed criteria.
e.  Improving Students' Health/Nutritional Status
3.21       In addition to efforts in the teacher training and textbook components to improve
health/nutrition education, and the provision of wells and sanitary facilities in schools to be
constructed under the project, micro-nutrients and deworming tablets would also be provided to
students in all public and private primary schools at regular intervals to make up for nutritional
deficiencies and reduce the parasite load of students. Vitamin A capsules and iodine would be
distributed twice annually, while deworming tablets would be provided three times a year. An inter-
ministerial committee, chaired by DEP, MEBAM and made up of DESA and DSF of the Ministry
of Health and DGEP, DEP and IPB of MEBAM, would be established to plan the procurement,
storage and distribution of the micro-nutrients and to advise on development of the pedagogical
materials. The micro-nutrients and deworming tablets would be distributed to schools through the
Regional Directorates of Primary Education; within the schools, distribution would be carried out by
teachers in collaboration with district health authorities. The Ministry of Health would carry out
quality control of the micro-nutrients, and DSF would monitor progress in the various regions.
Schools would also be provided with first aid kits to help provide immediate help to students in need.
Implementation of this component would be carefully monitored to evaluate the effectiveness of the
implementation arrangements and to measure its impact on student attendance and performance. The
evaluation would draw on the experience of the Ministry of Health in carrying out the UNICEF-
supported pilot project. To implement this component, the project would finance equipment,
pedagogical materials, and the procurement of micro-nutrients and deworming tables for students
(total base cost US$0.5 million).
f.   Promoting Female Participation in Education
3.22       In addition to promoting female education through teacher training programs (para 3.5)
and teaching materials (para 3.10-3.11), szudies on constraints to female participation in education
would be undertaken to document and analyze the incidence and reasons for gerder bias, and to make
specific recommendations for addressing these issues. The studies would draw on the expertise of
an inter-disciplinary team and would be conducted in a number of communities representative of the
various educational, social and cultural features in the country. These studies would provide some
of the elements for planning and improving the targeting of interventions to reduce gender bias in the
education system, and, inte ", would propose ways for increasing the proportion of women in the
teaching cadre and for improving female achievement, especially in science, math and technical
subjects. During negotiations the Government gave assurances that these studies will be completed
by April 30, 1992, discussed with IDA the following September, and the agreed recommendations
implemented by school year 1992/93. To implement this sub-component, the project would finance
equipment, specialist services to help design the study, and operating costs for conducting the studies
(total base cost US$0.2 million).



- 18-
2.   Improving the Quality of General Secondary Education
3.23       This sub-component would: (a) upgrade the skills of teachers; (b) strengthen the
secondary school inspectorate; and (c) ensure the regular supply of low-cost textbooks and teaching
materials.
3.24       Upgrading teacher skills and school inspection. To help upgrade teacher skills the
project would provide equipment and supplies for the pre-service training course at INSE and
organize in-service training for teachers. INSE currently shares facilities and staff with other
departments of the university, and until a study of the use of university facilities is completed and a
plan for its future development prepared, it would be difficult to decide on any major investment for
this institution. Support for the pre-service training course would therefore be limited to provision
of audio-visual equipment and materials for teacher training in order to enhance INSE's capacity to
use micro-teaching methods, and expand its small library of audiovisual materials to cover the entire
range of secondary school subjects. INSE staff would also be trained in preparing audio-visual
materials for use in training. In-service training of teachers would be conducted in one-week
seminars, for about 2,000 teachers, by inspectors building on their experience in conducting similar
courses. The seminars would focus on appropriate teaching methodologies and content of the eight
basic subiccts taught at the secondary level; the integration of nutrition, health and population
education in these subjects; and student assessment. Three seminars would be conducted biannually
between 1992 and 1996.
3.25       To improve the effectiveness of the Secondary School Inspectorate, the project would
support the training of inspectors and provide logistical support to make them more effective in their
training and supervision functions. About 50% of the Inspectorate staff (15) are currently being
trained abroad, and the project would provide fellowships for the remaining 14 inspectors to upgrade
their skills as trainers to help run the in-service training courses, and provide effective routine support
to teachers. In the training of inspectors, particular attention would be paid to math, science and
languages, the improvement of female nutrition/population education, and the supervision of private
schools, including Madarassas. Once all 29 inspectors have completed their training and become
filly operational, the high ratio of teachers to inspectors (117:1 in 1989/90) will fall to about 56:1,
making it easier for them to be effective. To further improve Inspectorate operations, the project
would provide logistical support to increase the frequency of school visits and facilitate teacher
training. The project would finance fellowships, specialist services, teaching materials, and operating
costs of the in-service training courses (total base cost US$1.3 million).
3.26       Increasing supply of low-cost textbooks and teaching materials. Adequate supplies of
low-cost textbooks and teaching materials would be ensured by supporting school textbook loan
schemes for first-cycle secondary schools, provision of periodicals and books for first- and second-
cycle secondary school teachers, and provision of science kits for all secondary schools. The project
would build and expand on the current practice in some secondary schools, of libraries through which
books are loaned to students for a fee of about CFAF 1,000 to 2,000 annually; the fees collected are
used by the schools to operate a revolving fund for textbook repair and replacement. This scheme
has proved to be successful and has helped reduce the cost of books to students in participating
schools. The project would extend the benefits of this scheme to other schools present!y unable to
participate due to a lack of start-up funds by financing the purchase of the first supply of books, and
30% of the cost of one replacement of these books to compensate for enrollment increases and
possible shortfalls In the replacement fund while the system is being established. Schools wishing
to participate in the scheme v,ould provide facilities for the library and establish the loan scheme and
revolving fund. One book per three students would be ordered for French, math, natural science,



- 19 -
physics and chemistry, and one book per six students for history and geography. MESSRS would
establish regulations for the operation of the textbook loan scheme and the revolving fund, including
levels of fees to be charged for borrowing and penalties for damage. It is expected that a library
registrauion fee of about CFAF 1,800 annually per student for borrowing textbooks in all subjects
would be sufficient to meet the costs of repair and replacement. Each school ould be responsible
for operating its own loan scheme and for managing the revolving fund, but MESSRS would establish
guidelines to be followed by schools in this respect. To further reduce the cost of books, the book
requirements of the various schools would be consolidated by DAAF and ordered through the
university bookshop, and funds from the schools in the scheme would be transferred to DAAF to pay
for orders when required. Ordering of books through the university bookshop would permit bulk
discounts that can be passed on to students, since the bookshop is part of MESSRS. Currently,
because schools procure textbooks individually and purchase relatively small quantities at a time, they
are unable to order directly from publishers and obtain bulk discounts. DAAF would be responsible
for distribution of the textbooks to the schools and for helping to familiarize teachers and school
directors with how the scheme operates. Teacher books would be issued free to staff in public
schools, and private schools would be offered the books at cost to encourage them to do likewise.
DAAF would be responsible for setting up and implementing the procedures for monitoring the
textbook loan scheme and revolving fund. To improve science teaching, the project would provide
science kits for use by teachers in public secondary schools, and offer the kits to private secondary
schools at cost. During negotiations the Government gave assurances that: (a) by April 30, 1992,
it will submit a detailed plan, acceptable to IDA, for the establishment and operation of a textbook
loan scheme for secondary schools, including a revolving fund for textbook re-supply in each school
in the program; and (b) starting in school year 1992/93, it will begin implement:ng the plan. The
prQject would finance textbooks and teaching materials, fellowships, specialist services to help with
the selection and procurement of textbooks, and equipment (total base cost US$4.3 million).
3.   Strengthening Key Sectoral Institutions
3.27       This component comprises two sub-components: (a) further developing the planning
and management capacity of MEBAM; and (b) developing the pmanning and management capacity of
MESSRS.
3.28       Further developing thb planning and managemeni .snacity of MEBAM. This sub-
component would build on the efftrts begun under the ongoi-g education project to upgrade
MEBAM's planning capacity. Under this project, DEP staff l- ve been trained in educational
statistics, school mapping and educational planning, enhancing th. r \iapacity to collect and analyze
educational statistics and contribute to policy analysis and desigT.. The Fourth Education Project
would further increase DEP's capacity wo analyze and publish education data and to develop and
implement policy measures, especially in the areas of resource use c,d educational quality, through
staff training, equipment and logistical support. The staff training would focus on economics of
education and educational planning, with emphasis on policy development, and continue training in
educational statistics and school mapping. In addition, the project would continue to support
implementation of the results of the proposed review of the structure of MEBAM started under the
Primary Education Development Project. in particular, the focus would be on improving the
budgetary and administrative procedures of the Min'stry and on improving its system for collecting,
analyzing and disseminating among the various departments information on the budget, personnel and
students. In this light, the project would finance fellowships in educational policy, specialist services,
educational policy, planning and statistics, specialist services, equipment, and logistical support for
data collection and policy analysis (total base cost US$0.8 million).



- 20 -
3.29       The Education Project Directorate (EPD) in MEBAM  is responsible for overall
management and c-)rdination under ongoing project. The unit has performed well to date and, in
the context of the Fourth Education Project, its capacities will be strengthened. To that effect, the
EQirect would finance: (a) upgrading of existing facilities; (b) purchase of equipment and vehicles;
(c) organization of a project launch seminar; (d) training for project directorate staff in accounting
and management; (e) conferences and seminars for project staff; (f) specialist services for project
account audits, as well as others required for project management, evaluation and preparation of
future projects; (g) salaries of the administrator, construction and procurement specialists, accountant,
and other contractual support staff; and (h) operating costs (including utilities, consumables, and
travel allowances for project staff) (total base cost US$1.8 million). (Further details concerning
project management are given in para. 4.2.)
3.30       Developing the planning and management capacity of MESSRS. Assistance for the
development of this Ministry's planning and management capacity would be directed at strengthening
DEP, the Directorate of Guidance and Fellowships (DOB), and the university. The project would
improve the capacity of DEP to collect, analyze and publish educational statistics and to develop and
implement policy measures, especially those related to resource mobilization and use, and to the
internal and external efficiency of post-primary education. At the university level the project would
build on efforts, recently initiated by the Rectorate to establish a management system for improving
the utilization of university facilities and staff. An evaluation of current management practices would
be undertaken and a new computerized management syste a introduced, along with a monitoring
capacity to provide information on which to base decisions for further improving the management
system. A study on the development of vocational education and training would be carried out under
the project by DEP in collaboration with other ministries and agencies concerned. It would review
programs and policies in vocational education and training and propose an action plan, including
required policy and program reforms and investments. During negotiations the Government would
be asked to give assurances that it will complete the study on vocational education and training by
June 30, 1993 and discuss the conclusions of the study with IDA and other interested donors by
September 30, 1993. The proijc would finance fellowships, short-term specialist services to help
improve the management system of the DOB and the university, and studies on strategies for
developing post-primazy education and training (total base cost US$0.6 million).
C. The Policy Measures
1.   Improving the Allocation and Increasing Efficiency in the Use of Sector Resources
3.31       To improve allocation and efficiency in the use of sector resources, the Government
would:
(a) Increase budgetary expenditures on primary education for financing the recruitment of about
950 teachers annually, textbooks and teaching materials, and operating costs for the Primary
School Inspectorate, needed for quality improvement and the planned increase in the
enrollment ratio from 31% to 40% by 1996/97. The total number of teachers for each year
would be based on an average teacher/pupil ratio of 1:60, and the textbooks and teaching
materials to be financed by the Government would include supplies for school administration,
teacher guides and reprints of student textbooks. It is estimated that an annual increase of
8.5% in nominal terms (assuming the level and structure of the teacher salary scale remains
unchanged) of the primary education budget will be needed to meet the annual cost of teacher
needs, as well as for other inputs to improve quality and expand the system. During
negotiations the Government gave assurances that it will: (i) increase the teaching cadre by



- 21 -
recruiting about 950 teachers annually during nhe project period; (ii) allocate a minimum of
6% of the primary education budget to finance teachlng materials and textbooks; (iii) allocate
an agreed amount for financing the operating costs of inspectors; and (iv) increase the primary
education budget by the required amount to finance the ii:ems in (i) to (iii), estimated at 8.5%
annually in nominal terms.
(b) Increase efficiency in the use of primary school teacaiers and classrooms by (i) introducing
multigrade teaching in about 840 classrooms with an average teacher/pupil ratio of less than
1:40 over the project period; and (ii) phase in double-shift teaching in about 590 classrooms
with one teacher for two cohorts of 55 pupils each, and pay an appropriate salary supplement
to teachers participating in the program. A public information campaign would be launched
during 1991/92 to inform parents about multigrade and double-shift teaching.  During
negotiations the Government gave assurances that it will: (i) introduce and generalize
multigrade in a minimum of 840 classrooms over the project period at a rate of 280 classrooms
biannually, starting in 1992/93; (ii) introduce double-shift teaching with one teacher for two
cohorts of about 55 pupils each (and an appropriate salary supplement to teachers participating
in the program) in a minimum of 590 classrooms over the same period, starting with 60
classrooms in 1992/93 and gradually increasing to 590 in 1996/97; ared (iii) based on
discussions of the findings of an evaluation during the mid-term review scheduled for
September 1994, take appropriate measures toward the generalization of the system.
(c)   Reduce secondary and higher education student subsidies by 5% (nominai merms) in 1991/92,
and by 10% annually in nominal terms between 1992/93 and 1996/97, resulting in reduced
student subsidy levels in secondary education from CFAF 1,831 million to CFAF 1,026
million, and in higher education from CFAF 4,406 million to 2,224 imillion over this period
by: (i) limiting new fellowships in higher education to 750 annually (down from 1,000 in
1989/90), rather than awarding fellowships to all newly eligible secondary school certificate
holders (those 21 years of age or younger), who numbered about 2,000 in 1989; (ii) revising
the criteria for fellowship awards to link them more closely to priority areas such as science
and math, restricting the renewal of fellowships, and limiting the generous conditions under
which fellowships are awarded, including subsidized canteens and travel during vacations; and
(iii) improving the management of student subsidies that currently leads to waste. During
negotiations the Government gave assurances that it will reduce expenditures on secondary and
higher education student subsidies by 5% in 1991/92, and 10% annually between 1992/93 and
1996/97 by implementing specific actions agreed with IDA (paras 2.20-2.21).
In its recently completed PFP, the Government agreed to increase budgetary allocations to primary
education and reduce current transfers for student subsidies in secondary and higher education in line
with the targets set in (a) and (c) above. Implementation of budgetary restructuring measures will
be a key component of the SAL, for which negotiations are scheduled mid-May 1991.
2.   Promoting Private Initiatives in the Provision of Education
3.32       To promote private sector and community initiatives in the provision of education,
especially in light of government budgetary constraints, the Government taking measures to encourage
the establishment and operation of private and comm.unity schools, including Madarassas, and to
create an environment more conducive to the rapid expansion of other private initiatives in education.
A central element of this new policy will be the liberalization of fees charged by these schools. The
Government is also studying the broader issues concerning the establishment and operation of these
schools, as well as ensuring their access to the various support services necessary to maintain a



- 22 -
minimum level of quality and standards, e.g., teacher training, textbooks and pedagogical materials,
and inspectorate services. With respect to the liberalization of private school fees, the Government
has confirmed its intention to introduce this measure effective as of school year 1992/93, following
sufficient time for implementation of a consensus-building campaign and other preparatory measures
to be carried out during school year 1991/92. In the interim, the Government will proceed with a
10% increase in fee ceilings, effective school year 1991/92, which would bring the fees to a level
equivalent to about 90% of the per pupil cost in public schools. During negotiations the Government
gave assurances that it will: (i) by December 31, 1991, announce its decision with respect to the
lifting of ceilings on fees charged by schools run by individuals, private groups, and communities to
take effect as of school year 1992/93; and (ii) establish guidelines for the operation of these schools,
and provide them access to teacher training, textbooks, teacher guides, and Inspectorate services to
help maintain minimum levels of quality and standards, starting in school year 1991/92. As
conditions of effectiveness the Government would: (i) submit to IDA, for review and comment, the
findings of two studies concerning, respectively, the establishment and operation of schools run by
individuals, private groups and communities, and the proposed liberalization of fees charged by these
schools; and (ii) raise the ceiling applicable to such fees by not less than 10% as of school year
1991/92.
D. Project Cost and Financing Plan
3.33       Co. The total cost project is estimated at US$46.4 million equivalent, net of taxes and
duties, witn a foreign exchange of US$32.0 million, or 70% of the total project cost. The base cost
would be US$37.9 million (81 %). Physical and price contingencies are estimated at US$8.9 million
(24% of base cost); the physical contingencies include 10% for physical investments and 5% for
training, consultant services and operating costs. Price contingencies assume a domestic inflation rate
of 4% throughout the life of the project and an international inflation rate of 9% in FY92, 1.1 % in
FY93, 0.4% in FY94, 1.6% in FY95, 3.8% in FY96, 4.0% in FY97, and 4.7% in FY98.
3.34       IDA would allocate US$24.0 million toward the financing of this project, or 52% of
total cost. Contributions by local communities for construction costs (US$1.8 million) and financing
by the Government (US$0.8 million) add up to US$2.6 million equivalent, or 6% of total project
cost. Financing of the remaining US$19.8 million, or 43% of total project cost, is expected from
the Kingdom of Norway (US$3.8 million, or 8% of total cost), from EC (US$7.3 million, or 16%
of total cost), and CIDA (US$8.7 million, or 19% of total cost). Detailed project costs by component
cost category and financing source are given in Annex 3-3. Cost estimates by category of
disbursement and by component are shown in the tables below.



- 23 -
PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY CATEGORY OF DISBURSEMENT
(in millions)
CFAP                  USS            %      % Total
Foregn   Base
Local  Foreign    Total  Loa   Foreign  Tota Exchang  Costs
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works                       64.6    104.8   169.4    0.2   0.4   0.6   61.9   1.6
B. Classrooms
1. Grant 60%                      864.8      0.0   864.8    3.0   0.0   3.0    0.0   8.1
2. Contribution 100%               60.9      0.0    60.9    0.2   0.0   0.2    0.0   0.6
3. Construction Materials          77.1    750.5   827.7    0.3   2.6   2.9   90.7   7.8
4. Construction Materials (EC)    163.0  1,585.5  1,748.5    0.6   5.5   6.2   90.7   16.4
Sub-Total                          1,163.8  2,336.0  3,501.8    4.2   8.2  12.3   66.7  32.8
C. Goods
1. Equipment                        0.0    759.1   759.1    0.0   2.7   2.7  100.0   7.1
2. Furniture                      158.1    683.5   841.6    0.6   2.4   3.0   81.2   7.9
3. Vehicles/Cycles                  0.0    188.3   188.3    0.0   0.7   0.7  100.0   1.8
Sub-Total                           158.1  1,631.0  1,789.0    0.6   5.7   6.3   91.2  16.8
D. Pedagogic Materials                0.0    127.9   127.9    0.0   0.5   0.5  100.0   1.2
E. School Books & Manuals             0.0  1,944.8  1,944.8    0.0   6.8   6.8  100.0  18.2
P. Consultant Services
1. National                       252.0     0.0   252.0    0.9   0.0   0.9    0.0   2.4
2. International                    0.0    636.4   636.4    0.0   2.2   2.2  100.0   6.0
Sub-Total                           252.0    636.4   888.4    0.9   2.2   3.1   71.6   8.3
G. Training
1. Local Training               1,061.6     0.0  1,061.6    3.7   0.0   3.7    0.0   9.9
2. Overseas Training                0.0    307.7   307.7    0.0   1.1   1.1  100.0   2.9
Sub-Total                          1,061.6   307.7  1,369.3    3.7   1.1   4.8   22.5   12.8
Total INVESTMENT COSTS             2,702.1  7,088.5  9,790.6    9.6  24.9  34.5   72.4  91.8
11. INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS
A. Operation Expenses
1. Consumables                     10.5    45.6    56.2    0.0   0.2   0.2   81.2   0.5
2. O.& M.                          47.9    206.4   254.3    0.2   0.7   0.9   81.2   2.4
3. Salaries/Travel Allowance      568.6      0.0   568.6    2.0   0.0   2.0    0.0   5.3
Sub-Total                           627.0    252.0   879.0    2.2   0.9   3.1   28.7   8.2
Tota BASELINE COSTS                3,329.1  7,340.5 10,669.7   11.9  25.6  37.S   68.5  100.0
Physical Contingencies            235.9    674.2   910.1    0.8   2.4   3.2   74.1   8.5
Price Contingencies               506.1  1,077.7  1,583.8    1.7   3.9   5.6   70.2  14.8
Total PROJECTS COSTS               4,071.1  9,092.5 13,163.6   14.4  32.0  46.4   69.1  123.4
(Figures may not add up to total due to rounding.)



- 24 -
PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY COMPONENT
(in millions)
CPAF                   USS             %     % Total
Foreign   Base
L2 a FPoreien    Total  Local Ergign  T     Exchan   Costs
A. ACCESS AND OUALITY OP BASIC EDUCATION
1. TEACHER TRAINING                 958.0     57.0  1,015.0    3.4    0.2    3.6    5.6    9.5
2. SUPPORT TO INSPECTORATES           8.8    104.5   113.3    0.0    0.4    0.4   92.3    1.1
3. EVALUATION SYSTEM                  1.0     50.0    51.0    0.0    0.2    0.2   98.0    0.5
4. TEXTBOOKS                        299.6  1,351.9  1,651.6    1.1    4.8    5.8   81.9   15.5
5. CONSTRUCTION OF CLASSROOMS 1,393.7  3,295.1  4,688.8    5.0   11.5   16.5   70.3   43.9
6. REHAB/MAINT. OF CLASSROOMS  202.5    221.9   424.4    0.7    0.8    1.5   52.3    4.0
7. IMPROV. HEALTH/NUTRITION           0.0    146.7   146.7    0.0    0.5    0.5   100.0    1.4
8. PROMOTING FEMALE EDUCATION    7.0          61.4    68.4    0.0    0.2    0.2   89.7    0.6
Sub-Total                           2,870.7  5,288.S  8,159.1    10.2   18.5   28.7   64.8   76.5
B. OUALITY OF SECONDARY EDUCATION
1. TEACHER TRAINING/INSPECT.    134.0    217.9   351.8    0.5    0.8    1.2   61.9    3.3
2. TEXTBOOKS                        65.6  1,179.6  1,245.2    0.2    4.1    4.4   94.7   11.7
Sub-Total                             199.6  1,397.4  1,597.0    0.7    4.9    5.6   87.5   15.0
C. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
1. MEBAM PLANNING                   43.6    177.6   221.2    0.2    0.6    0.8   80.3    2.1
2. MESSRS PLANNING                   0.3    184.0   184.3    0.0    0.6    0.6   99.9    1.7
3. PROJECT DIRECTORATE             215.0    293.1   508.0    0.8    1.0    1.8   57.7    4.8
Sub-Total                             258.9    654.6   913.5    0.9    2.3    3.2   71.7    8.6
Total BASELINE COSTS                3,329.1  7,340.5 10,669.7   11.9   2S.6   37.5   68.S  100.0
Physical Contingencies              235.9    674.2   910.1    0.8    2.4    3.2   74.1    8.5
Price Contingencies                 506.1   1,077.7  1,583.8    1.7    3.9    5.6   70.2   14.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                 4,071.1  9,092.5 13,163.6   14.4   32.0   46.4   69.1  123.4
US$
Local  Forcien    Total
Financine Plan
IDA                                  5.7      18.3    24.0
Kingdom of Norway                    0.0      3.8      3.8
EC                                   2.1      5.2      7.3
CIDA                                 4.0      4.7      8.7
Local Participation                  1.8      0.0      1.8
Government                           08       0.0      0
Totl                                14        L
(Figures may not add up to total due to rounding.)



- 25 -
Mecurrent Cost IMDlicatlons
3.35       Budgetaa imp. The main sources of incremental recurrent costs generated by the
project would be salaries, teaching materials, and other inputs required to meet the project's
objectives. Achieving the project target of increasing the enrollment ratio to 40% by 1996/97 would
require an annual increase of 8.5% (in nominal terms) of the primary education budget during the
project period, as described in para 3.32 (a). Given that without the project an annual increase of
3.5% would have been required to maintain the current enrollment rate of 31%, the incremental
recurrent costs of the project would be equivalent to a 5% annual growth rate in the primary
education budget. Assuming that the Government's budget increases by 3% annually, primary
education's share of Government's total recurrent budget would increase from 10.7% in 1990, to
11 % in 1996 without the project, and with the project to 14.6%. The Government has ensured that
it will make available the resources necessary to respect these budgetary targets, and similar
assurances have been incorporated into and will be monitored under the PFP and the proposed SAL.
3.36       Cost savings. The project would generate savings both during and after the project
period, some of which are difficult to quantify at this time, e.g., gains from internal efficiency.
Gradual introduction of multigrade teaching in 840 classrooms would increase enrollment by about
20,000 students over the project period, and by about 6,700 students annually (about 20% of current
enrollment) when all the 840 classrooms are operating multigrade. The cost per pupil for teachers
in these classrooms would also be reduced by 21 %, from CFAF 31,000 to 25,000, with an increase
in the average class size of the 840 classrooms from 32 to 40 with multigrade teaching. Cost savings
over the period would total about CFAF 630 million (US$2.5 million) and about CFAF 200 million
(US$800,000) annually in these 840 classrooms. This would also allow for the provision of a full
cycle of primary education in remote areas and an annual intake of students rather than every other
year, which results in some cohorts missing school completely.  Introducing double-shift in
classrooms with a current average student/teacher ratio of 81:1 during the project period would
increase student enrollment by 42,000 students and yield savings on teacher costs of about CFAF 144
million (US$570 million). When double-shift teaching has been generalized, it is estimated that the
increase in enrollment would be about 40,000 students annually, and teacher costs reduced by 7%
annually, resulting in savings of about CFAF 113 million (US$446,000). The combined increase in
enrollment from multigrade and double-shift over the project period would be about 62,000, and
when the 840 and 1,150 classrooms are operating under the multigrade and double-shift systems,
respectively, the increase would be 24,000 students annually. In 1996/97 this would represent about
3 % of the projected enrollment in that year and increase the enrollment ratio by about 1%. Quality
improvements would increase the internal efficiency of the education system and thereby reduce the
unit costs per graduate. The proposals to reduce expenditures on secondary and higher education
student subsidies would accrue savings of about CFAF 3,000 million during the project period.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Status of Project Preparation and Readiness
4.1        The project was pre-appraised in February 1989 and appraised in June/July 1990. The
policy measures to be included in the project were discussed in Washington in October 1989 with
the Ministries of Education, Plan, and Finance, and during project appraisal. Plans for implementa-



-26-
tion of multigrade and double-shift have been finalized, as have the measures for reducing student
subsidies and for promoting private education, which were finalized during negotiations.
Implementation plans for the main investment components have also been prepared, including the
targets for the construction of schools for the first year. The textbook and school construction
components will expand on programs being implemented under the ongoing Primary Education
Development Project (para 2.30). The organizational structures for carrying out the plans are in
place, since the components would build on experiences and pilot tests conducted under that ongoing
project, or projects financed by other donor agencies.
B. Project Management
4.2        Each project component would be implemented by the relevant directorate of MEBAM
or MESSRS, the respective components having been designed as integral parts of the work programs
of the concerned directorates. However, overall project coordination and management would be the
responsibility of the Education project Directorate (EPD) in MEBAM; EPD would also directly
supervise implementation of the largest component -- primary school construction and maintenance
program (para 3.15-3.16). More specifically, EPD would be responsible for: (a) coordinating and
monitoring project activities; (b) supervising the school construction program; (c) administering
project resources; (d) maintaining project accounts, preparing withdrawal applications and providing
necessary certifications for disbursement, including SOEs; (e) ensuring observance of IDA's
procurement procedures; (f) reporting on progress of project implementation; (g) ensuring adequate
auditing of the project accounts; and (h) liaising with other Ministries, IDA and other donors. EPD
staff would include: a project director, an administrator in charge of project monitoring, a
procurement specialist, a construction specialist (acting as central coordinator for the construction
program), and an accountbnt. During negotiations the Government gave assurances that the staffing
positions noted above will be filled at all times by persons with experience and qualifications
acceptable to IDA.
4.3        Coordination among the various Directorates of MEBAM would be conducted through
the existing Ministerial Advisory Committee, chaired by the Minister. This Committee, which meets
weekly to discuss development and implementation of the Ministry's programs, has been involved
in discussions of the project objectives and design. Annual reviews would be undertaken by the
Government, IDA and cofinanciers to assess progress in project implementation, including the impact
of the policy measures (para 3.31), and on that basis agree on the next annual work program. A joint
mid-term review evaluation would also be carried out in 1994/95 to review the progress of project
implementation. During negotiations the Government gave assurances that it will undertake with
IDA: (a) annual reviews of the progress of project implementation, starting not later than September
30, 1992, and by September 30 every year thereafter; and (b) a mid-term project evaluation not later
than September 30, 1994. A detailed plan for supervision of project implementation is presented
in Anne4-.



- 27 -
C. Procurement. Disbursement and Accounting
4.4          Ihe procurement arrangements are summarized below.
Amounts and Methods of Proeurement
(USS million including Contingencies)
No. Categgory of exoenditur                    [CB         L          Other          A       Totl Cost
1.   Civil Works Contracts                     -           0.40        -          0.30 /a      0.70
-         (0.40)       -          (-)         (0.40)
2.   Constmction/rehabilitation of classrooms
a) Construction materials                 5.50                    -          5.80 /b     11.30
(5.50)                  -          (-)         (5.50)
b) Grants                                  -          -           -          4.20         4.20
-          -           -          (2.30)      (2.30)
3.   Furniture                                 -           3.50       0.20        -            3.70
-         (3.50)      (0.20)      -           (3.70)
4.   Equipment, vehicles                       1.60        -           -          2.50 /c      4.10
(1.60)      -           -          (-)         (1.60)
5.   Pedagogical Materials & Equipment
a. Textbooks                              4.90        -           -          3.70 /d      3.60
(Secondary Schools only)                  (4.90)      -           -          (-)         (4.90)
b. Pedagogical Materials                  0.50        -           -          0.10 /e      0.60
(0.50)      -           -           (-)        (0.50)
6.    Consultants Services                      -          -          2.70        1.00 If      3.70
*          -          (2.70)      (-)         (2.70)
7.    Training
a. Local Training                          -          -           -          4.30 /g      4.30
-          -           -          (0.80)      (0.80)
b. Fellowships                             -          -          0.50        0.80 /h      1.30
-          -          (0.50)      (-)         (0.50)
8.   Operating Costs                           -           -          0.75        3.15/i       3.90
-          -          (0.60)      (0.50)      (1. 10)
Total Costs                              12.50        3.90       4.15        25.80       46.40
Total Financed by the IDA credit        (12.50)      (3.90)     (4.00)       (3.60)     (24.00)
The following capital letters show the project components:
Part A: Increasing Access to and quality of basic education
Part B: Improving the quality of secondary education
Part C: Strengthening Institutional capacity
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IDA credit.
Footnotes with small letters indicate amounts financed by other donors and procured under their procedures:
(a) US$0.30     (b) US$5.80     (c) US$2.50
(d) US$3.70     (e) US$0.10     (f) US$1.00
(g) USS4.30     (h) US$0.80     (i) US$3.15
Figures may not add up to total due to rounding.



- 28 -
4.5        InternatIonal ComDeitiveBiddingtlCB). Contracts for constructionmaterials (estimated
at US$3.6 million) and goods, including vehicles, computers, office supplies, textbooks and
pedagogical material (estimated at US$7.0 million), totalling US$10.6 million equivalent and
representing 73% of the total value of contracts for works and goods financed by IA, would be
grouped into packages of at least US$200,000 equivalent to improve bid competition. Items suitable
for international com2etitive bidding (ICB) would be procured in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (May 1985). To the extent
possible, contracts for items such as construction materials that require frequent provision of goods
of similar nature would include provisions for such delivery. Contracts would be signed for the
entire package with provision for annual delivery over a number of years - to be determined in
advance. Where ICB procedures are used, a preferential margin of 15% for goods manufactured
locally, or the existing customs duty, whichever is less, over the c.i.f. prices of competing goods,
would be given to domestic manufacturers in accordance with IDA's guidelines.
4.6        Local Competitive Bidding (LCB). For the remaining 27% of the total value of goods
and works contracts financed by IDA, totalling US$3.8 million equivalent, procurement other than
ICB would be used. The exception to ICB procurement would be for: (a) contracts for furniture
(mostly school furniture) totalling US$3.4 million which would be available locally at prices below
international market (procurement would be done by bulking furniture, to the extent possible, to
achieve economy of scale); and (b) contracts for civil works, which are small in size totalling US$0.4
million. These items, which are not expected to attract foreign bidders because of their small size
and the diversity of site delivery, would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locaDl (LCK in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA, provided that: (a) any procedure
under which bids above or below a predetermined assessment of bid values are automatically
disqualified is not permitted; (b) bidders are allowed sufficient time to submit bids (45 days
minimum); (c) evaluation criteria are clearly specified (price, capability to perform, adequacy of
equipment and personnel, and financial capacity); (d) all bids are opened in public and bidders'
representatives are allowed to be present; (e) no preference margin is granted to domestic contractors,
suppliers and manufacturers; (f) eligible foreign firms are not precluded from participation and are
not required to be incorporated in Burkina Faso in order to participate in the bidding; (g) the bidding
documents provide for security in an amount sufficient to protect the Borrower in case of breach of
contract (this security would be provided by performance bond or bank guarantee, at the bidder's
option, and without distinction or exception for foreign or local firms); and (h) prior to issuing the
first call for bids, a copy of a draft standard bidding document is submitted to IDA and found
acceptable.
4.7        Other methods of procurement. Items, under the category of furiture and operating
costs financed by IDA (consumables, office supplies) not exceeding US$20.0: and aggregating to
a maximum of US$0.8 million equivalent, could be purchased through international or local shopping
on the basis of price quotations obtained from at least three reliable suppliers to ensure competitive
prices.
4.8        "Grants" funded by the project and financed by IDA (totalling US$2.2 million equivalent
and representing 60% of labor services for new construction and 60% of total rehabilitation costs)
would be paid to communities on condition that tranches of works have been delivered with quantity
and quality agreed upon. As these grants would be equivalent to fixed subsidies, the contract awards
would not be subject to procurement review.



- 29 -
4.9         Review. For contracts financed by IDA (for civil works and goods) estimated at more
than US$200,000 equivalent each, the bidding documents, advertisements and proposed contract
awards would be reviewed by IDA prior to further bidding and to decision on the final awards. It
is estimated that prior review would cover about 73% of the total value of the amnount contracted for
goods and works financed by IDA. The remaining 27% of the value contracted for goods and works
would be subject to either: (a) post-review for contracts estimated at between US$20,000 and
US$200,000 equivalent; or (b) selective post-award review for contracts estimated at less than
US$20,000. For the latter, expenditures would be made out of certified Statements of Expenditure
(SOEs), and documentation would be retained at the Project Directorate for random review by IDA
staff and for annual audits.
4.10        Training and cogsultants financed by IDA, totalling US$3.2 million, would be
contracted in accordance with tha Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981). A summary of local and foreign
training to be provided under the project is shown in Annex 4-2A. Annex 4-2B provides a summary
of local and foreign specialist services.
4.11        Procurement of contracts for project components financed on a parallel basis by other
donors would follow procedures in accordance with their respective guidelines, except for contracts
financed under the Norwegian grant, which would be administered by IDA and for which the above-
described Bank's procurement guidelines would apply. During negotiations the Government gave
assurances that It will apply procedures in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement
Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and for the Use of Consultants.
4.12       Disbursements. The project is expected to be completed over a six-year period by
December 31, 1997. The IDA credit would be disbursed according to the country disbursement
profile for all sectors over a period of seven years on the basis of the categories shown below. Given
the availability of the Special Account, the minimum application for direct payments would normally
be for the equivalent of US$30,000. The amounts to be financed under each category are shown
below. The estimated quarterly disbursement schedule for the IDA credit is shown in Annex S3.
Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit
(US$ million
Proposed IDA    % of Expenditurc
Categoo  of ExDcnditure                Allocation    Disbursed by IDA
1.    Civil Works contracts                     0.4           100%
2.   Construction of classrooms
(a) Construction materials                4.7           100%
(b) Grants for labor costs                2.0           100%
3.    Grants for rehabiliation                  0.6           100%
4.    Furniture, vehicles, equipment,
office suppie                             4.7           100%
S.   Pedagogical Materials and Textbooks        4.9           100%
6.   Specialist Services                        2.4           100%
7.    Training                                   1.2          100%
8.   Incremental Operating Costs                0.9            80%
9.    Unallocated
Tota                                      24.0



- 30 -
4.13       Special Accu. To facilitate disbursement, USSO.6 million equivalent, denominated
in CFA francs, would be advanced from the IDA credit and deposited in a Sg&ial Accoun opened
by the Government in a local commercial bank. The amount is estimated to cover about three months
of expenditures. The Special Account would be replenished by submitting withdrawal applications
(WAs) to IDA. All WAs would be fully documented except for expenses related to contracts valued
at less than US$20,000 equivalent each, which would be reimbursed against Certified Staements of
Exp2nditures (SOEs). Documentation for SOE claims would be retained at the Project Directorate
for selective post-review by IDA staff during supervision missions and for regular annual audits.
Reimbursement applications would also include a statement of account movements since the last
application, with the balance certified by the bank holding the account, and a reconciliation showing
that the balance represented is the original amount less payments awaiting reimbursement of small
working advances. The Government would submit replenishment requests to the Special Account on
a monthly basis, or whenever the accounts are diminished by one-third, whichever comes first.
4.14       Accounting and auditing. The Project Directorate would properly maintain, to the
satisfaction of IDA, separate accounts and records to be used exclusively for the project. To that
end, the existing accounting system would be adapted to meet the specific requirements of the project.
Assistance from an independent auditor is being provided with financing from the ongoing Primary
Education Development Project. All receipts and payments for and in connection with the carrying
out of the project would aggregate expenditures incurred for each project component and would be
registered in accordance with accounting principles and procedures consistently applied. The Project
Directorate would furnish to IDA as soon as available, but in any case not later than June 30 of each
year, beginning in 1992 (six months after the end of the Government's fiscal year) an annual audit
report, including: (a) annual financial statements on project expenditures summarizing such accounts;
(b) separate opinion reports from a competent anu independent auditor, acceptable to IDA, as to the
accuracy and authenticity of such financial statements; and (c) certificates, satisfactory to IDA and
from the same auditor, certifying that the value and quantity of services are adequately reflected in
such financial statements. In addition, the Special Account and SOEs would be audited semiannually
and audit reports submitted three months after the end of each audit period. The same auditor would
also issue a management letter and furnish to IDA annual perfornance audit reports and such other
information concerning such accounts and records, audits and certificates as IDA may from time to
time reasonably request. During negotiations agreement was reached on the terms of reference for
the auditor to audit all project accounts annually, and the Government gave Mrance4 that it will
submit to IDA an annual audit report, of reasonable scope and detail, within six months after the end
of the Government's fiscal year, and in the case of the Special Account and SOEs, submit semiannual
audit reports within three months after the end of each audit period. A condition of credit
effectien  would be that the adapted accounting system is in place and an independent auditor,
acceptable to IDA, has been retained for the auditing of the project accounts.
4.15       Reporting. The Project Directorate would: (a) submit to IDA semiannual geportn
lplect implementation for the period July to December by March 31 and September 30 for the period
January to June of each year, beginning in 1992; (b) show in the September report in preparation for
th,e annual review (i) performance in project achievements, (ii) the one-year program for the
upcoming fiscal year, (iii) the status of policy reform indicators, (iv) a draft budget for the sector for
the upcoming year, (v) the actual budget law when issued, and (vi) the budget as executed; and (c)
submit a completion reo  within six months of the credit closing date. During negotiations the
Government gave assurancs that it will prepare and submit semiannually to IDA a detailed report
on the implementation of all aspects of the project, and will prepare and submit a project completion
report within six months of the credit closing date.



- 31 -
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Bgnfihts
5.1        The project would assist in further developing human resources in Burkina Faso by
increasing the level of basic education in the country, thus improving the overall quality of the labor
force. At the primary level, the project would increase the primary school enrollment ratio from
31% in 1989/90 to 40% in 1996/97 by creating about 200,000 additional school places. This would
imply a rapid increase in student enrollment from 470,000 in 1989/90 to about 800,000 in 1996, and
1 million in 2000. Introduction of multigrade and double-shift teaching would increase student
enrollment by about 62,000 over the project period and 24,000 annually thereafter, lower the per
pupil costs of education, yielding total cost savings over the project period of about CFAF 774
million (US$1.2 million) annually, and increase access to education in sparsely populated and urban
areas. Quality improvement in secondary education would help meet middle-level skill requirements
by improving the employability and trainability of secondary school graduates. Reduction of student
subsidies (including fellowships) in secondary and higher education would save about CFAF 3,000
million (US$11.5 million equivalent) over the project period, which could be applied toward
improving the quality and quantity of education inputs; and the targeting of fellowships would help
direct students to priority areas and reduce overcrowding in others. Incentives to promote private
and community schools would help increase resources for the sector and improve utilization of these
resources, thereby reducing constraints to the expansion of education. In addition, efforts to improve
knowledge and awareness of issues related to health/nutrition, population and the environment, and
to increase female participation in the education system would have broad positive impacts on the
society at large. The project would also help strengthen the institutional framework for effective
policy development and implementation in the education sector.
B. Risks
5.2        One major risk concerns difficulties the Government may face in meeting the conditions
to increase budgetary allocations for primary education and reduce student subsidies. This risk is
mitigated by the Govermnent's consensus-building approach on policy changes through wide-ranging
consultations; and initial steps towards that goal have proven successful. There is now widespread
support for increasing allocations for primary education, which have been increased in the 1991
budget. The Government has also taken steps to limit the number of new fellowships awarded for
higher education was limited to 1,000 in 1988/89 and 750 in 1989/90, instead of awarding
fellowships to all "Bacheliers" 21 years of age or younger (numbering about 2,000 in 1989/90 and
increasing). The Government's performance in meeting these budgetary conditions would be
monitored during the annual reviews of project implementation, and release of the second and third
tranches of the SAL would be subject to the Government's meeting these conditions. A second risk
concerns the ability of communities to contribute the required 10% of school construction costs in
cash or in kind. This risk would be addressed by duplicating the experience of the Primary Education
Development Project, where communities were mobilized effectively to contribute materials and labor
to school construction, and by limiting the contribution of communities to 40% of labor costs and
10% of total construction costs. This risk would be further mitigated through greater decentralization
of the responsibility for the establishment and operation of schools to the Provincial Directorates,
which are in closer touch with the communities and can more easily help them organize their
contributions to school construction. Furthermore, Burkina Faso has a strong tradition of successful
community participation in similar constructijn works.



- 32 -
VI. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1        During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that It will:
(a)   By March 31, 1992, submit to IDA for review the' draft rules governing the standardized
student assessment in Grade 3 and the improved examination combining certification of
completion of primary education and entry into secondary school; and based on agreements
reached following the review, approve these regulations by June 30, 1992, and begin
implementing them in school year 1992/93 (para 3.8);
(b)  Introduce a book rental scheme in primary schools, with regulations acceptable to IDA,
starting in school year 1991/92; (para 3.14);
(c)   Select the communities to be included in the school construction program in accordance with
the agreed criteria (para 3.20);
(d)  The studies on constraints to female participation in education will be completed by April 30,
1992, di&,ussed with IDA by September 30, 15 2, and the agreed recommendations
implemented by school year 1992/93 (para 3.22);
(e)   By April 30, 1992, submit a detailed plan, acceptable to IDA, for the establishment and
operation of a textbook loan scheme for secondary schools, including a revolving fund for
textbook re-supply in each school in the program; and starting in school year 1992/93, begin
implementing the plan; (para 3.26);
(1)   Continue to staff the Education Project Directorate with personnel with experience and
qualifications acceptable to IDA (para 3.29);
(g)  Complete the study on vocational education and training by June 30, 1993 and discuss the
conclusions of the study with IDA and other interested donors by September 30, 1993 (para
3.30);
(*)  (i) Increase the teaching cadre by recruiting about 950 teachers annually during the project
period; (ii) allocate a minimum of 6% of the primary education budget to finance teaching
materials, textbooks, and other non-salary expenditures; (iii) allocate an agreed amount for
financing the operating costs o* inspectors; and (iv) increase the primary education budget by
the amount required to finan t items in (i) to (iii), estimated at 8.5% annually in nominal
terms (assuming the level and structure of teacher salaries do not change) (para 3.31 (a));
(i)  (i) Introduce and generalize multigrade teaching in a minimum of 840 classrooms over the
project period at a rate of 280 classrooms biannually, starting in 1992/93; (ii) introduce
double-shift teaching with one teacher for two cohorts of about 55 pupils each (and an
appropriate salary supplement to teachers participating in the program) in a minimum of 590
classrooms over the same period, starting with 60 classrooms in 1992/93 and gradually
increasing to 590 in 1996/97 and, based on the findings of an evaluation to be carried out in
the context of the mid-term review scheduled for September 1994, take appropriate steps to
generalize double-shift teaching (para 3.31 (b));



- 33 -
0)   Reduce expenditures on secondary and higher education student subsidies by 5% in 1991/92
and 10% annually between 1992/93 and 1996/97 by implementing specific actions agreed with
IDA (para. 3.31 (c));
(k)  (i) By December 31, 1991, announce its decision wkh respect to the lifting of ceilings on fees
charged by schools run by individuals, private groups, and communities to take effect as of
school year 1992/93; and (ii) establish guidelines for the operation of these schools, and
provide them with easy access to teacher training, textbooks, teacher guides and Inspectorate
services to help maintain minimum levels of quality and standards, starting in school year
1991/92 (para 3.32);
OI)   Undertake with IDA: (i) annual reviews of the progress of project implementation, starting
not later than September 30, 1992, and by September 30 every year thereafter; and (ii) a mid-
term project evaluation not later than September 30, 1994 (para 4.3);
(m)  Apply procedures and arrangements agreed upon during negotiations and in accordance with
the Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and for the Use of
Consultants (para 4. 11);
(n)  Submit to IDA an annual audit report, of reasonable scope and detail, within six months after
the end of the Government's fiscal year, and in the case of the Special Account and SOEs,
submit semiannual audit reports within three months after the end of each audit period (para
4.14); and
(o)  Prepare and submit semiannually to IDA a detailed report on the implementation of all aspects
of the project, and prepare and submit a project completion report within six months of the
credit closing date (para 4.15).
6.2        The following would be conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a)   Submission of a plan, acceptable to IDA, for the establishment and operation of the textbook
rental scheme in primary schools, starting in school year 1991/92, including operation of the
Textbook Fund, arrangements for the collection, safekeeping and use of the fees collected and
the Government's contribution to the Fund to cover book replacements (para 3.14); and
(b)  (i) Submission to IDA, for review and comment, of the findings of two studies concerning,
respectively, the establishment and operation of schools run by individuals, private groups and
communities, and the proposed liberalization of fees charged by these schools; and (ii) raise
the ceiling applicable to such fees by not less than 10% as of school year 1991/92 (para 3.32);
(c)  Establishment of an accounting system in the Project Directorate adapted to meet the specific
requirements of the project, and selection of an independent auditor, acceptable to IDA, for
the auditing of the project accounts (para 4.14).
6.3        Reommend.tio. Subject to the above terms and conditions, the proposed project
would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$24.0 million equivalent to Burkina Faso on standard IDA
terms, with 40 years maturity.
bd.uar
(sun)



ANNEX  1-1
Sodal Indkslws otDoveIapuSRt I9                                                                       Page  1 of 2
BurkIa Fa
2$-JO      15020Sh
Uabef         pm,        YM 
_VW                        qio.i     (w)  U   ghww
HUMAN RIESOURC
Total pqtula6on (mrs .1989)        1                       5.10       62         373        41                    M 67
14TOW   e                                opa                                     5         4.          5         37.9
15-64                                  * d.pp,              "                  51.7       503        6MI1       57.6
ASe dWmdwq fado    adt                                             ~~~~~~~~~~0.93  0OAS  0.3
p ==nur         b - Mm                 %     F*oP          52        6.3        S         331        37.4       59.2
Fun"pr 100_Ow
U"d
Pi5aIuitiagzw~~~~~~bmm    mal* ~~2.0                   Li1        2.7        312.0                 2.1
4.0       4.0        4.6        52         5.6        3.0
U.bm*adr lodWWmb                                            2.0        2.0       2.1        28         5.         1.9
P*aedptipl:2000          _im;                ,.        ..      t2.0        674       3           #1
Dw.l aaw n fpt                                                               .Sgro
P= Whmw                               O"rlm  pop         4L4        47.4       47.0       46.7       29.        30.0
TatMlCfidlity     ust_  635 GAM6       650        6.59
Caaadprvim                   ~        1J 5.49          _ .             ..    _    .         -6 
C&(-u  / wa    (15 49) =d$prIDw~8
Uubm                                 pr 100         _       .    * 3        _    ..     _     
Rl                                                          .         75         _
Cgdsmhuaprhm  u.                                     22        22.6       1.0        15.         9.9        LI1
pwdmmv       h.      192.6     159.0                             Jg
J_ya~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I _m ..156 L    661gi  I.5
ovaou                        3LS~~~28.  42.       47.6       51.0       61.9
finl                                  39.9       44.0       49.3       5.7        62.7 
LA wu (15.61)
Tallflb of31                                                                    4.9         194      1,371        244
3      s                                 046                       4U1        41L4       273       3sJ        302
Fun=per 1e0_u
Utb                                                                                                               - 0  ~br-
Ranulti   arm awE1*Oaim;U                                 577 S1                           41.3       49.3      St!1
Puul0pMe        ero *om                                    55.a       53        486        31134      35.0       22.6
EAumlhml aaiinhh ethha fern
b  yn  mpimd:                                                 _         . _    _    _ _
NATUL4   SOURCU
Arm       .                                 .as            274        274        274      2.066     369        21,M
hod ~    ~      ~        =               414        4B         4f.33                           |9
Ddmauim ivi o)                           ain*S              4$        4b         .0.9    414          4          474
*  to                 _i 0                                                         am. 218
s                                                                                  i         " - 
4                                                                                 U
2                                                                                 d
s         u 1    -                       -         -                     -    ain     5b   -
U          



ANNE'X I- 1
-35-                                     Page- 20   2
Burkim Fao
s   v.isi mrq
UN&i f                                       Sna_  S5
24COMEANDPOVEM
GNPurapis(tnu1919)                      USS              to       130       310       330        VIO    1320
Tod bousold boos
f1 tatcplOI.ofbouudW& a              dIatms              ....
-  ta  3 01 of *  baia                                  -         ..        .....
Sbmtbua21dwgoi --iG                                                       . _
Ahmiupaaom..bm                      USSPs.M                       1_
VOit *d 1C                                  P       _     .        ..         -
Pop in wime dinmas  %u                                         -                   -     
B                          %i               _~~~~~~~~~s                                        _ _ 11'1p.9 "
c db  peav cop                                                letP      8269  1  31.  327  32.  1
12kmsc                                                1_e      1,71441012  2JIN  r,!39
57        e
_1t~~~~~MD *a                                                                            - . 
Avtllibd  SimD              _          _ahmm          _            ..        .. ..
uI                              _                            Sd.P     -                - *
Nudheb i                     S         ofDP         _    -          -         --
ilw porbom11                                                               1.          S          .         .
Fed md Pp-                                                                    .1        .. 
F     pru_nm                                           I.L;1 4              435         ..       _i         17
==(12_:  Sm       -         -                              -
U_ ~~~~~~~~~~~PIGS    e                      t          A_.._4
NvrMKlfrw HUMAN CAWAL
0.e-, *S_<> * 1 B $.~~~~~~~7                                                                 Wl 1
MaSlarnrn                            1dGD                - g _           _             ..
A-     l waq                          %a                n                    .          .        5          -
i3!! %\d1siX, i  B 16 %t;ra                                                          46
O=R*pidmiou1buwyunmWin)               *d w                                 1.         18.4      21.6      27.5
HimmIs.                               *EG    
fommb                                                              240        *.         47      1I1.1
final.              * ~~~~~~~~~~~MaI                              i        L11
.~~~~~~~~~    T
_ wagywdvididi                       pordmapo                               u           .        064      79



-36-
ANNEX 1-2
Page I of 1
BURKINJA FS
F-OURTH EDU5CATION PROJECT
Basig Dat
Genera
GDP per Capita                         US$320
Land Area                              274,000 Km2
Population                             8.SO million
of which urban                       8.5%
PopulatIon Growth rate (1989)
Total                            2.8%
Urban                            6.0%
Crude Birth Rats                       47.0 per thousand
Crude Death Rate                        18.4 per thousand
infat Mortality Rate                   138 per thousand
Life Expectancy at Birth               47.2 years
School Enrollment (1989/90)
Enrollment Ratio    21 Femde
.Primary                  31.0%           38%
Secondary                  6.0%          32%
Iigher                    0.9%          24%
'imary                     43%
Secondary                  23%
Eliher                     32%
AdInstation                 296
100%
Rec    t Exuendiure ner Student (193-90)
rimary                    US$74 equivalen
Seondary                  US$490 equivalen
IHigher                   US$2800 equivalent
-a.



BURKINA FASO
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE MINISTRY OF BASIC EDUCATION AND MASS LITERACY/
ORGAMIGRAM  DU   ISTERE DE LTNSEIGNEMENT DE BASE ET DE 'ALPHABETISATION DE MASSE
MINISTRE
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 m
w
ch
=lcu    lxrrz 11,111,   1       Ii'   1t      I   ijj   A II
L ...  1I



-38-
ANiNEX 2-2
Page 1 of 4
BURKINA FAS
FOURTH EDUJCATIQN PROECT
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCAT.)N SYSTEM
1.      Burkina Faso's education system consists of three cycles: primary, secondary, and higher
education. Primaa education consists of six years, at the end of which students take an achievement
examination ("Certificat d'Etudes Primairesw - CEP). Seconda  education is divided into two categories,
general and technical, each with two cycles. The first cycle in general secondary education consists of
four years and the second, three. Students take a certifying examination at the end of each cycle; the
"Brevet d'Etudes du Premier Cycle" (BEPC) at the end of the fist cycle and the "Baccalaureat" on
completion of the second cycle. In technical secondary education the first cycle offers a four-year
technical and vocational program, and students who successfully complete it earn a "Certificat d'Aptitude
Professionnelle" (CAP). They may either seek employment as skilled workers or continue in the second
cycle. The second cycle has a two- and three-year program; students completing the two-year program
earn a 'Brevet d'Etudes Professionnelles" (BEP) and those completing the three-year program earn a
'Baccalaur6at Technique". The two-year program prepares students for jobs in the commercial field,
while the three-year program leads to technical higher education. The University of Ouagadougou
comprises 11 schools, including: humanities, law/economics/management, math/sciences, agriculture,
and medicine. Students completing the first two years receive the "Dipl8me d'Enseignement Universitaire
Gen6ral' (DEUG), with three years they obtain the "Licence", and those who complete the full four-year
cycle graduate with the "Maftrise". There are three other post-secondary educational institutions: "Ecole
Nationale d'Administration" which requires three years to graduate and prepares students for positions
in the Government; "Ecole Inter-Etats des Techniciens Superieurs de l'Hydraulique et de l'Equipement
Rural", a regional institution with a two-year program; and an Engineering School. Burkina Faso's
education system includes a rural youth training program ("Formation des Jeunes Agriculteurs" - FJA),
which provides literacy training and basic agricultural skills in centers located throughout the country.
Attached to this annex is a chart showing the structure of the education system. The statistical profile
of the education system is set out in Annex 2-3.
2.      In school year 1987-88 the total number of primary schools was 2,108, with a total enrollment
of 411,9107 students, of whom 153,253 were girls (37%). The total enrollment in secondary schools in
the same: year was about 72,000, of whom about 22,952 were girls (32%); 56,000 students were enrolled
in the fu.st cycle and 15,500 in the second cycle. Secondary technical schools accounted for about 4,600
(6%) students. In 1987/88 total enrollment in post-seconda  educ    was about 5,900 students, 4,500
were ernrolled at the University of Ouagadougou (mostly in humanities 63.0%, and in the three-year
cycle) and 1,400 in universities abroad.
3.       Technical/vocational education at the secondary level (skilled workers and junior technicians
in industrial and commercial specializations) is provided by five public institutions operated by the
Ministry of Secondary and Higher Education and Scientific Research (MESSRS). This small system
curretldy (1990/91) includes four lower-secondary technical schools (college d'enselgnement technique -
CET - offering four-year programs in basic vocational skill development for primary school leavers) and



-39-
ANNEX 2-2
Page 2 of 4
one upper-secondary technical school (lycee technique - LT - offering three years of technical education
for lower-secondary school leavers), all located in Ouagadougou. Skills development programs for
artisans and workers, normally provided by the Ministry of Labor, Social Security and Public Service
(MTSSFP) are lImited, the MTSSFP operating only a single vocational training center (Centre National
de Perfectionnement des Artisans Ruraux - CNPAR) for rural artisans. In addition to these public
institutions, there are 14 private technical/vocational schools (11 CETs/CFPs and three LTs) of which
five are partially subsidized (a limited number of students receive scholarships) and accredited, and nine
are privately-financed and non-accredited. The public institutions provide both technical (industrial) and
administrative (commercial) training, while the private institutions offer only commercial/secretarial
training.
4.       As in most francophone African countries, technical ministries (including agriculture, transport
and telecommunications, public works, water and electricity, and labor) operate professional training and
upgrading centers (11 in total) uniquely dedicated to their own manpower needs (office staff, skilled
workers, technicians, and, in some cases, engineers). This mode of training satisfies well-defined
manpower requirements and operates in a reasonably cost-effective way. However, there is considerable
duplication of programs offered by these centers and certain economies of scale could usefully be
introduced.
S.       At the post-secondary level, technical and professional education is provided by the University
of Ouagadougou and its associated institutions. These include, in particular, the University Institute of
Technology (IUT, about 250 students in 1987/88) which offers two-year post-secondary diploma
programs (DUT/Bac+2) in commercial subjects only. The University's Polytechnic Institute is designed
to provide five-year degree programs (Bac+5) in engineering and industrial production. In addition,
there are three regional institutions (ecoles inter-etats) which provide higher technician training (Bac+3)
in hydraulics and rural engineering and in radio communications, and engineering education (Bac+5) in
rural engineering.
6.       Inhner training. Primary school teachers are trained at the *Ecole Normale d'Enseignement
Primaire," (ENEP) located about 1S km from Ouagadougou, the capital. Admission to the one-year
prinary school teacher training program, requires the BEPC Diploma; graduated student teachers obtain
a wCertificat d'Etudes d'Aptitude Prcfessionnelle" after one year of teaching practice. In 1987-88, 350
student-teachers were enrolled in this program. The University's Institute of Science of Education (INSE)
provides training programs for secondary school teachers. The one-year general school teacher training
program prepares student teachers with the DEUG for teaching positions in the first cycle. After one
year of teaching practice, they obtain the "Certificat d'Aptitude Pedagogique I l'Enseignement General".
TMose with the "Licence" and the "Mattrise" are trained for teaching positions in the second cycle and
graduate with the 'Cerdficat d'Aptitude au Professorat de l'Enseignement du Second Degre", also after
one year of teachin practice. Admission into the threewyear technical teacher training program requires
the "Baccalaurdat Technique." During their second year, student-teachers in this program are trained in
Austria, as part of Austrian asistance to develop technical education in Burkina Faso.
7.       Pryate gducatioo. Private schools account for about 10% of the enrollment at the primary
level and about 40% at the secondary level. In 1987-88, total enrollment in private primary schools was
about 39,500, of whom about 17,000 were girls (43 %); enrollment in secondary schools, both general
and techical, was about 30,000, of whom about 11,000 were girls (37 %). Fees charged by these
schools to reglatod by the Government.



-40-
ANNE 2-2
Page 3 of 4
8.      MiIAdult Educin. Adult education is provided in "Literacy Centers" housed in physical
structures provided by villages fII-time or part-time, for literacy activities. Initial literacy courses are
run by volunteers from the village ("moniteurs") with materials developed and produced by INA over
a four to six-month period. Approximately 30,000 participants are enrolled in these courses annually.
Graduates of this initiol training may continue their education by participating in :he skill development
programs organized uy the various ministries, such as agricultural extension services. In contrast to the
initial training, these programs focus on skills development while building on the initial literacy skills
acquired previously by adults, and are run in collaboration with INA. Enrollment in the second phase
course is relatively low compared to the initial course. Apart from the Government, financing for adult
education is provided by external donors such as CIDA, and Swiss and Dutch Cooperation, both to
supplement Government efforts and provide direct assistance to communities.
9.       Orinization and administration.  The Ministry of Basic Education and Mass Literacy
(MEBAM) and the Ministry of Secondary, Higher Education and Scientific Research (MESSRS) share
.esponsibility for the formal education sector. The 'Ministbre de l'Action Cooperative Paysanne'
(MACP), together with MEBAM, is responsible for adult education and literacy. In addition, several
ministries such as Labor, Social Security and Civil Service conduct in-house training programs.
Communities make a significant contribution to the financing and management of primary and secondary
schools through the 'ComitEs Populaires de Gestion des Ecoles et Etablissements" (CPGEE) and the
'Association des Parents d'Elbves' (APE).
b:annex2.2



BURKINA FASO
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT/OUATRIEME PROJET D'EDUCATION
Structure of the Education and Training System
Structuro de l'Enseiqnement et de Ia Formation
=W.,    7   a   S   *0  t1  12             13    14    15   16          17    la   19            20    21    22    20    24
NMM Age
p,_do uit     t bCs
of admus      1           u1i
Ec*  H  '   de 0dtl
S41 5dm sc.m*Waco at
n L                                                                             t~~~~~~~~~~~L
cI _I, de do      I
-a-
tv~~____vz- 
n s_W_>" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r dB 111_1 St
a  f_t _ A_ n IX I it ~mw*1_
Te    ~      ed
I uIaM - b    dmu                   aIses P                f'
CE   C   d_" p*_       CE T_   _    C"_~~~~~~"  1   :1
rI rEing i do gw iItgI Pu' Eaimy o
I  amMbisIILaSIV a                      tla  War  ?a X B OdIL Lisp." 
v EusaWimmi     gttuim OMd            V p*ko Tewa oi 6ai
VI fmalom  . mfw. I  o A              VI  ls   I Taf far F.AA.1
VI Odig 4e.IUg.owm  twhalle"C         VI LOWama lba. 1 fdalw a
Vsr suim                              Vs 111Ay Thew'
Ix F.mH doe Jana Agpctlama            IX fsa .MO Ttdi
CEFI w4 CiriadfSads                   OM. Iuada  P~ OmpSaom  0wUmo
SEP i t d     b tadw dop ede        OMLow lem --   Slo  OwUfa
CAP CWWA d k=ahi  IWMu                CAP, Thib gdoam  Cwo
aAM Smcdmvut                          OAUSKSMdm
PJA. Paud  ong Juels AFwJA.&  YiM TM"                                       MOMS=



-42-
ANNEX 2;-3
Page 1 of 12
BURKEINA FASQ
Em5RTHnEDQJCAION PREQI
STATISTICAL PROFILE OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
This annex provides the following statistical information on the development of
education in Burkina Faso:
Table I      -      Basic Education Data for the Sahel Countries
Table 2      -      Enrollment Rates, 1960-1987
Table 3      -      Enrollment and Enrollment Ratios by Level of
Education
Table 4      -      Primary Education by Province
Table 5      -      Primary School Teachers by Qualifications
Table 6      -      Pupil/Teacher Ratio in Primary and Secondary
General Education
Table 7      -      Examination Results in Primary and Secondary
Education (percent)
Table 8      -      Growth of the number and structure of
Baccalaureat passes by subject group
Table 9      -      Success Rates in Various Faculties of the
University of Ouagadougou (percent)
Table 10            Growth of the Number of Degrees Awarded at
the University of Ouagadougou between 1980 and 1987
Table 11     -      Public Recurrent Expenditures by Level of
Education
Table 12            Public Recurrent Expenditures on Higher
Education, by Purpose
Table 13     -      Public Recurrent Expenditures on Education by
Level and Purpose (1990)
Table 14     -      Principal Cost Determinants at Different
Educational Levels
b:annex2-3



lUllI  FASO
FOmH BJCATION PROJECT
TABLE Iz BASIC EUATION DATA POR IE SAHEL COUNTRIES
(1967 or cloa to 1967)
|                 I     Per t4.        Adult          I                     Gross Enroll ment Rates 2/                  IPubl;c Spendieg on Educatioe   I
ICOWmery          I     SW  1/          U tarocy Rots     Primary          X Glsr Secondary            Girls Higher    I  X GOP                udget 
lerkim    e       I F                _13                     Si          I      37    6 (7)           2        .9 -.7                            22    I
Vapeverde       I            m                   471  In (112)         1      49    15 (15)        46 8                     2.6                16    1
ICn=d                                              2 1612  46 (69)              29    6 (18)         1C       0.7       1     1.6                12    1
CIt               |          20                    2       U 68                 39    18 (26)        as                      4.1                 22 1
ICbR" i #   _                 lee                  8       67 all               36    1  (11)        26                      2.8                 16    1
ibi                          21 11                 171    21 (27)        1      37    6 (8)          SO         1               3                25    I
11unrita me                  4461                          S s (6a)      I      39    14 (16)        29       4.8      1        6                22    1
ItgW r            1          2e6                   14      29 (37)              s 6    6 (9)         23       8.7      1    2.5                  1     I
ISemegml          I          C  I                  21      57 (66)       I      40    14 (16)        S        2.6 0          4.8                 24    1
ITOaI Sl                     294                   251      2 (62)             3a    11 (14)         St       1.6            3.4                 23    I
13es of Africe                                     49      77 (6n   1           43    22 (29)        34         2      I    4.3                  15
IIIII                                                                                                                                                    I w
274                          so1 3(18)            42    86(38)         37       4.3      I     2.6                 IS      41
1/ In 167 711#. The vale for the Sahl to the arithmetic mea of the per capita SW
of tho countries cotmrld _t. FPr Africa eliudleg th  sabel  it Is the arithmtic sees
d the per capita OW of th  ostrise with mro than aa m*llIIo  inhabitants.
2/ Th  enrollmat rate  In Peretee  are for tJ. mbee polation.
Seere: Jere   s_ Niapt OTeard a Plea of Actioe for tW  Sabel Coutrise - (1990) working docwmt prepared for
the gwlld Ceefremo, on Eacatles for *ll.
b:t.bIel.uhl
Ib>
z
0, 1



LMD* PASO
FOUT OXCT2 M18T
TABE 2:   SiLkiEt RATE. IUO-11?
I                                              -~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -- -------- ---  --
I                       1960                      1963                        1970                     1975                     IWo                       1904                   i 
Ipamtv,           P.i..   Sm.  $"W          Prim.   SM.  6e.rIm       Fria.   See. Swmrior   Pria.   Sec. bwior   Prim.   SW. Swrio'   Pria.   Sme. S                 ;mi  PFri    See.  _i
l_I           o                                      oI uI  oI                  u.         oI            U                                    .o2I U.                              o I  w      @oI  .o.I
*bawim Pm    I            0.4         06      is      a          @      12       1.4      06     is       1.6    0.26      18      2.7    0.21      21      .8.    0.61    ml       5.?     0.61
a    Vora    I    as   11.6                  45    7.7                  a       10.1        I   15        6.5          1 12        7.6           10N       10.9         I   MO    14.7          1
load                1?    0.4        0o       W       I          0 o     0        2       0      85        a    0.21       W         a    0.8      a8s        S    0.4 1   4         6     0.71
10;,                a       4           1             7            I    27        10        I     1        to        1    4         i8        I    6o        I          I   a       u      
loiom-ll            a     2.7           1    6        a            I    8         *         I    4        8.4    0.51      7       6.9        I      0      6.6         I   Sy     6.4
pbi;          I     9    0.?         0o      a u     .7          0      2       4.6    0.1 1    26        6.6      0l    25         .1    0.s!    22        *.3       1     21     5.7       II
_it.mi        1     7    0.4          0       12    1.4         0o      17      2.4       01    25        4.2    0.11      W7      0.9    1.4I    46       14.7    2.6 1   58       W      4.51
Por           I     6    0.           0       121    0.6         0      14       1.2      0 1    20      2.2    1.6 1    27          5    0.21     21         6    0.6 1   29      6.4     0.76
Ibmemmi       1    27       6       o0.6     40    6.7         0.0      41      9.6    1.4       41      10.4    0.21    45       U.2    2.7        1 Ss   12.7    2.5 1   57       14     2.6
I             I                         I                          I                        I                        6                        6                         
i.tml-T.            16    2.6       0.16     24    8.8         0.2 6    45      5.4    o.5s      29       5.4    0.16     46       7.7      I       46      9.7    1.8      52    10 ..
I             6                         I                          I                        I                        I                        I                         I 
_ph  dof A icI    so    2.9         0.2      S1    4.4         0.6 I     7 a    10.       X1    57     10.8        I       a      u.8    1.5 1    60       2.0    1.77   1 77                26 
I  I  6                        I                        I                        II                                                 6                      I
SW           I    45    9.         0.6 I    a       14        1.4      71       20    2.9 1    U         to    2.91      76       26    8.1       69        so    43 l.si .  a.-.    *.O.
scores. .rmwm O* Me"; go. .C1.
W



MUKD FASO
Ff1313 EUCATIION PROJCT
T*bl 8 - Earol lam  Ratws by Levl ef Edmetiee
FltlMzin  in.mEOUm uCATRN                                        H1im  B     TION I/                 R . m M(
S_wl                                                                  5 s   XPri Xy                                    Secondary    Htb
TI mr       I  Eaell_       F_l                *ll_m               F_l-          E roll_*    Fe                                     E Eeati
I    a m14  ,_     n                                     29                 677       23               MA           NA      MA
:19"               suur           a                u,m u                                4.m         24       1       28            4      3.7
Imlay         011,*14                      *.UY                   SII I            4,465       24     I          s5                  6.7
i_In          I                         l       7444  ns                                4,74        24     1                       6       .t
"S'           1    473 M                 n l       42                                   5 a  642    24   1           n1            8      g
1/ tbim     el  f Raagmd _   ely
Source: *Isastri.s ef bo_ic EdmCet  o   edan  Lilesscy,
aed Secondary, HiS_er Edmetietlsod Scimbiftie Rsereb.
btlebls.vU
0I^
oo 



WIRKINA FASO
FOURTH EDUTION   JECT
PRIMR  EDCTION sY PVCE
SINLLJT RtATE                EmtoLLUT                                                       Ratio
Percent           Mal/
PROVINCES             rTotal  Val    Fimle                    Male       Famol-         TOTAL       of Girls          Female
am                          25.76    84.14   17.07                5,671      8,042           6,718           6.35             1.9
SAM                         30.U    88.63    19.47               11,141      6,140          17,287           6.36             1.9
IOWIRIDA                    56.64    55.67   16.40                7,16       8,204          16,364           *.31             2.4
61OU3*                      24.78    36.41   16.6                18,67       6,082          2,616            6.3S             2.0
QUWLKUIE                    86.82   46.90    2.45                17,913      9,629          27,742           0.35             1.9
COMOE                       85.64   42.U6   27.09                1,96        6,791          17,99            6.38             1.6
CANmmURG                    16.73    22.5    Is.06                4,S6S      2,166           6,345           6.31             2.4
usum                         9.6    12.5U    5.22                 8,6l1      1,211           4,292           6.28             2.6
CuRYm                       15.14    17.90   12.66                5,632      5,497           9,829           6.87             1.7
HDNET                       48.97    55.64   42.57               84,69    24,966           69,644           0.42             1.4
mumIO                       6.71    66.16   75.69                41,66      66,6            66,248           0.46             1.1
_EUG                        26.79   46.15   21.18                 5,721      2,9J8            ,651           a.33             2.0
KISS!                       16.61    26.88   12.47                7,149      8,976          11,110           6.3S             1.8
IURIEl4M                    24.74   51.1U   17.65                 6,969      8,65           16,625           6.34             2.1
KUIOlU                      29.17    88.32   24.28              12,68        6,77n          16,66           6.40              1.5
WHnRI                       69.61    8.56    265.18               8,618      2,8             5,946           S.39             1.7
NAWUB0BA                    16.69   14.26    6.88                 2,N66      1,86            4,1W            6.31             2.3
OU32TE16                    29.78   86.26   26.96                11,776      6,289          16,66 e.8s                        1.9
OUDALAM                      9.15    11.61    6.46                1,229        629           1,580          0.34              2.1
PASSORE                     20.62   #6.94   16.15                 *,962      8,684          12,78           6.86              2.4
PVW6                        17.04   21.46   12.15                 5,453      2,785           6,236          6.34              2.0
SUMIE                       81.26   39.73   24.26                 9,607      5,204          14,861          6.37              1.8
SAMMIiMCA                   18.07    24.69   11.48                9,279      4,227          13,497          6.31              2.3
SENf                         7.29    8.77    6.09                 2,t34      1,215           3,249          0.37              1.7
SIS*SI.                     21.6    26.56   15.51                 7,683      3,96           11,48           6.35              1.9
S"                          18.0    17.72    8.6a                 3,442      1,562           4,944          0.30             2.3
SUR                         88.56 89.66   27.66                  11,618      7,577          19,196          0.39             1.5                 
TAPO                        18.181   17.57    6.29                5,653      I,522           4,375          0.30             2.4
TATUM                       81.U    44.46   19.53                24,63      11,658          36,151          6.82             2.1
ZOt1D0EOD                  19.59   23.04   14.44                 3,68       2,694          6,93o            .3S              1.9               o N
TOTAL EERMAL               29.L6    S.62   22.48               293,883    179,648        472,979           9.a8             1.7
SCHOOUACE                                                       637,666   661,627       1,638,693
Seorce: Ministry of Basic Edwcaton and ga" Literacy
BMD/Filles/BUR
10/1900



L :XDIlA FASO
FOUR  EWCATION PROJCT
Table S - Priery School Tea-h.or
Assistant
TeaCb..                 TWeac..               m..t...        SIW           Tot I
Assimi.
Yor          me N..                N to.      N         No.   X        No.   N       No.        S
1 465       1,U7        21        3,416      66        118  2.1        636  12   5,3a         I"
136/        I,W         28        8,7M6      64        118  1.9        671   11   5,911       to
19/47       1 678       28        4,026      68         is  *.2        728  11   6,841        1M
1817/11     1,7m        24        4,788      64         96  1.8        794  11   7,396        IS
16/         1,565      2U         6,16       6?        128  1.6        676   it   7,729       in6
X99/91      1,5         19        5,157      62       1it   1.8    1,460   16   6,321         iN
Soure.: Ministry of Bsic Edcation ad Mass Literacy
b:tb*leS.Ll
0Ib
I-



KIA  FASO
F U    ECaTIN PROET
Tabl*e  - Pupil/Teshw  Ratlo/Primry and Secondary Eduction
Secondary
Primary         omerl
Scool            Edcation        Educatlon
191/2             5?                  28
184/              89                   0
Isol              i                   32
amisi            @2                   84
186/u             so                  23
Srouse  Mi.tl,i.e o bote Edwoatie.  d Mass Litercy,
NW Soedry. Hihe Education aod SclietifIc Reeerch
Table 7 -7 xweEamblote Bat. In Primry and Seconbry Edctlon
_...    aut"    am               am          19i   am            19
CEE            0.4       41.6       N.A         44.8    49.9        44.8
Primary Eduction
Entry to       1.        11.1       1.5           NA     1.6        11.
as cycle seondary
mC             40.       48.2       42.4        85.6    41.8          "A
C.mplotin o let cycle secondary
SAC            87.9      86.0       27.6        28.9    29.6          NA
S_rco: Mimistrise of Saic Edcwatioe sa  ma  Litercy,
eco y, Hioer Edw6tio and Scitlific Research
b:obIs.%*k                                                                                                      o
rh 3



WKDIA FASO
FOURTH EUCATIN PROJECT
TAA  :   IWUtR OF  CCA           
SlUCURE BY SERIES (S.). 197-196
|  1        19?6  1 175 9    1  19681             1964  1        196S1          1     I
A                        m251     194M   8171                 2901           86       S6S
IS                      t151      1911      154               1731           671             68
so      la        112                ie6         1its             126
C-E                        a s1     741       451               411           6s1             48
S        1I              4481    411         591               591          49              4461
F                           I      88s1      181               181           11 1            211
TotAI Me                         an             II                               
IT.tb.I                    am   a 1               1m                          JMWI           l1
II            I                 II 
Tsul  es I                  we1 9I7m           1859       1     149      1   1589             14711
1              4281    8671        S"64            386             51             2756
S"ou: Jarouse  and apibp - gCoute, Productiocet Diff icult..
de I'Emse.ioan-t Suweur a Burkeina Faso"  - 1966
TAKE 9: Success Rat for all dsgrtast.
A   ~~fthe IMivoraitip of Ouagadsugo
Nat.    IOR/
Eco. Sc. Lib. Art. M bth-Py Scion.   llDF    NT  ESSA
ld; yer:  Rteptito Rat            U6.2      18.6     81.5    40.0   26.6  12.0    19.6
Pmsas Ratu            58.4      74.6     48.0    20.0   46.6  69.6    62.0
2ad per:   Reptitias Raut         M.6      1i.6      17.5    25.0   12.6  16.6    16.6
amiat  Rat.           57.6      88.6     42.6    46.0   9.60  75.6    74.0
3rd year    Rapetitien Mot.       13.1      11.0     22.6     W.O    MA    NA       12.0
Fining Rau            79.6      96.6     46.0    68.6    NA    NA       80.0
COQ
NAxNo Applicable                                                                                                co
0 I1
Serca: Jsr._se, et epita. op. cit.
b:t&bl*.6.k1
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F



-50-                  ~~~~~~ANNEX 2- 3
Page 9 of 12
,  1Iti                ii    is11     _
Fe   t    M          t13;             |        '; |j
t~44                                      111  t    t   
. ~~~~~I                  ',S 2I U...g  -   EE



URKINA FASO
FO1TNH EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 11 - Publ c Rbearroat Coots by Lwel of Educat)o
YEAR 1ON               YEAR 1O0               YEAR 1990
Thousan        S       Thouand X               Thousand      X
FCFA                   FCFA                   FCFA
Ow orm.olS chago           72,M9,M                77,Ul1,M               02,O,
Prl_ry Ed..stlo             6,677,999      41      7,615,622      42      8,636,202      43
S  ec ry                   4,235,962       26      4,843,636      24      4,486,746      23
Ihiworoty                   4,486,M93      27      6,191,086      29      5,470,600      28
Ussoreb                      6S8,217        4       667,809        4        768,30        4
AAIml-tratloe                836,06J        2        346,290       2        433,566       2
Total                      16,399,116    1in      16,165,1l      10i    19,684,87      1i0
Osoramsst S
Cuerrent i.                     22.0                   28.6                   23.6
St.ro.: M11malp of Flnas , gZatu de Fin.nc. 
' lo 12 - Public Currost Cost. In Higbor Education, pwr mme
Thousand       I       ThoXsad        s       Thousaud       X
FCFA                   FCFA                   FCFA
Amlmlst atI.ta               91,664        2        67,54         2        13,1          3
Uil sitb                    9090,91        21      1,97,766      21       1,094,0        19
Stadot suport               3,497,192      77     4,164,1ft       79     4,409,650       78
TIbel                      4,520,647      in      6,279,485      la      5,623,609      IN
b rort Vials"ty of Finance, *Zst de FPhassme
WeTbloU.olj
01.)
A                                                                                                     o l



-52-
ANNEX 2-3
BUURCINA PASO                    Page 11 of 12
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 13 - Current Public Costs by Educational Level and per use (1990)
('000 FCFA)      (Z)        (2)      (Z)
CENTRAL ADHINISTRATION
Primary Level                                     280,250     64.6
econdary Level                                   153,300     35.4
lartial Total                                    433,550    100.0         2.2      0.5
PRIMARY EDUCATION
-------------------------------------------
Salaries                                       7,838,172     91.8
Materiels                                         135,000      1.6
,tudtnt Scholarships                              74,500      0.9
ransfers (IPB and IRA)                           402,900      4.7
Teacher Scholarships                              84,720      1.0
'artial Total                                  8,535,292    100.0        43.4    10.3
SECONDARY EDUCATION
-------------------------------------------
Salaries                                       2,595,300    57.8
Kateriels                                         60,000      1.3
Student Scholarships                           1,831,445     40.8
artial Total                                   4,486,745    100.0       22.8      5.4
HIGHER EDUCATION
-------------------------------------------
Salaries                                       1,039,000     19.0
ateriels                                         25,000      0.5
tudent Scholarships                           4,406,500    80.6
'artial Total                                  5,470,500    100.0       27.8      6.6
RESEARCH                                         758,300    l'0.0         3.9      0.9
TOTAL O CURRlN? EDUCATIONAL COSTS            19,684,387                100.0     23.8
TOTAL OF CURRENT GOV3RIOUNTAL BUDGET          82,606,000                         100.0
bstable13 .wkl



RItIN  FASO
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
TABE 14: PRINCIPAL COST ELEMENTS AT DIFFERENT LEVELS OF EDUCATION
Prim_y                                    SecorAary CGerral                                 Local Superior
Salary   Social    Padsg.                            Salary    Social      PedG.                           Salaty
Studeat/Teadmer      CFAF    CFAF       CFAF      Stet/T/acher           CFAF        CFAF      CFAF      Studsnt/T.achet        CFAF
Comatry      Iatio               (U   pC) (U   pc)  (Clap)   Ratio                     (UWpc)   (GP pc)   (CUpc)  Rate                       (UPpc)
Burhima Fw               54        U               34       a           21                   176       46U        569         1S
(18)     (0.6)   (1.4)                             (26)      (7.1)    (4.8)                               (U)
C"    vel              2                m        9   6               23                    70S                  -           -                      --
(2.5)    (0.0)   (9.2)         4                   (6)
Cbad                     70               4U8       0      22           38                    78        g6        299         33                    a.a.
(18)     (1.1)   (8.6)                             (16)      (2.8)      (6.2)
1a                       U       .        465       4       U           21                    an        -          -           -
(6)     (6.1)    (6.4)                             (a)
GOeia ssau               23S9                     n.o.    na..          14                    n..        -         -           -
(7)
mal                      54               569              61           14                    682      226        196         8                     a.a.
(S)     (0 -)   (0-9)                              (18)      (3.6)      (8.6)
tsrltoala                s               168       17       147         22                   201       so         S"          17 
muse  88  (11)    (6.1)   (1.1)                             (19)      (2.6)      (8.8)                             (45)
"lf/r                                     996 nI 21        31                                14U       413        469         13                    239
(9)     (6.2)   (6.7)                              (13)      (3.6)      (4.9)                             (26)
Sm1si                    59              16         I      111          as                   2272      25         559    U                         235
(9)     (6.1)   (8)                                (14)      (1.6)      (3.6)                             (19)
Sahelift Tdotl           48               776      14      72           28                   1342       62        392        17                     3746
(6.4)   (6.2)   (8.7)                              (14)      (3.4)      (4.3)                            (33-.)
Rest of Africa           42               (4.3)     -       -           25                   (7.7)      -          -         18 i.s
Asia (   #111                             (2-.)     -       -J                               (5.1)      - _                  14                     a.a.
Seuc:  Jarorele sad Ulgt op. cit.
btablel4.41
I-
Nt*)
o La



-54-
ANIX3-1
Page 1 of 8
BURACQNA FASQ
INCREASING THE AVAILABILITY OF TEXTBOOKS AND TEACHING MATERIALS
IN PM&           S!CHO
1. BACKGROUND
A.    Structure for Publication and Distribution of Textbooks
1.    Book develooment and ublication. The School Publishing Directorate (DES) in
Pedagogical Institute of the Burkina (IPB) is responsible for manuscript development and for
publishing pupil books and teacher guides. Its editorial and production staff work with
teachers and curriculum developers assigned to the Directorate to form teams of authors for
the various subjects. The Directorate undertakes independently the preparation and
production of teacher guides, including development and editing of manuscripts, design and
illustration, and preparation of manuscripts for printing locally by the private sector. In
developing pupil textbooks, the Directorate is assisted in editing and preparing the
manuscripts for publication by a schoolbook publisher, selected through international
competitive bidding (ICB).
2.    Book sales and distribution. Prior to 1990 the book sales and distribution network
consisted of the Directorate of Administrative and Financial Affairs (DAAF), which
coordinated the network and managed the procurement of books, and the Inspectorate, which
received books from DAAF and sold them to schools and to parents directly or through
PTAs. Ihis task became increasingly difficult for the Inspectorate to handle as the volume of
books increased, creating problems of inadequate storage and accounting for book sales. In
1990 the Government contracted with Faso Yaar, a parastatal distributor of essential goods,
and the booksellers' association to sell books nationwide. Commercial booksellers now sell
books in the two principal cities, Ouagadougou and Bobo Diolasso, while Faso Yaar is
responsible for selling books in the rest of the country except in remote areas not served by
the company; these areas continue to be served by the Inspectorate. Prior to the project,
*q...tbooks  d teacher guides were purchased abroad and sold by commercial outlets at
uncontrolled prices. IPB is responsible for selling and distributtng teacher uides to private
and public schools, respectively, through the Inspectorate.
3.    Revenues from pupil textbook sales and from author royalties paid by foreign
publishers of Grades I and 2 books are kept in a Textbook Fund established by MEBAM in
1988. The IPB Director-General and the EPD Director are co-signatories. Although the
Fund was established to serve primarily as a revolving fund for the re-supply of textbook,
there were no specific regulations to govern its use. At the end of May 1990, its account
stood at CFAP 182,906,625.



-55-
ANNkEX 3-1
Page 2 of 8
IL ISSUES
A. Scarcitv of Books in Primar Schools
4.    Under the ongoing Primary Education Development Project (Cr. 1598-BUR),
significant progress has been made in increasing the availability of textbooks and teaching
materials in primary schools. However, because of the time required to prepare, pilot test
and finalize book production, the publication program for providing all grades in primary
schools with a complete set of pupil and teacher books will not be completed under that
project. The proposed Fourth Education Project would complete the program for providing
low-cost textbooks and teaching materials in primary schools. In addition, stricter guidelines
for quality control should be introduced and supported for several years until it is
institutionalized; a sustainable capacity for books and materials re-supply also needs to be
established.
5.    The series of books being published under the ongoing project include: pupil
textbooks and accompanying teacher guides for French, Grades 1-5, and for math, science
and history, Grade 3; teacher guides for math, science and history, Grades 1-3, and
geography, Grades 1 and 2; and one production guide for all grades. The publication
program for the proposed fourth project is shown in Table 1. The ongoing project has
completed DuWil textboolk for French reading for the first three grades; most pupils in these
grades have those textbooks, although the book/pupil ratio varies among regions: between
1:2 in remoter rural areas, 2:3 in one of the Ouagadougou branches, and 4:5 in other schools.
The ongoing project has also completed teacher guides for French, math and science, Grades
i and 2, and these guides are available to most public school teachers. Private school
teachers are also now able to purchase the teacher guides. Books continue to be scarce in the
other grades, for which pupil textbooks and teacher guides have not yet been published,
except in Grade 6 (where they take the secondary school entrance examination), where both
pupils and teachers have relatively more books than in the other grades.
6.    The increase in the supply of books published under the ongoing project has been
achieved partly through cost reduction and by improving the distribution system. In school
year 1989/90, reprints of project pupil textbooks were priced at CFAF 880 for Grades 1 and
2 (compared to 1,100 and 1,000 the previous year) and CFAF 690 for Grade 3. Project
teacher guides were sold to private schools, mostly in Ouagadougou, at a cost of CFAF 1,000
each; proceeds were deposited into the Textbook Fund. Textbooks and teacher guides used in
schools prior to the pro;4a were all purchased abroad and were expensive and therefore
scarce; the price of pupil textbooks, for instance, was between CFAF 3,000 and 4,000.
ThIctjpstjuctions were obtained by co-publication of the books and revising the textbook
specification.
7.    The co-publicadon of textbooks by the Government ndtles it to a share of the
roydlties from book sales. Further earnings can be obtained by sole publication of the books
by the Governent, but this requires increased skills and experience in IPB to produce quality
boob regularly. Teache  and currIculum developers recruited us authors are noleier tined
nor evaluated for theit aptitude in writing, and the experience of editors at DES is limited.
No fodra evaluation ha been made of the pedagogical quality of the bools published under
the Prmary EducatIon Development Project. Tbis needs to be done to ensure that they are of
adequwt quality. The skills of the publishing unit are being upgraded, and DES is attempting



-56-
ASNE-
Page 3 of 8
to apply standard and established methods for controlling the quality of manuscripts.
Textbooks imported for schools prior to the project were also costly, because of over-design
(excessive use of color) and high-quality paper and binding. These specifications were
revised in the Primary Education Development Project, and the books are constantly being
reviewed to obtain the appropriate balance between use and specifications.
B. Book Distribution
8.    The decision to sell books through Faso Yaar and private booksellers has increased
the efficiency of textbook distribution, as it will be handled by professionals in the private
sector. However, a system for projecting book sales has not yet been developed. The
previous system for projecting book requirements led to an over-supply of books in all
Inspectorate branches except two. The number of books to be distributed in each Inspectorate
area is based on the expected enrollment figures for the forthcoming school year provided by
the inspectors in their end-of-year reports. These projections of books sales often are
inaccurate, because (a) some students drop out during the course of the year and do not buy
books; (b) only 50-80% of students purchase books; and (c) the purchase of secondhand
books is not taken into account. These problems are likely to become more serious as the
iumber of titles increase. Fewer students will be able to afford the cost of books unless they
are subsidized by the Government. A scheme to lower the cost of textbooks to students
therefore needs to be introduced.
9.    Since its establishment in 1988, the Tetbook Fund (para. 3) has not been used for the
re-supply of books because of the absence of detailed guidelines for its operation. There bave
been difficulties in collecting revenues because no system was devised for sales of pupil
textbooks by the Inspectorate branches, and sales revenues have not always been deposited
into the Fund. To address this problem, the book distribution system was audited by an
independent firm of auditors in 1989 and their recommendations are being implemented,
including the training of Inspectorate staff responsible for book stocks and financial
management.
IM. TE PROPOSED FOURTH EDUCATIQN PROJE
10.   The proposed project would increase the availability of textbooks and teaching
materials at the primary level by (a) completing the pupU textbook and teacher guide
publishing program of the ongoing project, (b) improving the quality of textbooks and
teaching materials, and (c) further developing a viable system for providing books to students.
Esablish a Textbook Publications Commission
&- b .0 *4&1                            .^      - #- _ .5
11.   To efficiently develop and implement book development policies and programs, a
Publications Commission, comprising the DEP, DAAF, DES, DGEP and DEPEP, with the
Secretary-General presiding, would be set-up to coordinate the publication, evaluation and
distribution of books. The Publications Commission would be responsible for directing the
activides of DES, the Book Distribution Unit, and the Textbook Fund. The Publications
Commission would give particular attention to planning the reoordering of books, supply of
teacher guides to public and private schools, and fiuther reduction of book costs to pupils
through the introduction of a book rental scheme for primary schools.



-57-
ANSNEX 31-
Page 4 of 8
A. Completion of the Ongoinc Project's Publishin Proffram
12.   This sub-component would finance the development and publication of pupil textbooks
and teacher guides for Grade 6 French, Grades 3-6 math, science and history; and Grades 246
geography. These books would be produced in sufficient quantities to cover requirements for
two to three years, so as to:
(a)    Allow DES and the Publications Commission, with the responsibility for re-
ordering books, enough time to develop their skills and experience in this area
before they are faced with major re-ordering tasks;
(b)    Allow sufficient time to build up reserves in the Textbook Fund for book re-
supply and to correct past years' faults in the system to prevent Fund
shortfalls; and
(c)    Benefit from economies of scale.
13.   Pupil textbooks for Grade 6 French; Grade 4 science and math, and Grades 4, 5 and
6 history would be authored by DES and co-published with an experienced schoolbook
publisher, until DES has acquired enough skills and experience to do this independently.
Pupil textbooks for Grades S and 6 science and math and for Grades 3, 4, 5 and 6 geography
would be adapted from suitable existing books by DES and cs-published with the publisher of
the original book. Selection of firms to co-publish books authored by DES, and books to be
adapted would be through ICB, and tenders would be for books in the same subject covering
the different grades, to ensure smooth transition from one grade to another.
14.   All teacher guides would be authored and published by DES. In the case of science,
CONFOMEM teacher guides would be used as a resource in the development of the
manuscripts if the rights are freely available. Printing of the teacher guides would be
undertaken by local printers selected through local competitive bidding until the print shop of
DES has premises and equipment (planned under the ongoing project) so that it can print and
bind independently. Once the print shop is relocated in its new premises with new equipment
and has mastered the production of teacher guides, it would receive further training and
equipment to enable it to design and execute the typesetting and page-layout of manuscripts.
15.   To prepare for introducing the books in schools, training seminars would be organized
for teachers to introduce them to the new content and teaching methodology on which the
bools are based, and to train them in conservation of books. The seminars would be
conducted amually from 1992 to 1995 for: (a) inspectors, pedagogical advisers and teachers
in pedagogical support cells (faltres de cellules d'appui'yagogique') who work in the
Inspectorate branches; and (b) teachers of the relevant grades in each Inspectorate branch. A
seminar for Inspectorate staff would be conducted in each of the nine pedagogic zones (each
zone has 6-7 Inspectorate branches) to train them to run the seminars for teachers, and would
be led by IPB staff.
16. New public schools to be constructed under the proposed project would be given a box
of basic communal school materials. Ihe choice of materials would be made by DGEP fom
a list, up to a value of CFAF 110,000 per box.



-58-
ANNEX 3-1
Page 5 of 8
B.    Improvid the Quality of Txtbooks and Teacbing Materials
17.   To improve the quality of textbooks and teaching materials this sub-component would
(a) upgrade the skills of DES staff; (b) develop and implement quality control procedures for
book development; (c) introduce author selection procedures; and (d) develop manuscript and
book evaluation skills.
18.   Training would be provided for the personnel of DES to upgrade the skills of existin
Sf and provide basic training for new staff through studies abroad and local seminars and
on-the-job training by consultants. Greater competence in publishing will help ensure
maintenance of the publishing timetable, improvement in the quality of the content of the
books, and a reduction in their unit costs.
16.   Quality control procedures for book development would be established and
implemented to monitor and evaluate the quality of books and teaching materials produced in
the Directorate. These procedures would include continuous evaluation of the suitability of
the books for the targeted readership and involve DEPEP in school-based evaluation and
feedback activities. To assist in the process of ensuring that books remain suitable for their
readership, local seminars would be held to inform and train staff of the Inspectorate, DES,
DEPEP and others concerned in book evaluation and in the principles, costs and timetable of
publishing revised editions. DES would be provided technical assistance in development of
the quality-control procedures and in running the seminars.
17.   To achieve well-written, well-targeted and punctual manuscripts, authors wouldb
selected according to well-defined procedures and not simply by virtue of their qualificadons
or experience in the teaching profession as is currently the practice. The Publications
Commission, working with DES, would be responsible for selecting the most suitable
educators, from among those offered to IPB, to become schoolbook authors and would also be
responsible for their induction and basic training. The technical assistance planned for DES
would help develop the appropriate profile and selection procedures for authors.
18.   To improve the evaluation both of manuscripts developed by DES and of books
adapted for use in schools, a Book Evaluation Commission would be created within IPB,
chaired by DEPEP and comprising the IPB Director and representatives from DES (editors),
DEP, the Inspectorate, pedagogical advisors, and teachers. The role of the Commission will
be to:
(a)    Evaluate final manuscripts produced by DES, after completion of all the
development stages, and recommend publication;
(b)    Evaluate proposed revised editions of books published by DES, and approve
or veto publication; and
(c)    Evaluate other books being considered for ue in Burkinabe primary schools.
19.   Members of the commission would be trained in a local bm.iinar, conducted with the
help of a consultant, who would also develop an evaluation grid anl format for use of by the
Commiuson. This action would be flnanced by the ongoing Primary Education Devolopment
Projed.



-59-
ANNEX 3-1
Page 6 of 8
20.   Fellowships for educational evaluation training would also be provided to DEPEP
staff to prepare them for this task. This would continue the training program started under
the ongoing project.
C.    Further Developing a Yiable System for Textbook Supply
21.   To further develop a viable system for textbook supply, this sub-component would (a)
introduce a book rental scheme for primary schools; (b) strengthen the MEBAM book
distribution system; and (c) provide free teacher guides to teachers in public schools.
(a)    Textbook Rental Scheme fQr Students
22.   To further lower the cost of textbooks to students, efficiency in the planning of first
editions and re-rdering of books would be increased and book rental schemes established in
schools.
23.   The initial publishing costs (manuscript pilot testing, illustration, design, typesetting)
would be met by the project, as well as the manufacturing costs to produce the first edition.
In theory, therefore, parents would only be required to pay for the reprint cost, most of which
is the manufacturing cost (paper, printing and binding). However, books need to be carefully
planned to keep their manufacturing cost to the minimum, and this principle needs to be
retained by DES. Provisions for increasing skill levels and experience in DES regarding all
aspects of publishing - legal, manufacturing, design, planning and management - would keep
down costs as well as to maintain the quality of the content of the books.
24.   Costs to parents would be further reduced if the schools are supplied with books by
MEBAM and rent them out to pupils for one-half or one-third of the unit cost, and then use
the money collected to purchase further copies to replace worn-out books. Costs could be
further reduced if pupils share books.
25.   A book rental scheme would therefore be introduced in all primary schools, starting in
school year 1991/92. Guidelines on how to start and manage the system-including operation
of the Textbook Fund, arrangements for the collection, safekeeping and use of the fae
collected and the Government's contribution to the Fund to cover book replacements-would
be established and the Inspectorate staff would be responsible for holding seminars to inform
the teaching staff and parents about the book rental scheme. Free cupboards would be offered
to schools and advice given on how to overcome problems of insecure school buildings.
(b) Improving MEBAM's Book D2istribution.
~~-S. rbego .             *
26.   To strengthen MEBAM's book distribution system, the recommendations of the
warehouse scialis (to be hired through the ongoing project to advise on stock control)
would be reviewed and implemented, as appropriate. Annual physical stock audits of all the
Inspectorate  would be carried out, and procedures for the Book Distribution Unit to provide
the Publications Commission with up-date information on stock levels will help ensure that
the supply of books does not run out or books become over-ordered. TIe capacity of the
contrl warehouse would be increased to enable book requirements for several years to be
orderd in one consigment, with the advantages outlined above in para 12. Teacher guides
would be distributed by the Book Distribution Unit from the central warehouse (no longer by



-60-
ANN13X 3'1
Page 7 of 8
the IPB) at the same time as the pupil textbooks are distributed to the Inspectorate branches,
which would be provided with lists of the public schools that would be given free copies of
teacher guides and additional quantities of teacher guides for sale to private schools.
Transportation of the books would be paid for by a distribution budget, which would enable
the Book Distribution Unit to hire private transport or to purchase fuel for vehicles. A van
would be bought for the unit to make local deliveries and to improve coordination. Biennial
training of Lnspectorate staff involved in the management of books and the collection of rental
revenue would be continued. The competence of the new Book Distribution Unit of DAAF
would also be enhanced through regional training.
27.   The success of the book distribution system as far as the schools are concerned, would
be regularly monitored by DEP. It would collect and analyze data on textbook/pupil ratios
and teacher guide/teacher ratios, and visit a random sample of schools each year when school
data are collected to cross-check returns. This information would be used by the Publications
Commission to correct anomalies in the distribution system.
(c)    Provision of Teacher Guides to Public and Private Schools.
28.   After the ongoing and proposed fourth projects have financed the publication of
sufficient teacher guides to cover the needs of public and private school teachers and trainee
teachers, the responsibility for reprinting the guides would be taken up by MEBAM from its
budget. The guides published under the projects are being given free of charge to public
school and trainee teachers and are sold only to private schools and to any teachers wanting
personal copies. MEBAM would continue this policy, but would not use the Textbook Fund
to reprint teacher guides and would use its own budget. Assuming a five-year life for the 27
teacher guides planned under the projects, an average print run per title in 1997 of 3,200 and
an average unit cost of CFAF 1,200 the cost to MEBAM averaged out over five years would
be CFAF 20.7 million per annum. This is equivalent to about 0.2% of the projected
MEBAM budget in 1997 and would be easily financed from the Government budget. Private
schools would be provided teacher guides at cost.
...  .                       ,                                        M.~~~~~~*R



-61-
ANNEX 3-t.
Page 8 of 8
*               ~~~~TABLE I
Book Publication
.   e.pnptoqedfourt education prject would finance the publication of the following
quantities of books (pupil textbooks and teacher guides):
1992                 1993                  194           1995
French                      C142 pt 117000
CM2 to 3500
Nath                        CE2 pt 116000         CHI Pt 101000        CM2 pt 131000
CE2 tg 3500          CHI tg 3000          CM2 ta 3500
Stence                      CE2 pt 116000        CHI pt 101000         062 Pt 131000
CE2 tg 3500          CHI tg 3000          CM2 to 3500
History                     CE2 pt 59000         CMI pt 52W00          CM2 Pt 67000
CE2 tg 3500         C01 tg 3000           CM2 tg 3S00
Geograpy                    CEI pt 7300           CE2 pt 66000        t41 Pt 57000   CM2 pt 72000
CEI tg 4000          CE2 tg 3500          CHI tg 3S00    CM2 tg 4000
Irnvett p.s. CUSS):
1,034,000            690.000              U28,000        16O,000
Quantities of books required are based on the following assumptions:
- growth in enrollments to reach 40% by 1997
- I teacher per 60 pupils
- average pupil textbook life of 3 yeas
- average teacher guide life of 4 years
- loSs rate of 10% after 1 year, 20% after 2 years for pupil textbooks
- loss rate of 20% total for teacher puides
- 1 pupil textbook per pupil for French, science, math
- i pupil textbook per 2 pupOls for history, geography
- 1 pupil textbook and teacher guide per subject per practicing teacher
- 1,000 pupil textbooks and teacher guides per subject for trainee teachers
Pupil textbooks would be published in partnership with professional educational publishers as long as the
School Publishing Directorate (DES) is sdll gaining experience and skills. Partners would be found through
ICB and would be sought for the publication of the remaining books in each subject series, rather than on a
b6ok basis as has been the practice in the past. To speed up the writing/publishing process, ICB would be
used to flad suitable books for adapton, rather than creating all books from scratch as has been the practice
in the past: boobs would be adapted for CMl and CM2 science, math, geography, and for CEI and CE2
geopphy. In dhs cae, the tender vo select the books for adaptation would also determine the publishing
partne  as lowg a the copyright holders of the books selected for adaptation in the tender wish to work with
DES on the adaptaon.
Teacher guides would continue to " developed from scratch, except in the case of science where DES would
utilize the teacher guide materials already written and pilot testted in Burkina and produced by CONFOMEM.
Free use of the materals would be requested from CONFOM4EM. Teacher guides would continue to be
published by DES, which would use outside prinWig faciities to produce the relatively small number of
copies to cover requrements for four yaw.
b:amll.



-62-
ANNEX 3-2
Page 1 of 12
BUfR&NA EA-0.
QUATRIEME PROJET EDUCATION
ACCROISSEMENT DE LA CAPACITE D'ACCUEIL DES ECOLES
DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE
A.       DiWgstig du contexte acme
1.       Situation en expansion du rdseau dstablissetrents scolaires. Le Burkina Faso, dote d'un taux
de scolarisation primaire l'un des plus faibks d'Afrique (31%), possWe un reseau d'etablissement
d'enseignement primaire en plein expansion. En effet, le nombre de salles de classe des secteurs public
ei prive qui n'avait connu qu'une faible augmentation entre 1973 et 1980, a plus que double durant les
dix dernieres annees, atteignant le chiffre de 7.322 en 1989 avec une rdpartition relativement constant.
entre les secteurs public et prive (voir Tableau 1 ci-dessous). Ce patrimoine est caracterise par: (i) une
forte proportion de salles de classe realisees en mnateriaux durables (84%), tandis que 7% sont realisees
en banco, et 9% sont des abris provisoires construits le plus souvent en paille; (ii) un vieihlissement des
bitiments impliquant, selon les materiaux et la qualite de leur mise en oeuvre, soit leur rEhabilitation
(dans 50% des cas), soit leur remplacement (dans 10% des cas); (iii) un fort ratio d'utilisation des locaux
puisque la moyenne des effectif& est de 61 eleves par salle de classe - compris entre 40 dlbves en zone
rurale et 82 eleves dans les zones urbaines; (iv) une majorite d'ecoles de petite taille ne ddpassant pas
trois salles de classe - 71% de 1-3 classes, 26% de 4-6, et 3% de 7-12; (v) un patrimoine realise a
environ 50% par les collectivites locales, notamment au cours de ces deux demibres decennies; et (vi)
une tendance a l'essoufflement des efforts de ces collectivites pour la construction de b*timents scolaires -
- d% en grande partie & I'absence d'appuis aux initiatives locales.
lTableau 1: Evolution du nombro d-des als de cla
AnMes                73-74       79480        8445        85-86       87-88       89-89
Clamc                2.425        3.133       4.916       5.4U4       6.740       7.322
Pdv6                   127         294         465         482         544         599
PubUc                2.298       2.839        4.451       5.002       6.189       6.723
s Pdvd                5.2%        9.4%        9.5%        8.8%        8.0%         8.2%
2.       Concluions de l'exercice de carte scolaire. Sur la base des donnees demographiques et du
nombre de classes existantes dans chaque localite, un traitement informatique a permis durant la mission
d'Evaluation de pa;ier l'absence d'une carte scolaire systematique. 11 ressort de cette etude qu'environ
70% de la population en Age d'&re scolarisee pourrait avoir accbs a une Ecole dans un rayon de Minm
si toutes les agglomErations de 1.000 habitants pouvaient OWe dotees de trois salles de classe. Cette
couverture impliquerait l'existence d'environ 12.000 classes supplementaires, consistant soilt  completer
les ecoles de trois ou de six classes, soit I en crder de nouvelles. Les 30% restant de la population en
age d'etre scolarise se situe dans des zones interstitielles I faible densite de population o0I seuls d'autres
systemes d'enseignement permettraient d'atteindre ces couches de population. Le chiffro de 1.000
habitants par village a ete retenu comme dtant le souil acceptable a partir duquel la demande scolaire



-63-
ANNEXS 32
Page 2 of 12
atteint le chiffre de-200 -dEtves I Ih%orizon 1997; ceci impliique des effectifs de 54 .0tves par.salle.de
classe - avec un taux d'utilisation de 80% - et de 68 elbves avec un taux de frdquentation de 100%.
Enfin, pour atteindre le taux de scolarisation de 40% que vise le projet, il faudrait augmenter de 5.600
le nombre de salles de classe existantes en 1989 et, durant la duree du projet (1991-1997), 4.000
nouvelles salles de classe publics et prives devraient pouvoir etre construites sue I'ensemble du territoire.
3.       Cadre Institutionnel et Financement. Au niveau national, la DEP assure la gestion de la carte
scolaire, tandis qu'au niveau des provinces les Directions Regionales de I'Enseignement de Base et de
I'Alphabdtisation de Masses (DREBAM) sont chargees entre autre du bon fonctionnement et du contrOle
des etablissements scolaires. En I'absence de fonds disponibles provenant de taxes commt .ales ou
rEgionales, et sauf dans le cas de financements exterieurs, seules les associations de parents d'eleves
(APE) se manifestent activement pour la construction ou l'entretie-r des batiments de l'enseignement de
base. Faute d'attributions precises de responsabilite, tout ce qui concerne les installations scolaires ne
releve que des collectivites locales, qui en assurent la charge. Le troisibme projet education en voie
d'ach&vement aura permis de construire environ 450 salles de classe, de reduire los coOts unitaires de
construction et egalement de tester l'utilisation de fonds de contribution pour la construction ou la
rEhabilitation des ecoles. A mi-parcours, cette expErience a demontre l'importance de convenir I l'avance
des criteres r6gissant l'octroi de ces appuis, ainsi quo des instances devant veiller I leur application.
4.       Nomes en vigueur. mdthodes de mise en oeuvre et expdrience du troisibme projet. En ce qui
concerne les normes, chaque projet applique ses propres normes. Cette situation conduit A tous les
niveaux I un manque de maftrise des standards, des coOts et des techniques de construction. Toutefois
dans le domaine des techniques et des coOts, d'immenses progrts viennent d'ete rEalisds ces deux
dernibres annees I l'occasion de l'execution du troisi&me projet education. Pour atteindre l'objectif de
rEduction des coOts, le projet s'est appuye sur une meilleure utilisation des ressources et des compdtences
locales. Une Etude de l'habitat traditionnel et des savoir-faire, a permis d'acqudrir une connaissance des
principes constructifs traditionnels et des compdtences humaines et techniques. L'dvaluation des
conditions locales, economiques et sociales, associde au diagnostic critique sur la production de materiaux
de construction, les differentes filibres et les techniques de construction ont servi de reference pour
offectuer les choix techniques et economiques et pour definir une stratigie operationnello. Une
quarntaine d'ecbantillons de terre ont ete prelevds et des analyses at essais ont Ete effectues pour verifier
la qualite des terres et permettre des calculs de rdsistance des blocs d'adobe. Enfin, de nombreux
dchantillons de protection des surfa  ont ete experimentes (badigeon de terre, ciment ou enduit). Deux
approches vinat successivement d'etre testees et sont caracterisEes par:
(i)    le fmancement direct par le lrojt deS matdriaux t de leur livraison. et de la main d'oeuvre
sguliud; I'utilisation de techniques de construction en dur ou en terre crue avec des toitures
mElaJliques; la main-d'oeuvre specialisee etant assuree par do petites entreprises ou artisans
opErant de concert avec la participation des collectivites locales fournissant la main-d'oeuvre
non spEcialisee et les agregats; et
(II)    le versoment aux colctivitds locaes de subventions forfatais gur a  n con de mIles
delaias; ces subventions etant libErEes par tranches suivant l'avancement des travaux. Ces
derniers sont realisds par des arisans recrtds directement par les collectivitEs locales; les
techniques utisEes font appel lo plus souvent I lemploi do terre crue avec des toiltures
mEtalliques.



-64-
ANNEX 3-2
Page 3 of 12
Les rdsultats obtenus indiquent -n-e forte capacWit d'organisation des collectivitts locales fteine ce.pardant
par les contraintes de transport des agregats et les limites de leur capacite financiere I retribuer les
services de la main d'oeuvre specialisee. Leurs contributions le plus souvent en nature represente environ
5 a 15 % du coOt total de l'investissement, selon la part de la main d'oeuvre entrant dans le coOt de la
construction. L'objectif economique du troisieme projet a ete atteint grace I la rdduction des coOts de
construction de 50% - passant de 15 millions de FCFA a 7.5 millions de FCFA pour une dcole primaire
comprenant 3 classes: 220 m2, I bureau: 20 m2, 1 magasin: 20 m2, 1 cantine: 25 m2, 2 blocs latrines:
30 m2, et 3 logements: 315 m2. Ces reductions des coOts ont ete obtenues en s'appuyant sur les
matdriaux disponibles sur place et en tenant veritablement compte des savoir-faire traditionnels - que ce
soit pour la fabrication des mortiers ou des briques d'adobe, et le montage des murs. 11 en resulte non
seulement la reduction de l'utiisation du ciment et de I'acier, mais egalement la diminution des coats de
transport des materiaux. Par ailleurs, U convient de souligner que la promotion de ces techniques, m6mes
si lles sont simples, implique ndcessairement la mise en place d'appuis techniques dans les regions, ainsi
que la realisation de guides de construction, et la selection ou la formation des artisans.
5.       L'industrie du btimept au Burkina Eso face a marchd noteiel de contction de alles de
la. En l'absence d'une planification des programmes de construction et d'une organisation du
imarchd, l'offre - pourtant relativement substantielle puisqu'elle correspond globalement I une commande
annuelle d'environ 9 millions de dollars - n'interesse pas directement les entreprises du bttiment et ne
gen&re pas non plus chez les petits artisans une source d'emplois reguliers. Pour les premiers, les travaux
sont de petite taille ou trop disperses geographiquement pour Otre rentable; il s'agkt en gEndral de
programmes lances par le Gouvernement dont les specifications techniques varient selon los projets. Pour
los derniers, le plus souvent recrutds par los collectivitds locales, la selection se fait sans critbres de
qualite, ce qui a des consequence nefastes sur la regulation du marche ainsi quo sur la durabilite des
bgtiments.
B.       Qbjectifs de la cQMosante
6.       Cette composante doit permettre dans les zones du projet de contribuer I l'augmentation du
nombre de salle de classe de l'enseignement de base par la mise en oeuvre d'un programme de
rehabilitation de 300 salles de claLie et la construction de 1.200 salles de clase. Ce programme fournit
les appuis pour:
(a)   en miat urbain at d__s les trois =on  ndriphdriques ot los taux de scolarisation sont
supyms k 40%: (1) les rEparations de 50 salles de classe, n6cessaires pour l'introduction
I tis udrimontal du syst&me d'enseignement I double vacation;  (U) la construction
d'eairon 100 nouvollos sallos de classe dans les etablissements (dej3 existants ou I ouvrir) qui
opto tem pour Ia fomulo d'ecoles communautaires;
(b)  in Milie urbaln. h la  pdde des gent  urbains, ainsi quo danm la zones rurales I for
tnioel o  o tu  de scolarisationat compris entre 25 et 40%: (i) la rEhabilitationd'environ
100 salls do classm; (i) la construction d'environ 80 salls de classo additionnelles pour
wnrmaliser les Ecoles existantes de 3 ou de 6 classes; et (iii) la construction d'environ 280
classes pour l'ouvortre de nouvelles ecoles -.e 3 ou de 6 classes;



-65-
ANEX 3-2
Page 4 of 12
(c)   k ia peripherie des cenires urlbains et dans  i6p sondi utales hi hibkpMtentiel ob le taux- de
*sCoiarisatlio-ut iWfrurWr-k 25%:- (i) Ie r6parationsd'erviron 50 saltes.4e lasse, nocessaires
pour l'introduction du systeme d'enseignement I plusieurs divisions; (ii) la rehabilitation
d'environ 100 salles de classe; (iii) la construction d'environ 170 salles de classe additionnelles
pour normaliser les ecoles existantes de 3 ou de 6 classes; et (iii) la construction d'environ
570 classes pour l'ouverture de nouvelles ecoles de 3 ou de 6 classes.
C.       Strategie proposee gour le projet
7.       Pour atteindre ces objectifs, la strategie developpee pour ce volet du projet s'articule autour
des sept mesures suivantes:,
(a)   La priorite sera donnee a la consolidation des structures existantes par l'introduction
systematique de programmes de rehabilitation des batiments et de normalisation de la taille des
6coles (3 ou 6 classes par etablissement).   Ces programmes seront accompagnes
automatiquement d'actions et de mesures incitatives pour garantir un entretien pdriodique des
installations;
(b) Afin de renforcer la responsabilitE des structures dEcentralisees, los Directions REgionales de
1'enseignement de base et de l'alphabdtisation de masse (DREBAM) seront chargdes
d'organiser, coordonner et superviser les prograunes annuels de leurs circonscriptions;
(c)   Les collectivitds locales (communes et associations de parents d'eleves) seront les maftres
d'ouvrage, responsables par la suite de l'entretien du patrimoine;
(d)   Les rtreS  d'lieibilitd suivants seront utilisds pour l'octroi et la dEcision des appuis aux
initiatives des collectivitds locales:
(i)    Crithre 1I oplIo. Existence d'un village ou d'un groupement de villages
rausmblant une population dans un rayon de S Km d'au moins 1.000 habitants
pour une ecole de 3 cluses et d'au moins 2.000 habitants pour 6 classes;
(ii)    Cr:it2* RUII. L'ecole doit Wtre situde dans les rEIons de concentration du
projet (centre-Ouagadougou, Est-Fada N'Gourma, Centre Nord-Kaya, Yatenga-
Ouahigouya, Mouhoun-Deoudougou, Hautsbwins-Bobo-Dioulasso, Sud-Po).
(I11)    Cnltre 3: Grom   cibes. Les appuis sont destines aux associations do parents
d'dlhves, communes ou collectivites locales prtsentant un programme pour une
dcole ou un groupe d'Ecoles;
(iv)     Cit&re 4: Demande scolai. Asurer un ratio minimal do 25 elbves par classe
(pour les  ablissements existants);
(v)     Critbre so Ea des structure exintes. Pourront Wte remplac6os los structures
provisoires ou celles qui ne sont pas am6liorables pour un coOt infdrieur & la
moitiE du coOt estime d'une construction neuve. Pourront etro rdhabilitEes Its



-66-
ANNEX 3-2
Page 5 of 12
---tructures pemrnnnene-s- durables, correspondant aux- -normee-jugEes A&c:piables;
et qui, apres une remise en etat a un prix inferieur a la moitid du coot d'une
construction neuve, poiurront prdtendre I une durde de vie d'au moins 10 annees;
(vi)    Crit&re 6: Capacitd contributive. La collectivite devra fournir elle-meme en
nature ou avec le concours de dons et aides une contribution equivalente I un
pourcentage du coGt de l'investissement s'Elevant M:
5% pour les collectivites situees dans des zones rurales ob le taux de
scolarisation est inferieur & 40%;
25% pour les collectivites situees dans des zones urbaines ou
periphdriques;
(vii)    Critbre 7: Schema de ddveloppement de I'dtablissement. Presenter un schEma
de developpement de l'etablissement et un programme d'action accepte par le
Directeur de I'dcole, l'inspection et le direction regionale de 1'enseignement de
base et de l'alphabdtisation de masse;
(viii)   Crittre 8: Normes techniques.
Les dimensions de la classe doivent permettre une capacitd d'accueil de 60 elIves
I raison de lm2/edbve;
Avoir constate l'existence d'un point d'eau pour la realisation des travaux dans
un rayon maximum d'un kilometre, et avoir pris les dispositions suffisantes pour
1'entrepOt des matdriaux do construction;
*    Convenir du choix d'un type de construction decrit sur le guide de construction
et correspondent aux matedraux disponible sur place (selon la presence d'argile,
blocs latdritiques ou sable);
(ix)       Ctrke 9: PMurus de pALodgn de marchE.
*    Prener un projet do contrat d'exdcution des travaux I passer avec un ticheron
ou une entreprise agrEE;
(x)        Critbre 10: Janisi. L'Ecole dokt ero situEe dans une zone couvert. par un
atenne tchnique rEgional. et s'kre entourde des services d'une personne ayant
uno experience suffisanto pour assurer le suivi rgulier des travaux.
(o)   NrNo    techniues et prx. Un guide de construction comprenant un nombre limIhd do
solutions techniques regroupera les recommandations do mis. en oeuvre do quelques modbles
do sales de clas  correspondant aux diffdrentes particularits rgionalas.  Cos guides
comprendront la plans, los descriptfs et ls quantitds des matdriaux, les dEtails constructif&
et modes do mise en oouvre ainsi que Is recommandatons techniques on matiere d'ontretien



-67-
ANEX3-2
Page 6 of 12
-etles coOAs estimds. Les materiaux utilises pour les toitures auront les caracteristiques
techniques egales ou superieures aux t6lvianisdi  OO\ifie.' Pour iesiiaufl scrion
*'es disponibilit6s rdiunaali tc I* chosx des techniques praposes sur le guide de constuction.
des bri.ues d'adobe - dont l'usage le plus repandu dans l'habitat traditionnel serait rendu
possible dans au moins 60% des cas grAce aux prescriptions techniques de mise en oeuvre et
a I'application d'un enduit grfllag6 - ou Ilsbl sitiiue - dans les regions ob ce matdriau
est disponible et bien mattrise - ou encore les agolom4rEs de bdton creux - dans les regions
ne disposant pas d'autres agregats que le sable. Afin de reduire les coAts d'investissement et
d'amortissement annuel, et afin d'assurer une prise en charge de l'entretien par les collectivites
locales, le projet favorisera l'utilisation des mat6riaux disponibles sur place et encouragera les
savoir-faire traditionnels, notamment au niveau des finitions. Les indicateurs de performance
en matiere de prix seront bases sur le prix cible de 12.000 FCFA\m2, recemment obtenu pour
la construction de salles de classe realisEes par le troisieme projet education.
(f Anpuis techniques et supervision. Des antennes regionales constitudes de trois techniciens
seront chargees pour le compte des directions r4gionales d'aider les collectivitEs I preparer les
dossiers de requete et de superviser les travaux au maximum S fois durant lea moments
critiques de leur execution.
(g)   Formation et sElecion des artisans. La qualite de mise en oeuvre repose sur le savoir-faire
des artisans. Ceux-ci devrolt Wtre agrEEs pour &te recrutes par les collectivites. Ces
agrements seront donnds aux atisans qui auront fait leurs preuves sur un chantier ecole
organise par les antennes regionales. La rgularite de la commande et sa programmation sur
trois mees devrait ameliorer les conditions actuelles de dispersion des commandes et
l'absence de contrOle qualite des artsans.
(h)   Financent.  Les Directions Regionales veUlleront les premiers au respect des crittres
rtgist l'octroi des appuis. Un ComitW Central autorisora le prjet I engager les fonds
necessaires pour metro a la disposition des collectivitis locales las c       des
antennas rEgionales ainsi qu'un lot de matd_aux de cotction sadar. En outre, des
rlMUgM  fiwffitairseront vers6es aux collectivids en deux ou trols tranches aprts
consWtation de la rdalisation des travaux.
D.       Mg=  at M(AbWM de mige en oeuvre
8.       R      tal  des Ecoes primair  (0 sill de clas. L'hvaluation du volume et des coAts
des travaux eat bus ur un echantllon effectue danm trois zones reprEsentatives du Burkina Faso. La
coniac  ddtallde des travaux ura prdcisde pour chaque programme annual. Afin do faciliter la
prEparadon, un clament par nature do bAtimont a dt4 adoptd et la montants sont basis sur un
bordoreau do pri. Deux cas sont ratenus: (i) la rEhabilitaton do casses en dur -ncessitant de grosses
rdparation touchant la structure et le second oeuvre, at (ii) la rdbabilitation do classs en semi-dur,
incluam les mms en adobe I condition quo les fondatlons, la charpento et Is toiture solent rdalhides en
mataux durables. Les spdEcifications et lea quantitds des trvauxt d   habilitation seont identifids et
ar&r avoe lea tdhnicins des antennas rdgonales pour inserdon do caux-ci dan  les programmes
annuels. Les travaux sront ralisEs par des ticherons ou entreprises agrEs (voir condidons d'agrEment
para C-7.f) at rwmuts par lea collectivitds locales.  Compto tenu do la diversitd des travaux de



-68-
ANNEX 3--2
Page 7 of 12
rehabilitation, le projet n'interviendra que pour le versement en deux tranches maximum d'une subvention
de 330.WOFCFA par salled de classe-rehbitde '(corresodafdnt' aiO%de 5500.0) FCFA).- Li projet
faurnira dg2lemen! 24 tables/bancs par-s-aI! de cla-see rohabilit.e. ..  .. .  .    ...  .
9.       Construction de 1.200 salles de classe A faible coQt. Le projet prevoit la construction de
nouvelles sales de classe en utilisant les techniques de construction I faible coat qui ont dte developpees
au cours du troisieme projet. Au plus tard le 30 juin precedant le lancement des travaux et commencant
le 30 juin 1991, le programme des douze mois I venir sera prdsente par les directions regionales au
Comite Central, en tenant compte des criteres d'ea.gibilite enoncds ci-dessus au paragraphe C-7.c. Les
appuis aux initiatives des collectivites locales consentis par l'Etat comprendront les conseils techniques
des antennes regionales aux differentes nhases, la mise I disposition de kits de materiaux standards, et
le versement de subventions forfaitaires. Ces subventions reprssenteront 60% du coOt estims de la mise
en ouvre confiee par les collectivites locales I des petites entreprises ou tAcherons.
10.      Mdcanismes de financement.  Le Comite Central approuvera les programmes prdsentds par
les directions rdgionales et veillera au respect des conventions passess avec les collectivitds. Les
conventions particulieres seront preparees par les Directions regionales assistess des antennes rdgionales.
Les palements seront effectuds par l'unite de coordination du projet au fur et a mesure des besoins, en
utilisant l'une des catEgories de ddpenses prevue I l'accord de crEdit. Le versement des subventions sera
toujours subordonne I la constatation par les antennes rEgionales de la realisation des tranches de travaux.
Cos travaux devront Egalement avoir ete reconnus conformes aux specifications techniques stipulees dans
le dossier de requ&e et reprises dans les conventions particulibres. Los statuts du Comite central doivent
comprendre la composition du Comite, sos attribudons, la ddsignation du secrEtariat permanent, les
modalitEs d'intervention et le r&glement interieur. Le projet de texte legal devra ftre examind par l'IDA
durant las ndgociations.
11       Antennas Rinales et SElection des arisans. Dans chaque zone du projet, des antennes
rEgionales seront placdes sous I'autoritd du directeur rgional de l'enseignoment de base et de
l'alphabEtisatlon de masse et sewont chargdes pour Is compto du projet d'accomplir les tAches suivantes:
(i) organiser les campagnes d'informadon et do sensibilisatdon au niveau de leur zone; CH) assister les
collectivites I preparer leas dossiers techniques de requ&e; (oii) organiser los chantiers-4coles auxquels
participeront la atisans qui seront ainsi sdlectionnEs et agrees I l'issue de ce test; (v) discuter les
programmes proposs et convonir des calendriers d'intervention en fonction des contraintes de terrain;
(v) assister los coloctivts pour le ddmarrage des travaux et suivre aux moments cruclaux (au maximum
cinq fois duran lw excution) I'hvoludon des travaux; (vi) offectuer les receptions des tranches de
travaux avoc los srvices techniques rEgionaux pour donner las autorisations do versement des
subventions; at (vii) assurer la supervbion des livraisons par los fournisseurs des kits de matdriaux. Ces
antennas au nombre do sept wont composdes d'un coordinateur rEgIonal chargp do la formation, de la
programmatlon at do Iatn t de deux technicieas chargds de l'assianco auprbs des
coiloctivitds et de la supervision sur lo teain. Les activits dos antonnes waont supervises par le
coordonnateur central du programme do construction de la cellulo de coordination du projet.
12.      EnEta des    lations Swoairet Divisign din Costrutions at des Equl a Scolairs.
Afin do rdduiro les bosoims do remplacoment des installations scolaires, ou do limiter les futures ddpenses
de rdhabilitation qui rdsulteraient d'un manque d'entretlen, le projet prdvoit do renforcer le programme
d'information et do sonsibUisaton mis en place dans Io cadre du troisieme projet par la fourniture dans



-69-
ANNEX 3-2
Page 8 of 12
les zones du projet de: (i) guides d'entretien decrivant les t*ches r6gulibres k accomplir et la maniare de
-  - repondre   des- d6g8ts imprdvisibles; (ii) livrets permettant d'enregistrer les actions entreprises et -de
,,consigner le,s recommandations des inspections; et (iii) trousses I outil pour faciliter les petites
interventions. La Division des Constructions et des Equipements Scolalies qule ' douvernement se
propose de creer l la Direction des Affaires Administratives et Financibres serait chargee de tenir I jour
l'inventaire du patrimoine, de prdparer et de superviser les programmes de travaux, de tenir b jour les
normes et standards en matibre de construction et de coordonner les actions visant I ameliorer l'entretien
des installations. Le projet contribuera t faciliter la mise en place de cette Division par des appuis
logistiques en materiel et des services de consultants ponctuels pour la prEparation des guides et livrets
et la preparation de curricula pour l'introduction d'un module de formation des directeurs d'ecoles et des
inspecteurs aux pratiques de la gestion et de 1'entretien des installations scolaires.
b:annex3-2



ANNEX 3-2
Page 9 of 12
BURKINA FASO
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
AREA AND CAPITAL COST PER CLASSROOM SPACE AND PER STUDENT.
.. . .._ ..         -.   .  ...  A.~NDPAS-R- OFF*0E -SPACE- PER STAFF
Tble I
isa. Cost  In^PPA   1  O  (1)
Atre  In a.... 5e2        Wit
...... .. ............ ......... c.s., aSr .e................................... w
C crclt Prr i*s C.w.-------- ;;  C-WI,-   1.j..I.................. ............................. -------------- Workl
Capacity FordtPe.WitPer Place                                                      Civil
____......              Per   Per  Per 2I  Civil  Isut             ICivil Fissit            Per 0i2
WitWit Ualot  Net Crrs. Prea   Wait  (Ore.W) erk  Purnit  Tout I   Work P.rnith Total            (nt)
u  u    u    s  ^a Sl   56    le   ;W   OPAP  -AP WAP   CPAF'  erAP                        CP
Priaary Scholsw
A.  Neo Construction
Cl:oaroom              1    6060    St    73  1.0         9       12     "a      W10   1.2         14      9      1     14.7
*T  charHem"           1          a6 *  * 4   106  14.0   S4      s   1.*-27       0   1,#7       @21      0    221     18.J
Slack of 2i clsa.rooa    1   1JO  160  262   81i   1.4  252         11   .4W    I,U1.0   S 14         t  1   9     29     13.9
* Clsero.              3    60  160   176   220   1.0   So        12  2.667   I.610   4.117        14      9     23     14.7
Oaffice               I     1    I    is1   20 16.0    10       1W    g38        60     293      235     60   298      W4.
Storp"               I     1    1    16    20160    1 6         12    2Ui       60     293      233     60   1        14 7
TCOaIina               1     1    1   20    25 20.0   20          14     e         0     iUD      80       0    330     17.5
* Toil44able4b         2     6 12   24    a0  2.0   la            8      69        0      6         7      0      7      8.7
School oe  S Cl * 8 Thou  1   180 1U O   304   80   2.8   804        12  7,473   I.60   9.2l          42      9 e    1     14.0
*Blockofa e*Cl.        1        to6 1U1   811       I 262         it, IiU 498   1.60   8U146      t1       9     29     18.9
No1ing for        8          6 1 U   22  S1B  14.0   *4          1J 9112           0   J,U2       2m1      0    221    1i.6
WeVolls  Pumpe, (a)
Wait cot per nw cl  rr                                                    2.493     6ti
S.   RIhabilltlri nS)          I   180  UO   262  818                                  1.630   8is40       11      9     20        J
C.  Rope; (3)                   1   160160   262  IS   1. 4   252          4   1.2e0             260        7      0       7       s
1): Cost or Superwieion bM  i l Conatruction Uritc ore* eostbsed eartely sW ccrelo d to 116 of conservction   ot *.;
h2) U it coot - CPAF S.8 Sl I Ione (not f ingnc4  under oh*  roa ot)
8) : Pr * Scheel of S clso_roos  (withot the tacse hougag):
igO.M.WS (#A)
*: cw.prN
TABLE 2
5.68DM -  *tit# POAT 16AtIOl / OIASTIC 11I11U                  0W115           96tttlm
DAL3lA MU60 00  1N3 06 LAWOLM   05 11TATIITI11,1U1 SCOAV    190149
sut~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ --- - - - - -    -  ----e e rabn .is
SITlUATIO 06 L'ES3Z0ll ZtA1RE i0l 1969
, ,IFS                         SATD8TS (2CO.35 3 SlUAS Off CiA13I)                                 CAi3   (C04T)
- - .... - .   ...    ... - -  ...   -   -   - - ~~~~~. ...   -  --- T.   -                  -   - --  ..
0     eN DU    POPULAU TION                                      ATIO  t                  AtIO TAVA.  00  i.    N06   NI! J
PAYS           -  -        -       -       3OILISSLS   f3 SALLSALLS*M    CUBES   -----                              4      CUBES  @.5
SAYL CO               ____CO____________  J ?xtl. CUE   SAS  I -S D4    /W  D K   am   SiT    LTiW MLlat
IN         of      of          0116. O.5         .86      P53i            14   4-8  7-32        04
1969      199"    1969                                    01,10LC        SMAIB 06 CLAMS         191119
(I)                    71.1U2S.2ti 2.73i
1D61d4.406    44,J829  1628.68i 32.0    7.2 0     0        67 Mla           81.  a            6 1S   7,890     on    8.il
SiN                38373    *.01    22.68         41     123      a         6      9u       8    82    6      1      i2         4   3.0
14.7                          184    24.13         90    270       S7       1       9                   S t *  I      277        4    14
J001315A           42         10.721   29.06       IN     209      47 i                      8    68    14 U          217        *    8.U7
60LOOU             79.326     10.910    24.28    10      2 342      8               o)  S    a   i2   2v       0      887       18   4.25
SONAI0             7.0        13.86?    86.83    l12  *7 S9        a                         a    37    as    4       438       14   8.26
CMOS               49.626     10,623    1i.i4   73        262      so        8)              4    4J       OD    2    290       IS    2.6
OMGS.510U          403624      6.1.     15.0i  5   40     118      84        0      03       8    88     7    0        1         3    .'
SCAOM              *.67  a         s.3   6.11    48       W 10tii7 72    d                               3     0U     118 It   9.3
GO1MM              6611        8         1.         1     149      so               673      s    at    12    0       1in        9 3.73
14Sf?             11.0         5.       418.68    1n,    783       76               VWI 3    4   1o06    71    9      760       24   8.161
KADICOO      83.~~~~~731  8.3       5.3     19       90      83      an8      996      8    as   010   80        91        22   2.611
NW13OUou           23.120      7.378    27.93      *      147      t4      (10)     663      a    42     7    0        is7       10   6.41
1(0631            6*.164      10. 214   18.73      67     183      3       (12)     Sin      a    U      a     a       191       *,   4.13
SOAIT7A            6,.061     U10.806    1468u     84     to       66 U     14)     9U        a   it    16    0       192        6   8.13
10274af   U,O    "2a" e2          7       6          )      s       a     2    a              74             'is
SPASM      89.866      16,185~~~~I. i  13. 73  8  296      6       (16       114916  8    89    22    4        818l      19   6.03
14*50.31     ~~~~~19.06   8.64,4   29.68    92        87      63       74      963      4    14     a    0        94         7   7.46
M*5ETSIOA          40.707          4       .9      11    80        6       (8                3 a    24   4    0        44        6    7.03
am   SOA           64.21      16. 22 .66    100    233              9               $131     8    i0    29     0      196       18   41.431
PASS=              81,161     11.1    23.131   76l    23            1                             61e   18            234        2       a09
P0N1               384         868      17.13      72    2116      4                4311    1a7 s                     g               7.311
SANSJIS  47.203  18.626    3.96  72   291      62                903~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4  "  3i5s1  0  125        4    1.85
3M6tATSOA    ~~~~73.64    13s2      17.85     80    2,67,     30      (48)              8    72    16    0       190       26    7.9a
gm0                4260                                    so8 63 18 6  44  I16     78            14     4    0        so        ii   0.031
0hOiu             8.          1.:,10    21.7      78     10461                              8    so      8            203        1      a06
SOIM         83.888~~~~S  4.488    12.85     84      97     4-                              16      7     I      100        8 3.03
Oc4O~~~~~3                                                        1232      Tilst.l
630U         88.~~~~~~475  18.36   85.13     91     804      so        2       1       8    68 27    2           S1u       1    83
TAPOA             112.748      4.047    12.461    40       94      48      cm       49       2    so     4    01       94        0    0.06l
YATMOA  180.41  62.996    01.96    196  570     66              6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DJ  43     189   85  1  74     4    0.73
ZOII~~~0O  80.590  8.644    18.85     88     106~~~~~~~  88o(11        983      8    so     6    0        114        a    7.03
(1): our I* bass duen ratio de 80 .leV"s per mtiIs de elsa..
011s-006  S~A3U9.



5061 MAttJqOI46 a * it.ea8  spMmp, S *et Ses op ojiSmiod ind :(p)
60Mg alp *mtl  as S"@ 3iiOi USISSO 5tfl mmO o*Sei  *t4t""SaS  "Joi     fiSSatti MA S SmOiOsq el dumSU*4 op
SIWalSloulo veO9s1406. we ow SMSOOIAvM UR aJsid  lab gainoJ0136J  no F$maid0olep np %6 wevJanowO  sop
o1414mnuoSIei %ew0l9ASEl eg*qp O   5053el 3Sepax. IIMU O unS inum ISpol AoJo8i yougc. Doe*5MedOUmAOeineoJA50J5  ;:
op SI e  SoE O,iI,OArft  C          .lq,6gOUg f aOJld eeiro40J51 op IlM.ueveSgSod i a
M0      a         got       as      m        ot "I I M                                    _ l3 a_  l36          V N1 ,A
g*      p          M,        M      ant     to       A       s        s        les              Il's,             vodv.
at      St        inO       tAS t US         M       AO      et      0 &     s9t"   *Sno w= ft0 W.
i       tS        a"         o      At      a        0o      A       I          a         StO' n   o  Ws
06      0T        am        STV     at1    A91       S0      VI      9      Sells                  tot f1511
0       81        0"       1to      ant     As        1      5       0       5      P'tt    U 00                   0N
sit     at        ti0c      USa   lAS       $13      to      A       as      1060   AAA        9310          vouSWs
to1  8t   8        1Y       in  Co          st STo           A       0                         "atoe ',u  to.
05      5         US it     609 tU    t P W A        03      91     tO      016    UVSI059
&8       t        SO        Ott    SO, t    50.      P8      0       9       10A    106        95               UUO,,Vd 
go      a         An       MPI         t 91              I0      1       5  305   tMS           0's,            Nrrvol
*01     et        M5        US 8     5      US        a      CT      0       #1'    0          P9W*OO        DwNitWt
St  s n           559       A    t          06       to      0       1      5       1          0             V l
89      5         as5        ust   CA       01       0       6       0       359    s          Ue               IVCM
gat     01        o          M      Its     PW       is      9       0      1019   en'n        os            n ons
a       n          m9       NV9   AST       Ot       02      9       0        W5*AS  0130      01000                n
s  8to   *U        no       us,    M        o n      is      9               sole  992         agToet
LO      0 z   06            559'   33       501      11      5OtS  ff1    S58'6 S                          '      1330)6m
is      As        UW        ti      Sit     A"       39  o           0   t 500 o'Stt           6900            U0ZoV
an5     0         66081    m55T  co0,       500      O51    16       0         lob  Avg,0      OVV5A91            JN4(
an S              noo a    oson   Sos       oat       M      ta      n      SwIOe  gts i0z     sg9sonnw
to      U         is        6n      115      at      s0      3       0        90    66t 06     tt                etS 0otS
061     95        0ge      MU    An         555      501     01      0       1009O  Ole:9      99012S       ('10110`21
M1      Si        0          M1itA    s     OAS 1    65 LO   0       6      S10g5  9O0a        sit P 
051     0o        965:      O8m     we1     us1    IOT    01         1       Wbis  50561       AMOO9         V0Iwg
3   V    1I    at5t         US      Om        6      As      0       a6      10 OAtNW6    a51             - '''-
.-a   _   . _     __...ts   v"
os        a,       ,iMee tst tS San St   5  ;tC    SR 0lt 3C0 ' 0'~ IXt XsS 'so
O"9    6          50096    sgs,i  VW'. m's all$    MI    M           got    *-o,   wo-a's      826'tgoa         wn
3      VC 060P     Wrw    Dl m n                     t ar"            "1100      9  00  90'       01
W9AY    tl n       AOrAt  AIV       V          U C         vs  Vo SCIV  Cri Fe IoVrO0 o    ost      ntt
se~~~~ c-                                                                              16ILV'     nO C UtStt8Z,tSO 1C ZSZ;t v
6?AUIMSO 1C                  00'O  O R 0C0  OW 6SAIVS1   S0ZOA           t       0t9 41t
WV    n          Vz'    s C  ivit w7w    wtows   =lom irn"                        tom -wi     m stwst  w
Se        M       AM          66 SO  UaNotVWL O3   U0IY I'U  SOO 3      z 153 W*g    CUSr
oSSIBSt IZoUS   U      SSO          OOOIt
u'n  S06' t  so'      te         snOA1=  Mn  Gl=t'"  SO' UMLUC' MU  tMR  n0 * UttN  I
DiRWIeQULUVI 36 40-qO-10
St,      coot    eit         6       Pot      A5l      uso    Ss'        1.A     050    it      65        000616tz
3b01 c     "fl   398         U       M        A"5       166    306       M0      Solt n11 g     00           VONVA
18'00    ova' I    "I        6       lb      iOm       006      3b8      001    0111   00       Vol            VOAVA
1005    110135    W69        01     9"a        up9    00051   100        18    000    Os        "Me          1`100101
S1935      Ins    SliOt      VT      to       0061              1001olo    01    Pol0  'Lo      Pb              WmI
10'05     Ui'e    SOtOS             C Se1     00      80'01   ms    eAT    00N    0    00 n      i tt       rutIs
1566e     50'I   U0:0        0      0t        0        6936a   10:0    Pe0       o 10   at      to              0100
1806     oi 0     noa'9    M05M1 01           SO        90       t a3   066      is00    If     M0        VON3aaVWNVB
1155     050'9   1060        11      016      009      0660t   oPs    066        001t   0       l06          sinoWYS
*35       M  I   138         0       3 gm     L69      30011   WIT    t06    0013   to          "M a VS0Sd
101      105      10         0       05       0         M01    100o    OP        001l   At      or           w1VO'
PSo      592'   39"          0       P58      M0       060,01   So00     M0      Co01    go     tOL0     VCONIaIUfl
so,0     V   I6'    300o     5       Al       Aft      0150:   130c    to        000    Or      Pe        VW*41NW4
ODo,     sit       was       s       on       09        ,'u      0 010AIg   a'  l  101    06    slag         Nr04'I
1IP'"    0_. __ol            0       SOT      0  _.,01   so00  .0.               to     00  ..        _ OMLPJ.LL tV
59la     9615      01        P 01 1611 0 b     41      350,01   106 a    001     to0l   30      001            1510)
3000        a50    s10'      0       191      0        3161A:,   10.0    191    301t   it       lei       nDW0VNO)
WLItV        t O iSt1909     115    010        9"90 6 63    1600    19g    9001    3A           000          OCOIOY
a,519              US'S 109   "0      I        lo 0933    lUt   101       i 1 901   it          0591           .Lwwc
ES'S    191'?    "It             9 0Vo         PAZ     tIiea    "la    001    0010   se          901          VDN
W,        WA I6'    W'S              soat     gm       1160   lu.        PS      sO    00       00        flOOMZVDOIf
10t,     O59:,   161#        et      ill       m,6   911   St01                  Fool501    06  030           lDYSi
1601     006    10 0        0s      008       0       0110 P   1004    066      toll   99      066       VUIXWIO
g1o,     5A3:0    all6       I       1M        M       610601   se 10    010     911     9  0 10M             961296y
lOPS      H'LoS    WI*: .            60 -    31A .6             so J  0  gm 1    to 0I   01      gm          Wl'4.
mo'st    iev:at Isso:        os       6'S       009 6s. c 10009:!   So    65'st  011    0  6      00l         WIPUsm
"'VI11   -"A1    111           -                           o .. ..I .?'o?          co      S       01-
W,,,,,,,,  S*tW*TtlE           W,AOI'_'If. N061D10,  ,Tlo  11;           aE 14ol        a       ml           N
Z~ ~ ~~-- -           --- _-I-L--
0011WW   OZWW               lAt WA  Olruw    DAIIW   DtoVW    BW DAIA   11W1
$M        mI S  34aN    I    Sli3AS  SAiPS                       3Wav taO  0I.VW  ONAW2  flUO4   flO  1363
Z1 30 01 esed
Z-E  X3tNitV                                            -TL-



-72-
ANNEX 3-2
Page 11 of 12
TAME 8
TtiPCSCM XTl  00 M  SAL1.0 O 0A8
SAI.LS oo cUll  ~owons (PULOLC) ,.           . .. . . ..
,.                          _..... ..... ... ...._ . __ ........:  __S-4 CAbTIWITh
_      AL    a7Z Z "iWl' --t-----------------
PAYS   mm    uR BANco PAIL.E  TOTAL TOTAL  A OUWIR
--.**-*-  -.- .----_.............,*._  .....,,_4....._- ..__...  ..  .
8,607   462   499   168  6,723  7,210         47
OAN             119    4      2      0     WI3  142          17
BAZEOA          248   14      6      2    267    22          25
N0I,"ZR1A       162   23    23       1    20    229          20
souLOCU         319    7      s      2    3SS    86          SO
60U(KISD       3S4    19    2        0    387   483          48
C0140!          2M4    a      0      0    260   27S           9
QOME2CWOC        6t    0    la       4     106   120         12
GNAGA            70    6    12    16    104   106             4
0CLMA           124    2    14       3    14.5   182          9
HONC1T          843   68    19       0    64  O              87
KADIOO          647    7       1     0    375   612          87
KOEDOUCW5       127    7      U2     1    147   152           6
1(0581          147    0    21       3    179   207          22
KOItrrr54OA     178    9      4      0    I    208          19
NOU4CL#4        268   18    10       0    2      802         14
NAhCLS           75    2       1     0      74    61          8
NA044NSd34A      60    6      4      a      77a 
O0I16TS40A      221  38    20        0    274   S12          36
01.VLANM         32    4      0      3      39    86         (8)
PASSOSt         164   20    18       4    223   242          19
P31              98   60    82    81    216 U85             18?
SAOUhe         s19    18      7      0    210   208          (7)
SAN8ATOA        226    0    10    20    2U    28             12
s8ee             44   14      2      0      60    64          4
6166111         120   27    48    61   19         6        (12
soUl             48   16    23       1      6     64         1T
-CL'OU          242   1f    34       0    204   821 
TAPOA            48    S      6    as       9     6
YATBEA          885   81   U2       16    862   8U6            )
ZCOt000         100    2      2      0     104   108          1
01l-Pb-Ol 6: vrAThc4M(
TALE 6
K6UI    - Y TRIIS  PROJWET  UCTIO
EVOLUJTZCN 00  OUTS m0 CO0lWUCTClN DO 60. PRDA        AU M V A
- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- -- - --- - - - - _- - ------------------
TOTAL             TOTAL
1.6E  1 LED                1-
CLAUS    ,VEAU  KAGASDN CETDY  LATRDI        TOTAL  WZTU    S CL       U       SR 8 0., -
STANQAS          2            se.0    10.0    10.0    20.0    20.0    27.0    64.0   429.0                   429.0
(NC-~ IN!)    FeFAf@          63.7    88.0    80.0    60.0    S0.0        68.1    66.s    6.7                 74.9
1963            ToTu 1    0,r.7000   680.0    80.0  1,0  6 00.0  1600    ,480.0  4 400.0 2SS.o  8.8000  8S2 U0 0
EWIS6E!   84.0    60.0    180.0          0.0      0.0  2,691.0   '      2,62.0   800.0o  8.092.0
TOTAL 2    4,66.0   710.0   6O1.0 1,6000  10 0 .0  16023.0  4,400.0 31.2.220  4,000.0  S 1   om".
FVALLATION      @2             89.0    10.0    10.0    20.0    9.0    226.0    64.0   413.0                  416.0
CU PROJSr III   3CA8.6    86.8    8.6                   8o.0    46.9    $8.7    64.9    8.0                   44.1
1968            ToTL 1    2,276.0    368.0   368.0   710.0   440.0  *,738.0  221.0 is 44.0           l. 14.0
PU_T    318.0    60.0    60.0            0.0      0.0  1,689.0           1,689e.0   800.0  1,69.O
TOTAL 2    2,76 0   448.O   48.0   720.0   440.0  10,294.0 2,231.0 1 ,7 0 3,100.  20 267.0
CUESTI          14             67.0     e.5      9.8    25.0    24.0    269.0    69.0   615.0                618.0
(ST3    S l.A.) PPAIaSA       24.4    23.5    22.       16.6      3.07    217    26.0    26.0                 80.6
1990            TOTAL 1    1,684.6   218.6   216.6   420.0    68.6  8,640.7 2,64.2 12 ,76.8  8,000.0  15,676.
Erip6        018.0 U   6O0.0    60.0 0   00      0 0   1,889.0          s18.0   600.0  2,08.0
TOTAL 2    2,147.6   273T.    274.6   420.0    68.6  7,879.7  2,346.2 14,4W1.6  3,600.0  17,918.8
PrILO 0 a3s      2                     i.s0     16.o    19.0    24.0    261.0    64.0   86.0                 80s.0
(ADO  1)           All        18.1     l.1    18.s    19.0    24.0                 16.2    18.8               24.4
1990            TOTAL 1    1,061.9  20. 6    29.6   861.0   876.0  4 701.6  1,8  I. ,260:.  S,00.o0  12,26
OJuIpSl6     81.o       0.0o   60.000                                              500 .0  2 ,08.0
TOrAL 2    1,5n.9   649.6    89.6   861.0   5760.0  6,2U31.6  1826. 106150.2  6,60.0  14,3 1.2
PILOTS am 4      2               Y.7   1.0    16.0    19.0    24.0    251.0    64.0   808.0                  808.0
eso 2)                        " r@ 1.  14 .7    14 7    17.6      8.7              Is.6    14.6               20.0
1990                     663~~ra  W4   m.i   2862   332.8    68.   8,47.01,2.9  7,440.89 6000.0  10,4460.3
J    V    61. UOQ      .Of0    60 0    0 0     0 0   1,86.             16        800.0  2,03.0
TOA L 2    1,a 7.4   265.2  s2.2   662.5         n.6  5,o00.e9  1,17.9  6,990.   ,00.0  12,.43900.5
PILOTS a        to  So                                  1. 10.  0 .4    24.0    218.4    41.0  6.4           84
fanO S)            02:                   I        I      9: 6     2                 9.6    0.7                17.6
MACOI  R.:    9. 1    9. 4   11"I'    $2 I   1725 1 401.6 2,986.5  8,000.0  89,98.
JQIP6EI    180.0    80.0    60.0        0.0     0.0    440.0             440.0   400.       960.0
TOTAL 2      607.6   142.4   142.4   118.6    6.2  2,76M.S   401.6  .M.   6,600.0   ,66.8
0006:- - ----------------- - ----- - - -- - -    ---------- - --



(Ns) im'waSy        two
I     01           I      91          1     *           I      01        I      it              3BN*aLv   dUJ ll$ so
I     Il           I      ob          I     at1         I      181        I     VI          Iw    bIrVdUA1 OM    1A0
*                                           . -   * 
001!I       0        0 1       S        01        'LI     aI        11      98!I      0       0 1                             @1.1
001  I      0        0! S         S     O         SI Al     a I      1t      6 I      0       0  I                             SonSiWM0
OOt 2          o      o        a        a          I       LI       of      VA!       0       0 S           rI!g,f   ZN    M S6SOO ,1v1
I                  I                  I                 I                 t                            .....I.......
001  I                   I     a                  186 I  a     1S  18      98! II                                             G1"02
01t  I                                     II             g  I8            18!g  I               I                   ldw4!WW w4z
of   SI S                                                     I g6             I                  I S  S-Mr
OON'IS~~~~~~~ ~  I1                                                                               .....................0t  1 t Sf l,,,,tX
001~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 go 0"  go  Z C6S   6         Sawnoin loswo
s        A s       As I      s       etiNA I                             it         s       L                              ails
009I        AS       As3!      aS       so I       9          I9    L9       1        11       LII                    mx   ulo
009?x       aSl       AS!      oil      Utz       219     99!t    got    1             il    Ol ISI  LKIZ            3um0v 2IV
0081I       01        0111     01       3111      III     II!                  I                             .. 011...  011.... ....*... .... .  ..
O 1AI    t          iI      P         I         I       V 1 I            P  I      V I  I      IBV                            w
Og0I1!                   I              18! I     98      98?I      98      tot  I                             am1lwkiUthSW~
*01 I                                   Vs  t    C   C         I    St                         I    *    C
1I                                    I                 I                               ................ ................
-------  *b*1. .---- 9--0051.                  . 9-*o-001 .- '----9-C051-- 8--9--6051 *-*--  1001--' suroW~ no WIE
iSdO   PIS71   Afl0W  WBSNXfD  - tS
Zl 30 Zl aaBa
r-c X3!4NV                                                           -ELA-



-74-
ANNEX -3
Page I of 49
BURKINA FASO
.   . .     .. .  .     .     . .   -      -  -.
FQURT  EDUCATION.P.$pJ3C
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
Project costs by expenditure, category and source of financing are presented in the
following tables:
1.           Basis of cost estimates. Project costs are based on July 1990 prices at appraisal. Cost
estimates for works and goods are based on the experience of the ongoing Third Education Project and
on recent tenders in Burkina Faso or in the region for similar types of goods completed recendy, with
adjustment, where necessary, for regional cost differences. The average cost per month of internationally
recruited services (US$13,000), including salaries, overhead and subsistence, locally recruited specialists
and consultants (US$2,080), and the costs of scholarships abroad (US$3,800) are those applied for similar
projects financed by IDA.
2.            Foreign exchange component. The estimated foreign exchange component of the project
is the result of the following estimated foreign exchange percentages for the individual expenditure
categories:
Civil Works (general contracts)           60%
Community Contribution                     0%
Construction Materials                    90%
Furniture                                 80%
Equipment                                 100%
Pedagogical Material                      100%
International Specialists                 100%
Local Specialists                          0%
Training Abroad                           100%
Local Training                             0%
Operating Costs                           80%
3.            Customs. duties and taxes. Cost estimates do not include duties or taxes. During
negotiations, the Government would be asked to confirm that the project will be exempt from taxes and
duties.
4.            Contingency allowances. The cost estimates include physical contingencies of (a) 10%
for hardware components, such as civil works, furniture and equipment; and (b) 5% for specialist
services, training, and operating costs. Allowances for annual price escalations are as follows:
Projected Annual Price Escalation dates
Final                m      m 92    93  .122A  i22  9     1222   122
PoeSi  Costs         2.0%   1.1%   0.4%   1.6%   3.8%   4.0%   4.7%
Lood Cost            4.0%   4.0%   4.0%   4.0%   4.0%   4.0%   4.0%



-75-
ANNEX 3-3
Page 2 of 49
S.           FinAninglanc. The IDA credit was proposed on the assumption of the availability of
cofinancing from the Government, local communities, and other donors. Tables 7 and 8 below
summarize the cofinancing arrangements and will be discussed with cofinanciers.
6.           Detailed project costs. Tables 14 show project costs by component, category and year.
Assumptions made in arriving at the cost estimates, as well as the detailed project costs by component,
cost category and source of financing are given in Tables 5-7.
Table 1      By Component
Table 2      By Categoiy of DisbursemQ nts
Table 3      By Component and By Year
Table 4      By Category and By Year
Table 5      By Category and By Component
Table 6      Detailed Project Cost By Component
Table 7      Financing Plan by Component
b:anna3-3



8URKINA FASO
Quatrieme Projet Education                                      Table  1
Enseignements Primaire/Second.                                    Page  1 of 1
Project Cost Summary
FCFA                             USS                          % Total
-------------------------        Foreign  Base
Local   Foreign     Total       Local  Foreign    Total      Exchange     Costs
. .. .... ... ... .. . .... . . . . . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
A0. ENSEIGUIENT DE BASE
1. FORMATION DES NAITRES          958.0      57.0   1015.0           3.4      0.2      3.6          5.6       9.5
2. RENF.GESTION/INSPICTION          8.8      104.5    113.3          0.0      0.4      0.4         92.3       1.1
3. SYST0E D'EVALUATION              1.0       50.0      51.0         0.0      0.2      0.2         98.0       0.5
4. KUMELS ET MAT. PEDAG.          299.6    1351.9    1651.6          1.1      4.8      5.8         81.9       15.5
S. ACCR. oNRE DE CLASSES         1393.7    3295.1   46R8.8           5.0     11.5     16.5         70.3      43.9
6. ENTR/REHAD DW PATRINOINE       202.5     221.9      424.4         0.7      0.8      1.5         52.3       4.0
7. ANELIOR. SAiTE/NUTRITION         0.0      146.7     146.7         0.0      0.5      0.5        100.0       1.4
8. SCCLARISATION DES FILLES         7.0      61.4       68.4         0.0      0.2      0.2         89.7       0.6
Sub-Total                            2870.7    5288.5    8159.1         10.2     18.5     28.7         64.8       76.5
Al. QUALITE ENS. SECONDAIRE
1. FORN.ENSEIGUAUTS/INSPECT       134.0     217.9    351.8          0.5       0.8      1.2         61.9       3.3
2. LIVRES ET RAT. PEDAG.           65.6    1179.6   1245.2           0.2      4.1      4.4         94.7       11.7
Sub-Total                             199.6    1397.4   1597.0           0.7      4.9      5.6         87.5       15.0
A2. RENFORC. INSTITUTIONUEL
1. PLANIFICATION NEBA              43.6     177.6    221.2          0.2       0.6      0.8         80.3       2.1
2. PLAMIFICATION NESSRES            0.3     184.0    184.3           0.0      0.6      0.6         99.9       1.7
3. DIRECTION PROJET EDUC.         215.0    293.1      508.0          0.8      1.0      1.8         57.7       4.8
Sub-Total                             258.9    654.6    913.5            0.9      2.3      3.2         71.1'       8.6
Total BASELINE COSTS                 3329.1   7340.5  10669.7           11.8    25.7    37.6           68.5     100.0
Physical Continrencies             235.9     674.2    910.1           0.8      2.4      3.2         74.1       8.5
Price Contingencies                506.1    1077.7    1583.8          1.7      3.9      5.6         70.2      14.8
.- - - - - - - -- - - - - - -     ------------- ------------     .  .._......  .. . ....... .. .
Total PROJECTS COSTS                 4071.1    9092.5  13163.6          14.3     32.0    ;6.4          69.1     123.4
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 - 4/24/1991 8:1'
DI



PEKINA FASO
iatrim  Projat Educatlon
EIneWentc PrlmoireISecond.                                                                 Table 2
SuLnmry Accounts Cost S9mmry                                                            Page I of I
FCFA                                       uSS                                       Total
------------------------------               ...........................   X Foreign                   Base
Local    Foreign          Total           Local   Foreign        Total         Eaxchwa .        Costs
..............................              ............................................. .................................................... ..........
1. IUWS1E NET COSTS
...................
A.  awide civit                                  64.6        104.8        169.4             0.2         0.4         0.6             61.9          1.6
e. Ccmtr. malles de cLnsse
1. 5ksention 601                           864.8           0.0        864.8             3.0         0.0         3.0              0.0          8.1
2. Contribsation Collec. 1OU                60.9          0.0         60.9             0.2         0.0         0.2              0.0          0.6
3. Materimu: comstr. (IDA)                   77.1        750.5        827.7             0.3         2.6         2.9             90.7          7.8
4. ffteriamu   constr. (FED)                163.0      1585.5        1748.5             0.6         5.5         6.2             90.7         16.4
..............................               ............................................. .................................................... ..........
Sub-Totat                                     1165.8       236.0        3501.8              4.2         8.2        12.3             66.7         32.8
C. Fournitures
1. EqLuip   ent                               0.0       759.1         759.1             0.0         2.7         2.7           100.0           7.1
2. Nobilier                                 158.1       683.5         841.6             0.6         2.4         3.0             81.2          7.9
3. Vdehicules/Cycles                          0.0        188.3        188.3             0.0         0.7         0.7            100.0          1.8
............... ......... ....................... .......................  ........................... ...............  ....................
Skb-Totat                                      158.1       1631.0       1789.0              0.6         5.7         6.3             91.2         16.8
D.  Materiel Padogfgique                          0.0        127.9        127.9             0.0         0.5         0.5            100.0          1.2
E. Manuets et Livres Scol.                        0.0      1944.8       1944.8              0.0         6.8         6.8           100.0          18.2
F. Services de consultwnt
1. Consultants notironm                    252.0           0.0       252.0              0.9         0.0         0.9              0.0          2.4
2. Cnsulttants Internet.                      0.0       636.4         636.4             0.0         2.2         2.2           100.0           6.0
..............................              ................................ .-.... ----------.................. ----------s
Sub-Total                                      252.0        636.4         888.4             0.9         2.2         3.1             71.6          8.3
G. Fmrmtlon
1. Formtion  locae                        1061.6           0.0      1061.6              3,7         0.0         3.7              0.0          9.9
2. Formtlon a t'etrager                       0.0       307.7         307.7             0.0         1.1         1.1           100.0           2.9
Sub-Total                                     1061.6        3n7.7       1369.3              3.7         1.1         4.8             22.5         12.8
..............................              ............................................. .................................................... ..........
Total INVESMNENT C0STS                        2702.1       7088.5       9790.6              9.6        24.9       34.5              72.4        91.8
..............................               ............................................. .................................................... ..........
it. RECUWT COSTS
...................
A. Frais de Fonctioemnent
1. Censo_bes                                10.5         45.6          56.2             0.0         0.2        0.2             81.2           0.5
2. O.1.6.                                   47.9        206.4         254.3             0.2         0.7         0.9            81.2           2.4
3. SalairesJDeplacments                    568.6           0.0        568.4             2.0         0.0         2.0              0.0          5.3
..............................              ........................ .... ...........    ....................                                                              so........ .......,e;
Sub-Total                                      627.0        252.0        879.0              2.2         0.9        3.1             28.7           8.2                                                               >   p
Total BASELINE COSTS                          3329.1       7340.5    10669.7               11.8       25.7        37.6             68.5        100.0
PFysical Contingencies                     235.9        674.2         910.1             0.8         2.4         3.2             74.1          8.5                                                               
Priee Cntinfdncies                         506.1       1077.7        1583.8             1.7         3.9         5.6             70.2         14.8                                
.......................  ....           .......... ........ ...... ..    ........ ............                                                                        41-
Total PSJECTS CaSTS                           4071.1       9092.5    13163.6               14.3       32.0        46.4             69.1        123.4
......                  ............................................................ ................................................
volue  sSc led by 1000000.0 -                4/24/1991   8:16



MKINA FASN
auetrlam Projet Educatn on
EnelgWmsnts Primire/Second.                        Table 3
fCFA                                  Page 1 of 1
Project Compnmts by Year
las Costs                                 Total
91/92   92/93    93/94    94/95    95/96    96/9r   FCFA   USS
A. ENSEIGUbEt DE BASE
1. FOATION DE$S NlTRES            259.3   241.1   101.7   123.5   154.6   134.7  1015.0            3.6
2. RENF.AESTIO/111SPECTION         40.7    26.9    26.9        9.3      9.3      0.0   113.3       0.4
3. SVSTEJE D'EVALUATION            12.2    21.2    15.5        1.1      1.1      0.0    51.0       0.2
4.  AMUELS ET NAT. PEDAG.          43.8   673.1   446.4   310.8   168.0          9.6  1651.6       5.8
5. ACEr. C  3RE DE CLASSES        974.7   927.8  1040.4   912.7   832.4          0.8  4688.8    16.5
6. ENTR/REhA DU PATRINDINE         19.0   115.0   1S2.8    76.4         1.1      0.0   424.4       1.5
7. MWELIR. SANTE/IUTRITION         49.2    33.9    28.4       17.6    17.6       0.0   146.7       0.5
8. SCOLARISATION DES FILLES        28.3    21.6       5.8      8.8      3.9      0.0    68.4       0.2
..........................................................................
SUkItotal                           1427.2  2120.7  1817.9   .60.2   1187.9   145.1  8159.1    28.7
B. MUITE ENS. SECOSSAIRE
1. FORN.E1SE1IGNATS/INSPECT        12.3   123.1    124.7    44.8    47.0         0.0   351.8       1.2
2. LIWVES ET MAT. PEDAG.            7.3   476.7   478.1       22.8   260.3       0.0  1245.2       4.4
..........................................................................
Subftotal                             19.6   599.8   602.8    67.6   307.2          0.0  1597.0       5.6
C. RENFOC. INSIITUITTIONEL
1. PLANIFICATIO  NElM              35.7    66.8    83.7    32.6         2.4      0.0   221.2       0.8
2. PLNIFICATION NESSRES            16.6   131.2    35.9        0.3      0.3      0.0   184.3       0.6
3. DIRECTION PROJT EDUC.           93.7    87.0    71.0    86.3    78.4    91.7   508.0            1.8
..........................................................................                                                              O
Sub-tetl                             146.0   285.0   190.6   119.1    81.1    91.7   913.5            3.2                                                                t
..........................................................................
Total ASELINE COSTS                 1592.8  3005.4  2611.3  1647.0  1576.3   236.8  10669.7    37.6
Pbyscft Cantisuencies             131.0   257.4   233.7    141.5   134.7    11.8   910.1           3.2
Price Contingmncias               116.7   388.4   390.0   286.8   336.0    65.9  1583.8            5.6
.......................................................... .......................................................................0
Totat PRCJECT COSTS                 1840.6  3651.2  3235.0  2075.3  2046.9   314.5  13163.6    46.4
Toxes                               0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Foregn ExcdwW                    1233.9  2683.0  2428.1  1329.4  1340.4    71.7   9092.5    32.0
yams Scaled by 1060000.0 ' 24/1991 8:17
0



RKIUA FASO
rButrf _ ProJet Educetian
Eninelwments Prim re/Sesond.                  Table 4
FCFA                               Page 1 of 1
Sumery Accounts by Year
Bks Costs                                    Foreign Exchsnge
91/92    s2m93    93/94    945    95/9 n6      ff/97    Total            Amount
1. INVESTNT  COSTS
..._................
AO. Genie clvit                      8.5    116.7      41,3      0.0       0.0      0.0    169.4        61.9   104.8
Al. Conrtr. sattes de elasse
1. StiDention 605              139.5    209.2    209.2    16T.4    139.5        0.0    864.8         0.0     0.0
2. ContrIbution Collec. 100X     0.0      15.2     30.4     15.2       0.0      0.0      60.9        0.0     0.0
3. Naterlaux comtr. (IDA)      149.0    169.7    190.4    169.7    149.0        0.0    827.7        90.7   750.5
4. Mterlaux comtr. (FED)       324.9    355.9    386.9    355.9    324.9        0.0   1748.5        90.7  1585.5
Sub-totaL                          613.3    750.0    817.0    708.2    613.3        0.0   3501.8        66.7  2336.0
A2. Foumrnitures
1. Eqpipemnt                   165.9    311.6    224.7      38.3      18.7      0.0    759.1       100.0   759.1
2. Mbilf er                    124.7    206.5    220.1    165.6    124.7        0.0    841.6        81.2   683.5
3. Vehicules/Cycles            103.4     33.9      44.9      6.0       0.0      0.0    188.3       100.0   188.3
Sub-total                          394.1    552.0    489.6    209.9    143.4        0.0   1789.0        91.2  1631.0
A3.  haterlel Pe ogiqin             10.9     14.3      89.3      7.0       6.3      0.0    127.9       100.0   127.9
A4.  wmtii. et Livr  Scet.           0.0    710.5    622.2    257.3    354.7        0.0   1944.8       100.0  1944.8
AS. Services de consultents
1. Consultant nationaux         52.9     53.1      47.2     46.5     45.4       6.9    252.0         0.0     0.0
2. ConsuLtants Interwst.       105.4    236.4    128.8      64.0      56.5     45.2    636.4       100.0   636.4
Sub-total                          158.4    289.5    176.0    110.5    101.9       52.1    888.4        71.6   636.4
A6. Fo_th Pin
1. FormtIon locale             231.8    34.1    173.7    169.9    142.0         0.0   1061.6         0.0     0.0
2. Formtion a L'etranuer        87.8    106.0      59.9     29.5      25.5      0.0    307.7       100.0   307.7
Sub-total                          319.6    449.1    233.7    199.4    167.5        0.0   1369.3        22.5   307.7
Totel MIVESTI19T COSTS            1504.8   2882.2   2472.1   1492.3   1387.1       52.1   9790.6        72.4  7088.5
it. _EtRET  COSTS
...................
R7. Frals de Fnctfinmnt
1. CanrboIes                    11.2      8.8      16.3      7.8      7.8       4.3     56.2        81.2    45.6
2. O.LN.                        41.9     53.1      48.1     47.9      48.8     14.4    254.3        81.2   206.4
3. Satefres/Deptents            34.9     61.4      74.8     99.0    132.5    166.0    568.6          0.0     0.0
SUI-total                          88.0    123.2    139.3    154.7    189.1    184.7    879.0           28.7   252.0
Total SASELIUK COSTS              1592.8   3005.4   2611.3   1647.0   1576.3    236.8  10669.7         68.8  7340.5 
Physcal ContinloncIes           131.0    257.4    233.7    141.5    134.7       11.8    910.1        74.1   674.2                                   a 
Price ContIngncies              116.7    388.4    390.0    286.8    336.0       65.9   1583.8        68.0  1077.7                                    D
Total PRECT COSTS                 1840.6   3651.2   3235.0   2075.3   2046.9    314.5  13163.6         69.1  9092.5
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o 
TaM                               0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0         0.0     0.0                                    t% w
Forefpn Exdwu                  1233.9   2683.0   2428.1   1329.4   1340.4       77.7   9092.5       100.0  9092.5
...................... ............................................. . ................ ..................................... ...
Wtlus lteed by 11100WO.0 4/24/1991 8:16



BURKJA FASO
Quatriew Projet Educat ion
Enselignuents PrimaireSeronW.                 Table 5
SmrAccounit by Project Caq3cnent             Page 1 of 3
FCFA
ACCR.  ENTR/REH            SCLAJIS
FOIATIO  RENF.GES   SYSTEIE  NAIAJLS  NOMBR        AB DU  AMELIOR.   ATION   FORM.ENS   LIVRES  PLMIFIC  PLANIFIC  DIRECTIO
N DES  TICUIINS  0'EVALLUA   ET NAT.    DE    PATR1NDI  SAIITEIIW    DES   EIONATS   ET NAT.  ALION         A7108   U PROJET
NAITRES   PECTION    TION    PEDAG.   CLASSES    NE        TRITION  FILLES  /INSPECT  PEDAG.       NEAN    NESSRES   EDtUC.
I. INV4ESTIENT COSTS
AO. Genie cIvil                        0.0       0.0       0.0      72.4       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      88.6       0.0       0.0       8.5
Al. Comtr. satles de ctasse
1. Subvention 602                    0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0    697.3    167.5         0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
2. Contributicn Cottec. 1002         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      60.9       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
3. NuterIsm constr. (IDA)            0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0    827.7        0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
4. Naterims ccnstr. (FED)            0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0   1748.5        0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Sub-totat                              0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0   3334.3    167.5         0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
*2. Fmwnltiwes
1I Equl ,pem                        31.8      ?92        9.9    327.4       64.9      35.9    125.0      24.4      26.5       0.0      18.8      39.1      26.3
2. NUbiltier                         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0    678.2    163.4         0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
3. VehicutesICyctes                  0.0      37.4       0.0       6.2      83.7       6.0      12.1      6.0      12.6       6.0       0.0       0.0      18.1
Sub-totat                             31.8      66.6       9.9    333.6    826.8    205.4    137.0         30.4      39.1       6.0      18.8      39.1     44.4
A3. Naterlet P      faggue             0.0       0.0       1.6       0.0      34.3       0.0       9.6      0.0      82.3       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
64. Wnueals et Livres Scot..           0.0       0.0       0.0    836.6        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0   1108.2        0.0       0.0       0.0
AS. Services de consutntws
1. Consulttwnts natloanaw            0.0       0.0       0.0       6.6    197.3        0.0       0.0      3.3       0.0       8.2       0.0       0.0     36.5
2. Consutants Interret.              7.6       0.0      11.9      26.4    158.2       30.1       0.0     11.3      12.8       7.5      90.4    103.3    177.0
Sub-totat                              7.6       0.0      11.9      33.0    355.5       30.1       0.0     14.6      12.8      1S.7      90.4    103.3    213.5
A6. Formation
1. Fawantion locale                626.6       0.0       0.0    232.5        6.5       3.5      0.0       0.0    131.2       16.2      37.8       0.0      7.3
2. FormtatIn a t'etrager             6.6       0.0      22.2      87.0       1.0      13.2       0.0      3.7      71.7       0.0      60.5      40.5       1.3
mb3-tatal                            633.2       0.0      22.2    319.4        7.5      16.7      0.0       3.7    202.9       16.2      98.3      40.5      8.6
Total RVSTiENT COSTS                 672.6      66.6      45.6   1595.    4558.5    419.7    146.7         48.8    337.1    1234.7    207.4       '&2.9    275.1
II * REC.UT COSTS
AO. Frinfs de Fmnctloemant
1. Conscmlbes                        0.0       6.5       0.0       1.9      14.8       1.6       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       5.4       0.0     25.9   w
2. 0.8.N.                           13.5      40.2       S.4      27.2      66.6      3.1        0.0     19.7      14.7       3.8       4.3       1.4     54.3 0  
3. Seafares/Depta  ens328.9                    0.0       0.0      27.4      48.9       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       6.7       4.1       0.0    152.7 ,
Sub-total                            342.4      46.7       5.4      56.6    130.3       4.7       0.0      19.7      14.7      10.5      13.8       1.4    232.9 '
Total BASELINE COSTS                1015.0     113.3      51.0   1651.6   4688.8    424.4    146.7         68.4    351.8   1245.2    221.2    184.3    508.0
Physical Contilaeuiies              S2.3       9.0       3.1     144.7    444.2       39.9      14.7      4.9      23.7    122.4       12.0      11.2      28.0
Price Conti on cfes                153.0      14.4       6.5    251.9    686.8        59.7      19.6      8.3      52.2    194.4       30.1      24.6     12.2



Page 2 of 3
Totat PROJECT COSTS                                      1220.3          136.7            60.7    2048.2    5819.8                     524.0          180.9           81.6    427.7    1562.0                      263.3    220.0                618.3
Taxes                                                     0.0            0.0             0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0             0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0             0.0            0.0            0.0
Foreiwn Exchuwe                                         67.6          126.2             59.5    1684.1   4090.5    273.4    180.9                                   73.3    266.9   1483.0    210.5    219.7    356.7
........... ..................... .................................................... ......................................................................................................................... . ........... ..........
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 4j24I1991 8:14
oI-
Go



BURKINA FASO
ustrimm_ ProJet EdLaction
Enseignmnts Prflmre/Second.
Suemry Acscout by ProJect Ccuwnnt
FCFA
Physlcal           Price
ContigUuncies      ContinpWmIies
Total         X     Momtt        X   Amount
1. 14ESTUET00T
....................
A0. Gmie e.v,t                           169.4       10.0       16.9    13.0       22.1
Al. Constr. seIles d claest
1. Subintion 602                      864.8        10.0      86.5    14.9       129.1
2. Contribution Collec. 1002            60.9       10.0       6.1    15.0         9.2
3.  stetiam  constr. (IDA)             827.7       10.0       82.8    14.8      122.8
4.  teriaux eontr. (FED)              1748.5       10.0     174.8    14.8       259.3
......................... .........................................
Sub-totaL                               3501.8       10.0     350.2    14.9       520.3
A2. Foumnitumes
1. Equipemmot                         759.1       10.0       75.9    13.4       102.0
2. NabIier                             841.6       10.0      64.2    14.8       124.9
3. VehdcuLesCycles                     188.3       10.0       18.8    11.3       21.3
... .... .............. .......................
Sub-total                               1769.0       10.0     178.9    13.9       24U8.2
3. Naterel Pe-gogIque                   127.9       10.0       12.8    14.7       18.8
A4.  num tls et Livres Scol.            1944.8       10.0      194.5    15.8      307.0                                                                                                1
AS. Services de consuLtmnts                                                                                                                                                           co
1. tmnruttants natioiuwm              252.0        5.0       12.6    14.5        36.5
2. Consultants Internmt.               636.4        5.0      31.8    14.2        90.4
~~~~~.. .. ..... ...... ....................
SWb3total                                888.4        5.0       44.4    14.3      126.9
A6. Fonmtion
1. Formtion locale                   1061.6        5.0       53.1    12.9       137.2
2. Forwation a l'etr nger              307.7        5.0       15.4    12.8       39.3
....... ........... ..... ........ .................
Stb-total                               1369.3        5.0       68.5    12.9      176.5
~~~. . ..... i........ . ................
Total IUNESTNEUT CSTS                   91Y0.6        8.8     866.2    14.5    1419.8
It. RECUCRT COSTS
AO. Frets dr Fonctlonne .nt
1. cwwibt4es                           56.2        5.0        2.8    14.6         8.2
2. O.&.N.                              254.3        5.0       12.7    14.9       37.9
3. Selolres/Deplt entr                 568.6        5.0      28.4    20.7       117.8
Sib-total                                879.0        5.0       44.0    18.6      163.9                                                                                      'U
..................  ..............  .........                                                                                       0
Total MASELIE  OSM                     10669.7        8.5     910.1    14.8    1583.8                                                                                         Z>
Phyice l ContInusfncis                 910.1
Price Contiogncfee                   1583.8        7.8     123.7
.........i ............. .. ................
Total P4OJECT OOST                     13163.6        7.9    1033.9    12.0    1588.8
TOMn                                     0.0        0.0        0.0
Foregin Exicherw                      9092.5        8.4     765.0



MINA PASO
steri   ProJ t Educatin                        Pa  1.         Table 6
Enslpsmta Primirs/Scd.Pa                                               I
Tdblt 101. Favtlon due de mitre. dUs  --net                                    Page 1 of 39
D tallsd Cast Table
FCPA
Qntitty                    uit Cat
Unlt  91/9Z 92 3 93-95 95/96 96/97 Total            91-97
..........................................  .................................................. ....
1. wTnEN asus
A. Wielel.
B. NM. DIRECTUMS DECLE
soSm E 18                   Ulit*       1240  1240      0      0      0  240        57.75
1m11 4)b                    Unit.         310   310   310   310        0   1550       .55
NUCTIIG N WIN IOS            Wnit.       2500  2500      0      0      0  SOO        1.52
C. FOWTIU KES IUSECTEItS
,SENIUAIE POLTYALENT  4*     Uite          186   136   186   106        0   930       2B.42
ATERIEL VIDEO                Unite         20      0      0     a      0    20    1316.73
0. FOIATIt DES FOWATURS
SENINAIRES PERCTIUOT. 'b    Wite          120      0   120      0      0   360       26.90
STAGES E MEFECTIOT. c7)   Wilt.             6      0     0      0      0      6    1100.78                                                               w
BRSES A L'ETRANGE4)         Nine-ms        30    30      0      0      0    60    1018.25                                                                 1
JUELAE                       Forfait       -             -     -      -
E. PCSTI I  ENEIMNTS
N SERVICE 4*                uilts         900   900       0     0      0   low       59.99
F011TID  S.l.P. 4Ow          nilte       1000  1000  1000  1000        0  500         1.73
OIMLES  CUES                 Wilto        550   SSO   SSO   S50        0  z250       58.87
II. REC1ENT CamTS
............... .....  
A. PEAlS N FOUCTIlTUP
NATE IE VIO                 Par -ms        *      .        .      .      .
o w
4li 40 dirstswe d   42 c6rcer corlptlm   p   t 12 Jaws
42 S pa cieca   rfptf.n pcint 5 muse
4) ralim  per I'IP
40 5 j1ws paw 186 prtlclpunts
4d  5 Jo" pm. 120 cas   IPS/ENEP at motl de Car
4d  bawAs resimules de 6 sol
4)i bOawe d 10 wil



Otatriem  Projet Education                  Page 2 of 39                    Paoe 1.
Enseianhmnts PrimireSecond.
Teble 101. Foretlon da d   witmes de t'eiaeinent de bae
Petalied Lost Table
FCFA
Ba  Costs                                                 3m. Casts In USS
91/92    92193    93/9      94/95    95/96    96/97    Total      91/92  92193  93/94  94/95  95/96  96197  Total
u. mwilTuM  mSIS
A. Ibteriil                         1097.3   1097.3   1097.3   109 .3   1097.3        0.0   S486.4       3.9    3.9    3.9    3.9    3.9    0.0   19.3
B. Pl. DSIECtRS D'EaXE
M POS<1 >)                    71614.3  T1614.3       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0  143228.7    252.2  252.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  504.3
m 3 2b                    20011.7  20011.7  20011.7  20011.7  20011.7       0.0  100056.7      70.5   70.5   70.5   70.5   70.5    0.0  352.3
PECUCIW DE GUIDES '3           3606.2   3806.2       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0   7612.5       13.4   13.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   26.8
Subriotal                      9542.3  9432.3  20011.7  20011.7  20011.7          0.0 250899.9     336.0  336.0   70.5   70.5   70.5    0.0  883.5
C. NlTIU OES 9I3.ECTEtS
SINAItE POLWALnT 4             53J6.1   5286.1   52J6.1   5286.1   5286.1        0.0  2640.6        18.6   18.6   16.6   13.6   18.6    0.0   93.1
mTERIEL VIDEO                  2634.5       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0  26334.5       92.7    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   92.7
......    ........... .........    ............. .........    ............. .........    ......... . ... -------. -------    -------.. ................. ....-------.... .......--....-----....  ------...-...... .....------- ....- -  
Sub-Total                      31620.7   5286.1   S286.1   5286.1   5286.1        0.0  52765.1      111.3   18.6   18.6   18.6   18.6    0.0  185.8
O. FOIATIl DES FOWIATEURS
SENIUAIES FPRFECTIONT. 46>     3227.7       0.0   3227.7   3227.7       0.0      0.0   9683.1       11.4    0.0   11.4   11.4    0.0    0.0   34.1
STACS E PtEFECTIOUUT. cls      6604.7       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0   6604.7       23.3    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   23.3
UOISES A LmETRAmuER <         30547.4  30547.4       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0  61094.9      107.6  107.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  215.1
JUNELAGE                          0.0   4279.4   3291.8       0.0       0.0      0.0   7571.2       0.0   15.1   11.6    0.0    0.0    0.0   26.7   1
Sub-Total                      40379.8  34826.8   6519.5   3227.7        0.0      0.0  84953.9      142.2  122.6   23.0   11.4    0.0    0.0  299.1  4>
E. FORTIO EIEICLUTS                                                                                                                                         I
ER SERWICE <9                 53987.8  53987.8       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0 107975.7      190.1  190.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  380.2
FOWATIu S.u.P. <OD,            1725.5   175.5   1725.5        5.5   1725.5       0.0   8627.5       6.1    6.1    6.1    6.1    6.1    0.0   30.4
RoMUELLES RECIUS              32378.5  32376.5  32378.5  32378.5  32378.5        0.0 161892.5      114.0  114.0  114.0  114.0  114.0    0.0  S70.0
Sfi-Total                      88091.8  88091.8  34104.0  34104.0  34104.0        0.0 278495.7     310.2  310.2  120.1  120.1  120.1    0.0  980.6
..........  . .. .. ......... ........ .... .............. ........ ...................  ..;......... .... ..........  .... .......... .. ... ......... ...... --..... ------- -----  .. ------ ---- ----
Totat IWi_ t COStS                   256622.0 224734.4  67018.7  63726.8  60499.1       0.0 67Z601.0      903.6  791.3  236.0  224.4  213.0    0.0 2368.3
II. _ECttET COSTS
A. FRAJS DE FOUCTIOUNUT
UTERIEL VWIDE                  2702.0   2702.0   27M2.0   2702.0   2702.0        0.0  13510.2        9.5    9.5    9.5    9.5    9.5    0.0   47.6
Tott F_11T COSTS                       2702.0   2702.0   2702.0   2702.0   2702.0       0.0  13510.2        9.5    9.5    9.5    9.5    9.S    0.0   47.6
U_m=                -Ws  _ a_nnm  NMM_M U=Mm  ww"S_mn                           mt     aggan    s== apum  Sxxz
Total                             259324.0 227436.4  69720.7  66428.9  63201.2        0.0 686111.2     913.1  800.8  245.5  233.9  222.5    0.0 2415.9
<1> 40 directeum do 62 circonscriptitm pendant 12 iouws
v S par clrc,uptla  penlat 5 uwies
4v realise par t'lPO
r4 5 Jaw pa 1816 participants
a 5 jaws pmr 120 cadres IP/EIIEP et ecole des Cadres
'7   uss regimles da 6 uISfs
4<    _sde 10 ls                                                                                                                                      tQ
'* 900 e-eI ts par a  p t 12  urs                                                                                                                          X
'1 870 SW pa aw. pmdnt 12 Iourw
- Values noled by 1000.0 4/22/1991 9:24 a
O 0



RKIMA FASO
Ouatrieme Projet Eduecation                              Page 3 of 39
Enseignements Primire/Secand.
Table 102. Renforcement ie la gestion et de l'inspection des ecoles
Detailed Coct Table
FCFA
Quantity               Unit cost                        Sese Costs
Unit 91/92 92-94 94-96 96/97 Total        91-97        91/92    92-94    94-96    96/97        Total
1. INVESTNENT COSTS
A. APPUIS LOGISTISJES
DOTATION NOTOCYCLETTES    Unite                 52     0     0     0   52       603.50      31382.0       0.0       0.0       0.0  31382.0
NOSILIER <2)               Unite                 0     5     0     0    10    177.58            0.0   8887.9        0.0       0.0   177M.8
MATERIEL DE SUREAU (3>    Unite                  0     5     0     0    10    1141.16           0.0   5705.8        0.0       0.0   11411.6
ACOUISITION DE NOTOS <Z>  Unite                  0     5     0     0    10      603.50          0.0   3017.5        0.0       0.0   6035.0
Sub-Total                                                                                    31382.0  17611.2        0.0       0.0  66604.5
To$tl I?WSTIEWT COSTS                                                                               31382.0  17611.2        0.0       0.0  66604.5
tl. RECURRT COSTS
......... .............
A. FRAIS DE FONCTIOWIENENT
OA H. NOTOCYCLETTES        Dotation amuelle   62    62    62       0  310       129.70       8041.3   8041.3   8041.3         0.0   40206.4
CONSGSIASLES               Dotation amuelle    10   10   10        0    50      129.70       1297.0   1297.0   1297.0         0.0    6484.9
Sub-Total                                                                                     9338.3   9338.3   9338.3         0.0  46691.3
Totat RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                9338.3   9338.3   9338.3         0.0  466S1.3
um.zx    bauzw   23xxui  n  tuax
Totat                                                                                            40720.3  26949.5   9338.3         0.0  113295.8
<1) dbtation am  52 isp etions
Q)2 pour Les 10 nauveltes inspectioms
<3 par les nauwelles inspections (I calculatrice et 2 mchines a ecrfre)
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0  4/22/1991  9:26
OQ Z
0 ul
I-
.0*



InINA FAM
Umtrfew Projet Edton                                  Page 4 of 39
Enslpgimm-snt Prinfro/Secend.                           Pg
Table 102. Renforhmmnt dea gstfon at de t'inxpsctfon des colte
eta lled Cost Table
FCtA
Baw Costs in USS                            Totals Includfng Cmnti-go fis
91/92 92-94 94-96 9/97 Total         91/92    92/93    93/94    94/9     95/96    9697    Total
g . IMIM w"w
.......  ....
A. NMIMS LOGISTIOS
OTATIO NWTOCTCLETTES      110.5   0.0   0.0   0.0  110.5    3715S.8       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0  37155.8
NILIER  2                   0.0  31.3   0.0   0.0  62.6          0.0  11036.7  11119.2      0.0      0.0      0.0  221SS.9
UTERIEL DE 3U1 43'          0.0  20.1   0.0   0.0  40.2          0.0   7065.3   7138.3      0.0      0.0      0.0  14223.5
AWIS1TI0U DE I0TOS '2'      0.0  10.6   0.0   0.0  21.2          0.0   3747.0   37s.0       0.0      0.0       0.0   7s22.1
Sfrotta                    110.5  62.0   0.0   0.0 23.5       37155.8  21869.0  22032.6      0.0      0.0      0.0  81057.3
tot I_WSiIIT COSTS               110.5  62.0   0.0   0.0 234.5       3155.8  21869.0  22032.6      0.0      0.0       0.0  81057.3
It. EEU is0TS
.__............
A. FEtS OE FOUIIEE1ST
O.& N. NOTOCYCETTES        28.3  28.3  28.3   0.0  141.6      90U7.2   9474.0   9601.2   9751.4  10039.7       0.0  47913.5
CIISUMALES                  4.6   4.6   4.6   0.0  22.8       1459.2   1528.1   1548.6   1572.8   1619.3      0.0  7m.0
..... .. ..9 ......................   . ............... .................. .........2  110.  .........  54.5.
alUbrTotat.                 3Z.9  32.9  32.9   0.0  164.4    10506.4  11002.1  11149.8  11324.2  11659.0       0.0  55641.5
TOWbu  _ TCR      COSTS           3.9  32.9  32.9   0.0 164.4    10506.4  11002.1  11149.8  11324.2  11659.0          0.0  SS641.S5o
Total                         143.4  94.9  32.9   0.0 398.9    47662.2  32871.0  33182.4  11324.2  11659.0         0.0 136W98.8
t* detiut1"n am S2 inqpectIonc
4'2 par les 10 nauvelles inwpections
43w poor les nsmelles fnsp ctIons 1  catcultrfce at 2 machfnes a ecrtir)
- llu   sealed by 1000.0 4/22/1991 9;26
QW



BUKINA FASO
Oautriews Projet f6jxation
Enseignenents Primire/Second.                             Page 5 of 39
Table 103. Amelioration du system. d'evaluation
Detailed Cost Table
FCFA
OAntity               Unit Cost                          Sas  Costs
m                ._                     m... _____ _
Unit 91/92 92/93 93/94 94-97 Totat        91-97       91/92   92/93    93/94   94-96    96197   Total
.................. ................................... .......... ...............  ...............................................................__._
1. I_ETN tO65 
_____________...
AL Pi' IES EIrREUS r EOOCURS 013  Forfait   -           -    -      -            -          0.0  1645.9      0.0      0.0      0.0  1645.9
S. FIUTl
CUSS DE 9 ODIS           Unite         1    0    1    0        2     11121.96     11122.0      0.0  11122.0     0.0      0.0 22243.9
JURELAeE 4-S              Forfait      -    -    -    -    -                -         0.0  6558.7  3291.8        0.0      0.0  11850.5
Sb-Tadtal                                                                           11122.0  8558.7  14413.8      0.0      0.0 3494.5
C. APIUI A LA BEC
AODISITIUO OWIMTEURS e4XMite            0    3    0    0    3          3291.82         0.0  967.5       0.0      0.0      0.0  9875.5
Total IVEST_ T C5STS                                                                       11122.0 20080.1  14413.8      0.0      0.0 4S615.8
11. REORENT OSPs
A. FRAIS DE FOUCTIUIINENET
0.5 N. OWIWTEURS          Par annee    -    *    -    -        -                    1080.8  1080.8  10S0.8  1080.8        0.0  5404.1
Tot  RECURRENT CSTS                                                                         100 .8  100 .8  10i 0.   108 .        0.0  5404.1
Total                                                                                   12202.8 21160.9  1S494.6  1060.8       0.0 51019.9
4> e"t#sm pr teIPs
c4>  fdimtu ss/ipri btes et logiciels
4S2 CaWrend pu.Imrtion, eiadrerment de stage et consuttatian ur terrain
unit costs scaled by loOO.O - Values sc led by 1000.0 4/22/1991 9:27
on Z
0 W
10
%D



BURKIKA FASO
ouatriewe Projet Ecxaation                                    Page  6 of 39
Enseignements Primire/Second.
Table 103. Amelioration du systeme d'evaluation
Detailed Cost Table
FCFA
8ase Costs in USS                                  Totals Including Contingencies
91/92  92S93  9/94  94-96  969   Total           91/92    92/93    93/94    9495    95fn6    96/97    Totat
............_........................................................   . . ...... .. .. .. ._. .. .. .. .. .._.. .. . ..................................... .._______
1. INUSNENT COSTS
a. WIlES EXAMENS COUCOURS -1>        0.0    5.8    0.0    0.0    0.0    5.8            0.0   2043.8       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0   2043.8
8. FOUSTIUS
BOURSES DE 9 MORS              39.2    0.0   39.2    0.0    0.0   78.3        12569.7      0.0  13281.7       0.0      0.0       0.0  25851.4
JUNELASE 4'                     0.0   30.1   11.6    0.0    0.0   41.7           0.0  10144.8   3931.0        0.0      0.0       0.0  14075.9
......--         ---    ---     ---      ---   ..... ......  ........   ... .....  ........ _.  . .......  .......... __._ ......... __  __  ._
Sth-Total                       39.2   30.1   50.8    0.0    0.0  120.1        12569.7  10144.8  17212.7       0.0      0.0       0.0  39927.2
C. APPUI A LA DEC
ACAQISITION OSOIUATEURS 4>    0.0   34.8    0.0    0.0    0.0   34.8              0.0  12263.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0  12263.0
Totat IUWSTNEUT COSTS                   39.2   70.7   50.8    0.0    0.0  160.6       12569.7  24451.6  17212.7       0.0       0.0      0.0  54234.0
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. FRMIS DE FONCTIONNEMEUT
0.& N. ORDIUATELUS              3.8    3.8    3.8    3.8    0.0   19.0         1216.0   1273.4   1290.5   1310.7   1349.4        0.0   6440.0
... ..   ... .   ... .    . ...   ...   .    .. ..  .. ..   .    .. .. .   .. ..   ._.. . . . .. . . . . . .   ........
Total REtCJREUT COSTS                   3.8    3.8    3.8    3.8    0.0   19.0         1216.0   1273.4   1290.5   1310.7   1349.4        0.0   6440.0
Totel                               43.0   74.5   54.6    3.8    0.0  179.6        13M.7  255.0  1503.2   1310.7   1349.4             0.0  60674.0                            0n
01, Realfses pwr I'IPB
43 Ordinateurs/iprifmntes et logiciels
45, Caprd preparation, mncadrent de stage et consultation sur terrain
- Vatues scaled by 1000.0 4/22/1991 9:27
002z
IX.
~n W
o W
t1
.c-



BURKINA FASO
Quatrieme Projet Education
Enseignemmnts Primaire/Second.                                 Page 7 of 39
Table 104. Manuels et Nateriel Pedamogique de L'Enseignt. Fondental              P
Detalted Cost table
FCFA
uaLntlty                                 Unit Cost
Unit     91/92    92/93    93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97    Total            91-97
1. IUWSTNEST COSTS
A. PROAIE D'EDITIU
EWIPENENT 41>                Forfeit                  0         1         0         0        0         0         1    2896.80
ACoWSITIGN ANUELS            Unite                    0   48100    320000   3860Q0   160000            0  1347000         0.56
GUIDES DU MAITRE             Unito                    0     1800O   12500    14000        4000         0    48500         1.16
FORN. TRAITENEIT DE TEXTE c2 Hosae--ois               2         0         0         0        0         0         2      203.dO
FORAT ION EUSEIGNATS <4>    Unite                     0      3000      3000      3000     3000         0    12000        18.78
BOURSES4                     Homme-mis                2         0         0         0        0         0         2    1100.78
B. ULITE DES NRAUELS
APPUIS PONTtUELS             HoMe-mois                2         2         0         0        0         0         4    3765.84
BOURSES 4 >omne-mois                                 20        30         0         0        0         0        50    1100.78
FORNATION AVAUCEE <9,        Hoi_e-QOIS               3         3         3         3        3         0        15    1100.78
C. SYSTENE DISTRIWTION
EXTENSION STOCKCAGE CEITR. 49> Unite                  0       800         0         0        0         0       800       90.47
EtUDES ET COUTROLE TRAV.                                       -   -          -       -          -         -          -                                     on
EWUIPT NACASIN CENTRAL       Forfeit                           -         -         -        -         -
CAMIIONETTE                  Unite                    0         1         0        0         0         0         1    6228.12
SPECIALISTE VE0c      _         e-mois                0         2         0        0         0         0         2      558.25
SPECIALISTE EDITION <10>     Home-mols                1         '         0        0         0         0         3    3765.81
FORMATIU N  AGASINAGE        Rone-eels                0         6         6        0         0         0        12    1100.78
SENINAIRE POLE INSPECT.      Unite                    0        50        50         0        0         0       100      67.50
D. C0SERVATION DU MATERIEL
AROIRES                      Unite                    0       500       500        0         0         0      1000      67.78
NALLETTS PEDAG)OGIE          UntIte                   0      lO0      1000         0        0         0      2000      115.21
11. RECRENT COSTS
A. FO71IOM0 ET EDITION            Dotation awelle
B. COUTROXE  MLITE
INELS PILTES                 Unite                  600       600       600        0         0         0      1i0        0.2O X
PIIInU. REPROGRAP_IE         fotation emle---                                          -              -         -
FRIS DEPAOEUCTITESTS         Dotation  nwtell        -                   -        -         -         . X
C. DISTRIBUTION                                                                                                                                            a
TRANSPORT NANUELS/INSPECT    Par kilametre         5700      5700      5700     570f         0         0    22800        0.05                         0 w
0. * N. CAlNIE0TE            Dotation *nnuelle            -              -         -        -
FRAIS CAGASIN CENTRAL        Dotgttion annelte       -         -         -        -         -         -         -          -                           ,
'.0



8 of 39
MU$S PER_OL                Dotation wuelle
VISITES KS ECLES                                   -         -                           -              -
MUIT DU FIS EDITICO         Per nmes                I         I        1        I         1        0        5      61-.00
o. NEl.lEL PEDIOJE              Par ar es
01 Editim  informtises
4 Traitmat de texts
*4 48 prticipants Frint 5 Jours dwn. 61 circomeriptions
45> En editifn Infatosew
4> 4 visites pow qppais ponctusis
D Illtustratin. gestin iemprferie. es1uation
+  Pow Dirwtw OES. en edition, production, illustration et gestion
00 lC
010o Pour comissiam sur pAblication
unit CL ts Scaied bt 1000.0 4/22/1991  9:29
o
l0



IKINA FASO
tutrim  Projet Education                                            Page 9 of 39
Enmlw.m_s Primire/second.
Trbt 104. Nrwats t fNterilt Pedugagique de t'Enmimnt. FPooental
Detelfed Cost Table
fCfA
se costs
91/92     92/93     93/9      94/95     95/96     96/97      Total
............... ............................. _............................................... ........................  
1. INVEST_ COSTSI
A.          DOED O ITIO
EWIPUET 41>                        0.0     A.          0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0    2396.1
ICIUSITION NOELS                   0.0  2m672.2  185395.2  223633.0   92697.6        0.0  780397.9
UIOES DU MITR      -               0.0   20857.0   14484.0   16222.1    4634.9       0.0   56197.9
FOMS. TRAITENENT DE TEXE  2w     406.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       3.0       0.0      406.0
POWATION ENSE!ANTS 4               0.0   56332.S   56332.5 S6332.5   56332.5         0.0  225330.0
ISOllSES 431                    2201.6       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0    2201.6
..... ....    .....  .... ...... .. i; - ......  ...........  ................ ..........  ............... ..........
SrTotal                          2407.6  358758.4  256211.7  296187.5  153665.0       0.0  1067430.2
B. WALITE OES NWELS
APPUIS POC1ILS                  7531.7    7531.7       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0   15063.4
BIIIfES -7                     2201S.7   33023.5       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0   55039.2
fOIATION AVANE 4)               3302.4    3302.4    3302.4    3302.4    3302.4       0.0   16511.8
..... .......... . .... ... ......... ..; .... ... ..... . ......  ....... ..... ...... .. . ......... ............ .w    ..
SUbTot                          32849.7   43857.6    3302.4    3302.4    302.4        0.0   86614.3
C. STSTOE DISIrIONflOS
EXTENSION STOO    CENTN. 4)        0.0   72376.7       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0   72376.7
ETtWES ET IATROLE TRAV.         2895.1    28 9.1       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0    S70.1 
EWIPT NASIN CENTRAL                0.0       0.0    6254.5       0.0       0.0       0.0    6254.5
CANIONETTE                         0.0    6228.1       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0    6228.1
SPECIALISTE VENTE                  0.0     837.4       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      837.4
SPECIALISTE EDITIOI *10b        3765.6    7531.7       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0   11297.5
FORMATON SZI6E                    0.0    6604.7    6604.7        0.0       0.0       0.0   13209.4
SENINAIU  POuR INSPECt.            0.0    3374.9    3374.9       0.0       0.0       0.0    6749.7
;;    .    .   .....  .............. ... ...... ... ........  .... .................  . ........ .........
SuTotl                           6660.9   998.6   16234.0         0.0       0.0       0.0  122743.5
0. MlRVATItN ON FATERIEL
ARIES                              0.0   43890.9   43890.9       0.0       0.0       0.0   678M1.6
ULLETTES PEDOIIS                   0.0  115213.6  115213.6       0.0       0.0       0.0  230427.3
. .. .....  ..... .  ....  ....... ..........  ............... ......... :.....................
Sui-Total                           0.0  159104.5  159104.5       0.0       0.0       0.0  31809.1
............... .........................  ............... .......... ............... .......... .......... ..........
Total INVESTI    WITS                 42118.2  661569.1  434852.6  299489.9  156967.3       0.0  '594997.1
It. PtEaMNT COTS
A. FCIICO NTlf EDITIOS                 0.0     285.3      285.3     285.3     285.3       0.0    1141.3
B.  IITROLE UALITE
IWELS PILOTES                    162.1     162.1     162.1       0.0       0.0       0.0     486.4
COUSON.  4PROLWIE                285.3     285.3     285.3     28S.3     285.3       0.0    1426.7                                           , 
FARS DEC ITESTS                  294.3     294.3     294.3     294.3     294.3       0.0    1471.7                                           lb
............... ............ .......... ............. .......... ............ ..........   ...................... .....o 
Smb-Total                         741.8    741.8      741.8     s79.7     579.7       0.0    3384.8
C. OISTRIWTION
TRA SORT  NELSINSPEC             308.0     308.0     308.0     308.0       0.0       0.0    1232.1                                           CO
0.  11. CIlOnETE                  0.0    1188.9    1189    11.9    1188.9    594.S                                                           ow
FLtAIS nSMIN CEmUL                 0.0    3782.9    5782.9    3782.9    3782.9    3782.9   18914.3                                           P
P881S PERSL                        0.0    282.0    2842.0    2842.0    282.0    2842.0   14210.0



10 of 39
WISITES DES ECOLES                  0.0      134.0      134.0     134.0      134.0      134.0     669.9
AMDIT DU FUI)S EDITION            609.0      609.0      609.0     609.0      609.0       0.0    3045.0
.~~~~-              ---  ..  . .. ...  .......  ........ ..  . ... .... ..  ...... ......
Sib-Totel                          917.0    888S.8         4.8    8864.8    8556.7    7947.7   44015.9
0. MATERIEL PEDASoGIUME                  0.0    1607.8    1607.8    1607.8    1607.8    1607.8         038.8
Totat 31038837 camTS                     1658.8   11499.7   11499.7   11337.6   11029.5    9555.5   56580.8
o=S==     0==2=U   3= S    _               t2z==U==
Total                                63777.0  673068.7  446352.3  310827.5  167996.9    9555.5  1651577.9
s1 Editfon info stisee
Q2- Traitmnt de teate
r4* U p rticipents pendent 5 Jours dcns 61 clrconscriptions
tS3 En edition inforuetisee
6 4 visites pio  appufs pom etuls
q7s Illustration. estion aprimerie, evatuation
d > Pour 07recteur DES, en edition, productfon, fitustratfon et gestion
d00 Pour emisSons sur psblication
- Values sclaed by 1000.0 4/22/1991 9:30
'0
'oIw
2
'C.
w0



DXINA FASO
mtriaw Projet Educlion                                                           Page 11 of 39
Erie_imnt Prisiro/Second.
Table 104. Nwuts at NstHiet Pedogn lqi de V'En,sInt. FPndmntal
Detilted Cost Table
FCFA
_m Costs In USS
91/92  92r93  93/94  94/95  95/96  96/97  Totat
........ ...................... ........................................
1. IN_ET OOSTS
................
A. PGN  D'EDWITI
EWIUENTl d*                       0.0   10.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   10.2
ACIISITIOU MANUIELS               0.0  961.2  652.8  787.4  326.4    0.0  2747.9
GUIDES rS! MI1TRE                 0.0   73.4   S1.0   S7.1   16.3    0.0  197.9
FP . TRAITIENIT DE TEXTE <b       1.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.4
FOTION ENIGUWTS <46               0.0  190.4  198.4  198.4  198.4    0.0   A3.4
ISES  5                           7.8    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    7.8
....... ......... . ............ .. ... _ .....  ......... ... ...... ....... ....... ..........
SubTotal                           9.2  1263.2  902.2  042.9  541.1    0.0  3738.6
S.  LITE DES MEtLS
PPUIS PoSTiELS                   26.S   26.5    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   53.0
UiSES  7,                        77.s  116.3    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  193.8
FOEATIO  AVANCEE 093             11.6   11.6   11.6   11.6   11.6    0.0   S8.1
........................ ......  ........ .......  .......... .......  .........  .... .......
Sub-Ttakl                        115.7  154.4   11.6   11.6   11.6    0.0  305.0
C. STSTE DISTRIWmTIU
EXTEISION STOUM6E CE3. '9>        0.0  254.8    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  2S4.8
ETUIES ET COUT3OLE TRAV.         10.2   10.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   20.4
EWUrT IAMSII CENTRAL              0.0    0.0   22.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   22.0
cIN ETIE                          0.0   21.9    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   21.9
SPECIALISTE VElITE                0.0    2.9    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    2.9
SPECIALISTE EDITION <10>         13.3   26.5    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   39.8
FOTION SASIL6                     0.0   23.3   23.3    0.0    0.0    0.0   46.5
SENIUAIRE PUR 1sECT.              0.0   11.9   11.9    0.0    0.0    0.0   23.8
.... ......  .... ....... ....  .......  .......... .......  .......... ....... ..........
Sub-Tatat                         23.5  351.6   S7.2    0.0    0.0    0.0  432.2
0.  ISECATIO  W NATEEIEL
AWIRES                            0.0  154.5  154.5    0.0    0.0    0.0  309.1
ILLETES PEDAGOGIEE                0.0  405.7  405.?    0.0    0.0    0.0  811.4
Sub-Total                          0.0  560.2  560.2    0.0    0.0    0.0  1120.5
................................... .......  .......... .......  .......... ....... .......
Total t41ESlIIT COTS                    148.3  2329.5  1531.2  1054.5  552.7    0.0  5616.2
It.EET    COSTS
...... ................._
A. FOIICTIMENT EDtTION                 0.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    0.0    4.0
S.   TMLE WALITE
IELS PILOTES                      0.6    0.6    0.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.7
W    ISON. AROGUAPE               1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    0.0    5.0
PAIS DEPLENT/TESTS                1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    0.0    5.2
....... ....... ....... ... ... ....... ....... ....... ;:
Su-Tatst                           2.6    2.6    2.6    2.0    2.0    0.0   t1..
C. DISTUiNT1I                                                                                                                                             N
TR1PORT MNUELS/IUSPECT            1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    0.0    0.0    4.3                                                                         w
0. a M. CANIOUNTTE                0.0    4.2    4.2    4.2    4.2    4.2   20.9                                                                       o  W
PRIS IAAI511N CENTRAL             0.0   13.3   13.3   13.3   13.3   13.3   66.6
fP3IS PERSONNEL                   0.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   50.0



Page 12 of 39
VISITES DES ECOLES                0.0    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    2.4
AUITDl W FOOS EDITION             2.1    2.1    2.1    2.1    2.1    0.0   10.7
,......... .......  ........ ..... ........ .......  ........... .......  .......... ... ...... ...
Sub-TotaL                          3.2   31.2   31.2   31.2   30.1   28.0  155.0
D. ATERIEL PEDASOGIIE                  0.0    S.7    5.7    5.7    5.7    5.7   28.3
...... ...... .......   .......... .......  .......... .......  .............. ..........  .......
Total RECIRRENT COSTS                     5.8   40.S   40.5   39.9   38.8   33.6  199.2
-         --m ua=    ssm  =omu  aa   umurnmm   mas=
Total                                154.1  2370.0  1571.7  1094.5  591.5   33.6  5815.4
.1> Editi  informtlse
42) Trilt_nt de text.
4  48 pwticipentm pendat 5 Jor dana 61 eirnenriptiom
<5> En edition lnfo Hmtlm
4  4 viltus paur appLus ponotuuls
47) Iltustration, gstifc ieprierle, ewaluation
+ Pow Directeur DES. %, edition, prodection, lliwtratfon at gwestfn
A10 POr W comissl sur pbljication
Vaues scoted by 1000.0 412211991 9:30
10
0 w
4i



UKIIlU FASO
*     itrni ProJ*t Edationp
Er*Enwslgsts PrwirSwsd.                                         Page 13 of 39
Table 10. Accrolss.nt As n       de Utlea de C
beftlied Cost Table
FCFA
Outfty                          Wilt Cot
nilt  91/92  92/93  93/94  94/95  95/96  96/97  Total          91-9?
......_.....................................................................................  .........
1. IlNMS" CSTS
* tuwmm   lwstAIN
A. Cns. El RlE 13IIIE
NMAeIME 40 CASSES           Unite                    0      10     20      10      0      0      40    2069.19
NATEBIAU 60 CLASSES FED                              0      15     30      1S      0      0      60    2069.19
IAIUII DEIE 100 CLASES    tnits                      0      25     S0      25      0      0    100      609.00
TABLES-GANCS C100) 1>       Unite                    0    600   1200    600        0      0   2400       22.70
NALLETES PEDAUGISES 42      unite                    0       8     16      8       0      0      32      62.30
B. cONST.ZNs PERIPIRIUES
NATEIRIMt 360 CLUSSES       Uite                    72      72     72      72     72      0    360    2069.19
AIN D'OEUVRE 360 CLASSES    unite                   72      72     72      72     7       0    360      609.00
TAILES-BMCS (360) -M Unite                        172n    728   12    1         1728      0   8640       22.70
PALLETTES PEDAGIOGIES 42>   unite                   24      24     24      24     24      0    120       82.30
C. 3IIT.ZONES IRALES
MTERIAIX POE 575 CL.FED     inlts                  115    115    115    115    115        0    575    2069.19
NATERIAUX PCUR 210 CL.JOA    UWite                  42      42     42      42     42      0    210    2069.19
MAI OEUbIE POLO 785 CL.     Unite                  157    157    157    157    1S7        0    m        609.00
TABLES-BANCS (785) b1s      Unite                 3768   3768   3768   3768   3768        0  18840       22.70
NULLETTES PEDAI3ICES <2>   Unite                    53      53     53      53     S3      0    265       82.30
D. COORDINATION CENTRALE
CORDI ATEUR CENTRAL <91     cAm-.ols                12      12     12      12     12      0      60     507.50
APPUIS POICTELS SPEC. <10   _ams-m os                3      3       3       3      3      0      15    3765.a6
E. ANTENNES REJONALES
EGIIPENT UREM  '3'         UnfWts                   7       0      0      0       0      0       7    6583.64
VENIOUES DES ANTENUES O3v  uWite                     7       0      7      0       0      0      14    5376.64
MOCYCLEIIES '3'             Units                    7       0      7      0       0      0      14     603.50
NOV  CONNUNICATIO U3>       Units                    7       0      0      0       0      0       7    2194.5S
VATERIEL TESTS LM OS 3      Units                    7       0      0      0       0      0       7     493.77
F. PERUIIUEL DES AITEIUIES
UOOUSOIATB3S ANTEIUIES      _S-usls                 84      64     84      84     84      0    420      223.30
TECUUICIENS SUTINET         fll ol is              168    168    166    166    168        0    840       81.20
APPIIS FOICTUELS 44         nams-m os                3       3      3      3       3      0      15    3765.84
6. ETUIES
FPREPARTIO DES CUIDfS t52   flhm-mls                 a       4      0       0      0      0      12    3765.84
TESATERIAUX                 Forfalt                  1       1      1       1      1      1       6     812.00
0 w
U. FSTIM ET IUFONNTIOU                                                                                                                              h1



Page 14 of 39
ATELIER DEIARRAff <           DotationWparticipmnt      60       0       0       0       0       0      60       ?B4.
INFOWATIO  CEGIOALE           Par mi                     7       0       7       0       7       0      21      121.80
UTLISATIOK   DIA 4,           Dotation awtlLe            I       I  1        1            I      0       5      4 756.1
VISITES OBSERVATIO            Ffa it
11 i1Tn 05S
A. _OSMIAULES
P80DUCT  DE GIMES             Iite                    2000       0    2000       0       0       0   4000         1.62
FIITUES   REAIJ   1           Dotaticn amelt-            7       7               7       7 ?            35      237.78
3. FAIUS  E FOCTIlNNIENT
L01E3T                        1*gte                     21      21      21      21      21       0     105       86.47
ET. ET FUNCT W3EILES '3* Forfeft                         7       7       7       7       7       0      35     1296.96
LIAISNESTn TELECCIN. c3'      Forfeit                    7       7       7       7       7       0      35      270.20
C. PERS1NEL D'APPU I                 me-sIs                  14      14      14      14      14       0      70       40.60
0. DEPUUADENT SUPERVISION          loe_-jour               3024   3024    3024   3024   3024          0   15120        3.04
E. FRlIS SECRETARIAT CONITE        Forfait                   -       -       - 
', 24 taoes bens a trois places per class.
<2> 1 miette pedigoglque pour 3 classes
S3> per nwtemnn regionale
4) InterWentIOSm au nivesu tedtnIque et gestlon
5> Guides de construct ion         unt    catalogue de ptwno tyes
<6) 60 pmrtScIp.nts pendait 4 jours
*7b Rdlo. jourrwnu et depllants
8& Pour cdque anternn
c9i Poste* ao Ieltlute de coordirntfan du projet
c10 Contrat  cede prevoyant InterventIons ponctusttes coordInatIon
UIft Costs Scaled b; lWmO.0 4/2211991 10:18
0 W
~0
JS 



BRIIIA  FAS
Quatriee Projet Edue tion                                               Page  15 of 39
Erseigrnonts Primire/Second.
Tobte 105. Accroisseaent du noebre de Selles de Classe
DetaLed Cost Table
FCFA
a. Costs
91/92     92/93      93/94      94/95      95/96      96/97      Total
.............................................................................
1. IIWESMT O6tS
A. COhSTR. El ZONE URAIKE
RATERIMX 40 CUASSES                  0.0   20691,9   41383.7   20691.9           0.0        0.0   82767.5
AMTERIAUX 60 CLASSES FED             0.0   31037.8   62075.6   31037.8           0.0        0.0  124151.2
MAIN D'OEUWRE 100 CLASSES            0.0   15225.0   30450.0   15225.0           0.0        0.0   60900.0
TABLES-BAMCS (100) <1>               0.0   13618.3   2736.6   13618.3            0.0        0.0   544173.2
NALLETES PEDAGOIouES Q2-             0.0      658.4    1316.7       658.4        0.0        0.0    2633.5
Sub-Total                             0.0   81231.3  162462.7   81231.3           0.0        0.0  324925.3
B. COUST.ZOESPERIP1IERIGSE
MATERIAUX 360 CLASSES           148981.4  148981.4  148981.4  148981.4  148981.4            0.0  744907.1
MAIN D'OEUNE 360 CLASSES         43848.0   43848.0   43848.0   43848.0   43848.0            0.0  219240.0
TABLES-BANCS (360) ii'           39220.7   39220.7   39220.7   39220.7   39220.7            0.0  196103.7
1 LLETTES PEDAGOGIaUES 42          1975.1    1975.1    197S.1    1975.1    t975.1           0.0    9875.5
.........._&;i ........... ..........._...... .________.......... ___oi .... ........ .. ... ............ _ .._
SabTotat                         2     .2  2342.2  234025.2  234025.2              .2        0.0  1170126.2
C. ONSSt.ZOUES RURA1ES
NATERIMI   POU  575 CL.FED      237956.4  237956.4  237956.4  237956.4  237956.4            0.0  1189782.2
ATERJAIX POUR 210 CL.IDA         86905.8   86 .8   86905.8   86905.8   860.8                0.0  434529.1 
MAIN OEINEE PON 785 CL.          95613.0   95613.0   95613.0   95613.0   95613.0            0.0  478065.0                           _
TABiLES-MCS (785) 012            85523.0   85523.0   65523.0   85523.0   85523.0            0.0  427614.9
lRLLETTES PEDA&OGIES c2          4361.7    4361.7    4361.7    4361.7    4361.?            0.0   21808.3
__._________ ________.__.......__ __ ..........__ ..................  ... ...  ..........   .......... ____
StaTotal                         510359.9  510359.9  510359.9  510359.9  510359.9            0.0  2551799.5
P. MOMP IATIU CENTRALE
C OIIAITEI CENTRAL                6090.0    6090.0    6090.0    6090.0    6090.0            0.0   30450.0
APIUIS PatIELS SPEC. 410*        11297.5   11297.5   11297.5   11297.5   11297.S            0.0   56487.6
_______ ______ ____ .......... __... ;____._ __.________ .......... ..._____
Sth-TotaL                         1737.5   1737.5   177.5    18.S             1787.5         0.0   86
E. AINETIES KE6IWALES
EWJIPENENIT 3531  4v             46085.5        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0   46085.5
-  VEICLS DES ANTENES Ov             37636.5        0.0   37636.5         0.0        0.0       0.0   75272.9
NOTOCTlUETTES d32                 4224.S        0.0    4224.5         0.0        0.0        0.0    8449.0
NOTEIS CO'UIIUICATIOU c3>        15361.8        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0   15361.8
RATERIEL TESTS LAUOS 433          3456.4        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0    3456.4
..__________ ______.__ ---------- ---- ..... ____ -----    ------ ----. .......... ..___
SubrTotat                        106764.6        0.0   41861.0         0.0        0.0        0.0  148625.6
F. PERSOMIEL DES ANTEINPES
IOP I InTE3TS ANTENES            18757.2   18h77.2   18757.2   18757.2   18757.2            0.0   93786.0
TECNICIENS SATINENT              13641.6   13641.6   13641.6   13641.6   13641.6            0.0   68208.0
APPUIS POCJE LS 4 4               11297.5   11297.5   11297.5   11297.5   11297.5           0.0   56487.6
__________ ----------   _:____-__  ........   ............ ..............  _._...........  ........  __......_____  Z
$tL-Total                         43636.3   43696.3   43696.3   43696.3   43696.3            0.0  218481.6                                              Q P
G. ETUDES P
PIEPMAATIOP OES GUIDES 4z1       30126.7   15063.4         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0   45190.1
TESTS NATERIAJX                    812.0      812.0      812.0      812.0      812.0      812.0    4872.0                                              Z
_________ ____._ ........ . ...... ... ......... .______ .... __......  ____.......... ..........___-- O                    W
Sub-Totat                         30938.7   15875.4       812.0      812.0      812.0      812.0   50062.1
R. FORTION ET IUFORIATIC



16 of 39
ATELIER DENARRAGE 6,             1705.2       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0    1705.2
IURVATICN REGIONALE               852.6       0.0      852.6       0.0     852.6        0.0    2557.8
UTLISATIO  NEDIA 471              456.7     456.7      456.7     456.7      456.7       0.0    2283.7
VISITES OBSERVATION               493.8       0.0      493.8       0.0        0.0       0.0     967.5
.. ..,_... ... ......_. ..  ,_............. ...... ............. ._ .............. ..........  ............... ..........
Sub-Total                         3505.3     456.7    1803.1      456.7    1309.3        0.0    7534.3
Tottl INVESTNENT COSTS                946680.7  903032.4 1012407.7  687969.1  807S90.3       812.0 4558492.2
11. *ECUT CoSTS
...............
A. COSUIIE
PRODUCTlI1 DE GUIDES             3242.5       0.0    3262.5        0.0       0.0        0.0    6484.9
inUIVITURES U REA 4<5            1664.5    1664.S    1664.5    1664.S    1664.5         0.0     322.3
SutrTotal                         4906.9    1664.5    4906.9    1664.5    1664.5         0.0   14807.2
S. FEAIS PE FONCTIONNO3ENT
LOGIEIET                         1815.8    1815.8    1815.8    1815.8    1815.8         0.0    9078.9
EITR. ET FONCT VENICLES 433.     9078.9    9078.9    9078.9    9078.9    9078.9         0.0   *5394.4
LIAISONS ET TELECOM. 43          1891.4    1891.4    1891.4    1891.4    1891.4         0.0    9457.2
Sut-Total                        12786.1   12786.1   12786.1   12756.1   12786.1         0.0   63930.4
C. PERSONNEL DAPPUI                    56B.4     568.4     568.4      568.4     568.4       0.0    2842.0
0. DEPLACET StPERVISIN                9208.1    9208.1    9208.1    9208.1    9208.1         0.0   46040.4
E. FAIS SECRETARIAT CONITE             540.4     540.4     540.4      S40.4     540.4        0.0    2702.0
Total _EORIENT  COSTS                  2J009.9   24767.4   28009.9   24767.4   24767.4         0.0  130322.0
Total                               974690.5  927799.8  1040417.6  912736.5  832357.8      812.0 4"8814.2
011 24 tales b      trols plaes per clase
cb  I mlette pegoqu  pou 3 cla
431. per anterm  regiona l
Interention w nive1  tedmiqn et gstion
45s, Gufdn de contruction  aownnt em cata log        pl 
'1. 60 pwticlpu,ts pFnMit 4 loums
4, Radio. Jounrwm it dplifnts
481. Pow chequ entann
0> Pt,e a to cellule di ro ,dimtion du projet
41*O Contrat eare provwyant ntersntfons pictu tesll  coordinatfon
Values scaled by 1000.0 4/22/V199   10:18
o 'a



RKIUA FASO
Gustrim  ProJet Eduaetfon
Eneeiremnts Prfas.sze/S ond.                                                          Page  17 of 39
Tdl. 105. Accrofssewpt duno Qe de Seotso do Clse
Detalled Cost Tslb
FCfA
6s. Costs In USS
91/92    92/93    93/94    94/9S    95/96    96J97    Total
...............................................................
1. IXSTRMEM OOSTS
................
A. Cmls. Ell 7o UtmII
NATERIAUX 40 CLASSES                  0.0     72.9    14S.7      72.9       0.0      0.0    291.4
MATERIAUX 60 CLASSES FED              0.0    109.3    218.6    109.3        0.0      0.0    437.2
MAIN D'OEUHRE 100 CLASSES             0.0     S3.6    107.2      53.6       0.0      0.0    214.4
TABLES-UAUCS (100)  1l>               0.0     48.0     95.9      48.0       0.0      0.0    191.8
MALLETES PEDA4OGIQUES 42>             0.0      2.3       4.6      2.3       0.0      0.0       9.3
.. _... ......... ....... ........ ........ .... .......... ... .......... ........
Sub-Total                              0.0    286.0    572.1    286.0        0.0      0.0   1144.1
B. CCXST.20ES PERIPNERIUMES
NATERIME 360 CLASSES               524.6    524.6    524.6    524.6    524.6         0.0  2M62.9
NAIl DREUVRE 360 CLASSES            154.4    154.4    154.4    154.4    154.4        0.0    m0
TASIES-BMCS (360) 41>              138.1    138.1    138.1    138.1    138.1         0.0    690.5
MLETE  PBASBISES c,                   7.0      7.0       7.0      7.0       7.0      0.0     34.8
i i   .                                     ....... ....... ..... ... ...... ......... :......... ....... ...........
SubTatat                            824.0    824.0    824.0    824.0    824.0         0.0   4120.2
C. CUST.ZaIES RUEALES
NATERIAIE POW 575 CL.FED           837.9    837.9    837.9    8.9    837.9           0.0   4189.4
NATERIAt  PM  210 CL.IDA           306.0    306.0    306.0    306.0    306.0         0.0   1530.0                                    1
NAIU OEIE POEUR  5 CL.             336.7    336.7    336.7    336.7    336.7         0.0   1683.3
TALES-WUCS (7E) 41>                301.1    301.1    301.1    301.1    301.1         0.0   1505.7
MLLETTES PEDGOGlIES 4e               15.4     15.4      15.4     15.4      15.4      0.0     76.8
.... ........................ ........... ........ ........  ............ ........  ............ ........
SbTotal                             1797.0   17.0   1797.0   1797.0   179.0           0.0   8965.2
D. CWDIATION CETUtALE
COORIIATEUR CENTAL  91               21.4     21.4     21.4      21.4      21.4      0.0    107.2
APPUIS POICTUELS SPEC. 410>         39.8      39.8      39.8     39.8      39.8      0.0    196.9
...  ;I....... .... .......... ---     --;i.      ...     ...    
Sb-Tott                              61.2      61.2     61.2      61.2     61.2       0.0    306.1
E. ANTENKES REBIWALES
EWIPENIT BURW  3                    162.3      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0    162.3
VEMICtLES DES ANIENEES 43i          132.5      0.0    132.5       0.0       0.0      0.0    265.0
NOTOCYCLETTES G3)                    14.9      0.0      14.9      0.0       0.0      0.0     29.7
NWlh3 CONNUICATION '3                54.1      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0     54.1
MATERIEL TESTS  AU05 43>            12.2      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      12.2
..... ........ ....... ........ ........   ............ ........   ............ ........ ................... ....
sub-Itl                             375.9       0.0    147.4       0.0       0.0      0.0    523.3
F. PQSOL  DES  kTEEs
tOORDONNATEUDS AUTO=ES              66.0      66.0     66.0      66.0     66.0       0.0    330.2
TEaIiCIEnS EATINEUl                 48.0      48.0     48.0      48.0     48.0       0.0    240.2
APUIS POICTIELS 40-                 39.8     39.8     39.8      39.8      39.8      0.0    19J.9
........ .. ...... .. ...... ........ ........ .. ...... . .. .....
ukT-otat                             153.9    153.9    153.9    153.9    153.9        0.0   769.3
I. hTIU10
PRWMATIU DE  OIDES 45*              106.1     53.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0    159.1
TESTS  TERINE                         2.9      2.9       2.9      2.9       2.9      2.9     17.2                                                                O%
.......~.    ........ .. ..... ............ ........    ............ ........ ................... ......................
Sukbto tu                          108.9      55.9      2.9       2.9      2.9       2.9    176.3                                                                0   '."
N. FOUNMTIO0  ET IIV TICON
to



18 of 39
ATELIER D ;EUP   4d               6.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     6.0
IUFOWATION ESIt6ALE               3.0     0.0      3.0     0.0      3.0     0.0      9.0
UTLISATION NIEA 070               1.6      1.6     1.6      1.6   . 1.6      0.0     8.0
VISITES OSEATIOU                  1.7     0.0      1.7      0.0     0.0      0.0     3.5
.. ... . ....        ...... .....   ........     .....   .....
Sb-Totel                          12.4     1.6      6.3      1.6     4.6     0.0    26.5
_..i~. _.. W.             -_;  ..i; .. ..... . ......
Total IWESTENT COSTS                       3        333.4  319.7  3364.8  312.7   43.6  2.9  16051.0
11. _UT   cOSTS
A. .-  _ I _
P MUCTI1 1E W1DES                11.4     0.0    11.4      0.0      0.0     0.0    22.6
FITUITiRES mhfal 4                5.9     5.9      5.9     S.9      5.9     0.0    29.3
.....  ........  ........   .......    .....    .....    ........
Sb-Total                          17.3     S.9    17.3      5.9      5.9     0.0    52.1
S. PEIS OE FCTIONNIENT
LOEMET                            6.4     6.4      6.4     6.4      6.4     0.0    32.0
WE. ET COCT VENILS 4d3           32.0    32.0    32.0    32.0    32.0       0.0   159.8
LIAISIS ET TELECON. AU.           6.7     6.7      6.7     6.7      6.7     0.0    33.3
Sb-Total                          45.0    45.0    45.0    45.0    45.0       0.0   225.1
C. PE_SUI  D'APPUI                    2.0      2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0     U.0    10.0
D. OEPIACEIENT SUPEESION             32.4    32.4    32.4    32.4    32.4        0.0   162.1
E. FIAIS SECRETMIAT COSITE             1.9     1.9      1.9     1.9      1.9     0.0      9.5
_ ......  .   ....  W.    ..-.   -  -----      -----.----
Total RlECURT COSTS                     96.6    87.2    90.6    87.2    87.2        0.0   48.9
Total                              3432.0  3266.9  3663.4  3213.9  2930.8        2.9  16509.9
'b, 24 ties ba   trots ptae per ctess.
22, 1 miette pioegique pow 3 class
433 per ntenne regiomnlt e
43 Intetimtaons au nf uw  tchnmique et gestitn c
453 9atdes de cenrtructim eaor.un em tataguelo    de pltn types
463 60 pwsticlp uts pendent 4 jours
*7> Radio, Jeumrn   et dplt ntst
4* Paur chaque *ntamnn
4a  Poste a a celttute de cmordntfan du projet
c1Om Contrat cache prewacyt interentfans pcttuteles coordinaton
- Values scled by 1000.0 4/22/1991 10:19
o W
p9'
'h



UIAII FASO
Otutri e5ProJet Edwaction                                             Page 19 of 39
Ernseiw_mnts Prim_ire/Scond.
Table 106. Rehbilitation et Entrwtign du Petrimrine du Prfmire
Detailed Cost Table
FCFA
Quantity                      Unit Cost
Unit  91/92 9Z/93 93/94 94/95 95/96 96/97  Totrt           91-97
.. . . . . . . . . . . . . ..   ... .... ... . . ..  -- - - -
1. INVESTRSENT 005S
A. tESBILITATIIU CLASSES
EM tWES UAIUS               Unite                 0    25    25       0      0      0    SO      558.25
EW 20168 PERIPIERIUES       Unitt                 0    SO    SO       0      0      0    tOO     SS8.2S
ENUZONES RURIALES          Unito                  0    SO    S0    so        0      0   1SO      SS8.2S
NAUILIER POX UENUILIT. <1> Unite                  0  3000  3000  1200        0      0  7200       22.70
S. SYSTENE 0'EhTRftlEN
PREPARATIO1 GUIDES EUtR.    Nam-rsois             3      3     0      0      0      0     6    3765.64
LISET D'ENTIE1IEN           Yo  e-Mis             0      2     0      0      0      0     2    3765.84
TROSSES A OUTILS c2>       Unite                  0     0  1250  1250        0     0  2500        10.42
C. DIVISION DES CONSTRUCT.
EWUIPEIENT RlE34W           Forfeit                 -      -      -      -         -     -           -
INFORTISATION PATRI.       Unite                  0     1      0      0      0     0      1    3291.Q2
ACQUISITION EIlLE          Unite                  0      1     0      0      0     0      1    6035.00
0. FOWATION
StAGE  ESTI0 DU PATRIN.    Name-MIs               6     0      0      6      0     0    12    1100.78
56I1IRtE OATIO0L          Forfeit                0      1     0      1      0     0      2      456.15
SEIUAIES 16IL0IM           unMite                 2     2      2      2      2     0    10       25357S
II. tECUI0lt COMTS
A. PRODUCtIO  UIDES E    lP.    Unite                 0   12S0  1250       0     0      0  2S00        0.65
D. FMSIS E FOtT1'MEN
FCCCIIONNElt IUFOU6T.    Uotation *nnute          1     1      1      1      1     0      S      129.70
FOCTIOuENT VENICULES    Doteimn *uuumU            1     1      1      1      1     0      5      4W6M37
00m
G====S                                                                                                              t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D XJ
*1- 2 tables-bancs per salle de claose rehbbilitee                                                                                                        Go w
4Z1 Pour cheque ecole 
unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 4/2Z1991  940                                                                                                                 0  W



KLIUA FMS
Gumtrism Proj*t Edato                   Page 20 of 39
Enm.ignaments Primirl/Sacod.
TdAe, 106. itdmititation at Entretlem du Patriusin. ci Priusire
Detaited COst Tlbe
'CFA
lame Costs                                            gam Costs in US
91/92    92/9    93/94    94/95   ;95/96    96/9    Totat    91/92  92/93  931%   94/95  95196  96/9   Total
I. IUWSIUT ONSS
A. ISEL3ILITATION CLASNES
a 21116 WEAIUS                 0.0  13956.2  13956.2     0.0     0.0      0.0  2792.5       0.0  49.1   49.1    0.0   0.0   0.0  W6.
Ea ZONES PEIIPiERiUiE          0.0  27912.5  2792.       0.0      0.0     0.0  55825.0      0.0  98.3   98.3   0.0   0.0   0.0  19.6
El ZONES mURIEl                0.0  2792.5  27912.5  27912.5     0.0      0.0  8377.5       0.0  98.3  98.3  98.3   0.0   0.0  29199
NOILIER MRu  Eururl. 'cts      0.0  6809.5  6609.5  2723.6        0.0     0.0 163419.7      0.0  2391  239.   95.9   0.0   0.0  575.4
Sub-Total                       0.0 1387.8 13787.  55149.1        0.0      0.0 33867         0.0  4a.5  485.5  19.2   0.0   0.0 1156.1
D. hSVSE DEUTRETIEN
FPRESMATION WUIDES ENTI.   11297.5  11297.5     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0  22595.0     39.8   39.8    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0  79.6
LIVWET 0'EUTEETIEN             0.0  7531.?      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0  7531.?       0.0   26.5    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0  56.5
TORSSES A aWILS 4b            0.0     0.0  '13030.1  13030.1    0.0      0.0  26M6.2       0.0    0.0   45.9  45.9    0.0   0.0  91.8
Sub-Totl                    112915  18829.2  13030.1  13030.1     0.0      0.0  56166.9     39.8  66.3   45.9  45.9   0.0   0.0  197.
C. DIVISION KS CON1TWCT.
EWIPUSST UUIEAIM               0.0  6563.6      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0  6583.6       0.0  23.2    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  23.2
IUFOITISATION PATEI.          0.0  3291.8       0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0  3291.8       0.0   11.6   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   1146
ICISITIIN VEuICUL            0.0  6035.0       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0  6035.0       0.0  21.2    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  21.2  ,
SubTatal                       0.0  1590.5       00      0.0      0.0      0.0  1590.5       0.0  56.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    00   560  j
STAGE LETTIN DU PATRIN.     6601.7     0.0      0.0  6604.7      0.0      0.0  13209.4     23.3   0.0    0.0  23.3   0.0   0.0 46
SEIMINE NATIONL              0.0   456.7      0.0   456.?       0.0      0.0   913.5       0.0    1.6   0.0   1.6   0.0   0.0   3.2
SOUAIUES UEGiSEE             507.    507.5   507.    507.5   5071.5       0.0  2537.5       1.8    1.8   1.8   1.8   1.8   0.0   6.9
S&Iotal                     712.2   96.2   507.5  7569.0   50.5           0.0  16660.4     25.0    3.4   1.8  20.7   1.3   0.0  53.?
Total IWMESTH   OuS               16J109.7 17576.  151410.4  15748.2    "T'S5    0.0 419652.5    6".   611.2  533.1  266.7    1.8   0.0 1417?.6
It. mONE  cm$T
A. NuIETilS WIlE  ENliT.           0.0   810.6   810.6       0.0     0.0      0.0  1621.2       0.0    2.9   2.9   0.0    0.0   0.0   5.7
U. MWOAf 0 FUETIONIENT
FOCIETIONIUT NFOIAT.         129.7   129.7   129.7   129.7   129.7        0.0   648.5       0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.    0.0   2.3
fCTiOUBUAw  WhNIOILS         466.4   486.4   486.4   486.4   466.4        0.0  2431.8       1.7   1.?   1.?   1.7   1.7   0.0   &6.
Swb-Total                     616.1   616.1   61.1   616.1   616.1         0.0  306.3        2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2   0.0  10.8
louta EAUIEI cogn                  61.1   142.7   142.7   616.1   61.           0.0  4701.6        2.2   5.0   5.0   2.2   2.2   0.0  16.6 -
Total                          19025.8 17500.4 15287.1  76364.3  1123.6       0.0 424354.1     67.0  616.2  538.2  2M.9   4.0   0.0 1196.2 3
cip 24 tables-bmows per sanle de class. telabilf te
..o.d tow 1(300 0 41flh1991 9:40



CIMI FASO
utriv  Projet Edwatlon                                                Page 21 of 39
Eineipmmts aPrifre/Sscur.
TdAle 107. l1ioration de to Santt at de lt Mrition ds olws
Oet iled Cast Tsble
FCFA
Qntly                               IMit cost
Iuit     91/92    92/        93/9%    94-96    967    Total          91-97
a. I_T a sa co
....._._ ._.....
INNIM                      units         a         0        0         0         0        2    6035.00
INMI    A   lMIE                         2         0         0        0         0        2      603.SO
11UPLIT                     Mit.         1         0        0         0         0         1     6S6.36
mm.tIMTM                    Unite        I         0         0        0         0        1    1075.33
LOSICIL                                 ---                          -         -        --
1_nIE                       nit.         I        0         0         0        0         1      460.65
S. SENSISMIATI PFEUCOC.
AC OEwK WOES  M*i Unite               5000      5450        0         0         0    10450        0.92
C. PlIlENI   ET SUVEIL.
NICUUThINS                 Vnite   600000   600000   600000   600000            0  3000000        0.02
CAPULES I10ES              Unite   300000   300000   300000           0        0   90000          0.04
OEPASITA1E                          1oocco   100ooo   ,ooo    tooo             0   sooooo 10.o
T1SSES IE   UCE            Unite      1250      1250        0         0        0      2500        0.38
<1>. Apd a to O
'bzp 3 mis d. cebMrt prive
4v 70 pt 6 J
4d  14 U_ t 6 jus
45' pred-tIln rtoenlt  iatif
42 3 "uclsllstes pI   Ct 12 wIS
47b p Con1s motenteet .adatif de suewart
4' cpmlm de Vitmiew A
Wllt Caots Sated by 1000.0 4/21991 9:42
ow
o 0



BURKINA FASO
Quatriem  Projet Education                                    Page  22 of 39
Enseignements Primire/Secand.
Table 107. Aelioration de ta Sante et de la Nutrition des eleves
Detaited Cost Table
FCFA
Base Costs                                           BSe Costs In USS
91/92     92/93      93/94     94-96      96/97     Totat      91/92  92/93  93194  94-96  96/97  Total
_o.. _._...... ..... ........ ,,,,........,,,,,,,,............................. .,,,,,,, .....................................,,,,,__,......................
1. INVESTNENT COSTS
,..... .. . ..
A. APMI A LA 0Wo
REA                               12070.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0   12070.0       42.S    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   42.5
MAANINE A ECRIRE                   1207.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0    1207.0        4.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    4.2
DUINCUTEIR                          658.4       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0     658.4        2.3    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    2.3
NIhCO-ORDIMATEUR                   1075.3       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0    1075.3        3.8    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    3.8
LOCICIEL                           245.8        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0     245.8        0.9    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.9
INMRIMANTE                         4U0.9        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0     460.9        1.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.6
... . ..... .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. . .. . ..... . .. ...... . ..    . ...... . . ..... . .. .. .... . ........ . .. . .. .. . ...............
Sib-Total                          15717.3       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0   1S717.3       55.3    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   55.3
D. SENSIB.ANIKATION PEGAGOG.
ACNAT DE GUIDES dc7                4608.5    5023.3        0.0       0.0        0.0    9631.9       16.2   17.7    0.0    0.0    0.0   33.9
C. PREVE4TION ET SURVEIL.
NICROWUTEIMENTS                   9875.S    9875.5    9875.5    9675.5          0.0   49377.3       34.8   34.8   34.8   34.8    0.0  173.9
CAPSULES IODEES                   10863.0   10863.0   10863.0        0.0        0.0   32589.0       38.2   38.2   38.2    0.0    0.0  114.7
DEPARASITACE                       7680.9    7680.9    7680.9    7680.9         0.0   36404.5       c7.0   27.0   27.0   27.0    0.0  135.2
TROUSSES IERE tURtCEN              480.1      480.1        0.0       0.0        0.0     960.1        1.7    1.7    0.0    0.0    0.0    3.4                              1
..  ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.....   ..........   .......   ..........   .........   .........  ......   ......   ......   ......   ......   ........ ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,l
Stb-Totat                         28899.4   28899.4   28419.4   17556.4          0.0  121330.9      101.8  101.8  100.1   61.8    0.0  427.2                              
Totat WNSITHENT COSTS                     49225.3   33922.7   28419.4   17556.4         0.0  146680.1      173.3  119.4  100.1   61.8    0.0  516.5
Ammaam  333U    U.uau uzuauuu m a                     auzau       MM="  ===a m__. sam"m mm
Totat                                  49225.3   33922.7   28419.4   17556.4         0.0  146680.1      173.3  119.4  100.1   61.8    0.0  516.5
13 Appu  a la DME
<2> 3 mDis dwn csbinet prive
q3&  70 pencnt 6 jour
40  14 pu    t 6 jours
pr, adection m_teriet aducatit
46> 3 qsialistes pendlnt 12 NomS
c72 y eCoe is mteriet edbcatif de supprt
<8> capsutes de Vitminr A
- Values saled by 1000.0 4/22/1991 9:42
go  x
W  W
0Q
o w
h0



QURKINA FASO
Quatrieme Projet Edwatifn
Emneiwmnnts Primirt/Secand.                   Page 23 of 39
Table 108. Promotion de ta Scolarisation des Filles
Detailed Cost Table
FCFA
Quantity                 Unit Cast                               Base Costs
unit 91/92 92/93 93/94 94/95 95-97 Totat       91-97       91/92   92/93    93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97 "Tout
..................................................... ...........................-------.............------------------------------_.......--------------__-__-------......... ..............
1. CNVESTiNT COSTS
................
A. EUETES ET EVALUATIONS
ELABO ATION SYSTENE          Nomae-mis            1      1    0    0    0    2        3765.84      3765.8  3765.8       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0  7531.7
COLLECTE ET TRAIT.DONMEES <1>                              -    -        -    -            -      10972.7  1972.        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0 21945S.5
SOCIOLOGUE (LOCAL)           lame  mois           2     2    0    2    0    6          5S8.25      1116.5  1116.5       0.0  1116.5       0.0      0.0  3349.S
EVALUATION NI-PARCCURS      NOAe-et1s             0    0    0       1    0      1    3765.84          0.0      0.0      0.0  3765.8       0.0      0.0  3765.8
Sub-Totat                                                                                          15855.1  15855.1      0.0  4882.3       0.0      0.0 36592.S
B. VISITES OBSERVATIONS '2>      Unite                 0     2    2    0    0    4          921.71         0.0  1843.4  1843.4        0.0      0.0      0.0  36.8
C. APPUI IPB/SPSF
EOUIPENENT ADDITIONWEL       Forfait             -    -      -    -            -           -       2440.3      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0  2448.3
ACiISITION VENICOLES        Unite                 1    0    0    0    0         1    6035.00       6035.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0  603m.O
Sub-Total                                                                                           6475.3      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0  6475.3
Total INVE.TNENT COSTS                                                                                    24330.4  17698.5  1843.4  4882.3        0.0     0.0 48754.6
1. RECURRENT COSTS
A. CNARSES RECU2RENTES IPS c3>   Dotation  nnetle    -      -     -    -    -       -           -       3934.2  3934.2  3934.2  3934.2  3934.2         0.0  19670.9  o
Total REC10NRENT COSTS                                                                                    393.42  3934.2  3934.2  3934.2  3934.2          0.0  1967D.9
-      m        m~~~sxcz    -clum  m       -        -am
Total                                                                                                 21264.6 21632.7  SM.6  8816.5  3934.2            0.0 6842.5
<> Enquateurs et fournituras
*2> 2 peammes pendaIt I mas au totat
43D Foui tures de bwemu at fanctlmn L nt whicules
Unit Coats Scled by 1000.0 - Value scaled by 1000.0 4/22/199M  9:44
0
o LA
hI
%C



WKINA FASO
lstrtm Projit Ecktion                            Page 24 of 39
Enselimn ta Prlvuro/S.cand.
Tdle 10. Prostion de to Scotarisation du FilIes
Detailed Cost Table
FCFA
Bae Costs in US$                                Totals Including Contigenries
192 92    934 94/95 9/96 96/9t Total              91/92   92/     93594   94/5   95/96   96/97   Totot
1.   I_t COS
................
A. ENETES ET EWAMATIONS
EIAUATION aTvs               13.3  13.3   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  26.5        4256.0  4463.7      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0  6719.8
COLLEC1E ET TRIT.DaUS *1>  38.6  38.6   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  77.3    12991.5 13625.5           0.0     0.0      0.1     0.0 26617.1
SOCIOLEE (LOCAL)              3.9   3.9   0.0   3.9   0.0   0.0  11.8        1231.6  1280.9      0.0  1385.4      0.0     0.0  38.0
EVALUAIE UI-PARI_S            0.0   0.0   0.0  13.3   0.0   0.0  13.3           0.0     0.0      0.0  4542.1      0.0     0.0  4S42.1
Slb-Totat                     S5.8  S.8   0.0  17.2   0.0   0.0  128.8    18479.2 19370.2        0.0  S927.6     0.0      0.0 43776.9
B. VISITES lSIVTII   '2'          0.0   6.5   6.5   0.0   0.0   0.0  13.0           0.0  2185.0  2201.4      0.0     0.0      0.0  4386.4
C. AUI IPS/SPSF
EtUIPENUT MOITIIEL            8.6   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   8.6        2889.3     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0  2889.3
ACSUISITIO  fSICULES         21.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  21.2        714S.3     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0  714S.3
Sib-Total                     29.8   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  29.8    10034.7        0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0 1I04.7
...... ........ ...... .... ... ...... .... ..... .... ........ ... ...... .......... ............. . .. ......  ........      ........ 
Totat IvESTIEMT COSTS               85.7  62.3   6.5  17.2   0.0   0.0  171.7    28S53.9 215SS.2  2201.4  S927.6         0.0     0.0 58198.0
11. RfuECUt COsST
I. .138101
A. cwuas SEfxlU   gUm 4 3o        13.9  13.9  13.9  13.9  13.9   0.0  69.3        4426.3  4635.1  4697.4  4770.8  4911.9      0.0 23441.S
....   .......   ......   ......   ........ ......    ..........  ..........    ...........    ...........    ...........  ........  ............. ...........................o
Tot  RECE2    r  tS                  13.9  13.9  13.9  13.9  13.9   0.0  69.3       4426.3  4635.1  4697.4  4770.8  4911.9       0.0 23441.5                |
Total                             99.S  76.2  20.3  31.0  13.9   0.0 240.9    32940.2 26190.3  6898.8  10696.4  4911.9        0.0 81639.6
*it Eaqastas at fm1iturs
4& 2 FMsusw  p t  - mis u totat
4w Fusuutv as de bws et fatal imm nt vdhicules
- Vahams citedbd 10b0.0 4/22/1991 9:44
W 3W
o w
'h



PAKIINA FASO
autrie.  Projet E6xAtian                                                Page 25 of 39
Enseign_tts Priffre/Secord.
Table 109. Palement des i ndeites pour to double vwacation
Detailed Cost Table
FCFA
Gu_ntity                      Unit Cost
Unit  91/92  92/93 93/94 94/95  95/96 96/97 Total           91-97
11. ItEOEREUT COSTS
A. f.dinites pe  per EC 12  Hme-anne.           0    60   140   250   400   590  1440    228375.00
412 Correspqndrt a 25X de satlire des mItres
4/24/1991 8:s8
0
I M
o W
'S



EIRKINA FASO
ouatrieme Projet Education                                                   Page  26  of 39
Enseignements Primaire/Second.
Table 109. Paiement des induawites pour ta doibte vacation
Detailed Cost Table
FCFA
Base Costs in US$
91/92      92/93       93/94      94/95       95/96      96/9?       Total
............................... ........................................................ 
tl. REOCURET COSTS
A. Ind  ites payees por EC  1>             0.0    4824U8.2   112579.2   201034.3   321654.9   474441.0  11579S7.T
....... .    .       . . ........    .. . .. .   .. . .. .   .. . .. .   .... ....
Total RECRIENT COSTS                          0.0    48248.2   112579.2   201034.3  321654.9   474441.0  1157957.7
Total                                      0.0    48248.2   112579.2   201034.3   321654.9   474441.0  1157937.7
*13 Correspondant a 25S du salaire des sitres
4/24/1991 8:58
9       I.
0wX
.
%0



BRINA FAN
-                              _~~~~~~~~Oatim Proj t Edusatlen
En    riin  Prlmt SroetoW.                                             Page 27 of 39
T*de M1. Feumtl  du Emig wit di Smcufire
Detailed Cost TaM*
FCFA
smtity                        unit cost
Unit  9192 92f93 93196 94j95 95ff6  9697 Total           91-97
.................................................... _........................................  .........
1. IllffSll" COSTS
i m     mm     lo
A. ECO      1319 EiICSEI
3 MIES 4,                 units                0   216       0     0      0     0   216       25.68
15s aEs                    nIte                0  1155      0      0      0     0  lSS       23.75
B. EC=AUE  Ss .SIm    3w unitt,                     0   500   Soo   soO  Soo         0  2000       48.21
C. FOIUTIU IWWECIU
BUSES  sION.iS 4<4        Unite                0      2      2     1      2     0      7    2150.65
_5AES  LOET11R  4         unite                0      2      1     2      2     0      7    7619.46
0. KITS SCIEIItFIOUES 4       unite                 0      0    31      0     0      0    31    2633.45
E. _IUI A LA DIES
EWlPT NURNE   forf              t -        -                                   - -    -  -
WUIGES Wm                 Unite                0      1     0      0      0     0      1    6563.61
MUIEL RIWEMRIE            Frlt                 - aft-                    -     -      -
mm 9e                     unite                0      1     0      0      0     0      1    6035.00
DOCUPET.ACIENTIFIGIE      Frfait                            -     -            -        -
II. _swmT  0SIS
...............
A. FCUCIINIE4T DIES
0.AU. SECETMIAT          Dotatlon wintL*
0.1K. WUINAES             Dotatlon  Inme to
A1v I ermire d. 3 dsciptime
0  3 smmmires do  5 duelpinm
'3P 2 edmiirm de 5 jaurs   . 9 diaciplij
43 3 mis dmamm
c5 6 mi.s cheam
<6> dotatin an  tblissnwts dua soandiXre
7' 5 mchnwir s ecrire, 5 d&lpicteurs et S photocopieur
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 4/22/191  9:46
04W
%a



MKINA FASO
us.trimt_ Pmet Edutciton                   Page 28 of 39
TAble 201. Formtion dr 1nseusnts dui *Srdoire
DOtailed Coet Table
FCFA
son Costs                                                 Bas Costs in US1
VIM      f93s   93/94    945 Wm      f6/f7    Total              91ff2  92/93  93%4  94/95  95/96  96197  Total
......... ................ v.............................................  ......................................................................................................
1. zuImNETiT cosrs
................
A. ECLAOE 1379 ENSITS
3 MzIES  1p                     0.0   5546.6       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0   SS46.5        0.0   19.5    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   19.5
15 1S 115 42>                   0.0  27432.4      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0  27432.4        0.0   96.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   96.6
Sm-Toatl                         0.0  32979.2       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0  32979.2        0.0  116.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  116.1
B. EECICLAE 20O ENhhISTS '3>         0.0  26106.2  24106.2  24106.2  24106.2       0.0  96425.0       0.0   84.9   64.9   84.9   84.9    0.0  339.S
C. FOmhTIO  NUFSCTEIRS
MUM 1655ESIOIMLES 4b            0.0   4301.3   4301.3   2150.7   4301.3       0.0  15054.6        0.0   15.1   15.1    7.6   15.1    0.0   53.0
SUISES A LOETRAhE  <5>          0.0  15S23.9   7619.5  15238.9  15238.9       0.0  S3336.2        0.0   53.7   26.8   53.7   53.7    0.0  167.8
Sut-otot                         0.0  19540.2  11920.8  1T369.6  19540.2       0.0  e6390.8        0.0   68.8   42.0   61.2   68.8    0.0  240.6
D. KITS ScM ATIFIEIS 46>             0.0      0.0  1637.1       0.0       0.0      0.0  61637.1       0.0    0.0  287.5    0.0    0.0    0.0  287.5
E. PPUI A LA DIES
EOUIPT UAtEAUX *             8S64.7      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0   6964.7       31.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   31.6
WENICUILES  MAAK                0.0   6563.6       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0   653.6        0.0   23.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   23.2
PTERIEL TEPEIROAPIE             0.0  12506.9       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0  12506.9        0.0   44.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   44.0
1111A  9NV                      0.0   6035.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0   6035.0        0.0   21.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   21.2    -
DOMIET.SCIENTIFIQLE             0.0    656.4       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    656.4        0.0    2.3    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    2.3   O
SubTota I64.7  2578.9                              0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0  34750.6       31.6   90.8    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  122.4
Total IINUSEIST OOSTS               6944.7 102411.6 117664.1  41495.6  43646.5        0.0 314162.7      31.6  360.6  414.3  146.1  153.7    0.0 1106.3
II. _ 1ainT COSTS
.........................._
A. FOMCJIE0111t DIES
0.6 N. SECIETMIAT             129.7    129.7    129.7    129.7    129.7       0.0    648.5        0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    O.S    0.0    2.3
0.A  . wfImaE                2610.1   2110.1   28.1   2810.1   2810.1         0.0  14050.6        9.9    9.9    9.9    9.9    9.9    0.0   49.5
_ Total                       2959.a   2939.6   2939.8   29.6   2939.8         0.0  14699.1       10.4   10.4   10.4   10.4   10.4    0.0   51.8
Total _E T   al                     2939.    2939.    2939.8   2.8 29    2939.8      0.0  1469.1        10.4   10.4   10.4   10.4   10.4    0.0   51.6
Total                            11904.S 105351.4 12003.9  44435.7   456.3         0.0 326651.6      41.9  371.0  424.7  156.5  164.0    0.0 1158.0
1* I sminraro dm  3 dibsiptins
2 3 sinires dw_  5 dwiplin.s
43 2 sos"irz de S j1us dwm 9 disciptim
42 3 mis Iw j!
4* 6 mis edown                                                                                                                                     ooz
42 dotatimn am  tabissmunts da *      iablre
49- S _whinm * ocril, S dupicatur et S photocopforws 
v.i.  scaled bV 1000.0 4/22/1991  9:4?                                        ,
0o



uatrim Proj t   ti                                              Page 29 of 39
Email Uite Prlmlre/Ssod.
Tdt 26. FsnatnU   ds Li1iss St Usterlot Pe1gogiw   di Sscacld      s
etllied Cast T&e
UClA
Oumntity                             ua Mt cost
unit    91/92    92/9     931.   94/95   95/        96/97   TotaL           91-97
................
A.  NMEUIIT SIKIOTIEEES
RE ATIU L5C  EXIST. 413 Uitet                    0       so      S0        0        0        0      100     850.5S
EMIES ET CON        TRA. 
S. EWIPENT DMU WURalE            Unite                0        1       0        0        0        0       1    6035000.00
C. AIISITIW  DE LIVES
8 RATIERES UEPALES          unit                 0   91200   91200         0        0        0   182400       3182.09
1S NTIE3   TECIl0ES         uits                 0     200    3000         0        0        0    SOO0        515T.16
UI;I PONE EUIEIUMUtS         nilt.               0    19000   19000    3000         0        0   41000        S615.55
PULICATION POUUATIW 42   UnWit.                  0        0    4000        0        0        0    4000        1536.18
D. KWPU 0EUT OES UIEVES 470   Forfait                             -            -        -        -
E. IUTE INTll tOIIS LTAMT
U0MTI1 SEIRAIKS            _Ns-NDIs             0       2        0        0        0        0       2      SS8250.00
SPCIALISTS Al ISITIW  '3v  lNs_-mIs              1        I       0        0        0        0       2    37650.00
F. SIUAIRE SIULIOTMEURS 4a    Wits                   0      190      190      190        0       0      570       28420.00
I11. _CMET  MOS 
...............
A. FlAS OE  OcTI
LOCATIO N85114 ST0AIE 45 torfsat                             -            -        -        -               -
T1ahSN  KS NENUUS           Par kItletre        0    13600   130           0      20        0   35568           70.25
PfbfML q&                   bin-mb               0       3        6        0        3       0       12      SS8 .OO
*1 35 B   _d   100 *otls
42  Md..le ponw las urmslints 
c3* PeWratio crutem etwtustin, rsistaic  psatian des mrd                                                                                                  t
4> Pow 3 p eticipwnt pFInt 6 Jaws pour 190 ecoles                                                                                                          w
aSs,tocation de Amin  de stace       dua  3 1os                                                                                                            Xo
9"f     .un a e  et du    nts                                                                                                                         0    W
'  swueulet a WSd  to valV dlacqsgti<  n
P.  w



IiUI FASO
austri.  Ptot Ed=tion                                              Page 30 of 39
Eruignwut r1fmfr*/Sswwd.
TW1e -2. Fownitwe du 4Lve  at  tferiet P,hguulque di Secomnd re
lletaled Cst Tae
FCFA
am Costs
91m       92/93     93/94     94/5      95/96     96/97      Total
...... .............,......_.....,............    ,.._..
t. IWESwt COs
................
A. _NMAEMT  3131.,0101EIES
MnuvIu LOCaM uIEm. A1)            0.0   44M.S   4427.s           0.0       0.0       0.0   8SS5.1
EUES ET COITULE 1MW.            542.2    Im.1    Im..            0.0       0.0       0.0    704.4
SLb-otal                          .2   4 8         46            0.0        0.0       0.0     9.5
3. E     _IP D7 OWF VEI.IIE           0.0    605.0         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0    6035.0
C.  IISITIIII OE LIUES
S N3TI35 DENElALES                0.0  290266.7  29020M.7       0.0        0.0       0.0  58413.4
15 NATIEES TEClIUIES              0.0   10514.4   15471.5       0.0       0.0       0.0   25785.9
sUIDES Pl ESEIIAITS               0.0  11049S.4  110495.4   1744.6         0.0       0.0  236437.4
WLltCAtIOU PCHN.AlII  c21         0.0       0.0    6144.7        0.0       0.0       0.0    6144.7
............... ............... ................... ....... ............. ..........  ............... ..........  ............... ..........
SubTotat                           0.0  411016.4  422318.3   1744.6        0.0        0.0  850781.4
D. ENAWIET DES LItES 'b               0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0  257M0.7        0.0  257380.?
E. IENTIIOU OUSTSILTS
PUEPASATI  SIUAIES                0.0    1116.5       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0    1116.5                                                    t
SFECMLESTE AMISITIs 4)         3765.6    3765.8       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0    7531.7
............ _. .....  ..... .................... ..........  ............... .......... .......... ...............  .................... 
StAb otat                       3765.8    48W.3        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0    68.2
F. SUIuImIE 3lKIOTMIES 4*             0.0      39.      53.8    S399.8         0.0       0.0   16199.4
Total ISIT   nSTS                 7.06.0  4732.2  475766.8   2 .4  257380.7                 0.0  1 .1
11. _ECUT  COWST
............................._
A. FAIS SE FiCTEIT
LOCATIaN fABSIE STOCRAKE 4        0.0     648.S       0.0       0.0      648.S      0.0    1297.0
TR UIOE  KES mas1S                0.0     961.1     961.1       0.0      S76.6       0.0    2490.6
PEESOE 4&                         0.0    1674.7    3349.S       0.0    1674.7        0.0    6699.0
h-Total                          0.0    32W4.3    4310.6        0.0    299.9        0.0   10494.7
Total _UT   IXSTS                        0.0    326.3    431.6          0.0    2399.9       0.0   1049I.?
Tota                                75eo.0  4766.S  478.3   22U6.4  20.6                 0.0  124S517.8
(1) 35 12 dm  100 eceois
4)  wd  po_ lm  m       t    oo
4) P"Metton criteres  Itluton  asistan pce  sslon dn owrdhem
'4) raw 3 particlpons mft    6 jams pow 19  mIotss
45) Location de msmln de stacksg. dwont 3 m.s
6) 1 antin,uire et dim 53w1t                                                                                                                       
*h Corrasondet a 30X de ta vtaer d'act5isitin                                                                                                       M   w
values scaled by 1000.0 4/22/1991 9:49                                                                                                                w
%a



IIIA FASO
ustriesm  Proj*t Edticon                                                            Page 31 of 39
Ensie    ot  Primir./Ssond.
Tale 202. Foumniture da Llve   at Notarial Pedboghiqa  du Seclwoisr
Dotaield Cost Tedt
FCFA
sm. Costs In USS,
"1/92   92/93   93/94   94/95   95/96   96/97  Total
...... ........... ,__...... ._..___................
1. INVESTIEIT 0STS
A. _ENET EEIEKEOTISJES
RENUWTIOU LOCM  EXIST. AS,       0.0  155.9  155.9       0.0    0.0      0.0  311.8
ETtUES ET  uICNmaiE TPAW.        12.S    6.2      6.2     0.0     0.0     0.0   24.9
_____......................  ......... .......  .......... .......  .......... .......
_r-Ttat                           12.S  162.1  162.1       0.0     0.0     0.0  336.8
3. EWIPIENET DM  VENICUE               0.0   21.2    0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0   21.2
C. MIS1TIUK DE LIWES
8 NRTIERES CEII3UUES              0.0  1021.9  1021.9     0.0     0.0     0.0  2043.7
15 RATIERES TECUfICS              0.0   36.3   54.5       0.0     0.0     0.0   90.8
GUIDES PM  ENSEIQNTS              0.0  389.1  389.1    61.4       0.0     0.0  839.6
PU6LICATIOf  WIUATIW  420         0.0     0.0    21.6    0.0      0.0     0.0    21.6
.   .......... .... W. ..i .  ........ ....... .......... ....... ..............
Sub-Totl                           0.0  147.2  1487.0   61.4       0.0     0.0  2995.7
0. ENPLAENtT DES LI ff d7*             0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0  906.3      0.0  906.3
E. JUTERVENTIIu CU5IN.TAMI
PRPVRATION SINISAIIES             0.0     3.9     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     3.9
SPCALISTI JAISITIO  '3           13.3   13.3      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0   26.S
.... .... . .. .... ....... . ...... ....... .......
Sub-Totat                         13.3   17.2      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0   30.5                                                                             w
F. SENI5 IRE IIIKIOTIEQUES '4'         0.0   19.0   19.0   19.0    0.0         0.0   ST.0
_____ _ ....  __ .......... ... .... _..... .......  .......... ....... .......
Totat INVETT reTS                        2S.7  1446.8  1164.2   80.4  906.3    0.0  4347.S
II.   aaul     w s C
...... .................__
A. FlAIS D  FOCTIUTEWET
L0CATIUO NAINS T *RXM3E 45>    0.0        2.3     0.0     0.0    2.3      0.0    4.6
TCUSSPT On NEOLS                  0.0     3.4     3.4     0.0     2.0    0.0    8.8
PE ESOKE  4'                      0.0     S.9    11.8    0.0    5.9       0.0   23.6
_____..... ; .. ....... .......... ._.......... ... ....... .......... .......
So-Totat                           0.0    11.6   IS.2    0.0    10.2    0.0   37.0
Total ECUOtET  CoS                        0.0    11.6   15.2    0.0    10.2    0.0   37.0
Totat                                 25.7  1678.4  16.4    80.4  916.5    0.0 4384.4
*1> 35 2 dm  100 1o"s 
e2p cuid pou  too -- _ws                                                                                                                                       IV
idPr     polu     itm       tttitn,    itn  passaian d   mwcws
'4  Pow 3 pmtflctpts _Idt 6 Jows pou  190 scoals
'5> Location de mosin de stockage dcnnt 3 mIs                                                                                                                  4 
.6. 1 gmettoiiroe *t dmt  agnts                                                                                                                               
*..wwvnnt *a lt de to waelw dacquisition                                                          o                                                           w
.. a* ..le'd tV tjJo 0 4/?1991   9: 9                                                                                                                       p.    i
s0



tim FASO
uotrlm ProJet 66metion
trIm Ioj.:r   d.                                                               Page 32 of 39
Tbl M03. APPUI A L Ill!
Detiled Cost Tale
'CIA
amtity                    Wilt Cost
uiit 91/92 92N9M  93/94 94-96 9%   Total         91*97
..... ........._ ._........... ............................  ............
1. INVIESIT  tSW
................
A. EWaUUT
UMEA412 <uite                             0    3    0    0    0    3    1316727.2?
IUI*TLLATIU SlUI10 TW.   Fwfait          -    -    -                  -
S. fllTlUS
5ENIM AIS2                 amt.          30   30   30   30    0   150          12180.00
SCIALISTE 42                Ue-mis        0    1    0    0    0    1    3765840.00
C. AELAE
PUPAAIKO  43                Fwfait       -    -
ENClWA_UtOE STAGE 1 542     nm-Jaw        0   48    0    0    0   46          109727.27
h1SUTAT1U TEERAIM          lime-mis    0    0    1    0    0    1    376540.00
42 S smnsira de 3 Jeus pow 30 pams
32 6- mols
4* -Prmatn d_lcumtmitn (cessettes vFdbo) pow professu
4is 2 jaws pm   n 2I samaines
422/1991 9:51
41
i,)
> *



PZKIM FASO
autrimm Prjet E*acat ionPae3of9
E_ _aint Pfmieowi.                         Page 33 of 39
Tabte  3. AI A I.'IUU
Deiled Cst Wte
FCFA
Be" Costs                                                gm  Costs In USS
91192      92193      9sd31      94-%6     96/97      Totat      919    92193   93194   94-96   9J97   Total
1.          en,1  I
....... .........._
A. fItJENEIIt
CAN   h1>                         0.0  3950181.8         0.0       0.0        0.0  3950181.8        0.0 13909.1      0.0     0.0     0.0 13909.1
IUSTALIAlIIU 1111o 1CKg.          0.0   0972 .7         0.0        0.0        0.0  109722.7         0.0  3863.6      0.0     0.0     0.0  363.6
.......... Z.......... ......... ............ .......... ............ ........ ............. ....... ------........ -..... --.......... ... --. ----- -..----.. - ------ -.... --........... ....  ........
Sab-Total                          0.0  501 .S           0.0        0.0        0.0  507454.5         0.0 1t2.7        0.0     0.0     0.0 17m.r
S SIaIiES 2                  3654M0.0   365400.0   365400.0   365400.0       0.0  1827000.0      1286.6  1286.6  1286.6  1236.6     0.0  6433.1
SPEIALISTIE  3                    0.0  3765840.0         0.0       0.0        0.0  3765840.J        0.0  13260.0     0.0     0.0     0.0 13260.0
SubrTotl                       36540.0  4131240.0   36540.0   365400. 0        0.0  5592840.0     1286.6 14546.6  1286.6  1286.6    0.0 19693.1
C. UNIELAKE
PUPWATIOU '4>                     0.0  3291818.2         0.0       0.0        0.0  3291818.2        0.0 11590.9      0.0     0.0     0.0 11590.9
uNCADENhT DK STAGE 45>            0.0  5266909.1        0.0        0.0        0.0  5266909.1        0.0 19545.5      0.0     0.0     0.0 1854S.S
n"ShLNLATION TERRII               0.0        0.0  3765J40.0        0.0        0.0  3765840.0        0.0     0.0  13260.0     0.0     0.0 13260.0
Safrlotat                          0.0  9558727.3  3765840.0        0.0        0.0  12324S67.3       0.0 30136.4 13260.0      0.0     0.0 43396.4
Total IUWESTIENT CTST                365400.0 17737421.8  4131240.0   365400.0       0.0 22964361.8    1206.6 62455.7 14546.6  1286.6    0.0 8062.2
m33   min ~~~ muinum          mmaBuo wcmg.    ininuuin          m       mmaa jmuz   .min inm" 8
Total                              365400.0 17737421.   4131260.0   365400.0       0.0 22964861.8     1286.6 62455.7 14546.6  126.6    0.0 80042-2
<ta, S t  ec Ue
4e2 5 _niru  de 3 Jour pour 30 pemma
413 6 mfs
'4v Prwmatlmn domainstiton (cesettes vids) pow profesasua
45> 2 lams  n    84  mna
4/22t1991 9:51
o 
_ {



lAti_m  "et Edotlon                                                       Page 34 of 39
EmIwn,gsPrimir*/Sesmni
Tobte 401. e   ite di Uattn et de Planlf fcatian ki NEW
oktailed Cost Idle
FCFA
Oentity                 Init Cost
Unit 91/2 92/93 "AV 91/5 95-97 Total        91-97
............................ .................................  ....... ....... .........._
I         . I.WSUSW  ce
A. flDUES ET STIESES O*|        Unmis               3    6    6    3    0   1i    3765.84
3. COTE ILAIE
INEN . DE SUECILISmES      _iIs                0    3    3    0    0    6    3765.84
IVITAIC E                  Foit
ismioiEs  610E1 '2         Unite               0    0   31   31    0   62         609.00
C. FtIEhIl Ph3hUL NW
PLMIFICATEt                U     1-mis         10    0    0    0    0   10    1100.7
STATISIICIl                Um-mis             10    0    0    0    0   10    1100.78
IUFITICIEN                   _No-mois          0    s    0    0    0    5    1100.78
E:I ISTE GWOTIOU           Eamns-mis           0    0   10    0    0   10    1100.78
CMTE SUCAIE                  rms-mois          0    0   10    0    0   10    1100.78
0. O5SERATIIONS . S#UIES        Forfeit                  -    -
E. E0I1St W
IlIFTIUtE                 Unite                0    1    0    0    0    1    3291.82
NAT.11E1 RWIE              Forfeit             -    -    -    -    -
WENails LIAIUI             Wlite               0    1    0    0    0    1    6035.00
11. EWOEENT asl
A. WIIWAES                     Dotims _al      -         -
S. fPlS  hTIfh
M  COIPMAINE               SOltEamn woott           --
OEPAEEIT P3O1L             otatlen wanul       -
ICtIN   IUNTS              Datatlmn u_nal 
'1> Couts et finmt, statistiq. douuntatian, informtiqu .,   x
(2' Dans les 62 circanscriptiors
unit Costs Scaled by 1000 A 4/2211991 9:53
o '



BIRIMA FASO
utrime Projet Ewatlfan
Enseoinmints Prmifre/Secand.                             Page  35 of 39
Table 401. Ceievct. de Gestion et da Planitficatei du NEDa
Dktafled Cost Tale
FCFA
ase Costs                                                       one Costs in USS
91/92     92/93      93/94      94195      95/96      96/9       Total      91/92  9Z/9   93/94  94/95  95/6  969   Totl
._............................................................ ...................... ............ ........................   .................................................
1. INVESTllt COSTS
A. ELES ET STRATEGIES <U1               11297.5   22595.0   2259.0   11297.5            0.0        0.0   67785.1       39.8   79.6   79.6   39.8    0.0    0.0  238.7
S. CUTE SCOLAIRE
INTERV. DE SPECIALISTES                0.0   11297.5   11297.5         0.0        0.0        0.0   225.0           0.0   39.8   39.8    0.0    0.0    0.0   79.6
INVENTAIIE                            0.0    2194.S    2194.S          0.0        0.0        0.0    4389.1         0.0    7.7    7.7    0.0    0.0    0.0   15.S
SENIIAIIRES PEGCINMU  'b               0.0        0.0   18879.0   18879.0         0.0        0.0   37758.0         0.0    0.0   66.5   66.5    0.0    0.0  1330
........ ......... .........    ............. .........    ............. .........    ................... ------.. .............. .............. ............ ..... . ..... ------.. ------    ------. ------    ------. ------
Sah-Totsl                               0.0   13492.1         i .1   18879.0       0.0        0.0   64742.1         0.0   47.5  114.0   66.5    0.0    0.0  228.0
C. FORNUATIO  PERSOEL DEP
PLAUIFICATEtI                      11007.8        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0   11007.8        38.8    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   38.8
STATISTICIEI                       11007.8        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0   11007.8        38.8    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   38.6
INFORNATICIEN                          0.0    ss03.9         0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0    ss03.9         0.0   19.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   19.4
ECrnIISFE EDUCATION                    0.0        0.0   11007.8        0.0        0.0        0.0   11007.8         0.0    0.0   38.8    0.0    0.0    0.0   38.8
CARTE SCOlAIRe                         0.0        0.0   11007.8        0.0        0.0        0.0   11007.8         0.0    0.0   38.8    0.0    0.0    0.0   38.8
SLA-Total                          22015.7    5503.9   22015.7          0.0        0.0        0.0   49535.3        77.s   19.4   77.5    0.0    0.0    0.0  174.4
0. O8SEiVATIrOS   I MNRAIRES             2194.5    2194.S    2194.5    2194.5    2194.5            0.0   10972.7        7.7    7.7    7.7    7.7    7.7    0.0   38.6
E. EWJIPENEUT SEP
IUFoUATISoE                           0.0    3291.8         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0    3291.8        0.0   11.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   11.6
NAt.REPROGUAPNIE                       0.0    s047.s         0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0    so5 .s         0.0   17.8    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   17.8
VENICULE LIAISON                       0.0    603S.0         0.a       0.0e       s.         0.0    6035.0         0.0   21.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   21.2
... ... ................ ......... ............. ... ...-   ,............. ........  .......... ......... ............ ......  ........ ......  ......... .......  -     ..... ^. -
SibTotal                                0.0   14374.3        0X        a.s        0.3        0.0   14374.3         0.0   50.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   50.6
... .... .. . .... ... .                . . . .  ,. ........ ............. .........    ............  ..  .......... ...... ......... ...... .........   .. ....
Total IWSTIENT COSTS                       35507.7      '           #         3Rl.    2194.5          0.0  207409.s      125.0  204.8  278.8  114.0    7.7    0.0  7303
It. ECUItENT COSTS
...._...........
A. CONSONAUALES                           216.2      216.2      216.2     216.2      216.2        0.0    1005.8         0.8    0.6    0.8    0.8    0.8    0.0    3.8
S. FLIS OPERATION
PSE CARTS SLAtIRE                      0.0    4323.3        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0    423.3         0.0   15.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   1s.2
T9ACEENT PERSFhIEhL                    0.0    4060.0         0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0    4060.0         0.0   14.3    0.0    0.0    0.0    '.0   14.3
PRODUCTION WooINTS                     0.0       0.0    4323.3         0.0        0.0        0.0    4323.3        0.0    0.0   15.2    0.0    0.0    #.0   15.2
Sub-Total                               0.0    83.3    4323.3           0.0        0.0        0.0   12704.S        0.0   29.5   15.2    0.0    0.0    0.0   44.7
Tottl LECULET COStS                          216.2    8599.4    4539.4       216.2      216.2        0.0   1377.4          0.8   30.3   16.0    0.8    0.8    0.0   48.5
Total                                  35723.9   66759.3  8S71S.8   32587.2    2410.7             0.0  221196.9       125.8  235.1  294.8  114 7    8.5    0.0  778.9 
'1> Cauts at finwetmm. statistlque. documtetlant  Ionformtiqs                                                                                                                (    Z
2> Dan lea 62 circencriptinsr
- Values scaled by 1000.0  4/22/1991  9:53
0     )
:                                                          Y    W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I1
to



mutrIion Pmjat flimatimn
rlWI     to_ Primi64wltwwv                          Page 36 of 39
Tdt 401. CW.tg7 ^ Clatfon at Pltnificgtim  i 3
Detalead Cut Tlte
vCuA
*motlty               uitd cat                             low  cats
Unit  919  929 9/1% 94-97 Total          91-97       91/92    92/9       934    94-98         97       TOWa
IWAXINM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... .....  .......................................... .........  ................. ...................... .................................._
................
A. S.O.S.
ShAE Ell IllfTIt0E  b    Uhie-mis    2    2    0    0    4              1014.98       2030.0   2030.0       0.0       0.0       0.0   4059.9
EWUIPT IU_OTIIE '3v         unitO          0    2    0    0    2    290T.77             0.0   S615.5        0.0       0.0       0.0  51S.5
KURT LOCICIEL co            fofeit                      -                    -          0.0   2743.2        0.0       0.0       0.0   2M.2
NISE EU PLAE  GU LOSICIEL    owi-vis       0    2    0    0    2    376S.84             0.0   1531.7        0.0       0.0       0.0   13.7
SubTotal                                                                              2030.0  18120.4        0.0       0.0       0.0  20150.3
S. 0.PA.E.S. 4&
FONATION PULIFICAEIR        No-.soi       0    9    0    0    9         1100.78         0.0   9907.1        0.0       0.0       0.0   9907.1
FWTIU  STATISTICIE          NoIa-aois    1    0    0    0         1    1100.76        990.7       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0    990.7
FR TIU EOEINSTE EDUC   Nom.-mois    0    9    0    0    9               1100.76         0.0   9907.1        0.0       0.0       0.0    907.1
bTotal                                                                                 990.7  19614.1        0.0       0.0       0.0  20601.8
C. UIUtSTRATION WIVERSITE
STAGE OU PErSUE L '4       I'm-is,  11   11    0    0   22               711.03       7821.4    M21.4       0.0       0.0      0.0  1562.7
LOGICIEL S.A.6.E.S.         forfalt                                                   4 8 -  -  -  546.4  0.0  0.0    0.0      0.0   S486.4
MURIEL IEFOATIO  Op   Unite               0    S    0    0    5    5006.86              0.0  250.3          0.0       0.0       0.0  25034.3
RISE EU PLAE INFM.          Ioma-mos    0    3    0    0    3    3765.84                0.0   9414.6        0.0       0.0       0.0   9414.6
Sub-Tota                                                                             13307.7  4220.2         0.0       0.0      0.0  55576.0
D. ElUIES es. TECU. PROF. C1i   mom-=is        0    6    4    0    12    365.84              0.0  30126.7  1506.4          0.0       0.0  4519C
E. ElUDE SR EUS.SECND/1UP ci,  forfait           -    -    -    -           -                0.0  20573.9  2073.9          0.0      0.0  41147.?
TOa IIIIIEN1T CS$                                                                           16520.4  130905.3  35637.2       0.0       0.0  16280.9
II.  m T   0StS
OA R. 1516K. MIRES          Pr am                            *        - -  - -        167.S    167.5    167.5    167.5         0.0    037.6
0. P. MUINISTATIUI A        Par -              -    -    -    -              -        113.5    113.5    113.5    113.5         0.0    567.4
bTotad                                                                                 281.0    2D1.0    281.0    281.0         0.0   1405.1
...... .......... ....... .......... .........  ............. .........  .................. .............
Total  1REU     OSS                                                                           261.0    281.0    281.0    201.0         0.0   1405.1
maanuu      -       -      -       -       -  -smmammusnta
Total                                                                                    16609.4  131186.3  35918.2    281.0        0.0  18M.0
A12 Etuim  coniless ea   g rmv de trtai I                                                        s
42> 2 staiares
43 ordirnow at ipri_lteP
<42 logefel gtion du bore                                                                                                                                   usX
cS> For_tion a  ttarrn                                                                                                                                      o 
c63 pour 6 agents 
.r. mcro-ordiroteurs at iwprimtz s
*8- Hialte a I section inforfmtiQIu
Lnit couts Scaled by 000.0- Ves scaled bV 1000.0 4/22/1991 9:56



$MIN FMs
Oustrie1  ProJat E ati                             Page 37 of 39
Emeimn ts Primi1r   nd.                                g
T1A. 402. Cqascite Cd estion at Pltmification du NESES
Dtauled Cost Tlbts
FCM
gsm Costs In USS                                 Totaels Including Contihmnlas
9"i92 92/95  93/94 94-96 96/97 Total         91/92    9293    nr/94    94/95    95/95    96/97    TotSl
..........................................  ....................................................................................................................
1. XS.os
................
A. &^.A.
STAIE EN IIlMTIiM  42          7.1   7.1   0.0   0.0   0.0  14.3          2294.2   2406.1       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0   4700.3
EWIPT IIWUTtCUE G              0.0  20.5   0.0   3.0   0.0  20.S             0.0   7221.5       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0   7221.S
CS^T LOICIEL 4>                0.0   9.7   0.0   0.0   0.n   9.7             0.0   3406.4       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0   3406.4
RISE    PLACE GU LOGICIfL      0.0  26.5   0.0   0.0   0.0  26.S             0.0   8927.4      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0   8927.4
SubrTctml                       7.1  63.8   0.0   0.0   0.0  11.0          2294.2  21961.5      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0  242SS.7
9. 0.P.R.E.S. 4a
FOiATI     P UIFICATEIU        0.0  34.9   0.0   0.0   0.0  34.9            0.0  11743.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0  11743.0
FOCUTIo STATISTICIEN           3.S   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   3.5          1119.7      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0   1119.7
FOESTIC  ECWIhSTE EUC          0.0  34.9   0.0   0.0   0.0  34.9            0.0  11743.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0  11743.0
Sub-TOtal                       3.5  69.8   0.0   0.0   0.0  73.3          1119.7  23486.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0  24405.7
C. MWIUISTRATIU 6UIESITE
STAGE OU PERSoUEL <6i         27.5  27.S   0.0   0.0   0.0  55.1         8839.4   9270.8       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0  18110.3
LOSICIEL S.A.6.E.S.           19.3   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  19.3         6495.8       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0   6495.8
UTEItEL ItFiWATIOUE *7         0.0  83.1   0.0   0.0   0.0  88.1            0.0  31036.6       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0  31086.6
NISE E PbACE IN!MN.            0.0  33.1   0.0   0.0   0.0  33.1            0.0  11159.3       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0  111S9.3
Sub-Total                      46.9  148.8   0.0   0.0   0.0  195.7       15335.2  S1516.7      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0  61851.9
0. ETU)ES EMS. TErP. PROF. 41a      0.0  106.1  53.0   0.0   0.0 159.1           0.0  357C9.8  17968.s        0.0      0.0       0.0  S3698.2
E. ETUDE SR EN.SEU/SUP cIa         0.0  72.4  72.4   0.0   0.0  144.9            0.0  24386.6  24S69.0       0.0       0.0       0.0  48955.6
otal t    _EST OOStS                 57.5  460.9 125.5   0.0   0.0  V43.9       16749.1  157060.6  42557.5      0.0       0.0      0.0 216367.1
11. mm COST
...............
A. f9US SE fNUCTCIONN T
0.& P. EUFOR. OXUs             0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.0   2-9          168.5    197.4    200.0    203.2    309.2         0.0    996.2
0.1 M. M_ EISTSaTIO <2         0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.0   2.0          127.7    133.7    135.5    137.6    141.7         0.0    676.2
Ulb-Total                       1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   0.0   4.9          316.2    331.1    33S.5    340.6    350.9         0.0   1674.4
Total EOUEUT cWIs                     1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   0.0   4.9           316.2    331.1    U3S.5    340.3    350.9       0.0   1674.4
-              -      -    m= m           mm        masmva _s  m Ras  mam    wamamma mm= sm"a
Totat                             S8.5 461.9  126.5   1.0   0.0 648.9        19065.2 157391.7  42893.0    340.8   3S0.9         0.0 220011.s
41' Etu.cs eftim  a eun  oups de trarail
42 2 stagiafras
43' ordlnrtwur at imprintm
'4' logicel gestgtn das bosusa
*5 Formtion a IPetrw r                                                                                                                                
*  *  v'   6 ae nts
. *t *ot *  t. * _ *w,ntt                                                                                                                        ' s



SUKINA FASO
Suetri_ew Projet Education
Enseijpints PrfImre/Secord.                                                 Page 38 of 39
Ta%te 403. Unite da Coordination da Projet
Detailed Cast tlbtl
FCFA
antity                     Ihit Cost
unit 91/92 92/97393/ 93 94/95 95/96 96r97 Totel     91-97
...................................................................  .........
1. IVSTMENT COSTS
A. M    _NAGENT LOCAt EXIST.
TRAWIX GENIE CIVIL          Forfait
EIPEINT AODITIOSEL '1,  Forfait                        -    -    -    -    -
S. ACJISllIOU VEHIWOLES          Unite                2    0    0    1    0    0    3    6035.00
C. APPUIS TECIlawES
INTERVENTIONS PONTTUELLES 4bKHme-mois            3    3    S    3    3    6    23    3765.84
EVALUATION Et PREPARATION -c3'Hcn-m.is           0    6    2    4    6    6    24    3765.84
OINISTRATEUIR GESTION.      H_ne-wsi            12   12   12   12   12   12   72            50750
SENINAItE LANlNENT PROJ.   Forfait
INPFOSATION REGIONALE       fotation awuatle    -     -    -    -             -    -           -
OBSERVATIOS ET tOLLOES    Forfait                -          -    -    -    -
11  ECREt COSTS
...............
A. FUAIS DE FWSIStfT
FOURNTRES DE URE            Dotation nnua -i- -    -                    -    -           -
ENTTIEN NATERIEL            Dotatfon arle       -     - -         -    -    -    --
OPERATIOU & ENTRETIEN WEN   Dotation   mlt      -      -    -    -    -    -    -              -
ENETIEN  ATINlENT           Dotatifn an  l          -    -    -            - - t-
TEL*DUL,FAX,CMA IER         Dotatican au   le    -    -    -    -    -    -    -I
B. PERSONIEL
SAAIRES fONCTINIIEES 4v No=e-usia              72   72   72   72   72   72  432           223.30
CUTRACTIELS                 Dotaticn nawlle      1    1    1    1    1    1    6    7795.20
FRIS DEPLACEt 4             Ntme-jaur          122  120  120  120  120  120  720             3.04
C. VISITE SIEGE IDA 4>           Uninte               0     1    0    1    0    1    3    2411.64
1> Ordirnateur, reprographie, tetecom
.2 Audit, gestion, coata, suivi & evaluation
.1- ivaluation a mi-parcours, preparation futurs projets                                                                                                  NO
-4p O,recteur, gestionmaire, spec. achats, compta, coordination et appuis



IPAKINA FASO
butriame Projet Education                      Page 39 of 39
Enseignmnts Primire/SecoWd.                                  o
Table 403. UnIte de Coordination du Projet
DetaIled Cost Table
FCFA
Base Costs                                                      Base Costs In USS
91192     92/93     93/94     94/9       9S/96     96/7      Totml      91192  92193   93/94   94/9f   9S196  96/97   Total
.................. ...... ,.................................   . ... _.. ............. ........................ .... ...... _.__..__
1. INEStNENT COSTS
........... ............ ..
A. MENAGENT LOCAUX EXIST.
TRAVAX GENIE CIVIL               85t4.9        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0    8514.9       30.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    30.0
EWIPENENI ADOtTIOIHIECL 01       13167.3   6583.6        0.0    6583.6        0.0       0.0   26334.5       46.4   23.2       0.0    23.2     0.0     0.0   92.7
Sub-Total                        21682.2   6583.6         0.0   6583.6        0.0        0.0   34849.5       76.3   23.2       0.0    23.2     0.0     0.0   122.7
B. ACIWISITION WEIICULES              12070.0       0.0       0.0    6035.0        0.0       0.0   18105.0       42.5     0.0      0.0    21.2     0.0     0.0   63.7
C. APPUIS TECHNISES
INTERVENTIONS POCTUELLES c2>   11297.5  11297.5   18829.2   1        S297.5   11297.5  22595.0  86614.3     39.6   39.8    66.3    39.8   39.8   79.6  305.0
EVALUATION ET PREPARATION <3>       0.0   22595.0    7531.7  15063.4  22595.0  22595.0  90380.2              0.0    79.6    26.5    53.0    79.6   79.6  318.2
ADNINISTRATEUR GESTION.          6090.0   6090.0   6090.0   6090.0   6090.0   6090.0  36540.0               21.4   21.4    21.4    21.4    21.4   21.4  128.7
......... ............. ......... ............. ......... ............. .........    ....... ......... ........ ....... ....... ... ..... ........ 
Sub-Total                        17387.5  39982.6  32450.9  32450.9  39982.6  51280.1  213534.5              61.2  140.8   114.3   114.3   140.8  180.6  751.9
0. FORATION
SEMIIIAIRE LACEIENT PROJ.        4060.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0    4060.0       14.3    0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0   14.3
INFORMATION REGIONALE             812.0    812.0       812.0    812.0        0.0       0.0    3248.0         2.9     2.9     2.9      2.9     0.0    0.0    11.4
OBSERVATIONS ET COLLOSUES         438.9        0.0     438.9       0.0    438.9         0.0    1316.7        1.5     0.0      1.5     0.0     1.5    0.0      4.6
..........    .........     ............ .............. ......................  ........... .. ....................................._...................  ..... . . -
Sb-*otal                          5310.9    812.0    1250.9       812.0    438.9         0.0    8624.7       18.7     2.9     4.4      2.9     1.5    0.0   30.4 ~
Totat INESTNEUT COSTS                   56450.6  47378.2  33701.8  4581.5  40421.S  S1280.1  275113.7              198i.8  166.8   118.7   161.6  142.3  180.6  968.7
It. RECUPET COSTS
...............
A. F14IS DE FONCTIOUNENET
FtlITURES DE IIU EM              4323.3   4323.3    4323.3   4323.3   4323.3   4323.3   25939.6             15.2   15.2    15.2    15.2    15.2   15.2   91.3
ENTRETIEN MITERIEL               2702.0   2702.0   2702.0   2702.0   2702.0   2702.0   16212.3               9.5     9.5     9.5      9.5     9.5    9.5    5T.1
OPERATION & EIITRETIEN VEN       1448.4    U48.4    1448.4   2172.6   2172.6    2172.6   10663.0             5.1     5.1     5.1      7.6     7.6    7.6   38.2
EITITETIEN BATINlt               216.2     216.2      216.2    216.2    216.2       216.2    1297.0         0.8     0.8     0.8     0.8      0.8    0.8      4.6
TEL,DNL,FAX. U1 RIEl             4323.3   4323.3   4323.3   4323.3   4323.3   4323.3   25939.6              15.2   15.2    15.2    15.2    15.2   15.2   91.3
-   ;...... ;.~...;   ..  .   .........   ...  ;...  .......  ........    ....        .._.,.,.  .............   ....     ....   _..__.__..__..,,,__
SsrTotal                         13013.2  13013.2   1313.2   1377.4   13737.4   13737.4  60251.5             4S.8   45.8    45.8    48.4    48.4   48 4   282.6
8. PERSOIEL
SALUIRES FOWTIONNAIRES do       16077.6  16077.6   16077.6  16077.6  16077.6  16077.6  96465.6              56.6   56.6   56.6    56.6    56.6   56.6  339.7
CONIIACTIELS                     7795.2    715.2    7M95.2    779.2   7795.2   7795.2  46M.2                21.4   27.4    27.4    27.4    27.4   27.4   16.7
ftAIS DEPLACEENT 4)               365.4    365.4       365.4     365.4    365.4    365.4    2'92.4           1.3     1.3     1.3     1.3      1.3    1.3    7.7
...._......................................................... ...........                         .     .     .     .     .......
Sub-Total                        242.   2        .2   24238.2  24238.2  24238.2  24238.2  145429.2           85.3   85.3    85.3       .3      .3    5.3  512.1
C. VISITE SIEGE IDA '16                  0.0   2411.6         0.0   2411.6        0.0   2411.6    734.9           0.0     8.5     0.0     8.5     0.0   685    25.5 D
Ta E T S7 .. .........4......... ...................3..... ...  .........   .....6 4  ..72239  ...61.2  ..2 .1..  133 .7  142 .2  80.1 .  w
Totat RtECURIEUt COStS                  372S.4  39663.0  372S1.   40387.2  3795.   40387.2  23291S.6               131.2  139.7  131.2   142.2  133.7  142.2  820.1 m jn
Total                                93702.0  87041.2  70953.1  86268.7  7897.0  91667.3  508029.3              329.9  306.5  249.8  303.8  276.0  322.8  17e8.8   w
00 w
= = = =: t=2=5==aDw=SsC=C===------S---     Jtt------ auz=KS=aas --------- -=-- --     _     _ _t t                                                   -------- a 
'1. Ordinateur, reprographie, telecon                                                                                                                                    o w
' Audit,  gest ion  cota, suivi & evatuation
w aviatSofn a m,-percours. preperation futurs projets                                                                                                                     >
X6 Di*e4teur, gebtsofovmre, spec. achats, cc,pts, coordination et appuis                                                                                                 '
, supefwrvision terrain



SURKINA FASO
ouatriwme Projet Education                         Table  7
Enseigneuvents Primire/Secand.
Fimrncir  Plan by Project IccwmiLents                   Page  1 of  1
GOVT. DW         ROYAUNE DE         COLLECT.         CCNGUWULTES
I.D.A.           BURKIA            NORVEGE            LOCALES         EUROPEERNES         A.C.D.I.            Total                   Local
mount      X      Amount      X      Amount     X      Amount      X     Ammmt              Amount      X     Aounmt      X       Exch.   Tam)s
AO. FOWATION DES MITRES                 0.0     0.0       0.0      0.3       0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0       1.5    34.7       2.8    65.0       4.3      9.3       0.2       4.1
Al. RENF.GESTIOU/JISPECIWo              0.0     0.0       0.0      8.1       0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0       0.4    91.9       0.5      1.0       0.4       0.0
A2. SYSTENE D EVALUATIOU                0.0     0.0       0.0      2.1       0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0       0.2    97.9       0.2      0.5       0.2       0.0
A3. hURAELS ET MT. PEDM.                0.0     0.0       0.0      0.7       3.5    47.9       0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0       3.7    51.4        7.2    15.6       5.9       1.3
A4. ACcR. NEOU   DE CLASSES            13.1    64.0       0.1      0.5       0.0     0.0       1.5      7.3       5.8    28.2       0.0      0.0     20.5    44.2       14.4      6.1
A5. ENTRRENHA  DUI PATRINDIE            1.5    84.0       0.0      0.2       0.0     0.0       0.3    15.8        0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0       1.8     4.0       1.0       0.9
A6. ANELIOR. SAJEINEWTRITIOU            0.3    50.8       0.0      0.0       0.3    49.2       0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0       0.6      1.4       0.6      0.0
a7. SCOLARISATION DES FILLES            0.0     0.0       0.0      5.7       0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.3    94.3       0.3      0.6       0.3       0.0
AS. FORN.ENSEIGNARTSIINSPECT            1.5    99.2       0.0      0.8       0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0      1.5      3.2       0.9       0.6
A9. LIVRES ET NAT. PEAG.                5.5    99.8       0.0      0.2       0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0      5.5    11.9        5.2       0.3
B0. PLANIFICATIO  NEBAN                 0.0     0.0       0.0      1.2       0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.9    98.8       0.9      2.0       0.7      0.2
B1. PLANIFICATION  SESSUES              0.8    99.8       0.0      0.2       0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0       0.8      1.7       0.8      0.0
82. DIRECTION PRWJET EDIJC.             1.3    58.6       0.5    24.4        0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0      O.D      0.0       0.4    17.0       2.2      4.7       1.3      0.9
. .........................................................................................................................................
Total Disbursement                     24.0    51.8       0.8      1.7      3.8      8.1       1.8      3.9      7.3    15.7        8.7    18.8      46.4   100.0      32.0      14.3
.........._........... ......................................................................................... ........................................................................................................... .... ....... .....__
Vlalues Scated byv 1000000.0  4/24/1991  8:17                                                                                                                                           a
0  w
w
'0



-123-
AEX 41
Page 1 of 2
BURKINA FASQ
FOURTH EDUCATQN PROJIECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
1.          IDA supervision input. Regular supervision needs are described in Table 1 of
this annex. In addition, specific tasks such as review of progress reports, procurement and
disbursement actions, audit reviews, etc. have been estimated to require a total of four staff
weeks of various specialist inputs per annum, which are not included in Table 1.
2.           Borrower's Contribution to Supervision:
(a)    Progress reports would be submitted twice a year, in March and September; they
would comprise a summary of implementation under each project component, as
well as financial tables. The Education Project Directorate (EPD) would collect
inputs from each responsible Directorate and prepare the reports.
(b)    Once a year, in October, a joint Government/Donor review covering all aspects
of the project would be held on the basis of a preparatory report for the annual
review prepared by EPD by end-September. This report would include
(i) performance in project achievements, (ii) the one-year program for the
upcoming fiscal year, (iii) the status of policy reform indicators, (iv) a draft
budget for the sector for the upcoming year, (v) the actual budget law when
issued, and (vi) the budget as executed. A mid-term project review would also
be held in September 1994.
(d)    The EPD would be responsible for coordinating arrangements for IDA and donor
supervision missions and for providing information to them.
(e)    Mission briefings and wrap-up meetings would be chaired by the Director of
DEP ("Direction des Etudes et de la Planification") of MEBAM, and include all
MEBAM and MESSRS Directors concerned, as well as the key staff of the
Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Planning.
3.           Cofinanciers' contribution to supervision. Cofinanciers would share supervision
tasks with IDA, as follows: (a) the October joint annual review would be a large multi-donor
supervision mission, where the skills brought by the different donors are complementary; and
(b) separate, focused supervision missions would be conducted throughout the year, with full
consultations on TORs, aide-memoires, and results.



-124-
ANNX 41
Page 2 of 2
TABLE                IDA SUPERVISION INPUT INTO KEY ACTVTIES
ACTIVITY                        SKILLS REQUIREMENTS           STAFF-
WEEKS
05/91       REVIEW OF ARRANGEMENTS FOR PROJECT       -EDUCATION  PLANNER                   5
EFFECTIVENESS PROJECT.                   -EDUCATOR
-CIVIL WORKS/IMPLEMENTATION
10/91       PROJECT LAUNCH SEMINAR                   -EDUCATION PLANNER                    6
INCLUDING ALL DONORS TO FINALIZE         -CIVIL WORKS/IMPLEMENTATION
IMPLEMENTATION PLAN AND REVIEW START-   -EDUCATOR
UP, MANAGEMENT MONITORING PROCUREMENT
DOCUMENTS AND FIRST JOINT REVIEW
2/92       SUPERVISION MISSION                       -TEXTBOOKS SPECIALIST                4
-EDUCATION PLANNER
-SPECIALIST HEALTH EDUCATOR
IMPLEMENTATION SPECIALIST
7/92       SUPERVISION MISSION                       -EDUCATOR                            3
-EDUCATION PLANNER
10/92       SECOND JOINT REVIEW                      -EDUCATION PLANNER
-ECONOMIST
-CIVIL WORK/IMPLEMENTATION
2/93       SUPERVISION MISSION                       -TEXTBOOKS SPECIALIST                3
-NUTRITION & HEALTH SPECIALIST
7/93       SUPERVISION MISSION                       -EDUCATION PLANNER                   8
-CIVIL WORK/IMPLEMENTATION
-EDUCATOR
10/93       THIRD JOINT REVIEW                       -ECONOMIST                            6
-EDUCATION PLANNER
-CIVIL WORKS/IMPLEMENTATION
1994       TWO SUPERVISION MISSION AND MID-TERM    -EDUCATION PLANNER                     12
JOINT REVIEW, AS IN 1993
1995       TWO SUPERVISION MISSION AND ONE JOINT   -ECONOMIST                             6
REVIEW AS IN 1993                        -EDUCATION PLANNER
-CIVIL WORKS
1996       TWO SUPERVISION MISSION AND ONE JOINT
REVIEW AS IN 1993
12/97       C0MPLETION MISSION
b:annex4.1 re



-125-
ANIIEX 4-2A
rage X or 8
X                  ha    ifz



-126-                ANNEX42
Page 2 of 8
;1@t|g t 
I                                     ii U]}3  
i]l      |ll                                 .1']1s      llgif 
i;  ^   1  t?    1   g  i 4    i?      j  |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
_ 1_
_1:                I! l.                              I



*    ..           ~~-        -       m
PrJe  Cwgom_            Fild of Sft*dyFy  of   Nwmer  Locd        Total    Timg              Summay of
Senar                  of       or        Man-                      Reponsibiitis
Ptmu Fop M
7. Mbdmfk of sdoot           2  Fo             18  1991 sd 1993    To  pevise sUaff ian
inuumt and                                                          the prepaation aid
mbicmom  evauation                                                  use of evaluio
.--
B_ulm  avdII   1. Word ProsI                  2       Lca        2           11          Type teuboob uld
of tezabo ad                                                                                 _taing materials
NbI__marb                                                                                    mam4
2. SIais to trDa        3,000    Local      120     Aru9ly 1992   To usw  e new
tleache I t  on md                                 to 199             aching materin
cae of do m1                                                        schools
0 .
WO,



Project COnyOMz        Field of SudyArype of   Number  Local    Total    rmig             Summary of
Seminar               of        or       Man-                      Responsibilities
Pesons  Foreig    Months
3. Desktop publishing    2      Foreigp     2           1991       To help with dhe
design and prepare the
presentation of
manuscripts for the
new maials
4. Illustration and      2      Foreign    20          1992        To prepare
_Pr a managemetillustrations for
educational mateials
and manage prntshp
5. Lducational           3      Foreign    30          1992        To evaluate and train
material evaluation                                                other staff in the
evaluation of
educational materials
o0
6. Advanced raiing       6      Foreign     15     1992 and 1993   To manage the
for textbooks                                                      development and
management staff in                                                production of
edorial and prducio                                                educational materials
7. Warhuing and          2       Local      12     1992 and 1993   To warehouse and
stock conaol for the                                              receive and distribute
staff of DAAF                                                      educational materials
S. Seminas on book      100      Local     20      1992 and 1993   To supervise the
rental and disribution                                             rental of textbooks in
0c z
in all the insprate                                                the various
offices                                                           inspectorate offices
COI1



Project Compoet        Field of Study/Type of   Number  Local    Total    Timing          Summary of
Seminar               of        or       Man-                      Responsibilities
Personm   Foreign  Months
C. Inaing the          1. Poject launch         60      Local      8           1991       To supervise
Number of Primary      seminar for the school                                             implementation of the
Scbool Pac:es          conuction component                                                school construedon
component
2. Regional Seminas     140      Local      14     1991, 1993 and  To inform all regional
1995            and local authorities
3. Study Tour            2      Foreign    20      1991 and 1993   To examine other
project activities
4. Facility0 lanning     2      Foreign     12     1992 and 1994   To train key staff of
the facility planning
office
S. Ntional Seminar       60      Local      8          1992        To familiarize MEN
staff with the
maintenance system
6. RIegional Semina      70      Local      7        1992-1996    To introduce the
maintenance gtiides
0 1
I 0
00D P;



-~~~~~3 a 
I~iLl l!F IS |I F              
U.~~~~~~~
8_@8________________ 
i ~_               _ _ _ _i
__      ___     __-



Proet COuPOM            Field of Swdyfype of   Nugmber  Ica        Tol       imn              Summ     of
Seminar                of        or       Man-                       Responsibilities
Persons  Forei   Mouvh
3.  1iVg dhe
_ingling of
o daMI an  rlI
A. Set         Ibo      1. Eduationa Manning       I     Foreign     10           1992       To hep with the
pliqwd                                                                                        planing of basic
n --agti Cquape of                                                                           educaion
MED-AM
2. Educatonl nd           2      Fordp       15      1992 and 1993   To collect and andalyze
ugrpb c statistics                                                   educaional and
demographic data for
pianning
3. Fonouucs of            I      Foig        10          1994        To hep with policy
education                                                            development and
plaing of educatin
4, Sdcool Mappi           I      Forei       10          1994        To prepre scwhool
maps for basic
oducatko
---                                                                  a
I!



Projec Compont         Field of Studyrlype of  Number  Local    Total    Timing          Summary of
Seminar               of       or       Man-                      Responsibilities
Person   Foreign   Months
DevDeopin the          I. Computer based        2      Foreign    4       1991 and 1992   To uwe computer
pann capacity of        _         training                                               program for
MESRS                                                                                    management of higher
educaon felowhips
2. _ducational planning  I     Foreign     9           1992       To assist with
3. FAtIonal statidcs     I     Foreign     9                      planning of secondary
4. R _omocs of           I     Foreign     9                      and higher education
educato
S. Manaee  of            6     Foreign     22      1991 a  1992   To manage the
hir  education                                                    university of
Ouagadougou
C. B*W Coordination  1. Projet auI_ch          60      Local      10          1991       To accelerate project
X  Sanioar                                                       implementation
2. Semina for regional    40    La         7        1991-1994     To familirize regional
_nthoritis                                .autorities with
project objectives and
procedures
3. Obsvatory visits      2     Foreign     3        1991-1995     To improve efficiency
and collouium                                                     of implementation
methods
OD
____      -      -   -~~~~~~~ -                   ______________  ~~~~~~~~o1*b



FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Summary of Local and Foreign Specialist Services
Project Component      Specialist Services   No. of   LtF       Total    Period
Persons  FIM/    Man-    From    To
__________________.________________  ____ INDIV   months
1. Improving the
Quality and Access to
Primary Education
I . I Improving Quality
(a) upgrading the quality  Training Specialists  I       F        2      1992t93 and
of teachers            (Twinning)             (one)    FIRM              1993194
(b) restructuring the  Student Assessment       2        F        2.5    1992/93 and
student evaluation     (Twinning)                      FIRM              1993/94
system
1.2 Increasing the    Textbooks Evaluation      I        F        4      1991/92 and
Availability of                                        FIRM              1992/93
Textbooks
Book Rental              1        L        2      1992193
Publishing Services      I        F        3      1991/92 and
FIRM             1992/93
1.3 Increasing the    National Coordinator      I        L        60    1991/92-                  9
Number of Primary                                      INDIV             1995/96                                     o 1
School Classrooms
Short-term Specialists   2        F        15    1991/92-
INDIV             1995196
Coordinator of           7        L       420    1991192-
Regional Construction           FIRM              1995196



_____________ ._______                 _I.        _ FPefso     PIMI    Man    |From    To
|     | INDIV        mots
Building Speciall:       14        L        840    1991/92-
FIRM              1995196
Low Cost Building         2        F        15     1991/92-
Specialists                      INDIV             1995196
Preparation of            1        F        12     1991/92 and
C-struction Guides               FIRM              1992/93
Preparation of School     I        F         6     1991/1993
Building Maintenance             FIRM
Guides
Development of School     I        F         2     1992/1993
Maintenance Manuals              FIRM
1.4 Promoting Female    Participation             I        F        3      1992/93 and
Participation          Antpologist                      INDIV              1994/95
1.5 Providing a Regular   Textbooks Loan          I        L        2      1992/1993                                   en
Supply of Low-Cost     Scheme                            INDIV
Textbooks and Teaching
Materials              Textbooks Procurement      I        F        2      1991/92 and
Specialist                       FIRM              199?J93
1.6 Upgrading          Training Specialist        1        L        1      1992/1993
Secndary Educadon                                       INDIV
Teacher Skills



Project Component      Specialist Services    No. of   LIF       Total    Period
Persons  FIMI    Man-    From    To
.  .       INDIV    months
Preparation of Audio-              F        -      199211993
Visual Materials                 FIRM
(Twinning)
Development of Special             F       1.5    1992/1993
Training Courses                 FIRM
Support in the Field               F        1      1993/1994
FIRt
1.7 Further Developing   Short-term Specialists  4        F        18    1991 to                                           _
the Planming and       in Educational                   FIRM              1994/95
Management Capacity of  Financing, Statistics,
MEBAM                  Policy and
Documentation
School Mapping           I        F         6
FIRM              1992/93 and
1993/94
1.8 Developing the     Installation of           I        F        2
Planing and            Computer System for              FIRM              1992193                                     X
Management Capacity of  Managing Student                                                                              W
MESSRS                 Fellowships                                                 .                                  o
Insallation of           1        F         3
Computer Management              FIRM             1992193
Systemn for the
University



Project Component      Specialist Services    No. of   LIF      Total    Period
Persons  FIMI    Man-    From    To
INDIV    months
Development of a         4        F        23     1992/93 and
Strategy for                    FIRM              1993194
Development of
Seondary/Higher
Education + Technical
Education and
Vocational Training
1.9 Education Project    Short-Term Consultants  2        F       27     1991192-
Directorate            in Management and                FIRM              1997/98
Auditing
Project Preparation               F        24     1993/94-
INDIV             1997/98
Administrator            I        L        72    1991192
INDIV             1996/97
0Q z
0 I
LEGEND: L    = Local
F    = ForeignlInstitution
FIRM = FIRM
INDIV = INDIVIDUALS



Disbursemnt Profilo/Protfi d. D.bouruemonts
Peot mI. Protil
Disbura.ents/ Deboursments                Coumtry
al I$ Sctorh/
IDA Fiscal yearr                                                Tou Socteurs a
and Quart.rs/      By Quart.r/       Cmulativ./       ProJect/ lo'.chll. du
Anneql budg.talros Par trimestre    Cumuiatif         Projet   pey
IDA et tristres  (US$ Million)    (US$ Million)           (3)      (5)
1992        1                 0.6            9.6       2.55      .OX
2               9.6             1.2        5.6X     6.65
9               0.6             1.8        7.65      3.6
4               6.6             2.4       19.65     6.6X
1993        1                1.0             8.4      14.2X      C.6
2               1.0             4.4       16.8X    16. ex      0
3               1.2             6.6       28.8     12.60       0.9        stimt Projeco Oilbareut rofl<.I  
4               1.2             0.8       28.85    14.6X                 Profit estimtit des dlbeurst.its du prolet
* 0.60f 
1994        1                1.2             8.0       3.3x    16.65    j
2               1.2             9.2       SO.=a    22.0 '      0.7 -
3               1.2            10.4       43.SX    20.5 ox
4               1.2            11.6       48.3X    36.50                 
g 0.6                                                                                     -4i   
19S         1               1.5            13.1      64.65    36.el
2               1.6            14.6       60.83    42.65       0 O
3               1.6            16.1       67.15    40.95 e     0.x
4               1.6            17.6       73.31   56.65  
OX   0.4 -f
1996  1  1.2  10.8      73.35    54.65 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0.4                             1q11tgino sector Profile/
1998        1                1.2            18.8      t8.8X1   54.011                               rrotil do escur a i'Ecbele rEtlonle
2               1.2            20.0       83.35    58.61                               r 0
3               1.0            21.6       87.655    64.0 e 
4               1.0            22.9       91.7x    79.05 :
1997        1                6.6            22.5      93.75 ?04.O           0.2 -
2               O.5            23.0       95.81    78.6 _5
3               6.4            28.4       97.51   82.0         0.1
4               0.4            23.8       99.25   83.065
1998        1                0.1            23.9      99.65X   90.9            1992      1993      1994      1995       1996      1997      1998      1999
2               0.0            23.9        9.e6    94.6X
3               0.1            24.0      166.6X    90.06                                   Fiscal yenrI/Amhs bodaftainrs                         on 
4               0.0            24.0      100.06    98.0X                      uuig creduit effectiveaoss du04 the first quarter of FT92/
Awec I 'hypthIse qua l* crEdit eserte on wheurs an canre do e
1999  1                                            99.95                              pr_sicr tiawgtr. do I'_ bgtaire. 92.
2                                                 196".65                                                                                         0t h



BURKINA FASO                                                                         A                                                                                              A  ..o..
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                  .                                                                                    OlIrI,
QUATRIEME PROJET D'EDUCATION                                                                                       /                                                            | )          ' '  G                         I
V     ~                                                ;  -'- _D                                              w\ Q                      0,
0    20   20   60    80   I00                         S)\.)  tXR!A'  -  c
(ADOEETERS
R      A, ,,  t7 5
T ,EoT 2                                                                               ,                                                  4}           
(~ ~  2 j  .                                                                                                0 ,   X   0G  H  A  N  A
~~~*   dl                  <   1             \                     Cl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ PROVINCIAL DIRECTORATES Of T,F MINISIR\' Of BASIC EDUCAIION 6 -ASS IITERACI  PAVED ROADS  ',k    AleN  CAf 'I.
+   > /                 <            _ e G o o v o ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~ P R M A IP   TA C H ERTRA I N I N   ( O I H GEAS S      R O U T F S   N O N'F   1A       F .'5
w>   --  =  t [2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E  ECAIFIENCRrIAtDEN5E,GNE.ENTPRIMAIRE(ENEPI, RAROD  EJ'ti;R 
- ID  TO Abiden F                                                 t.  A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NTENNES REGIORAIES (POUR CONSTRUC TIO)N r ECOItS,      AHEIR   D FRT                 NlFR-'S  I:.X>tE               ,
n >- ~~~~~~~ wt ? 1 11 ~~~~~~~~~INTRgDUCTION DE  DOUb/E ACAATCOHN A TTORNE EkFR6IWNTA                                             R IVERS 5__,[1N yfONA. 
\ .. . ....... . 5   .'   >    t.p   d6>   7   .W,   Ob.^   ;  ,.^n.,  oE, .......... PKC s Nwf SunMIS      A        f       .        ft
Ii-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....I                                                                                               R,N -DK,



