Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
AGREEMENT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2244 BUR
Norwegian Grant Agreement
(Fourth Education Project)
between
BURKINA FASO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of development
aid funds provided by
the Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs of
the Kingdom of Norway
Dated September 18, 1991
AGREEMENT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2244 BUR
NORWEGIAN GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 18, 1991, between BURKINA FASO (the "Grantee") and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) acting as Administrator (the 
"Administrator") of the Norwegian Grant (as hereinafter defined) provided by the Royal 
Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Norway ("Norway").
WHEREAS (A) the Grantee has requested the assistance of the Association and 
Norway in the financing of its Fourth Education Project (the "Project");
(B)
Norway has agreed to make available a grant (the "Norwegian Grant") 
through the Administrator to the Grantee to assist in the financing of the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set 
forth;
(C)
by an agreement between Norway and the Association (the "Administration 
Agreement"), Norway has requested the Association, and the Association has accepted, 
to administer the Norwegian Grant in accordance with the provisions of the 
Administration Agreement;
(D)
the Grantee acknowledges that the financial assistance extended to the 
Page  2
Grantee under this agreement (the "Norwegian Grant Agreement") shall be considered as 
part of the bilateral development aid extended by Norway to the Grantee; and
(E)
the Administrator has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing 
to extend the Norwegian Grant to the Grantee in support of the Project, upon the terms 
and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (the "General Conditions") constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement subject, however, to the following modifications 
thereof:
(a)
the term "Association", whenever used in the General Conditions, means 
the International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Norwegian 
Grant pursuant to the Administration Agreement, except in the phrase "member of the 
Association" in Sections 2.01 (5), 4.02 (b) and 6.02 (e); 
(b)
the term "Development Credit Agreement", whenever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Norwegian Grant Agreement;
(c)
the term "Credit", whenever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Norwegian Grant;
(d)
the term "Credit Account", whenever used in the General conditions, means 
the trust account opened by the Administrator in its books in the name of the Grantee 
to which the amount of the Norwegian Grant is credited (the "Trust Account");
(e)
in Section 6.02 the term "Association" shall also include the Association 
acting in its own capacity;
(f)
Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read: 
 
"(c)
Not later than six months after the Closing Date, or such later 
date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Grantee and the Administrator, 
the Grantee shall prepare  and furnish to the Administrator a report of such scope and 
in such detail as the 
Administrator shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Project referred to in the 
Preamble to the Norwegian Grant 
Agreement, the performance by the Grantee and the 
Administrator of 
their respective obligations under the Norwegian Grant Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Norwegian Grant."; and
(g)
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04, 4.06, 6.05, 7.01, 8.01 
(a), and Article XII are deleted.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the Administration 
Agreement, and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (c) of 
this Agreement; 
(b)
"Norwegian Kroner" or "NOK" means the currency of Norway; and
 
(c)
"FCFA" means the currency of the Grantee.
 
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Grantee, on the terms 
Page  3
and conditions herein set forth or referred to, a grant in an amount of twenty-five 
million Norwegian Kroner (NOK 25,000,000) or such other amount as shall have been made 
available by Norway to the Administrator for this purpose pursuant to the 
Administration Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Norwegian Grant may be withdrawn from the 
Trust Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as 
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Grantee and 
the Administrator for expenditures made (or if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of the goods and services required for the 
Project.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the 
Grantee on goods and services or in the importation, manufacture, procurement or 
supply thereof.
(c)
The Grantee shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
FCFA a special account (the "Special Account") in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Administrator. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Consultants and experts acceptable to the Administrator shall 
be employed by the Grantee on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator 
for the provision of services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Norwegian 
Grant. Such consultants and
experts shall be selected in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the 
Administrator on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" (the Guidelines), published by 
the Bank in August 1981. No substitution of such consultants and experts or 
modification of the terms and conditions of their employment shall be made except with 
the prior consent of the Administrator.
(b)
Goods and works to be financed out of the proceeds of the Norwegian Grant 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures satisfactory 
to the Administrator on the basis of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans 
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985. 
(c)
Items or groups of items estimated to cost not more than the equivalent 
of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000) per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed the equivalent of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000), may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from 
at least three suppliers, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the 
Association.
(d)
If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that the 
procurement of any item is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to 
in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) above, no expenditures for such item shall be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Norwegian Grant, and the Administrator may, without in any 
way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Administrator 
under this Agreement, by notice to the Grantee, cancel such amount of the Norwegian 
Grant as, in the Administrator's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such  
Expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Norwegian Grant.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998, or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Grantee of 
such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Grantee declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency, and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and 
Page  4
educational practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Grantee shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Grantee responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Grantee shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator, as soon as available, but in any 
case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the 
Administrator shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Administrator 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Trust 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Grantee shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Trust Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator's representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that said accounts and records shall be audited on a 
semiannual basis 
by said auditors, who shall prepare audit reports 
accordingly and furnish them 
to the Association, not later than three 
(3) months after the end of such 
semiannual audit period, along 
with an opinion as to whether the statements of 
expenditure 
submitted during such period, together with the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support 
the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Representative; Transfer of Rights
and Obligations
Section 5.01. The Minister of the Grantee responsible for Planning shall be the 
representative of the Grantee for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Grantee:
Page  5
Ministere du Plan et de la Cooperation
B. P. 7050
Ouagadougou
Burkina Faso
Telex:
5555 SEGEGOUV
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
Section 5.03. In accordance with the provisions of the Administration Agreement, 
the rights and obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement may be 
transferred to Norway. The Grantee accepts and agrees that, upon notice by the 
Administrator to the Grantee to that effect, Norway shall, ipso facto, from the date 
specified in such notice, be substituted in all rights and obligations of the 
Administrator under this Agreement as if Norway had been an original party to this 
Agreement, without any further action or formality required on the part of any party, 
and from such date the Administrator shall cease to have any rights or obligations as 
a party under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall become effective as of the date first above 
written or the date of the Administration Agreement, whichever is the later, and shall 
continue in effect until the Norwegian Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties 
to this Agreement have fulfilled their obligations under this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives 
thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
BURKINA FASO
By /s/ Paul Desire Kabore
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
   as Administrator of the Norwegian Grant
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
Page  6
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
     NOK)
to be Financed
 
(1)
Textbooks 
   23,000,000
100%
Primary
Schools
(Part C.2
only)
(2)
Health and
    2,000,000
100%
First Aid
Supplies
(Part C.4
only)
TOTAL
   25,000,000
 
SCHEDULE 2
Description
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Grantee in the further 
development of good quality basic education, in increasing enrollment therein from 31% 
in 1989-90 to 40% by 1996-97, in improving the quality of general secondary education, 
and in strengthening institutional capacities in the education sector.
The Project consists of an investment program complemented by key policy 
measures, and comprises the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as 
the Grantee and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives.
Part A:
Improving Resource Allocation and Efficiency in the Sector
 
1.
Increasing the teaching cadre through the recruitment of an average of about 950 
teachers annually until 1996-1997, increasing the supply of textbooks and teaching 
materials, and the services of inspectors needed to improve the quality, and expanding 
the enrollment rate of primary education from 31% in 1989-1990 to 40% by 1996-1997.
2.
Introducing and generalizing multigrade teaching in a minimum of 840 classrooms 
over the Project period.
3.
Introducing a double-shift system in a minimum of 590 classrooms over the 
Project period and, following an evaluation, generalizing the system.
Part B:
Promoting Private Sector Initiatives in Education
 
1.
Promoting private sector initiatives by removing ceilings on fees charged by 
private and community schools.
2.
Increasing access of private and community schools to low-cost textbooks and 
teaching materials, pre-service and in-service teaching and inspectorate services, and 
strengthening their operations in respect of school calendars, curricula, teacher 
qualifications and student assessments.
Part C:
Improving the Quality of and Increasing Access to Primary Education
 
1.
Improving the quality of teaching by upgrading the skills of about 4,000 
Page  7
teachers, strengthening primary school management and teacher supervision through the 
training of about 2,000 school directors and 200 new school inspectors and advisers, 
and revising the student assessment and examination system. 
2.
Increasing the availability of quality textbooks and teaching materials through 
completion of the publishing program under the Primary Education Development Project, 
improvement of the quality of textbooks and teaching materials, strengthening of the 
distribution system, and introduction of a book rental scheme. 
3.
Increasing the number of primary school places through the improvement of 
construction and management skills of selected communities and the construction of 
about 1,200 classrooms and the rehabilitation of about 300 classrooms by such 
communities.
4.
Improvement of students' health and nutrition through the reinforcement of 
school health and nutrition programs and the provision of micro-nutrients and 
deworming tablets.
5.
Promoting female student participation in education, in accordance with the 
findings of studies under Part F below.
Part D:
Improving the Quality of General Secondary Education
 
1.
Upgrading the skills of teachers through enhanced training and the provision of 
equipment and supplies for the pre-service training course at the National Institute 
for the Science of Education and in-service training for about 2,000 teachers.
2.
Strengthening the Secondary School Inspectorate through training and logistical 
support for its staff.
3.
Establishing a system for ensuring a regular supply of low-cost textbooks and 
teaching materials in secondary schools, including a textbook loan scheme and 
revolving fund for textbook re-supply.
Part E:
Institutional Strengthening in the Sector
 
Strengthening of the capacities of MEBAM, MESSRS and the University in 
policy-making and project implementation, and improving operational efficiency.
Part F:
Studies
 
A program of studies relating to the sector, including studies on: (a) 
constraints on female student participation in the education system and measures to 
address these constraints, and (b) strategies for the development of technical 
education and vocational training.
* * * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "Category" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $250,000 
to be withdrawn from the Trust Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
Page  8
2.
Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to the Administrator 
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as 
follows: 
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Grantee for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Administrator shall, on behalf of the Grantee, deposit into the Special Account such 
amount or amounts out of the proceeds of the Grant as the Grantee shall have 
requested.
(b)
The Grantee shall furnish to the Administrator requests for replenishment 
of the Special Account at such intervals as the Administrator shall specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Administrator shall deposit into the Special Account such 
amounts out of the proceeds of the Grant as shall be required to replenish the Special 
Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit shall be made by the 
Administrator in the respective equivalent amount, as shall have been justified by the 
evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Grantee out of the Special Account for which the 
Grantee requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Grantee shall furnish to the Administrator, prior to or at the time of such request, 
such documents and other evidence as the Administrator shall reasonably request, 
showing that such payment was made for Eligible
Expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Administrator when 
either of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals of the 
Grant proceeds should be made directly to the 
Grantee; or
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall be equal to the 
equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
 
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawals of the Grant proceeds remaining unwithdrawn shall 
follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Grantee. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice have been or will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Grantee shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Administrator, deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Administrator shall so request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further 
deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account shall be made until the Grantee 
has made such deposit or refund.
7.
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Eligible Expenditures, the Grantee shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator, 
refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount which will be added to the 
unwithdrawn amount of the Grant.
Page  9
