Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2244 BUR
(Fourth Education Project)
between
BURKINA FASO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 5, 1991
CREDIT NUMBER 2244 BUR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 5, 1991, between BURKINA FASO (the Borrower) and the 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Kingdom of Norway, the European 
Economic Community, acting through the European Development Fund (EDF), and Canada, 
acting through the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), grants in 
respective amounts of twenty-five million Norwegian Kroner (NKr 25,000,000), six 
million European Currency Units (ECU 6,000,000) and ten million Canadian dollars 
(Can$10,000,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set 
forth in agreements to be entered into in this regard between the Borrower, on the one 
hand, and Norway, EEC and CIDA, respectively, on the other; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
Page  2
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
"CFAF" or "CFA Franc" means the currency of the Borrower;
 
(b)
"Project Directorate" means the Education Project Directorate within 
MEBAM;
(c)
"MEBAM" means Ministere de l'Enseignement de Base et de l'Alphabetisation 
de Masse;
(d)
"MESSRS" means Ministere des Enseignements Secondaire, Superieur et de la 
Recherche Scientifique; and
(e)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
Section 1.03. Unless the context otherwise requires, any reference in this 
Agreement to a year shall be construed as a reference to a school year.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seventeen million eight hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 17,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of this Section and of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project, 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFA Francs a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
Page  3
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
February 15 and August 15, commencing August 15, 2001 and ending February 15, 2031. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 15, 2011 shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the  Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
economic, financial, administrative and pedagogical practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and, except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Page  4
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The communities to benefit from the schools to be constructed 
under Part C.3 of the Project shall be selected by the Borrower pursuant to criteria 
agreed with the Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Directorate is at all 
times staffed with a Project Director, an administrator in charge of monitoring of 
Project implementation, a procurement specialist, a construction specialist and an 
accountant, all of whom shall have qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Association.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall, not later than 
September 30, 1992 and, thereafter, not later than September 30 of each subsequent 
year, undertake a joint review of the Project or, in the case of the review to be 
undertaken not later than September 30, 1994, a mid-term review, during which they 
will exchange views on matters relating to the progress of the Project and the 
performance by the Borrower of its obligations under this Agreement.
(b)
Not later than one month prior to each such review, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association, for its comments, a report on the progress and status of 
the Project, and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c)
Following each such review, the Borrower undertakes to act promptly and 
diligently, in order to take any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any 
shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project, or to implement such other 
measures as may have been agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of the 
objectives of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, audited for each 
fiscal year in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;  
Page  5
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that said accounts and records shall be audited on a 
semiannual basis 
by said auditors, who shall prepare audit reports 
accordingly and furnish them 
to the Association, not later than three 
(3) months after the end of such 
semiannual audit period, along 
with an opinion as to whether the statements of 
expenditure 
submitted during such period, together with the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support 
the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that:
(a)
Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section: 
 
(i)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any loan or 
grant made 
to the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have 
been suspended, 
cancelled or terminated, in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms thereof, 
or
 
(ii)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof. 
 
(b)
Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (i) such suspension, cancellation, 
termination or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any 
of its obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 
5.01 (a) (ii) of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) 
of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions: 
(a)
The Borrower has:
 
(i)
submitted to the Association, for its review and comments, the 
findings of the 
two studies concerning, respectively, the 
establishment and operation of the 
schools referred to in paragraph 
4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, and the 
proposed liberalization of 
fees charged by such schools; and
(ii)
raised the ceiling applicable to such fees by not less than ten 
percent (10%) 
with effect from 1991-92.
 
Page  6
(b)
The auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement have been 
appointed, and the accounting system of the Project Directorate duly adapted to meet 
the requirements specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower has submitted a plan, acceptable to the Association, for the 
introduction, with effect from 1991-92, of a book rental scheme for primary schools, 
which shall include provisions for: (i) the purchase and distribution of textbooks on 
a rental basis to primary school students; (ii) the continued operation of a Textbook 
Fund to ensure a continuous supply of
textbooks for students; and (iii) measures to supplement the resources of the Textbook 
Fund, through appropriate budgetary allocations, in accordance with paragraph 6 (b) of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this Agreement 
shall cease on the date on which this Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty 
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier. 
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Borrower's Minister responsible for Planning is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere du Plan et de la Cooperation
B. P. 7050
Ouagadougou
Burkina Faso
Telex:
5555 SEGEGOUV
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
BURKINA FASO
Page  7
By /s/ Paul Desire Kaboree
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
                       Amount of the
                     Credit Allocated      % of
                      (Expressed in    Expenditures
   Category           SDR Equivalent) to be Financed
(1)  Civil works          300,000       100%
(2)  Construction of
     classrooms:
     (a) materials      3,480,000       100%
     (b) grants for     1,480,000       100%
         labour costs
(3)  Grants for           450,000       100%
     rehabilitation
     (including materials
     and labour)
(4)  Furniture,         3,480,000       100%
     vehicles, equip-
     ment, office
     supplies
(5)  Pedagogical        3,630,000       100%
     materials
(6)  Specialists'       1,780,000       100%
     services
(7)  Training             900,000       100%
(8)  Operating costs      670,000       80%
(9)  Unallocated        1,630,000
                       __________
         TOTAL         17,800,000
                       ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "operating costs" means the 
incremental costs arising under the Project on account of local staff allowances, 
maintenance of vehicles, fuel and equipment, and office rent, supplies and services. 
Page  8
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in the further 
development of good quality basic education, in increasing enrollment therein from 31% 
in 1989-90 to 40% by 1996-97, in improving the quality of general secondary education, 
and in strengthening institutional capacities in the education sector.
The Project consists of an investment program complemented by key policy 
measures, and comprises the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as 
the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives.
Part A:
Improving Resource Allocation and Efficiency in the Sector
 
1.
Increasing the teaching cadre through the recruitment of an average of about 950 
teachers annually until 1996-1997, increasing the supply of textbooks and teaching 
materials, the services of inspectors needed to improve the quality and expanding the 
enrollment rate of primary education from 31% in 1989-1990 to 40% by 1996-1997.
2.
Introducing and generalizing multigrade teaching in a minimum of 840 classrooms 
over the Project period.
3.
Introducing a double-shift system in a minimum of 590 classrooms over the 
Project period and, following an evaluation, generalizing the system.
Part B:
Promoting Private Sector Initiatives in Education
 
1.
Promoting private sector initiatives by removing ceilings on fees charged by 
private and community schools. 
2.
Increasing access of private and community schools to low-cost textbooks and 
teaching materials, pre-service and in-service teaching and inspectorate services, and 
strengthening their operations in respect of school calendars, curricula, teacher 
qualifications and student assessments.
Part C:
Improving the Quality of and Increasing Access to Primary Education
 
1.
Improving the quality of teaching by upgrading the skills of about 4,000 
teachers, strengthening primary school management and teacher supervision through the 
training of about 2,000 school directors and 200 new school inspectors and advisers, 
and revising the student assessment and examination system.
2.
Increasing the availability of quality textbooks and teaching materials through 
completion of the publishing program under the Primary Education Development Project, 
improvement of the quality of textbooks and teaching materials, strengthening of the 
distribution system, and introduction of a book rental scheme. 
3.
Increasing the number of primary school places through the improvement of 
construction and management skills of selected communities and the construction of 
about 1,200 classrooms and the rehabilitation of about 300 classrooms by such 
communities.
4.
Improvement of students' health and nutrition through the reinforcement of 
school health and nutrition programs and the provision of micro-nutrients and 
deworming tablets.
5.
Promoting female student participation in education, in accordance with the 
findings of studies under Part F below. 
Part D:
Improving the Quality of General Secondary Education
 
Page  9
1.
Upgrading the skills of teachers through enhanced training and the provision of 
equipment and supplies for the pre-service training course at the National Institute 
for the Science of Education and in-service training for about 2,000 teachers.
2.
Strengthening the Secondary School Inspectorate through training and logistical 
support for its staff.
3.
Establishing a system for ensuring a regular supply of low-cost textbooks and 
teaching materials in secondary schools, including a textbook loan scheme and 
revolving fund for textbook re-supply.
Part E:
Institutional Strengthening in the Sector
 
Strengthening of the capacities of MEBAM, MESSRS and the University in 
policy-making and project implementation, and improving operational efficiency.
Part F:
Studies
 
A program of studies relating to the sector, including studies on: (a) 
constraints on female student participation in the education system and measures to 
address these constraints, and (b) strategies for the development of technical 
education and vocational training.
* * * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (8) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $600,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
Page  10
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the  respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.  
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or (b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding 
special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.  
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Page  11
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable:
 
(a)
contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost 
the equivalent of at least $200,000 equivalent; and
(b)
contracts for goods required over a period of several years, such as 
construction materials, will cover total requirements and provide for appropriate 
periodic deliveries. 
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Burkina Faso may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.  
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Contracts for civil works, and for the purchase of office supplies, estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract, as well as contracts for the 
purchase of school furniture, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent 
of $3,800,000 altogether, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding advertised locally, as described in paragraph 3.3 of the 
Guidelines and in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association, 
provided, however, that: (a) any procedure, under which bids above or below a 
predetermined assessment of bid values are automatically disqualified, is not 
permitted; (b) bidders are allowed not less than forty-five (45) days to submit bids; 
(c) evaluation criteria are clearly specified; (d) all bids are opened in public and 
bidders' representatives allowed to be present; (e) no preference margin is granted to 
domestic contractors, suppliers and manufacturers; (f) eligible foreign firms are not 
precluded from participation and are not required to be incorporated in Burkina Faso 
in order to participate in the bidding; (g) the bidding documents provide for 
security, to be provided by performance bond or bank guarantee, at the bidder's 
option, in an amount sufficient to protect the Borrower in case of breach of contract, 
and without any distinction or exception for foreign or local firms; and (h) prior to 
issuing the first call for bids, copy of a draft standard bidding document is 
submitted to the Association and found acceptable.
2.
Contracts for the purchase of furniture and equipment, estimated to cost less 
than the equivalent of $20,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
the equivalent of $800,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under 
the Guidelines and in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, as well as for the first contract subject to Part C.1 of this 
Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract. 
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Page  12
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals on the basis 
of statements of expenditure.  
2.
The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ such consultants and specialists as shall be agreed between the Borrower and 
the Association and whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall:
 
(a)
not later than March 31, 1992, furnish to the Association the draft rules 
governing:
(i)
the proposed standardized student assessment to be introduced in 
Grade 3 as a 
diagnostic tool to assess and compare student performance 
across the country, 
and identify problem areas in the curriculum 
prior to Grade 6; and
(ii)
the new design of the primary education certificate examination, 
which shall 
include an optional paper for those seeking admission to 
secondary level; and
(b)
following an exchange of views with the Association on such draft rules, 
proceed to have them adopted, not later than June 30, 1992, for actual implementation 
not later than beginning 1992-93.
2.
The Borrower shall, with effect from beginning 1991-92, take appropriate steps 
to implement the plan referred to in Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement.
3.
The Borrower shall, not later than beginning 1991-92,  proceed to implement an 
action plan, agreed upon with the Association and designed to reduce its expenditures 
on subsidies for students in secondary and higher education by five percent (5%) in 
1991-1992 and by ten percent (10%) annually, thereafter, until 1996-97, in accordance 
with a time table which shall have been agreed upon with the Association.
4.
The Borrower shall take appropriate steps, on the basis of the findings of 
studies referred to in Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement, to promote the 
establishment and operation of primary and secondary schools by individuals, private 
groups and communities and, to this end, shall:
     (a)  not later than December 31, 1991, announce its decision to de-control the 
fees charged by such schools with effect from 1992-93; and
     (b)  with effect from 1991-92, establish guidelines for the operation of such 
schools, and provide them with easy access to teacher training, textbooks, teacher 
guides and inspectorate services, with a view to maintaining minimum levels of quality 
and standards.
5.   The Borrower shall: (a) not later than April 30, 1992, submit a detailed plan 
acceptable to the Association, for the establishment and operation of a textbook loan 
Page  13
scheme for secondary school students, which shall include provisions for a revolving 
fund for the re-supply of textbooks in each secondary school; and (b) not later than 
beginning 1992-93, proceed to implement such plan. 
6.   The Borrower shall take appropriate steps to secure the resources required to 
improve the quality and increase the enrollment rate in primary schools and, to this 
end, shall, with effect from beginning 1991-92:
(a)
strengthen the teaching cadre in its primary schools through an actual 
increase in the number of teachers, as indicated below, for each of the following six 
years: 
Year:    
1991-92 1992-93 1993-94 1994-95 1995-96 1996-97
 
Increase
in no. of
Teachers:   
  660    750     870     1,000   1,130   1,260
 
(b)
allocate not less than six percent (6%) of the overall recurrent budget 
for basic education for teaching materials and textbooks, and for all other items of 
non-salary expenditure, in primary schools;
(c)
allocate such an amount for operational costs of primary school 
inspectors, as shall have been agreed upon with the Association; and
(d)
increase the primary school budget by an annual average of eight and a 
half percent (8.5%) in nominal terms, or such other percentage as may be appropriate, 
to meet the additional commitments involved in paragraphs (a) through (c) above. 
7.
The Borrower shall:
 
(a)
introduce and generalize multi-grade teaching in primary schools, 
beginning with a total of not less than 280 classrooms in 1992-93 and increasing 
progressively to not less than 560 classrooms in 1994-95 and not less than 840 
classrooms in 1996-97;
(b)
introduce a double-shift system, involving one teacher for two (2) 
cohorts of 55 pupils each and an appropriate salary supplement for teachers concerned, 
beginning with Grade 1 in 1992-93, and expanding annually one grade at a time, over 
the following five-year period, in order to attain, in terms of minimum number of 
classrooms, the targets set out below:
Year:         1992-93   1993-94  1994-95   1995-96   1996-97
No. of
classrooms:      60       140      250       400       590
(c)
have an evaluation of the double-shift system conducted in the context of 
the mid-term review referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement and, in the 
light of the results of such evaluation, take appropriate measures to generalize the 
system. 
8.
The Borrower shall:
 
(a)
have the studies on constraints to female participation in education 
completed not later than April 30, 1992, and the recommendations thereof discussed 
with the Association not later than September 30, 1992, and implemented with effect 
from beginning 1992-93; and
(b)
have the study on the development of vocational education and training 
completed not later than June 30, 1993, and the findings thereof submitted to, and 
discussed with, the Association and other donors who may be interested, not later than 
September 30, 1993.
Page  14
