Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19452
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
GAS UTILIZATION PROJECT
(Loan No. 3209-ID)
June 15, 1999
Energy & Mining Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by the recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of March 31, 1999)
Currency Unit    -    Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.0    =    Rp 10,400
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)            =      0.6124 miles (mi)
I ton                              1000 kilograms (kg)
1 standard cubic foot (CF)  =      0.028 cubic meter
1 British Thermal Unit (BTU) =     0.252 kilicalories
MCF                          =     thousand standard cubic feet
MMCF                         =     million standard cubic feet
M[MCFD                       =     million standard cubic feet per day
TCF                          -     trillion standard cubic feet
Borrower's Fiscal Year
April 1- March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
MM           -  Million
ERR          -  Economic Rate of Return
FIRR         -  Financial Internal Rate of Return
GOI          -  Govermment of Indonesia
MIGAS        -  Directorate of Oil and Natural Gas
LEMIGAS   -  Research and Development Center for
Oil and Gas Technology
TEKNOGAS -  Gas Technology Development Unit
PGN          -  PT. .Perusahaan Gas Negara (Persero)
(Sitate Gas Corporation)
PERTAMINA-  National Oil and Gas Company
UKDFID       -  United Kingdom's Department for International
Development
Regional Vice President    Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director        Mark Baird
Sector Manager          Yoshihiko Sumi
Task Manager            Salahuddin Khwaja



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GAS UTILIZATION PROJECT
(Loan No. 3209-IND)
Page No.
Table of Contents
PREFACE ....................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...............................................                                                  iii
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives ............................................1
B. Achievement of Objectives ............................................4
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project ............................................6
D. Project Sustainability ............................................8
E. Bank Performance ............................................9
F. Borrower Performance ...........................................                                           10
G. Assessment of Outcome ............................................11
H. Future Operation ........................................... .11
1. Key Lessons Learned ...........................................                                            12
PART I - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessment .15
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .16
Table 3: Project Timetable .16
Table 4: Loan Disbursements                                               .17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .17
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation                                       .17
Table 7: Studies included in the Project .18
Table 8A: Project Costs ...........................................                                           19
Table 8B: Project Financing ...........................................                                       20
Table 9A: Economic Rate of Return ...........................................                                 21
Table 9B: Financial Rate of Return ...........................................                                26
Table 9C: PGN  Financial Summary (1991-1998) ...........................................                      29
Table 9D: PGN's Fiscal Impact ...........................................                                     30
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants ...........................................                              31
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational.Manual Statements ...........................................  33
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...........................................                           33
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions ...........................................                               34
APPENDICES
A. Mission's Aide Memoire ...............................................                                     35
B. Borrower's Contribution ...............................................                                    45
MAP IBRD 30277
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
GAS UTILIZATION PROJECT
(Loan No. 3209-lND)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Gas Utilization Project in Indonesia,
for which Loan No. 3209-IND, in the amount of US$86.0 million equivalent was approved on May 31,
1990.
The loan was substantially closed on 31St December 1998, two years and three months behind
the scheduled closing date of 30th September 1996, except for Category 2 (b) of Schedule 1 of the Loan
Agreement which was closed on 31st March 1999 to enable the completion of equipment contracts which
had been delayed due to monetary crisis in the country. Cofinancing for the Project was provided by the
Department for International Development (DFID) of the UK government.
This ICR was prepared by S. Khwaja, Consultant Gas Specialist, EASEG and S. Shum, Senior
Financial Analyst, EASEG, and reviewed by M. Farhandi, Principal Energy Specialist, EASEG.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission in November,
1998. It is based on material in the Project file, findings of the ICR mission in March, 1999 and updated
project information provided by the Borrower. The Borrower also contributed to the preparation of ICR
by preparing own project completion report (attached as Appendix B), and commenting on the draft ICR.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
GAS UTILIZATION PROJECT
[LN. 3209-IND]
EVALUATION SUMM\VARY
Introduction.
i.    GOI's strategy of developing large-scale domestic markets for natural gas, as a substitute for oil,
particularly for power generation, industrial and commercial use was formulated with the help of four
Bank studies. These were: i) Energy Assessment Report of 1981, which flagged the potential of
Indonesia's alternative energy sources to economically substitute oil in domestic consumption in order to
maintain potential exports; ii) Gas Utilization Study of 1984, which supported expanded use of natural
gas in domestic consumption in a long-term perspective; iii) Gas Distribution Study of 1985, which
confirmed the potential for expanded gas distribution to small and medium industries, commercial entities
and households in urban areas; and iv) LPG Feasibility Study of 1985, which confirmed the economic
viability of LPG distribution more widely for household use. Later, in 1987, Bank's Energy Options
Review reiterated the important role of natural gas as a substitute for petroleum products to meet the
growing fuel requirements of the power, industrial and commercial sectors.
ii.   In 1986, Bank helped GOI design a project, called Gas Distribution Project, to support this
strategy through rehabilitation and expansion of gas distribution systems and development of gas markets
in the cities of Jakarta, Bogor (West Java) and Medan (North Sumatra), institution building of the
involved utility (PGN), and an energy pricing study. The agreement for a Bank loan (Loan No. 2690-
IND) for the project was signed in June 1986. The project was completed and the loan closed in July
1994. This was Bank's first lending operation in Indonesia's gas sub-sector. It was rated, by the
Operations Evaluation Department, as one of the seven best designed and implemented projects Bank
wide.
iii.   In 1990, to accelerate the utilization of natural gas in domestic energy consumption and
encouraged by the success of the ongoing Gas Distribution Project, GOI sought Bank support for a
similar project, called Gas Utilization Project, covering rehabilitation and expansion of gas distribution
systems and development of gas markets in Surabaya and twelve other towns in East Java and further
development in Medan in North Sumatra, along with institutional strengthening of the gas utility (PGN),
the Directorate General of Oil and Gas (MIGAS), and the Research and Development Center for Oil and
Gas Technology (LEMIGAS). The agreement for a Bank loan (Loan No. 3209- IND) for the Project was
signed on July 6, 1990. The Project was substantially completed and the loan was closed on December
31, 1998 except for Category 2 (b) of Schedule I of the Loan Agreement covering the establishment of
Gas Technology Development Unit (TEKNOGAS) in LEMIGAS. This category was closed on March 31,
1999 to enable the completion of equipment contracts which had been delayed due to theAsian financial
crisis.
Project Objectives.
iv.    The primary objective of the Project was to support GOI's initiative of diversifying domestic energy
consumption away from heavy reliance on petroleum products by substituting petroleum product fuels in



- i'{ -
power generation, industrial and commercial sectors with natural gas. It was to be pursued through: a) the
provision of an assured supply of natural gas, at competitive prices, to power plants, manufacturing
industries and commercial entities in Surabaya and twelve other towns in its vicinity in East Java and in
Medan in North Sumatra.; b) integration of gas utilization plans and operations to achieve economies of
scale in the development and operation of gas supply infrastructure; and c) institution building, technology
transfer and marketing studies to accelerate safe and efficient utilization of natural gas and to help define its
long-term development plans.
Specific objectives to be achieved under the Project were:
*  to promote the use of natural gas as fuel for power generation, manufacturing industries and
commercial entities by constructing new gas transmission and distribution facilities in project
areas;
*  to develop Indonesian expertise in long-term planning of gas utilization, optimization of gas
supply systems and management of expanding operations;
*  to develop and establish cost effective standards and codes of practices, appropriate to
Indonesian environment, and to promote establishment of a regulatory system for safe and
efficient utilization of natural gas;
*  to enhance the safety and efficiency of PGN's operations in Surabaya through the rehabilitation
and replacement of its out-dated pipeline networks; and
*  to reduce environmental pollution by promoting the use of gas which is a cleaner fuel than the
other fossil fuels it would replace.
Implementation Experience and Results.
v.    Until July 1997, project implementation had been highly satisfactory. All targets were either
achieved or surpassed. In East Java, where 90% of the investment was undertaken, potential demand for
natural gas was in the order of 300 MMCFD, compared with 100 MMCFD envisaged at project fornulation.
PGN's efficiency improvement programn had been implemented two years ahead of schedule. PGN
achieved a rate of return (ROR) on revalued net fixed assets in operation in excess of 20% from FY 92 to
FY 96, compared with a minimum of 10% covenanted under the loan. Gas losses had been maintained at
below 2% and despite an expanding construction program the staff employed (1,208) was well below the
agreed ceiling (1,44C0). Project implementation was delayed by 2 years and six months on account of a 9
month delay in twinning arrangement, a 2 years delay in supply of gas to East Java and a 6 months delay in
supply of equipment (for TEKNOGAS) on account of the financial crisis.
vi.    With the onset of the financial crisis (July 1997), profitability of PGN's gas marketing operations
were severely eroded as about 65% of its gas purchases were paid for in US dollars while all of its gas sales
were denominated in Rupiah. PGN's ROR fell below the covenanted rate to 1.0% for FY 97 and -12% for
FY 98, if adjusted for foreign exchange loss related to gas purchase. As part of the remedial measures, PGN
raised its gas sale price. However, the domestic price of diesel (its main competitor) was maintained at pre-
crisis level through C;OI subsidy. The price of gas is now about 40% higher than the price of diesel. Due to
reduced economic activity and price disparity with diesel, PGN's sales declined in 1998 but have now
stabilized, most likely due to limited availabilily of diesel. In 1998 gas sold and transported by PGN
substituted about 15 million barrels of petroleum product fuels with an export value of about US$230
million (compared with 4 million barrels in 1990), of which about 6 million barrels were substituted in
project areas. Given a level playing field (i.e., elimination of subsidy on diesel), PGN could have substituted
about US$300 million worth of petroleum product fuels in 1998.



- v -
vii.   GOi's pricing policy that allows for a level playing field through the elimination of subsidy for
diesel is essential for the achievement of targeted gas substitution for diesel. However, for the near term,
consideration for the socio-economic impact of raising domestic diesel price may well inhibit its
implementation. In this context, GOI is considering the reduction of government take in the production
sharing contracts for gas production as a temporary measure to allow for the reduction of end-user price
of gas without a corresponding reduction in PGN's gas profit margin. GOI has indicated its intention to
gradually eliminate diesel subsidy over the medium term.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned.
viii.   Despite the set back in the development of gas markets in Surabaya and its environs (East Java)
and in Medan (North Sumatra) on account of financial crisis, the Project substantially achieved its main
objectives of accelerating economic gas utilization in domestic energy consumption and institutional
strengthening of the involved agencies i.e., PGN, LEMIGAS & MIGAS.
ix.    The economic objectives have been substantially achieved, with the economic rate of return
(ERR) for the overall project currently estimated at about 29%, even though it is lower than the appraisal
estimate of 59%, mainly due to lower international oil prices than earlier anticipated. The financial
objectives have also been substantially achieved; the financial rates of return (FRRs) for the Surabaya and
Medan conmponents are currently estimated at about 16% and 26%, respectively, which is the same as the
appraisal estimate for Surabaya and significantly higher than that for Medan (14%) mainly due to higher
than anticipated profit margins. Further, as noted above, PGN's ROR consistently outperformed the
minimum covenanted rate prior to the financial crisis. The company's net fiscal contributions to GOI (Rp
260 billion) also surpassed the appraisal estimate (Rp 186 billion) during the period 1990-97.
x.     The Project demonstrated that large markets for natural gas can be economically developed in
parallel with the upgrading of Indonesian expertise to plan and manage this process. PGN has emerged as
an efficient gas utility with sufficient expertise to spearhead the development. GOI's expertise in long-
tern planning of gas sector development has been enhanced. Also, a regulatory framework has been
instituted to enhance safety in gas utilization. Thus, the stage has been set to accelerate substitution of
exportable (or imported) petroleum product fuels in domestic consumption with non-exportable natural
gas. Since the financial crisis, such substitution should be a high priority as it would help accelerate
industrial production by eliminating fuel scarcity, in addition to improving the country's balance of
payments and reducing GOI's fiscal burden for subsidy on petroleum product fuels.
xi.    PGN will continue expanding gas markets in East Java and North Sumatra and transporting gas
for PLN in North Sumatra and for Caltex at Duri form the fields in South Sumatra, these operations
would not require any major investments over the next ten years as the requisite infrastructure expansions
have recently been completed. Beyond these, PGN is seeking support from the Bank, ADB and OECF
and private sector participation for the expansion of distribution networks for gas market development in
West Java, building of a transmission pipeline for transporting gas from South Sumatra fields to the
markets in West Java, and for building a pipeline for export of gas from Sumatra fields to Singapore.
xii.   The key lessons learned were: a) the importance of providing a broad based package of technical
assistance through long-term collaboration (twinning) with an experienced operating entity for institution
building in parallel with project implementation; b) gas supplies must be assured before commitment with
customers is firmed up as slippage would expose the seller to undue risks and erode its credibility; c) gas
marketing should lead investment in infrastructure, the alternative would weaken the seller's bargaining
position vis-a-vis buyers; d) integrated gas supply and reticulation system maximizes economic gains; d)
outsourcing project implementation activities minimizes employee establishment costs; e) an appropriate



- vi -
legal and regulatory framework should be in place to ensure compliance with the agreements and
efficient development of the sector; and f) early and adequate attention is needed in the establishment and
maintenance of project accounts.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
GAS UTILIZATION PROJECT
[LN. 3209-IND]
PART 1 - Project Implementation Assessment
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.    The primary objective of the Project was:
2.    To support GOI's initiative of diversifying domestic energy consumption away from
heavy reliance on petroleum products by substituting petroleum product fuels in power
generation, industrial and commercial sectors with natural gas.
3.    It was to be pursued through: a) the provision of an assured supply of natural gas, at
competitive prices, to power plants, manufacturing industries and commercial entities in
Surabaya and twelve other towns in its vicinity in East Java and in Medan in North Sumatra; b)
integration of gas utilization plans and operations to achieve economies of scale in the
development and operation of gas supply infrastructure; and c) institution building, technology
transfer and, marketing studies to accelerate safe and efficient utilization of natural gas and to
help define its long-term development plans.
4.    Surabaya and its environs in East Java and Medan in North Sumatra were selected as
project areas due to existence of a market that could be encouraged to shift from petroleum
product fuels to natural gas and the accessibility of sufficient reserves. By integrating the gas
utilization plans of the power sector with those of industrial and commercial users in the design
of common delivery systems, the project would be able to achieve economies of scale in the
establishment of gas transmission and distribution systems. This was important as gas sales to
industry were to be market driven with prices to consumers competing with the domestic price of
petroleum product fuels. Prices for purchase and sale of gas were to be determined through
negotiations between the parties involved in contrast with the practice under the first project
where prices were set by GOI. Strengthening of expertise within the gas sector in gas market
development; design, planning, construction and operation of transportation systems; gas utility
management; as well as in long-term planning, formulation of cost effective standards and codes
of practices, and establishment of an appropriate regulatory framework for safe utilization of gas
would accelerate and sustain the development of the sector on an economically rational basis.
5.    The objective was pertinent to Indonesia's development strategy as it focused on
substitution of exportable petroleum product fuels with non-exportable natural gas which would
improve the country's balance of payments. It was achievable as PGN, which had the overall
responsibility for gas market development, integration of utilization plans and building of
requisite infrastructure, had considerably enhanced its capabilities under the ongoing first project
and its further institutional strengthening was arranged through the already proven method of
twinning with British Gas. Institutional strengthening of other key agencies in the sector, MIGAS



-2-
and LEMIGAS, was arranged through technical collaboration agreements witb a reputable
organization namely, the Institute of Gas Technology (IGT) of Illinois, USA. Main risks
associated with achieving this objective were: a) Pertamina might not be able to supply gas in
time and in sufficient quantities; b) devaluation of Rupiah might make price of gas unattractive
to consumers; and c) PGN's twinning arrangement with British Gas, a key factor in1 project
implementation, might be delayed.
6.     Specific objectives to be achieved under the Project were:
7.    To promote the use of natural gas as fuel for power generation, manufacturing
industries and commercial entities by constructing new gas transmission and distribution
facilities in project areas. This was to be achieved by PGN through cost effective and timely
construction of gas supply and reticulation iacilities. Having the benefit of experience in West
Java under the first project and with additional expertise from the twinning arrangement under
this Project, PGN could optimally design and efficiently phase the building of transmission
pipelines, distribution mains and reticulation networks that. would minimize idle investment and
enable competitive pricing. However, the risk that some of the potential consumers may alter
their plans near the final stage of developmnent, and thus full benefit of investrmd!A may be
delayed, was still there.
8.    To develop Indonesian  expertise in long-term  planning of gas utilization,
optimization of gas supply systems and management of expanding operations. Expansion of
natural gas utilization in domestic energy consumption would be linked with demand and
resource development, involving major investments in the forn of discrete but inter-linked
projects. Building of Indonesian expertise would be necessary to ensure efficient planning and
phasing of these investments, implementation of projects and management of follow-up
operations. This would be brought about through: on-the-job training of PGN's staff during the
course of project implementation witlh assistance from the twinning partner and discrete courses;
upgrading the expertise of key staff of MIGAS through courses at professional institutes and
study visits; and developing a support capability in LEMIGAS involving the establishment of a
Gas Technology Development Unit (TEKNOGAS), for which a scoping study had already been
conducted by IGT under funding from the Trade and Development Administration of USA. In
case of PGN, the twinning arrangement designed for and successfully being implemented under
the first project was extended to cover this Project albeit with the provision for development of
additional expertise in these areas. Expertise upgrading of MIGAS and developmTient of capability
in LEMIGAS were to be achieved under the aforementioned technical collaboration agreements
with IGT. While PGN's institutional strengthening was well assured under the already proven
arrangement of twinning with British Gas, in the establishment of TEKNOGAS there was a risk
that its professional staff, still to be recruited, may not be of the expected quality and that the
experts of IGT may not interact well with TE]KNOGAS staff.
9.    To develop and establish Cost effecl.ive standards and codes of practice, appropriate
to Indonesian environment, and to promote the establishment of a regulatory svstem for
safe and efficient transportation and utilization of natural gas. Prominent world. standards
and codes of practice were already being followed in the design, construction and operation of
gas transportation, reticulation and utilization systems. There was, however, a need to review the
standards and codes to ascertain if these were most appropriate in the prevailing zon.ditions in
Indonesia. Such review(s) were to be conducted by MIGAS, with the support o, LEMIGAS and
active participation of operating agencies in the sector i.e., Pertamina and PG1r. Establishment of



- 3 -
regulatory system involved upgrading the expertise of MIGAS and LEMIGAS in the review,
approval, promulgation- and enforcement of standards and codes of practices. Such expertise
upgrading was to be achieved under the aforementioned technical collaboration agreements with
IGT.
10.   To enhance the safety and efficiency of PGN's operations in Surabaya through the
rehabilitation and replacement of its out-dated pipeline networks. Prior to the Project, PGN
was operating a manufactured gas reticulation network in down-town Surabaya serving
household consumers. Due to impurities in the gas, the system was corroded, prone to leakage
and required frequent repairs. During loan negotiations it was agreed that apart from the
rehabilitation and replacement of the system, the old gas manufacturing plant in Surabaya, as
well as similar plants in three other towns (Bandung, Semarang and Ujung Pandang) out-side the
project areas, would be closed and the affected consumers would be supplied with natural gas in
Surabaya and with LPG in the other towns. A dated action plan, as part of PGN overall efficiency
improvement program, was agreed to be implemented. With the skills upgrading already received
under the first and ongoing project and further assistance under this Project, PGN could achieve
this objective.
11.   To reduce environmental pollution by promoting the use of gas which is a cleaner
fuel than the other fossil fuels it would replace. This would be an important outcome of
efficient implementation of the project.
12.   The primary and specific objectives remained unchanged during the implementation of
the Project. However, at the outset PGN's twinning arrangement with British Gas was delayed by
nine months and, subsequently gas supply by Pertamina was delayed by two years, which
resulted in a cumulative delay of two years and three months in loan closing. Also, since the
financial crisis (commencing July 1997) the price of diesel has been heavily subsidized.
Consequently, gas sale price is about one and a half times the price of diesel, its main competitor,
which has retarded gas market development.
13.   Project components designed to achieve the Project objectives.
A. Provision of natural gas supply system in Surabaya and its surrounding areas:
i) Laying of about 80 km of high pressure transmission pipelines, about 190 km of medium
pressure steel pipelines and about 165 km of medium pressure polyethylene pipelines.
ii) Construction of gas metering, pressure regulating and odorization stations with associated
instrumentation downstream of the city gate stations at about five locations, and about four
pressure reducing stations on pipeline networks.
iii) Construction of service lines, pressure regulation and flow metering stations at about 375
medium size industries, 150 commercial enterprises and the paper mill at Leces.
B. Expansion of natural gas supply systemfor Medan:
i) Construction of about 24 km of high pressure transmission pipeline with associated
cathodic protection, pressure/flow monitoring facilities and three pressure reducing stations.
and
ii) Construction of service lines and pressure regulating and flow metering stations for PLN
power station at Belawan.



-4 -
C. Technical Assistance:
i) Enhancenment of PGN's skills in markcet development; planning, design, construction and
operation of natural gas compression, transmission and distribution systems; project
management; procurement; financial management; cost control; long-term planning; and
efficient implementation of the Project, including provision of related goods.
ii) Strengthening of LEMIGAS through, inter alia, the establishment of a Gas Techmlogy
Development Unit and provision of related goods.
iii) Upgrading skills in MIGAS to facilitatte the coordination of development plans in the gas
sector andl to institute a regulatory system for safe utilization of natural gas.
D. Studies
The carrying out of feasibility studies for, inter alia, natural gas marketing in Palembang (South
Sumatra), Jambi (Central Sumatra), Batam Island (Riau), and Balikpapan.
B. Achievement of Objectives
14.   To support GOI's initiative of diversifying domestic energy consumption away from
heavy reliance on petroleum product by substituting petroleum product fuels in power
generation, industrial and commercial sectors with natural gas.
15.   It was substantially achieved despite the setback on account of financial crisis,
particularly due to subsidy on diesel since the commencement of the crisis.
16.   By 1997 a demand for natural gas of the order of 300 MMCFD had been generated in
East Java, compared with 100 MMCFD projected at project formulation, all the gas available
under purchase contracts with Pertamina was being sold and gas transported (for power
generation by PLN in North Sumatra) was 160% of the projections.
17.   PGN's institutional strengthening as well as success at marketing gas for co-generation
of power in East Java also contributed to the acceleration of gas market development in West
Java, generating a demand of the order of 500 MMCFD.
18.   In 1998, PGN substituted about 15 mnillion barrels of petroleum product fuels with an
export value of about US$230 million in North Sumatra, West Java and East Java (compared
with 4 million barrels in 1990), of which about 6 million barrels were substituted in project
areas.
19.   With the advent of financial crisis (July 1997), gas sales shrunk due to reduced economic
activity and due to escalation of gas price following Rupiah depreciation while the price of diesel,
the main competitor of gas, remained at pre-crisis level with the support of heavy government
subsidy. PGN's gas sales in 1998 were t]hus about 70% of the level achieved in 1997.
Transportation of gas to PLN's power stations in North Sumatra, however, increased by about
10%, most likely to maximize power generation from non-exportable gas. Given a level playing
field (i.e., elimination of subsidy on diesel) and taking into account the available gas supplies, in
1998 PGN could have substituted petroleum product fuels worth about US$300 million (export
value) in North Sumatra, West Java and East Java.



- 5 -
20.   To promote the use of natural gas as fuel for power generation, manufacturing
industries and commercial entities by constructing new gas transmission and distribution
facilities in project areas. This was achieved. Through well designed and well timed
construction of its gas transmission and distribution facilities, and consequently competitive
pricing, PGN was able to generate a high potential demand (about 300MMCFD as against 100
MMCFD stipulated at project formulation) in East Java prior to monetary crisis. The system
design also enabled PGN to supply gas for co-generation of power, which is the most economical
use of gas. Before financial crisis co-generation accounted for about 40% of the gas sales in East
Java (and for about 30% of gas sales in West Java, triggered by the success in East Java).
Similarly in North Sumatra, additional gas supply from PGN's Wampu-Paya Pasir transmission
pipeline enabled PLN to expand gas based power generation at its stations near Medan.
21.   To develop Indonesian expertise in long-term  planning of gas utilization,
optimization of gas supply systems and management of expanding operations. It was
substantially achieved. In parallel with the implementation of the Project, and without any
increase in its staff establishment, PGN successfully undertook: a) planning, implementation and
operation of Grissik-Duri Gas Transmission Project (estimated cost US$400 million) for supply
of 300 MMCFD gas to substitute crude in steam generation at Duri; b) planning and design of
South Sumatra-West Java Gas Transmission Project (estimated cost US$350 million) for supply
of 250 MMCFD gas to West Java gas market; c) planning and design of West Java Gas
Development Project (estimated cost US$150 million) for accelerating the substitution of
petroleum product fuels in West Java; and d) several gas marketing and development planning
studies for Java, Sumatra and Sulawesi.
22.   To develop cost effective standards and codes of practice, appropriate to Indonesian
environment, and to promote the establishment of a regulatory system for safe and efficient
transportation and utilization of natural gas. This was achieved. After a detailed review
Indonesian standards were formulated in line with prominent world standards and were
promulgated under a Decree of August 1992. Subsequently, safety distances of gas pipelines
from the property line were reviewed and the related standards reformulated and promulgated
under a Decree of April 1997. Lastly, the codes of practice for safe operation of distribution
systems were formulated and promulgated under a Decree of June 1997. Expertise of MIGAS
was upgraded in the institution of regulatory system for safe utilization of natural gas.
23.   To enhance the safety and efficiency of PGN's operations in Surabaya through the
rehabilitation and replacement of its out-dated pipeline networks. It was achieved along with
the agreed efficiency improvement program for PGN (Annex 6.05 of the Staff Appraial Report of
the Project), which was implemented ahead of schedule.
24.   To reduce environmental pollution by promoting the use of gas which is a cleaner
fuel than other fossil fuels it would replace. Promotion substantially achieved, given a
competitive price (in this case removal of subsidy form diesel) gas is the preferred fuel.
25.   Economic Objectives. From the country's viewpoint, the economic benefits of the
project are derived from the substitution of imported liquid fuels, most notably diesel. The
appraisal estimate for the overall project economic rate of return (ERR) was 59% (in real terms),
with the Surabaya and Medan components estimated at 51% and 154%, respectively. Further, the
results of sensitivity analysis indicated that if all the economic benefits were to be based on fuel
oil (with lower economic value than diesel), the ERR for the overall project was estimated at



- 6 -
38%. Based on the latest operational plan and the actual/latest estimates of project costs and
benefits, the economic objectives have been substantially achieved, even though the re-estimated
ERRs are lower than the appraisal estimate, mainly due to lower economic benefits of gas
substitution for liquid fuels as a result of significantly lower international oil prices than earlier
anticipated (US$18/bbl). The ERR has been re-estimated at about 29% (in real terms) for the
overall project, and the ERRs of the Surabaya and Medan components re-estimated at 22% and
48%, respectively (Table 9A).The results of sensitivity analysis indicated that the overall project
ERR would be reduced to only 8% in the event all the future economic benefits are to be derived
solely from fuel oil substitution.
26.   Financial Objectives. From PGN's view point, the financial viability of the project is
critically dependent on the adequacy of the gas sales volume and profit margin. The financial
objectives have been substantially achieved; the FRRs for the Surabaya and Medan components
are currently estimated at 16% and 26%, respectively. The current estimate of FRR for the
Medan component is significantly higher than the appraisal estimate mainly because of higher
profit margins than earlier envisaged. Separately, the FRR for the Surabaya component is the
same as the appraisal estimate based on the assumption that the recent trend of lower profit
margins would be reversed to higher gas profit margin ($1.4/MMBTU) than the appraisal
estimate ($1.14/MMBTU). In the event the future profit margin for the Surabaya component is
reduced to the appraisal assumption, the FRR. would be reduced to about 13%.
27.    Separately, with respect to the financial performance of PGN, the financial covenant
provided for minimum targets of rate of return (ROR) on revalued net fixed assets in operation of
not less than 4% in FY91, 5% in FYs 92-93, 8% in FY94 and 10% thereafter. During the period
1991-96, PGN consistently outperformed the above minimum  financial targets, with ROR
increasing steadily from about 18% in 1991 to about 27% in 1996. However, mainly due to the
Asian financial crisis and the consequent sharp devaluation of the Rupiah, the ROR was only 1%
and a negative 12% in 1997 and 1998, respectively, if its operating costs were adjusted to reflect
the foreign exchEmge loss related to the gas purchase. The significant reduction in ROR in 1998
was, in part, attributable to the commissioning of the Grissik-Duri gas transmission pipeline in
October, which resulted in a sharp increase in the rate base but with only three months of
operational revenues.
28.   PGN's net fiscal contribution to GOI has been substantial. In line with the appraisal
estimate, PGN's net fiscal impact started to become positive in 1992. During the period 1990-97,
its net fiscal impact amounted to Rp 251 billion (Table 9D), which is significantly higher than
the appraisal estimate of Rp 186 billion. However, the nominal value of fiscal impact may not be
fully comparable due to the significant differences between the assumptions at the time of project
appraisal and the actual foreign exchange rates and inflation rates.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors not generally subject to government control
29.   Asian financial crisis of 1997 was a factor not subject to control by GOI. Consequent
massive decline in the value of Rupiah and slowdown of the economic activity retarded gas
market development.



- 7 -
30.   The border price of diesel would have a significant impact on the economic benefits of
the project as well as the maximum levels of end-user gas pricing based on imported diesel
parity.
Factors generally subject to government control
31.   During project implementation period, GOI reduced the subsidy on diesel, the main
competitor of natural gas, from about 40% in 1990 to about 15% in pre-crisis 1997 which enabled
gas to compete. Since the monetary crisis, the consumer price of diesel has been heavily subsidized
by the government. Consequently, the consumer price of gas, which takes into account the
depreciation of Rupiah, is now about 40% higher than the price of diesel, its main competitor. The
government subsidy on diesel is, thus, an obstacle to the primary aim of the Project. GOI is aware of
this issue and its intention is to gradually eliminate the diesel subsidy over the medium term.
32.   Integration of gas utilization plans of PLN, Petrokimia and PGN in East Java resulted in
design optimization of Pertamina's Kangean-East Java gas transmission system for the delivery
of off-shore Kangean gas to East Java. This enabled PGN to negotiate a competitive price for
purchase of gas and secure multiple off-takes from the on-shore portion of the pipeline which
reduced PGN's infrastructure investment
33.   PGN's management structure was enlarged from four to five directors and its functions
were regrouped to facilitate the management of increased corporate and development activities.
34.   In 1994, PGN was authorized to undertake gas transmission in addition to gas marketing
and distribution and subsequently, in 1996, it was converted into a Persero to enable it to accept
private sector participation in its expansion projects.
35.   Government regulation prohibited dollar denominated pricing of gas sale to PGN's
consumers. Since at the commencement of monetary crisis about 65% of the gas purchased by
PGN was dollar denominated while all of its gas sales were in Rupiah, rapid depreciation in the
Rupiah's value severely eroded the viability of PGN's gas marketing operations. Consequently,
PGN's return on revalued net fixed assets in operation, which was over 20% from 1992 to 1996,
reduced to 1.0% for 1997 and is estimated -12.0% for 1998.
36.   Pertamina gave the responsibility of building its offshore Kangean-Surabaya high
pressure gas pipeline to an entrepreneur who had no experience in the field which led to a delay
of two years (from March 1992 to March 1994) in the supply of gas to the Project.
37.   Lack of adequate legal and regulatory framework to enforce supply contracts contributed
to aforementioned delay.
Factors generally subject to implementing agency control
38.   PGN enlarged and reorganized its Surabaya branch, responsible for the implementation
of a major part of the Project, to include full-fledged planning, construction and operations
divisions.
39.   In gas marketing, instead of piecemeal development of separate distribution systems,
PGN incorporated the gas requirements of all the consumers in Surabaya and in twelve other



- 8 -
towns in its vicinity into a single plan and developed an integrated high and medium pressure gas
transportation and reticulation system that could efficiently balance the demand and supply of
consumers in different locations, minimizing investment and operating cost and enabling
competitive pricing.
40.   PGN renegotiated its gas sale contracts passing on the Rupiah devaluation risk to the
consumers once iEhe regulation prohibiting dollar denominated gas pricing was held in abeyance.
PGN curtailed its investment in infrastructure by US$7.5 million and had the loan reduced by this
amount followingr the slow down of economic activity on account of financial crisis
41.   PGN escalated its gas sale price between September 1997 and July 1998 to minimize the
impact of Rupiah depreciation on its margin.
42.   PGN completed the efficiency imprcvement program, agreed at loan negotiations, about
two years ahead of schedule.
Implementation delays
43.    The infrastructure development under the Project was delayed due to: a) a nine month
delay in the commencement of technical assistance provided through a twinning arrangement
with British Gas under UKDFID funding which delayed initial planning; and b) a two year delay
in gas supply to East Java by Pertamina which caused PGN to delay firming its commitment with
customers (as slippage would erode credibility),and consequently procurement processing to
avoid idle investment. These delays necessitated the first extension of the closing date from
September 30, 1996 to March 31, 1998. Subsequently, although the project implementation was
on schedule, a second extension of the closing date to December 31, 1998 was agreed to allow
more time to some high yield prospective customers to firm up their development plans. A third
extension of the closing date but confined to Category 2 (b) of Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement
was agreed to enable completion of equipment contracts for the establishment of TEKNOGAS,
which had been delayed due to financial crisis in the country, while all other categories closed on
December 31, 1998.
D. Project Sustainability
44.   The economic and financial sustainability of the project is critically dependent on: (a) the
competitiveness of gas prices vis-a-vis the domestic prices of diesel in order to achieve an
adequate volume of gas sales to substitute for imported diesel consumption; (b) the future prices
of imported diesel would have a significant impact on the economic benefits of the project as well
as the maximum levels of end-user gas pricing based on imported diesel parity; and (c) an
adequate supply of gas at reasonable termns. Insofar as the financial sustainability of both the
project and PGN is concerned, an adequate gas profit margin is also a critical factor.
45.   As noted above, GOI's pricing policy that allows for a level playing field through the
elimination of su'bsidy for diesel is essential for the achievement of targeted gas substitution for
diesel. However, for the near term, consideration for the socio-economic impact of raising
domestic diesel price may well inhibit its implementation. In this context, GOI is considering the
reduction of government take in the production sharing contracts for gas production as a
temporary measure to allow for the reduction of end-user price of gas without a corresponding



- 9 -
reduction in PGN's gas profit margin. GOI has indicated its intention to gradually eliminate
diesel subsidy over the medium term.
46.   According to PGN's surveys, gas requirements of the industries in the project areas of
East Java and North Sumatra are currently estimated, on fuel substitution basis, at about 140
MMCFD and 25 MMCFD respectively and the gas reserves in the vicinity can easily sustain such
offtakes. PGN's current sales in East Java and North Sumatra amount to 39 MMCFD and 9
MMCFD respectively. There is, thus, ample scope for growth given level play field with
competing fuels (viz elimination of GOI subsidy for diesel) and economic recovery over the
medium and longer term.
47.   With the institutional development under the Project, PGN now has a core staff of 311
professionals and 350 technicians (compared with 190 professionals and 260 technicians at the
close of Gas Distribution Project in 1994). It has also acquired a capability to train about 20
professionals a year. Its enhanced skills have been demonstrated, over a six year period, in the
efficient management of two expansion projects undertaken simultaneously (Gas Distribution and
Gas Utilization projects followed by Gas Utilization and Grissik-Duri Gas Transmission projects)
along with distribution operations and planning of further expansion projects. It should, therefore,
have no difficulty in managing gas marketing business in the Project areas.
48.   PGN, however, needs to strengthen its senior management following the commissioning
(September 1998) of its Grissik-Duri gas transmission system. Currently, the responsibility of the
operation of this system is held by the Director of distribution systems operation. Considering the
size and complexity of transmission and distribution operations, a full time director should be
made responsible for each of the two operations. Thus, PGN's Board of Directors should be
enlarged to include a Director responsible for the operation of gas transmission system, so that
the current Director of operations may be fully devoted to the operation of distribution systems.
Operational Plan
49.   PGN's operational plan for the Project areas covers the period of 1999-2010. Projections
of gas sales assume price parity with diesel and economic recovery over the medium and longer
term . The transportation and reticulation systems built under the Project are well planned and
built, and are capable of supporting the projected rate of growth over the next 8 to 1O years with
out any significant investments. There are ample reserves in the vicinity of Project areas and
adequate supplies have secured to meet the expected sales growth.
E.    Bank Performance
50.   In general, the Bank's performance was satisfactory in all of the project phases. The
Project was clearly identified, well focused and simple in design. Consequently, the pre-appraisal
mission was able to complete the appraisal of the project. Potential risks to the Project were
flagged during identification and pre-appraisal missions, and steps to mitigate the risks were
taken in Project design and during implementation.
51.   As the Gas Distribution Project (Bank's first lending operation in the sector) was in an
early stage of implementation, the feasibility of natural gas as an efficient substitute for
petroleum product fuels in industrial consumption and the viability of natural gas marketing for
such purposes was still to be demonstrated. It was, therefore, premature to include the



- 10-
preparatory work- for enabling private sector participation in sector development in the scope of
this Project. The Project design, as for the Gas Distribution Project, was narrowly focussed on
"grass roots" development of gas market in parallel with the upgrading of Indonesian expertise to
manage the process.
52.   Supervision  missions closely  monitored  the  implementation  and  assisted  the
implementing agencies in evaluations and in devising corrective measures. However, PGN's
oversight in adequate maintenance of separate project accounts (see below) could have been
avoided, or at least diagnosed earlier than the ICR mission, if earlier Bank missions had provided
PGN with sufficient guidance on sound accounting practices for project accounts.
53.   Given cogent reasons, the Bank was flexible in extending the loan closing date three
times and agreed to the cancellation of funds no longer required.
F. Borrower Performance
54.   GOI, as ]3orrower, fulfilled all commitments made during negotiations and covenanted in
the loan agreement and was supportive in project implementation. It ensured that necessary
counterpart funds were available to the implementing agencies (PGN and LEMIGAS) to carry
out the Project and pay scales of the staff of these agencies were maintained at a level as
remunerative as that offered by similar public corporations. While inordinate delay in the supply
of gas to the Project was not prevented, integration of gas utilization plans of PLN, Petrokimia
and PGN in East Java enabled PGN to negotiate a competitive price for purchase of gas. In the
aftermath of the financial crisis GOI assisted PGN, through a soft loan, in reducing the adverse
impact of Rupiah devaluation, however, the durable measure of restoring competition between
gas and diesel (its main competitor), disrupted since the financial crisis due to GOI's subsidy on
diesel, has still to be taken.
55.   PGN's performance, as the major Beneficiary, has been very satisfactory. Till the onset
of monetary  crisis, it fulfilled or exceeded all performance covenants and targets under the
project notably, it achieved a rate of return on revalued net fixed assets in operation in excess of
20% for five straight years compared with 1.0% covenanted, gas losses were maintained below
2%, a potential demand of the order of 300-350 MMCFD was generated in East Java compared
with 100 MMCFD stipulated at project formulation, and despite an expanding work program the
staff employed (1208) remained well below the agreed ceiling (1440). Since then, while there has
been a sharp drop in its ROR for reasons beyond its control, it has survived the crisis through
good management of its gas contracts, capital. and operating expenses and cash flow.
56.   During the project implementation period, PGN's audit reports had consistently included
an unqualified opinion from the State auditor (Financial and Development Supervisory Board).
However, its audit reports did not provide supplementary information that clearly and separately
show the expenditures and financing of the project, although annual audit reports on the Special
Accounts have been provided to the Bank. In hindsight, it would have been helpful if PGN had
established and maintained separate project accounts in accordance with sound accounting
practices.
57.   LEMIGAS faced some problems in the first year of the establishment of TEKNOGAS as
not many individuals with requisite backgrounds were available since the industry was at an early



- 11 -
stage of development and also because the management of TEKNOGAS was not sensitive to the
training needs of the staff. LEMIGAS responded by amending the skills development program,
as advised by IGT, and changed the management of TEKNOGAS. Thereafter the progress has
been satisfactory.
G. Assessment of Outcome
58.   The Project has demonstrated that large markets for natural gas can be economically
developed in parallel with the upgrading of Indonesian expertise to plan and manage this process.
PGN has emerged as an efficient gas utility with sufficient expertise to spearhead the
development. GOI's expertise in long-term planning of gas sector development has been
enhanced. Also, a regulatory framework has been instituted to enhance safety in gas utilization.
Thus the stage has been set to accelerate substitution of exportable (or imported) petroleum
product fuels in domestic consumption with non-exportable natural gas. Since the financial crisis,
such substitution should be a high priority as, apart from improving the country's balance of
payments and reducing GOI's burden of subsidy on petroleum product fuels, it would help
accelerate industrial production by eliminating fuel scarcity.
59.   Before the crisis, a Bank sponsored study revealed a high level of interest by prominent
international gas utilities in forming joint-ventures with PGN or taking an equity position in the
company. It may still be possible to attract private investment if competition between gas and
competing petroleum product fuels is restored and an adequate legal and regulatory framework is
in place.
60.   While TEKNOGAS is still at an early stage of development, it has already demonstrated
its ability to serve some of the needs of the industry on self financing basis, total payments on this
account exceed one million US dollars equivalent.
H. Future Operations
61.   PGN's future operations include:
a) expansion of gas markets in East Java and North Sumatra and transportation of gas, for PLN
within North Sumatra and for Caltex at Duri from Asamera fields in South Sumatra; these
operations would not require any major investments over the next ten years as the related
infrastructure expansion projects have recently been completed; and
b) expansion of existing infrastructure for gas market development in West Java and building of
new infrastructure for transportation of gas from South Sumatra to West Java and from South
Sumatra to Singapore via Batam Island; these developments are proposed to be undertaken
through the following projects;
i) West Java Gas Distribution Project, planned with Bank assistance, to provide additional
supply mains and distribution networks for gas market development in West Java at an
estimated cost of US$120 million,
ii) South Sumatra-West Java Gas Transmission Project, also planned with Bank assistance, to
provide a gas transportation system from Pertamina operated gas fields in South Sumatra to
the markets in West Java at an estimated cost of US$350 million, and



- 12 -
iii) Grissik-Singapore Gas Transmission Project, to provide a gas transpcrtation system from
Asamera operated gas fields in South Sumatra to Singapore at an estimated cost of US$260
million.
62.   To finance these investments, PGN has planned to seek support of OECF, ADB and the
Bank as well as private sector participation through joint ventures and strategic partnerships.
I. Key Lessons Learned
63.   As the objectives of the Project were similar to the objectives of the first project (Gas
Distribution Project) and the implementation periods overlapped, important lessons drawn from
its implementation experience, with some exceptions, are essentially the same as those under the
first project. These are summarized as follows.
64.   Twinning Arrangement: Long-term technical collaboration (twinning) of PGN with an
experienced operating entity was very successful in the institutional development and technology
transfer as it provided a broad based package of technical assistance in key operating areas and
integrated know-hLow transfer and staff training on site in the course of project implementation.
65.   Gas Supplies must be Assured before Commitment with Customers is Firmed up:
PGN closely followed the progress of Pertamina's arrangements for gas supply to East Java and
withheld firming up its commitment with customers till the gas supply was assured as slippage,
after the commitment, would erode its credibility and impede market development.
66.   Gas Marketing should lead Investment in Infrastructure: In line with the delay in
Pertamina's supp]ly of gas to East Java and consequent delay in firming up commitment with
customers, PGN postponed the building of its distribution infrastructure and thus minimized idle
investment, the alitemative would have reduced its bargaining position vis-a-vis customers and
cut its profits. PGN, however, deviated from this practice in the case of paper mill at Leces and
built the pipeline to Leces with insufficient customer commitment (e.g., customers plans for gas
utilization had not been firmed up) since then, due to financial crisis in the country, the customer
has indefinitely postponed conversion to gas supply.
67.   Integrated Gas Supply and Reticulation System Maximizes Economic Gains: Instead
of piecemeal development of separate distribution systems, PGN incorporated the gas
requirements of atll the prospective consumers in Surabaya and in twelve other towns in the
vicinity into a single plan and developed an integrated high and medium pressure gas
transportation and reticulation system, efficiently balancing the demand and supply, minimizing
investment and opierating cost.
68.   Outsourcing Project Implementation Activities: to the extent possible, enables
implementation of expansion projects at the desired pace as well as minimizes employee
establishment costs since most of project activities are temporary in nature. Traditionally PGN
outsourced only the construction services. In the implementation of the Project detailed
engineering, site supervision, inspection andl testing were also outsourced (contracted out to
private firms). This enabled PGN to maintain jits employee establishment at the pre-project level.



- 13 -
69.   Appropriate Legal and Regulatory Framework: should be in place to ensure
compliance with the agreements and efficient development of the gas chain from production to
utilization. PGN's contracted gas supply for East Java component of the Project was delayed by
two years and there was little recourse to redress it.
70.   Project Accounts. Consistent with good practices for quality at entry, during project
preparation, Bank staff should provide adequate guidance to the beneficiary regarding the
establishment and maintenance of separate project accounts in accordance with sound accounting
practices.






- 15 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
GAS UTILIZATION PROJECT
(Loan No. 3209-IND)
PART II: Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessment
A. Achievement of objectives            Substantial        Partial        Negligible       Not applicable
Macroeconomic policies                 E                 E                0                  0
Sector policies                        E                 E                E                  0
Financial objectives                   0                 0                0                  0
Institutional development              0                 0                E                 E
Physical objectives                     0                El              E                  El
Poverty reduction                        l               El               El 
Gender concerns                        El                E               El                 ED
Other social objectives                E                 El              El                  D
Environmental objectives               0                 E               E                  E
Public sector management               0                 E                E                 E
Private sector development             E                 El               E                  0l
B. Project sustainability                 Likely          Unlikely        Uncertain
E                E                E1
C. Bank performance                 Highly satisfactory      Satisfactory          Deficient
Identification                          0                   El                   E
Preparation assistance                 0                    E                    E
Appraisal                              0                    E                    E
Supervision                            E                    0                    E
D. Borrower performance              Higly satisfactory      Satisfactory          Deficient
Preparation                             0                    El                  El
Implementation                                               E E                 E
Covenant compliance                    El                    0                   E
Operation                              t                     E                   El
E. Assessment of outcome            Highly satisfactory      Satisfactory          Deficient
El                                        El



- 16-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans Credits
Loan/Credit Title                   Purpose            Year of            Status
Approval
Preceding Operations:
1. Gas Distribution Project    To facilitate substitution of   1986  Closed on July 31, 1994
(Ln.2690-IND)           petroleum product fuels with
natural gas in domestic
energy consumption
Following Operations:
None
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle         Date Planned         Date Actual/Latest Estimate
Identification                       4/30/88                    4/30/88
Preparation / Preappraisal           1 1/1/88                   11/25/88
Appraisala                           10/1/89                    5/31/89
Negotiations                         1 1/1/89                    3/1/90
Board Presentation                   2/1/90                     5/31/90
Signing                              7/6/90                      7/6/90
Effectiveness                        10/6/90                    3/12/91
Project completion                   9/30/96                    12/31/98
Loan closing                         9/30/96                    12/31/98
and 3/31/99 only for
category 2(b) of Schedule 1
a. Preappraisal mission was converted to appraisal mission



-17-
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US $ million)
FYa              91      92       93       94        95        96       97      98      99
Appraisal Estimate        9.50   45.60    75.40     79.70    83.30      86.00
Actual                    4.96     7.57    10.76     14.22    23.99     40.81   54.88   71.63   76.82
Actual as % of estimated    52       17       14       18        29        47      64      83      89
Date of final disbursement:
a. Fiscal year ending June 30
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Implementation Period                      SAR Estimate                    Actual
Construction of Infrastructure in Medan    July 90 - Dec. 92          March 91 - March 93
(North Sumatra)                                                      April 97 - October 97a
Construction of Infrastructure in Surabaya  Sept. 92 - March 96       Sept. 94 - March 98b
and its environs (East Java)
Closure of obsolete gas manufacturing      Jan. 91 - Dec. 94           Jan. 91 - Dec. 92
plants replacement by LPG or natural gas
a. For new market
b. Construction postponed due to a 2 year delay in gas supply from PERTAMINA.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
After Project Completion             SAR Estimate                       Actual
PGN's gas losses                           < 2%                               v
PGN's rate of return on revalued
net fixed asset in operation               > 10%                          -12,8%b
PGN's staff establishment                  < 1440                          1208
Project areas pipeline network
(Kin):
Surabaya & environs                       431                            324c
Medan                                     24                              71
Project areas gas sales
(MMCFD):                                   43                               38c
Surabaya & environs
Medan                                    12                               10
Project areas gas carriage
(MMCFD):
PLN power station (Medan)                48                               81
a. < 2% since 1992
b. > 20% for FY's 92-96, reduced to 3.5% for FY97 due to financial crisis commencing July 1997.
c. Network construction curtailed as demand reduced due to financial crisis. Consequently, a total of US
7.5 million of loan amount cancelled which would have otherwise enabled construction of additional 40 km
of network and additional sale of about 20 MMCFD in Surabaya area.



- 18-
Table 7: Studiies Included in Project
Study           Purpose as definied at       Status           Impact of Study
appraisal/rederifned
1. Gas Supply/Demand  Not identified in SAR,    Completed          Initiated planning
Analysis - West Java    purpose was to accelerate                  expansion of West
gas utilization in WVest                     Java gas market
Java
2. West Java Gas      Not identified in SAR   Completed            Helped plan West
Development Planning   purpose was to accelerate                   Java Gas Distribution
Study                 gas utilization in West                      Project
Java
3. Environmental      Not identified in SAR   Completed            Helped prepare South
Impact Assessment of   purpose was to support                      Sumatra-West Java
South Sumatra-West    acceleration of gas                          Gas Transmission &
Java gas Transmission   utilization in West Java                   West Java Gas
Pipeline & West Java                                               Distribution projects
Gas Distribution
Projects
4. Corporate          Not identified in SAR,    Completed          In support of PGN's
Restructuring of PGN    purpose was to accelerate                  privatization planning
gas utilization through
private sector
participation
5. Gas market studies   Assessment of polential   Completed        Gas distribution in
covering Jambi,       gas market                                   Palembang
Palembang, Batam                                                   commenced in 1996
Island & Balikpapan                                                and being planned for
Batam Island



- 19-
Table 8A: Project Cost
Appraisal Estimate             Actual / Latest Estimate
(US $ million)                    (US $ million)
Item                     Local    Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign            Total
Cost       Cost                  Cost        Cost
A. Expansion of Natural Gas Transmission
and Distribution   System for:
Surabaya and its environs:
- Pipelines                               1.570    52.400      53.970    41.508       16.201     57.709
- Regulator Stations                     0.060       1.700      1.760      1.152       4.897      6.049
- Meter Station & Station Lines          0.130       5.100      5.230      1.558       5.518      7.076
Subtotal                       1.760      59.200     60.960    44.218       26.616     70.834
Medan:
- Pipelines                              0.500      3.100       3.600     5.009        3.887      8.896
- Meter Station & Station Lines          0.000       0.400      0.400     0.008        0.381      0.389
Subtotal                       0.500       3.500      4.000     5.017        4.268      9.285
Base Cost (A)                            2.260      62.700     64.960     49.235      30.884     80.119
Taxes & Duties                           9.540       0.000      9.540     0.142        0.000      0.142
Physical & Price contingencies           3.120       9.510     12.630     0.000        0.000      0.000
TOTAL A                        14.920     72.210     87.130     49.377      30.884     80.261
B. Technical Assistance
PGN:
- Training                               0.000       7.500      7.500     0.000       12.361     12.361
- Equip. (computer & software)           0.090       0.600      0.690     0.025        0.799      0.824
Subtotal                       0.090       8.100      8.190      0.025      13.160     13.185
LEMIGAS (Gas Tech.    Development
Center)
- Consultancies                          0.000      2.000      2.000      0.000        1.901      1.901
- Training                               0.000      1.500       1.500     0.000       2.549       2.549
- Equipment                              0.250      4.000      4.250      0.093        6.147      6.240
Subtotal                       0.250       7.500      7.750      0.093      10.597     10.690
MIGAS
- Training                               0.000      0.500      0.500      0.000        0.500      0.500
Base Cost (B)                            0.340     16.100     15.440      0.118       24.257     24.375
Taxes & Duties                           1.460      0.000       1.460     0.010        0.000      0.010
Physical & Price contingencies           0.480      2.440      2.920      0.000        0.000      0.000
TOTAL B                  2.280     18.540     20.820      0.125       24.257     24.386
C. Studies                                   0.000      0.300      0.300      0.520       0.544       1.064
Base Cost (C)                         0.000      0.300      0.300      0.520        0.544      1.064
Taxes & Duties                           0.000      0.000      0.000      0.000        0.000      0.000
Physical & Price contingencies           0.000      0.050       0.050     0.000        0.000      0.000
TOTAL C                         0.000      0.350      0.350      0.520       0.544       1.064
TOTAL PROJECT COST (A+B+C)                  17.200     91.100    108.300     50.025      55.685    105.710
Capitalized Interest during Construction    2.500       8.000     10.500      0.555      12.873      13.428
TOTAL FUNDING REQUIRED                      19.700     99.100    118.800     50.580      68.558    119.138



- 20 -
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate           Actual / Latest Estimate
_ (US $ million)                (US $ million)
Source                  Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total
Cost      Cost                 Cost       Cost
IBRD                                               86.00     86.00     30.55      47.84      78.39
Bilateral Assistance                                5.00      5.00                  7.84      7.84
PGN Internal Cash generation             9.70                 9.70      4.73                  4.73
GOI Equity Contribution                 10.00       8.10     18.10     15.31       12.87     28.18
Commercial Loans                                              0.00                            0.00
Consumers                                                     0.00                            0.00
TOTAL                       19.70      99.10     118.8    50.59        68.55    119.14



Table 9A: Economic Rate of Retum - Surabaya Component
(in Thousands USS: Constant $ for Appraisal; Nominal S for Actual)
Project Investment                 Conversion Operating    Total             Gas Sales (in mmcfd)           Gas Sales Margin                       Net Benefit
Year Foreign       Local          Total        Costs      Costs        Costs         I Industry  |Others  Total    industry    lOthers      Total           App   Actual
App    Act   App   Act   App    Act   A             App   Act   App    Act  App Act App Act App Act  App    ARt   App  Act  App    Act  Const $  Nom $  Const $
t99                  - .  
1991    -      -     -      220    -      220                      -             220                                                                           -      (220)   (204)
1992 20,912    -    264  1,280 21,176   1,280                       0 21,176   1,280                                                                   .   (21.176)  (1,280)  (1,137)
1993 20,824  3,978   440  1,150 21,264   5,128  3,000               0 24,264   5,128  .                                             .                      (24,264)  (5,128)  (4,569)
1994  9,884  4,782  1,056  2,110 10,940  8,892  3,200       146  2,810  14,286   9,702   5   3   5       10   3  5,110   1,363  4.563        9,673   1,363  (4,613)  (8,339)  (7,173)
1995  7,136  13.654   220  1,670  7,356  15,324  1,800     467  2.250  9,623  17,574  12  21  20         32  21  12,264  9,464  18.250      30,514   9,464  20,891  (8,110)  (6,447)
1996  3,580  12.884   -    3,010  3.580  15.894  1,000     628  3,700  5,208  19,594  23  33  20         43  33 23,506  12,617  18.250      41,756  12,517  36.548  (7,077)  (5.885)
1997         9,295         4,630    -   13,925  1,000       818  2,992  1,818  16,917  36  41  20        56  41  36,792  15,022  18,250     55,042  15,022  53,224  (1,895)  (1.660)
1998        10,514          380    -   10,894             1,022  1,940  1,022  12,834  50  38  20        70  38 51,100  4,034  18,260       69,360  4,034  68,328  (8.800)  (8,024)
1999                        790    -       790            1,095  4,302  1,095  5,092  55  47  20         75  47 56,210   1,588  18,250      74,460   1,588  73,365  (3.504)  (3,154)
2000                         50    -        50            1,168  5,573  1,168  5,623  60  61  20         80  61  61,320  14,591  18.250     79,570  14,591  78.402   8,968   7,867
2001                        350    -       350            1,226  5,840  1,226  6,190  64  64  20         64  64 65,408  19,693  18,250      83,658  19,693  82,432  13,503  11,534
2002                        160    -       160            1,270  7,210  1,270  7,370  67  79  20         87  79 68,474  27,015  16,250      86,724  27,015  65,454  19,645  16,355
2003                        350    -       350            1,314  7.482  1,314  7,832  70  82  20         90  82 71,540  30,849  18,250      89,790 30,849  88,476  23,017  18,695
2004                        350            350            1,380  8,302  1,380  8,652  70  91  20         90  91 71,540  37,352  18,250      89,790 37,352  88,410  28,700  22,743   r
2005                        350    -       350            1,449  8,853  1,449  9,203  70  97  20         90  97 71,540 43,137  18,250       89,790 43,137  88,341  33.934  26.235
2008                        350    -       350            1,521  9,581   1,521  9,931  70  105  20       90  1OS 71,540  48,134  18,250      89.790 48.134  88,269  38,203  28.843
2007                        350    -       350            1,597  9,950  1,597  10,300  70  109  20       90  109 71,540  51,461  18,250     89.790 51,461  88,193  41,161  30,318
2008                        350    -       350            1,677 10,400  1,677  10,750  70  114  20       90  114 71,540  54,602  18,250      89,790 54,602  88,113  43,852  31.512
2009                        350    -       350            1,76f 10,400  1,761  10,750  70  114  20       90  114 71,540  56,164  18,250     89,790  56,164  88,029  45,414  31,839
2010                        360    -       350            1,849 10,400   1,849  10,750  70  114  20      90  114 71,540  58.507  18,250     89,790  58,507  87,941  47,757  32,665
2011                        350    -       350            1,941 10,400  1,941  10,750  70  114  20       90  114 71,540 60,850  18,250      89,790 60.850  87,849  50,100  33,432
ERR :1%         23%      22%
Note  actuatlestimate gas profit margins include 5% thermnal efficiency gains for industrial uses as assumed in appraisal estimate



Table 9A: Economic Rate of Return -- Medan Component
(in Thousands US$: Constant $ for Appraisal; Nominal S for Actual)
Project                                                __.__
Investment                           Operating    Total       Gas Sales (in mmcfd)                      Gas Sales Margin                 Net Benefits
Year Foreign         Local            Total       Costs       Costs        PLN      Industry  Total    PLN          Industry       Total         Appraisal      Actual
App     Act    App    Act    App   Act  App   Act  App   Act App Act App Act App Act App   Act  App    Act   App    Act  Constant $ Nomninal $ Constant $
1990
1991                           1,155        1,155                    1,155                                                                                      (1,155)    (1,070)
1992   5,872    2,661          1,034  5,872  3,695   -     90  5,872  3,785                 1        1   -                    894    -       894      (5,872)   (2,891)    (2,568)
1993    -        -              992    -     992  102    90   102  1,082   1 8         7   1  25   1 1,511   -   7,665   1,011 9,176   1,011          9,074       (71)       (63)
1994                                -         -    102    90   102    90  18   7   7   1  25   8  1,511   469 7,665   1,113  9,176   1,582            9,074      1,492      1,283
1995                            1 -  -  172  172  102   180   102   352   1 8  38    7   2  25  40  1,511 2,381 7,665   1,605  9,176   3,986          9,074      3,634     2,889
1996              21             -     -      21  102   270   102   291  18  44   7   3  25  47  1,511 2,662  7,665   1,950  9,176   4,612            9,074     4,321      3,593
1997           2,572             -     -   2,572  102   270   102 2,842   1 8  48    7   3  25  51 1,511 2,418  7,665   2,822  9,178   5,240          9,074     2,398      2,101
1998             532            146   -    678   102   270   102   948   1 8  53   7   3  25  56  1,511   709  7,665   2,467  9,176   3,176           9,074     2,228      2,031
1999                            440    -    440  102   410   102   850   1 8  47   7   5  25  52  1,511   890 7,665   3,305  9,176   4,195            9,074      3,345     3,011
2000                            280    -    280  102   690   102   970   1 8  52   7   8  25  60  1,511   920 7,665   7,181 9,176   8,101             9,074      7,131     6,256
2001                            300    -     300  102   970   102  1,270   1 8  52    7  1 1  25  63  1,511   920 7,665  10,636  9,176  11,556        9,074    10,286      8,786
2002                            300   -      300  102  1,150   102  1,450   1 8  52   7  1 3  25  65  1,511   920 7,665  13,021 9,176  13,941         9,074    12,491      10,399
2003                            300   -      300  102  1,330   102  1,630   1 8  52   7  1 5  25  67  1,511   920  7,665  15,543  9,176  16,463       9,074    14,833      12,048
2004                            300   -      300  '102  1,510   102  1,810   1 8  52   7  1 7  25  69  1,511   920  7,665  18,202  9,176  19,122      9,074    17,312      13,719
2005                            300   -      300  102  1,700   102 2,000   18  52   7  1 9  25  71  1,511   920 7,665  20,998  9,176  21,918          9,074    19,918      15,399
2006                            300   -      300  102  2,060   102 2,360   1 8  52   7  23  25  75  1,511   920 7,665  25,745  9,176  26,665          9,074    24,305      18,350
2007                            300   -      300  102 2,160   102 2,460   1 8  52   7  24  25  76  1,511   920  7,665  27,194  9,176  28,114          9,074    25,654      18,896
2008                    -       300   -      300  102  2,270   102 2,570   18  52   7  25  25  77 1,511   920  7,665  28,498  9,176  29,418           9,074    26,848      19,293  
2009                            300   -      300  102 2,380   102 2,680   18  52   7  26  25  78  1,511   920 7,665  29,993  9,176  30,913            9,074    28,233      19,794    t's
2010                    -       300   -      300  102 2,500   102 2,800  18  52   7  27  25  79  1,511   920 7,665 31,700 9,176  32,620               9,074    29,820     20,396
2011                    -       300   -      300  102  2,500   102 2,800   1 8  52   7  27  25  79  1,511   920  7,665  32,254  9,176  33,174          9,074    30,374    20,269
|  ERR |    155%1        50%|       48%
Note  actual/estimate gas profit margins include 5% thermal efficiency gains for industrial uses as assumed in appraisal estimate



Table 9A: Economic Rate of Rrtrun: Combined Medan & Surabaya Components
(In Thousands US$: Constant S for Appraisal; Nominal $ for Actual)
Project nvetment                 .      C._.__ Conversion   Operating  Total                        Gas Sales Margin                         _           Net    enefit
Year Foreign          Locel            Total          Costs       Coas  _         Costs          PLN            Industry          Otherm         Total            App        Actual
App     Act    App    Act    App       Act      App Act  App    Act    App           Act    App    Act    App       Act    App   Act  App    Act  Constant $ Nominal S Constnt 
1990
1991     -              -    1.375      -      1,375                                 -      1,375                                                                            (1.375)    (1.274)
1992  24,696   2.661  2,352  2.314   27.048   4,975                          90   27,048    5,065    -              -       894                           894    (27.048)    (4.171)    (3.706)
1993  21,000    3.978    264  2,142  21,264   6,120  3,000          102      90  24,366   6,210  1.511    -       7,665    1,011     -          9,176    1,011    (15,190)    (5199)    (4,633)
1994  10,500   4,782    440  2,110   10.940   6,892  3.200          248    2,900   14.388   9,792  1,511    469   12,775   2,476    4.563      18,849    2,945     4,461     (6,847)    (5.889)
1995   6,300   13,654  1,056  1,842   7.356   15,496  1,800         569   2,430   9,725   17,926  1,511  2,381   19,929   11,069   18.250      39,690   13,450    29.965    (4,476)    (3,558)
1996   3,360   12,905    220  3,010   3.580   15,915  1,000         730   3,970   5,310   19,865   1,511  2,662   31,171   14,467   18,250     50,932   17,129    45,622     (2,756)    (2,292)
1997          11,867    -    4,630      -    16.497  1.000          920    3,262    1.920  19,759  1,511  2,418   44,457   17,844   18.250     64.218  20.262     62,298       503        441
1998          11,046           526            11,572               1,124   2,210    1.124   13,782  1,511    709   58,765   6.501   18,250     78,526    7.210    77,402    (6,572)    (5,992)
1999             -            1,230     .      1,230    ,          1,197   4,712    1,197   5,942  1,511    890  63,875    4.893   18,250      83,636    5.783    82.439       (159)     (143)
2000                           330              330                1,270   6,263   1,270   6,593  1,511    920  68,985   21,772   18,250       88,746   22.692    87,476     16,099    14,123
2001                           650              650                1,328    6.810    1,328   7,460  1,511    920  73,073   30,329   18,250     92,834   31,249    91.506    23.789     20,320
2002                           460              460               1,372    8,360    1,372   8,820  1,511    920  76,139   40,036   18,250      95,900   40.956    94.528    32.136     26.755
2003                           650              650                1,416   8,812    1,416   9,462  1,511    920  79,205   46,392   18.250      98,966   47.312    97.550    37,850     30,743  I
2004                           650              650                1,482    9,812    1,482   10,462  1,511    920  79,205   55,554   18,250    98,966   56.474    97,484    46,012     36,461   U
2006                           650              650                1,551   10,553    1,551   11.203  1,511    920  79,205   64,135   18,250    98,966   65.055    97.415    53,852    41.633
2006                           650              650                1,623   11,641    1,623   12,291  1,511    920  79,205   73,879   18,250    98,966   74.799    97.343    62,508     47,193
2007                           650              650                1,699   12,110    1.699   12.760  1,511    920  79,205   78,655   18.250   998,966   79,575    97,267    66,815     49.214
2008                    .      650              650                1,779  12,670    1,779   13,320  1,511    920  79,205   83,100   18,250     98.966   84,020    97,187    70,700     50.806
2009                    .      650              650                1,863   12,780    1,863   13,430  1,511    920  79,205   86,157   18,250    98,968   87,077    97,103    73.647     51,632
2010   .                       650              650                1,951   12,900   1,951   13,550  1,511    920  79,205   90,207   18,250     98,966   91,127    97,015    77,577     53,061
2011                           650              650               2,043   12,900    2.043   13.550  1,511    920  79,205   93,104   18,250     98,966   94,024    96,923    80.474     53.700
NtRR :9%                30%        29%
Note actual/estimate gas profit margins Include 5% thermnal efficiency gains tor industrial uses as assumed in appraisal estimate



Table 9A; ECONOMIC ANALYSIS - ASSUMPTIONS FOR PETROLEUM PRODUCTS SUBSTITUTION
BY PROJECT COMPONENT (in US $ Thousand)
SU RABAYA
Y.., |                                      Fuel Subtituted                                    i         i          i 1                 I
LPG      LPG     IDO      IDO      HSD       HSD       FO       FO    Kerosene Kerosene   Total      Total   Cost of    Total      Sales
. *  Volume    Fuel Price   Gas  Gas Purchase  Margin
MMCF   MMBBL  MMCF  MMBBL    MMCF   MMBBL   MMCF   MMBBL   MMCF   MMBBL   MMCF                        US $     US $      US $       US $
1994      40      0.01   0.00      0.00       688     0.12      182      0.05      101     0.02     1,011     3,547   2.16        2,184   1,363.01
1995     312      0.08   0.00      0.00     5,332     0.95    1,408      0.25     785      0.14     7,837    26,391   2.16       16,927   9,464.15
1996     476      0.13   0.00      0.00     8,176      1.46    2,166     0.39    1,202     0.22    12,019    38,479   2.16       25,962  12,517.33
1997     597      0.16   0.00      0.00    10,148      1.81    2,680     0.48    1,486     0.27    14,910    47,228   2.16       32,206  15,021.66
1998     551      0.15   0.00      0.00     9,360      1.67    2,478     0.44    1,376     0.25    13,764    33,765   2.16       29,731   4,034.19
1999     688      0.19   0.00      0.00    11,703     2.09    3,098      0.55    1,721     0.31    17,210    38,761   2.16       37,173   1,587.87
2000     891      0.24   0.00      0.00    15,140      2.70    4,008     0.71    2,226     0.40    22,265    62,683   2.16       48,092  14,590.97
2001     934      0.25   0.00      0.00    15,885      2.83    4,205     0.75    2,336     0.42    23,360    70,151   2.16       50,458  19,692.97
2002    1,153     0.31   0.00      0.00    19,608      3.50    5,190     0.92    2,883     0.52    28,835    89,298   2.16       62,284  27,014.51
2003    i,i37     0.33   0.00      0.00    20,352      3.63    3,387     0.96    2,993     0.54   29,930     95,49   2.16       64,5649  30,849.14
2004    1,329     0.36   0.00      0.00    22,586      4.03    5,979     1.06    3,321     0.60    33,215    109,096   2.16      71,744  37,352.06
2005    1,416     0.39   0.00      0.00    24,075     4.30    6,373      1.13    3,540     0.64    35,405    119,612   2.16      76,475  43,137.40     t
2006    1,533     0.42   0.00      0.00    26,061     4.65    6,899      1.23    3,832     0.70    38,325    130,916   2.16      82,782  48,133.76     4
2007    1,591      0.43   0.00     0.00    27,054      4.83    7,161     1.27    3,978     0.72    39,785    137,396   2.16      85,936  51,460.86
2008    1,664     0.45   0.00      0.00    28,295      5.05    7,490     1.33    4,161     0.76    41,610    144,480   2.16      89,878  54,602.43
2009    1,664     0.45   0.00      0.00    28,295      5.05    7,490     1.33    4,161     0.76    41,610    146,042   2.16      89,878  56,164.37
2010    1,664      0.45   0.00     0.00    28,295      5.05    7,490     1.33    4,161     0.76   41,610    148,385   2.16       89,878  58,507.29
2011    1,664      0.45   0.00     0.00    28,295      5.05    7,490     1.33    4,161     0.76    41,610    150,728   2.16      89,878 , 60,850.21



Table 9A: ECONOMICANALYSIS-ASSUMPTIONS FOR PETROLEUM PRODUCTS SUBSTITUTION
BY PROJECT COMPONENT (in US $ Thousand)
ME DAN
Year         _                               Fuel Subtituted                                          Total     Total    Cost of   Total    Sales
LPG     LPG       IDO      IDO       HSD      HSD       FO        FO    Kerosene   Kerosene   Volume      Fuel     Gas    Gas        Margin
MMCF   MMBBL.   MMCF   MMBBL   MMCF   MMBBL   MMCF   MMBBL   MMCF    MMBBL    MMCF                        Price            Purchase
1991       O    0.00       0.00    0.00         0    0.00          0     0.00         0       0.00         O          0   1.58         0          0
1992      14    0.00     158.40    0.03         92    0.02        67    0.01         37       0.01       368       1,446   1.50      552        894
1993      17    0.01       0.00    0.00        287    0.05        76    0.01         43       0.01       423       1,630   1.46      619       1,011
1994      21    0.01       0.00    0.00        359    0.06        95    0.02         53       0.01       528       1,852   1.40      739       1,113
1995      31    0.01       0.00    0.00        535    0.10       141    0.03         79       0.01       786       2,647    1.33    1,042      1,605
1996      40    0.01       0.00    0.00        690    0.12       183    0.03        102       0.02     1,015       3,249   1.28    1,299       1,950
1997      45    0.01       0.00    0.00        769    0.14       203    0.04        113       0.02     1,130       3,579   0.67      757       2,822
1998      46    0.01       0.00    0.00        777    0.14       206     0.04       114       0.02     1,142       2,801   0.29      334       2,467
1999      62    0.01       0.00    0.00      1,055    0.19       553    0.11        155       0.03     1,825       3,928   0.34      622       3,305
2000      76    0.02       0.00    0.00     A2,099    0.37       556    0.11        190       0.03     2,920       8,177   0.34      996       7,181
2001     115    0.03       0.00    0.00      2,855    0.51       756    0.15        289       0.05     4,015      12,006   0.34    1,369      10,636
2002     143    0.03       0.00    0.00      3,357    0.60       889    0.17        357       0.06     4,745      14,639   0.34    1,618      13,021
2003     170    0.04       0.00    0.00      3,858    0.69      1,021    0.20       426       0.07     5,475      17,410   0.34    1,867      15,543
2004     198    0.04       0.00    0.00      4,358     0.78     1,154    0.22       495       0.09     6,205      20,318   0.34    2,116      18,202     U
2005     226    0.05       0.00    0.00      4,857     0.87     1,286    0.25       566       0.10     6,935      23,363   0.34    2,365      20,998
2006     283    0.06       0.00    0.00      5,855     1.05     1,550    0.30       707       0.12     8,395      28,608   0.34    2,863      25,745
2007     296    0.06       0.00    0.00      6,107     1.09     1,617    0.31       740       0.13     8,760      30,181    0.34    2,987     27,194
2008     309     0.07      0.00    0.00      6,360     1.14     1,684    0.33       772       0.14     9,125      31,610   0.34    3,112      28,498
2009     321     0.07      0.00    0.00      6,615     1.18     1,751    0.34       803       0.14     9,490      33,230   0.34    3,236      29,993
2010     333    0.07       0.00    0.00      6,871     1.23     1,819    0.35       833       0.15     9,855      35,061    0.34    3,361     31,700
2011     333    0.07       0.00    0.00      6,871     1.23     1,819    0.35       833       0.15     9,855      35,615   0.34    3,361      32,254



- 26 -
Table 9A: Economic Analysis Assumptions
ActuallProjected International Oil Price Movements
1989=100                         Crude Oil Prices
Year    Deflator (US$)           11990 Prices       Current Prices
.Annual % Cumulative, ($Ibbl)  Annual %      ($1bbl)  lAnnual %
1990        5.7     105.7%      22.88      23.3%       22.88     30.1%
1991        2.1     107.9%       17.00    -25.7%       17.30    -24.4%
1992        4.3     112.6%       17.84      4.9%       19.02      9.9%
1993       (0.3)    112.2%       1.5.84    -11.2%      16.84    -11.5%
1994        3.6     116.3%       14.41     -9.0%       15.89     -5.6%
1995        8.2     125.8%       14.41      0.0%       17.17      8.1%
1996       (4.4)    120.3%       17.91     24.3%       20.42     18.9%
1997       (5.1)    114.1%       17.72     -1.1%       19.17     -6.1%
1998       (3.9)    109.7%       1:2.57    -29.1%      13.07    -31.8%
1999        1.3    111.1%        1:3.83    10.0%       12.00     -8.2%
2000        2.6     114.0%       15.49     12.0%       15.00     25.0%
2001        2.7     117.1%       14.42     -6.9%       16.00      6.7%
2002        2.6     120.1%       14.48      0.4%       16.48      3.0%
2003        2.5     123.1%       14.54      0.4%       16.97      3.0%
2004        2.5     126.2%       14.59      0.4%       17.48      3.0%
2005        2.5     129.3%       14.68      0.6%       18.00      3.0%
2006        2.4     132.5%       14.47     -1.4%       18.18      1.0%
2007        2.5     135.8%       14.27     -1.4%       18.36      1.0%
2008        2.5     139.2%       14.07     -1.4%       18.55      1.0%
2009        2.5     142.6%       13.88     -1.4%       18.73      1.0%
2010        2.5     146.2%       13.70     -1.3%       19.00      1.4%
2011        2.5    149.9%        13.53     -1.3%       19.27      1.4%
Sources: Global Commodity Markets, The World Bank, January 1999
Note: 1990-19S98 crude oil prices are based on actual average spot prices of Brent,
Dubai and West Texas Intermediate (equally weighted); future oil prices
are the projections included in the latest issue of the "Global Commodity Markets"



Table 9B: Financial IRR - Surabaya Component
(In Current Million US$)
FY   Investment       Operating Cost    Income Tax    Net Gas Revenues              Net Cashflow
Appraisal Actual Appraisal Actual Appraisal Actual Appraisal Actual         Appraisal                  Actual
Nominal  Deflator Constant Nominal  Deflator Constant
$     Index      $       $      Index      $
1991            0.22                                                                                 (0.22)   1.021    (0.22)
1992    26.2    1.28                                                       (26.2)    1.06    (24.7)   (1.28)   1.043    (1.23)
1993    26.5    5.13                                                       (26.5)    1.12    (23.6)   (5.13)   1.040    (4.93)
1994    13.6    6.89      0.2    2.81             0.10     4.2      3.2    (9.6)    1.19     (8.1)   (6.64)   1.077    (6.16)
1995     9.4   15.32      0.6    2.25      0.6    2.50     12.5     10.6     1.9    1.26      1.5   (9.49)   1.082    (8.77)
1996     4.5   15.89      0.8    3.70      1.3    2.94     16.7     13.5    10.1    1.34      7.5   (9.04)   1.034    (8.74)
1997           13.92      1.0    2.99     2.1    0.00    23.4      (2.2)    20.3    1.42     14.3  (19.06)   0.982   (19.42) s
1998           10.98      1.3    1.94     2.3    0.23    29.2       2.7    25.6    1.50      17.0  (10.43)   0.943   (11.06)
1999            0.79      1.4    4.30     2.4    0.75     31.3      6.8    27.5    1.59      17.3    0.98    0.956     1.03
2000            0.05      1.5    5.57     2.4    2.98    32.7       15.5    28.8    1.69     17.0    6.90    0.980     7.04
2001            0.35      1.6    5.84   - 2.5    4.18      35.0     19.8    30.9    1.79     17.3    9.39    1.007     9.33
2002            0.16      1.7    7.21      2.5    6.45     35.0    28.7    30.8    1.90      16.2   14.90    1.033    14.42
2003            0.35      1.8    7.48      2.5    8.49    35.0      35.8    30.7    2.01     15.3   19.47    1.059    18.39
2004            0.35      1.9    8.30     2.5   10.42    35.0      43.0    30.6    2.13      14.3   23.97    1.085    22.08
2005            0.35      2.0    8.85     2.5   12.17    35.0      49.4    30.5    2.26      13.5   28.05    1.113    25.21
2006            0.35     2.1    9.58      2.5   13.18    35.0      53.5    30.4    2.40      12.7   30.39    1.139    26.68
2007            0.35     2.3    9.95      2.5   13.68    35.0      55.5    30.2    2.54      11.9   31.56    1.168    27.03
2008            0.35      2.4   10.40     2.5   14.30    35.0      58.1    30.1    2.69      11.2   33.05    1.197    27.61
2009            0.35      2.6   10.40     2.5   14.30    35.0      58.1    29.9    2.85      10.5   33.05    1.227    26.94
2010            0.35      2.7  -10.40     2.5   14.30    35.0       58.1    29.8    3.03      9.8   33.05    1.258    26.28
2011            0.35      2.9   10.40     2.5   14.30    35.0       58.1    29.6    3.21      9.2   33.05    1.289    25.64
FRR          23%              16%      17%              16%



Table 9B: Financial IRR - Medan Component
(In Current Million US$)
FY   Investment       Operating Cost    Income Tax    Net Gas  Revenues                       Net Cashflow
Appraisal Actual Appraisal Actual Appraisal Actual Appraisal Actual           Appraisal                   Actual
Nominal  Deflator Constant Nominal  Deflator Constant
$     Index      $        $      Index     $
1991             1.15                                                                                  (1.15)   1.021     (1.1)
1992     7.0    3.69              0.09             0.37              1.33     (7.0)    1.06    (6.6)   (2.82)   1.043     (2.7)
1993             0.99     0.1    0.09       1.3    0.37      2.9     1.33      1.5    1.12      1.3   (0.12)   1.040      (0.1)
1994             0.00     0.1    0.09       1.3    0.33      2.9     1.21      1.5    1.19      1.3    0.79    1.077      0.7
1995             0.17     0.1    0.18       1.3    0.71      2.9     2.54      1.5    1.26      1.2    1.48    1.082       1.4
1996             0.02     0.1    0.27       1 .3   1 3       29      3.70      1.5    1.3a      1.1    2.38    1.034A      .3
1997             2.57     0.1    0.27       1.3    0.57      2.9     2.16      1.5    1.42      1.1   (1.25)   0.982      (1.3)
1998             0.68     0.1    0.27       1.3    0.47      2.9     1.83      1.5    1.50      1.0    0.41    0.943      0.4
1999             0.44     0.1    0.41       1.3    0.58      2.9     2.34      1.5    1.59      0.9    0.91    0.956       1.0
2000             0.28     0.1    0.69       1.3    1.02      2.9     4.09      1.5    1.69      0.9    2.10    0.980       2.1
2001             0.30     0.1    0.97       1.3    1.45      2.9     5.81      1.5    1.79      0.8    3.09    1.007       3.1
2002             0.30     0.1    1.15       1.3    1.27      2.9     5.38      1.5    1.90      0.8    2.66    1.033      2.6
2003             0.30     0.1    1.33       1.3    1.43      2.9     6.09      1.5    2.01      0.7    3.03    1.059      2.9
2004             0.30     0.1    1.51       1.3    1.58      2.9     6.80      1.5    2.13      0.7    3.41    1.085      3.1
2005             0.30     0.1    1.70       1.3    1.74      2.9     7.50      1.5    2.26      0.7    3.76    1.113      3.4
2006             0.30     0.1    2.06       1.3    2.06      2.9     8.92      1.5    2.40      0.6    4.50    1,139      3.9
2007             0.30     0.1    2.16       1.3    2.15      2.9     9.32      1.5    2.54      0.6    4.71    1.168      4.0
2008             0.30     0.1    2.27       1.3    2.24      2.9     9.73      1.5    2.69      0.6    4.92    1.197      4.1
2009             0.30     0.1    2.38       1.3    2.33      2.9    10.16      1.5    2.85      0.5    5.15    1.227      4.2
2010             0.30     0.1    2.50       1.3    2.43      2.9    10.60      1.5    3.03      0.5    5.37    1.258      4.3
2011             0.30     0.1  -  2.50      1.3    2.43      2.9    10.60      1.5    3.21      0.5    5.37    1.289      4.2
FRR     21%               14%    26.1%             25.6%



_________________  __________Table 9C: PGN  Financial Summary (1991-1998)______                                                                              _    _____
1991                  1992          ____ 1993            ____  19194            _____19                 ____ 1995                        11997          1998
(In Billion Rp)                    Appraisakl  Actual   Appraisal  Actual  Appraisal   Actual   Appraisal  Actual   AppraIsall  Actual   Appraisal   Actual   Appraisal   ACtUal    Actual
Income Statement It.mit
Gas Sales Volume (mmsCfd)                 35          52         52          58         67         66         82          86        110         114        128          147        163         ISO        153
Sales Volume (mmbtu)                     360         537         540        sag        ea0         682        8460       889       1,140       1,178       1,320      1.618       1.680      1.857       1,581
Average Gas Pucoe ($lmcf)          $    3.15  $    3.42  $    3.30  $    3.94  $    3.40  $   3.82  $    3.37  $    3.56  $    3.32  $    3.65  $    3.31  $    3.50  $    3.27  $    3.45  $    2.14
Average Gas Margin ($/mcf)         $    1.23  $    1.72  $    1.63  $    2.2865    1.40  $   2.25  $    1.37  $    1.88  $    1.32  $    1.67  $    1.31  $    1.40  $    1.47  $    0.59  S    0.59
Gas Sales Revenues                        70         127         110        169        145         192        177        244         234        343         270        444         340         639       1,266
Total Revenues                            70         131         110        172        145         196        177        249         234        352         270         454        340         650.      1.335
Operating Income                           8          42          17         65         26          78         29         87          48         106         50         114         e1          28        238
Net Income                                 6          31           9         42         13         49          15         50          22         74          29         80          42          13        157
Cash Flow Statement Items
intemnal Cash Generation                  12          32         26          55         42         62          51         64          70         so          so          79        103          78        '136
Long TermnBorrowings                      38          19         83           1         71          8          22         23          26         30           4         109          0         838       1.210 
Equity InvestmentslGovt contribution      24          11          0         31           0         13           0         15           0         13           0         20           0         23         (22)
Capital Expentdiures                      38          37          87         80         86          52         Is         42          14          70         23         199         25         634       1,399
Changes In Working Capital                 7          (7)         (0)        (7)         7           8          7         (19)         3          (6)         2          16          5          (9)        49
Total Debt SerAlce                         0           2          15         11         21          10         20          11         30          13         26          24         40          37         58
DPS Contdibutions (dividends)              2           1           5         16          7          17          8         21          12         24          16          25         23          14         66
Balance Sheet Items
Current Assets                            28          94          289       121         36         156         43        203          47        245          50         231         56         283        467
Current Liablifties                       1 2         41          12         46         13          71         14         89          15         104         15         121         16         170        466
Net Fixed Assets In OperatIon             75          93         115        109        186         123        249        142         242        186         234         184        236         246       1,972
Long Term Debt                            78          51         151         54        209         62         218         83         231        106         229         225        204         768       1,871
Equity                                   108         128         110        184        113         203        117        230         123        279         130         290        140         372        441
Ratios
Gross Margin on Gas Sales                40%         52%        37%         55%        41%         60%        40%        53%/        39%/       47%         39%         41%        38%         18%        31%
Operating Ratio                          89%         68%        85%         62%        82%        60%         84%A       65%         79%        70%         78%        75%         76%         96%        82%
Net Margin                                8%         24%A        8%         24%         9%        25%          8%        20%          9%        21%         11%         18%        12%          2%        12%
ROR on Net Operationat Fixed Assets
(a) At Historicat Cost                    8%         31%         13%        38%        13%        42%          9%        40%         15%        49%         18%        89%         24%         10%        15%
(b) On Revatued Basis                     5%         18%         9%/        22%        10%        25%          7%        23%         11%        25%         13%         27%        16%          I1%6     -12%
Debt Service Coverage                               19.6        1.7         5.0        2.0        6.1         2.6        5.8         2.3        6.0         3.1        3.3          2.1        2.1        2.4
Current RatIo                             2.3         2.3        2.3        2,6         2.8        2.2        3.1         2.3        3.2         2.4         3.3        1.9         3.4        1.7         1.0
LT Debt/Total Capitat                    42%         29%        58%         23%        65%        26%         68%        29%         65%        30%         64%        45%         59%         67%        81%
Accounts Receivabte (days)                10         45          23         42          23         41         23          43         22          39          13         43          20         46          55
Macroeconomic Statistics
Averape Exchange Rate (p.a.)            1.760       1,960      1.780      2,030       1,758      2,667       1,750      2,180      1,750       2.255       1.750      2.362       1,78o      2.827      l0.600
LocalInfinton Rates                       6%       9.4%         6%A       7.6%         6%        9.2%         6%        856%         6%1       9.4%         6%    7%          %             12.7%       80.0%1



Table 9D: PGN's FISCAL IMPACT
(FYs 1990-97 Net Fiscal Benefits of PGN's Operations)
In Rp.Millions
PGN Payments to GOI                                                   GOI for PGN
FY Ending     Custom       Income       Debt      DPS       Total PGN         DIP         Debt    Total GOI Payments   Net Fiscal Impact
Duties       Tax       Service   Payment Payments to GOI Contribution    Service         for PGN         Actual    Appraisal
1990           0            1,288          0         0           1,288         368        1,775              2,143        (855)      (348)
1991           0           2,598       3,613     3,662           9,873       10,694     42,832              53,526      (43,653)    (19,331)
1992           0          33,492      10,762     5,000          49,254        7,284      9,445              16,729      32,525      17,128
1993           0           35,085     11,592    15,460          62,137        9,326      9,856              19,182      42,955      21,965        o
1994           0          38,601      13,572    21,088          73,261       10,058     11,033              21,091      52,170      17,905
1995           0           38,370     15,025   24,406           77,801       13,008     14,451              27,459      50,342      32,403
1996           0          42,973      26,834    24,801          94,608       18,017     22,091              40,108      54,500      40,940
1997           0          44,193      40,934   23,598          108,725       21,522     24,446              45,968      62,757      75,214
Total          0          236,600    122,332   118,015         476,947       90,277    135,929             226,206     250,741     185,876



- 31 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Section          Description of Covenants            Covenant   Present           Comments
Type         Status
Loan
Agreement
Section 3.01 (A)    The borrower to cause PGN to perform    4,10        C           In compliance
in accordance with the provisions of the
PA, and to provide the funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary
or appropriate to enable PGN to carry
out the project.
Section 3.02 (A)    The borrower shall sign a subsidiary  10            C           In compliance.
Loan Agreement with PGN
Section 3.05      The borrower shall cause PGN to      05               C           In compliance.
maintain a salary structure at a level as
remunerative as that of other similar
public corporations (Perums)
Section 4.01 (A)    The borrower shall maintain or cause to    1        C           In compliance.
be maintained records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of parts C (II), C (III) and D of
the project.
Section 4.01 (B)    The borrower shall have the records and   I         C           In compliance,
accounts referred to above, including                            except for audit of
those for the Special Account, audited by                        studies on
independent auditors acceptable to the                           environmental
Bank, and furnish this audit to the Bank                         impact assessment
not later than nine months after the end                         and corporate
of each fiscal year.                                             restructuring
Project
Agreement
Section 2.03 (B)    PGN shall take all necessary steps to  5            C           In compliance.
secure permits for rights of way/way
leave for the pipelines to be built under
Parts A & B of the project at least 6
months prior to the estimated start of the
related construction
Section 2.06 (A)    PGN shall prepare a rolling five-year  5            C           In compliance.
plan of gas requirements by the end of
FY and discuss the plan with GOI, gas
supplier and the Bank within 3 months
Section 2.06 (B)    By Jan. I of each calendar year, PGN  5             C           In compliance.
shall prepare an investment program and
furnish it for Bank's comments
Section 2.07      PGN shall prepare and furnish for     5               C           In compliance.
Bank's review/comment a detailed
training program with respect to Part C
(I) of the project
Section 2.08 (A)    PGN shall adopt and thereafter      5               C           In compliance.
implement an efficiency improvement
program for PGN's activities,
satisfactory to the Bank.



- 32 -
Section 4.01 (A)   PGN shall maintain records and accounts  I             C           In compliance.
adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound and consistently maintained
accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
Section 4.01 (B)   PGN shall have its accounts and       I                C           In compliance.
financial statements balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses for
each fiscal year audited in accordance
with appropriate auditing princi]ples by
independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank and furnish this audit to the Bank
not later than nine months after the end
of each fiscal year.
Section 4.02 (A)    PGN shall take all measures required to    2          C           In compliance except
realize annual rate of return on revalued                          for FYs 97 & 98 due
net fixed assets in operation of riot less                         to Asian Financial
than 4% in fiscal years 1991-93, 8% in                             crisis.
fiscal year 1994; and 10% in fiscal year
1995 and thereafter
Covenant Type
I Accounts/audit
2 Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
3 Flow and utilization of Project funds
4 Counterpart funding
5 Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
6 Environmental covenants
7 Involuntary resettlement
8 Indigenous people
9 Monitoring, review and reporting
10 Implementation
11 Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13 Other
Present Status
C     Complied with
CD    Compliance after Delay
NC   Not Complied with
CP    Complied Partially
NYD Not Yet Due
SOON Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time



- 33 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
The project did not experience any lack of compliance with Bank Operational Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                   Actual
Stage of project cycle  Weeks         US$        Weeks         US$
Preparation                n.a.         n.a.        30.1         78.1
Appraisal                  n.a.         n.a.        30.3         84.8
Negotiation                 n.a.        n.a.        20.7         60.8
Supervision                52.5         n.a.       31.3         107.5
ICR                        10.0        31.0         10.0         31.0
Total                 62.5        31.0        122.4       362.20



- 34 -
Table 13: Banlk Resources: Missions
Stage of           Month!      No. of   Days in   Spec. staff        Implemen-        Dev.-             Types
Project Cycle      Year        Persons    field    represented          tation       Impact          of problems
status
Through appraisal   Nov. 88       1          4      Gas Specialist
May 89         2          8      Gas Specialist
Fin. Analyst
Board Approval     Nov. 90        1          2      Gas Specialist
through
Effectiveness
Feb. 91        1          2      Energy Spec.
Supervision I      May 91         2          5      Gas Specialist        I             I         market identification,
system design
Supervision II     Oct. 91        2          3      Gas Specialist        1             1        market develop., skills
Energy Econ.                                      upgrading
Supervision III    June 92        2          12     Gas Specialist        I             I         financial, marketing,
Fin. Analyst                                     institutional
Supervision IV     Feb. 93        2          6      Gas Specialist        2             1        implemen. and procur.,
planning, financial, gas
supply delay
Supervision V      May 94         2          5      Gas Specialist        I             1         market development
Fin. Analyst
Supervision VI     Oct. 94        2          5      Gas Spec.             S            HS        procurement, customer
Fin. Analyst                                      attachment
Supervision VII    Nov/Dec.       2         20      Gas Specialist        S            HS         system optimization,
95                               Economist                                    accelerated implemen.
reorganization of field
operations
Supervision VIII    June 96       2         10      Gas Specialist        S            HS        procurement processing
Economist
Supervision IX     Nov. 96        2          8      Gas Specialist        S            HS        procurement processing
Economist
Supervision X      July 97        2          8      Gas Specialist        S            HS           market develop.,
Fin. Analyst                                 accelerated implement.
Supervision XI     Feb. 98        2          7      Gas Specialist        S             S       erosion of profitability of
gas marketing due to fin.
crisis in the country
Supervision XII    Nov./Dec       2          8      Gas Specialist        S             S       erosion of profitability of
98                               Fin. Analyst                                gas marketing due to fin.
crisis in the country
Completion         Mar. 99        2          14     Gas Specialist        ---
_____ _____ _____ _____ _  ________Fin. Analyst
Notes: Implementation Status and Development Impact: I= Satisfactory, 2= Unsatisfactory, HS = Highly Satisfactory,
S = Satisfactory



- 35 -                          Appendix A
AIDE MEMOIRE
A World Bank mission comprising Mr. S. Khwaja and Ms. S. Shum visited Indonesia
March 17- April 1, 1999 for the preparation of Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of the
Gas Utilization Project (Loan No. 3209-IND). The mission held discussions with the officials of
State Ministry of State Owned Enterprises, MIGAS, PGN and LEMIGAS. The mission would
like to thank the Government of Indonesia (GOI) and its agencies for the cooperation and
courtesies received. A list of key people met is given in Annex 1.
The project objectives, design and implementation were reviewed, with special attention to
gas market development; procurement of goods and services; infrastructure design, construction
and costs; project returns; PGN's financial performance; and institutional strengthening ofPGN,
LEMIGAS & MIGAS. GOI and its agencies were apprised of the preliminary findings of this
review, which are summarized as follows.
Achievement of Objectives
Despite the setback in the development of gas markets in Surabaya and Medan on account
of the Asian financial crisis, the project substantially achieved its main objectives of accelerating
gas utilization in domestic energy consumption and institutional strengthening of the involved
agencies i.e., PGN, LEMIGAS & MIGAS.
Project Implementation
Overall, the project has been satisfactorily implemented within the budget. The
implementation was delayed by two and a half years due to a 9 month delay in twinning
arrangement, a two year delay in gas supply to East Java and a 6 months delay in the procurement
of equipment (for TEKNOGAS) on account of the financial crisis. An amount of US$7.5 million
was canceled from the original Bank loan of US$86 million as PGN curtailed infrastructure
development in East Java following the crisis. The project was substantially completed and the
loan was closed on December 31, 1998 except for Category 2 (b) of Schedule 1 of the Loan
Agreement covering the establishment of Gas Technology Development Unit (TEKNOGAS) in
LEMIGAS. This category was closed on March 31, 1999 to enable the completion of contracts
for the procurement of the aforementioned equipment.
Project Returns
A copy of a plan agreed with PGN for the operations of the assets created under the
project is attached as Annex 2. Based on this operational plan and the actual/latest estimates of
project costs and benefits, the project returns have been re-estimated and summarized below.
However, these estimates are only preliminary at this stage; PGN is currently in the process of
refining the projected gas sales data which would be sent to the Bank by April 13, 1999.
(a) Economic Rate of Return (ERR). From the country's viewpoint, the benefits of the
project are derived from the substitution of imported liquid fuels. The project remains
economically attractive, with an overall ERR currently estimated at about 39% (in real terms),
even though this is lower than the appraisal estimate of 59%, mainly due to lower economic
benefits of gas substitution for liquid fuels as a result of significantly lower international oil
prices than earlier anticipated.



Appendix A                             - 36 -
(b) Financial Rate of Return (FRR). From PGN's view point, the financial viability of
the project is critically dependent on the adequacy of the gas sales volume and profit margin. The
FRR for both the Surabaya and Medan components is currently estimated at 16%. The current
estimate of FRR' for the Medan component is the slightly higher than the appraisal estimate
mainly because the latest estimate of gas sales volume is higher than that of the appraisal
assumption. Separately, the FRR for the Surabaya component is the same as the appraisal
estimate based on the assumption that the recent trend of lower profit margins would be reversed
to higher gas profit margin ($1.4/MMBTU) than the appraisal estimate ($1.14/MMBTU). In the
event the future profit margin for the Surabaya component is reduced to the appraisal assumption,
the FRR would be reduced to about 13%.
Institutional Development
With the institutional strengthening received under the project, PGN now has a core staff
of 311 professionals and 350 technicians (compared with 190 professionals and 260 technicians
at the close of the last project in 1994). It has also acquired the ability to train about 20
professional a year. Its enhanced skills have been demonstrated in the implementation of two
expansion projects (Gas Utilization Project and Grissik-Duri Gas Transmission Project)
undertaken along with the ongoing distribution operations and planning of further expansion
projects (South Sumatra-West Java Gas Transmission Project and West Java Gas Distribution
Project).
A gas technology development unit (TEKNOGAS) has been established in LEMIGAS
with 37 professionals. While it is still at an early stage of development, it has already
demonstrated its ability to serve some of the needs of the industry on self financing basis.
Expertise of key staff of MIGAS has been upgraded.
Gas Marketing
Gas Price. Before the financial crisis, about 65% of gas purchased by PGN (i.e., all gas
purchased from Pertamina's production sharing contractors) was paid for in US dollars while all
of its gas sales were Rupiah denominated as GOI regulations would not allow a dollar
denominated sale price. Consequently with the onset of the crisis (July 1997) the viability of its
gas marketing operations started eroding. Therefore the cap on its sale price was removed, and it
was allowed to negotiate price escalation and denomination of all or part of the price in US
dollars. Under the current price, effective since July 1998, the foreign exchange risk in PGN's
gas purchase has been partly passed onto the consumer.
Gas Sales. PGN's gas sales have been adversely affected by the slow down of economic
activities and also due to heavy subsidy on diesel, the main competitor of natural gas. The price
of gas is about 40% higher than the price of diesel. PGN's overall sales in 1998 (153 MMCFD)
were well below the 1997 level (180 MMCF]D) while the gas carriage (80 MMCFD) for PLN
power station at Belawan, North Sumatra, was a little more than the 1997 level (76 MMCFD) as
PLN continued to maximise the use of natural gas for power generation. In the project areas,
compared with the projections in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the sales were about 60% of
the target and gas carriage was 170% of the target. The decline in PGN's overall gas sales,
experienced since March 1998, stopped as of September 1998, most likely due to limited
availability of petroleum product fuels.
Pricing Policy. Subsidy on diesel is a major impediment to the penetration of gas in
domestic energy consumption. In 1998, about 50 million barrels of petroleum product fuels (most
notably diesel) were imported which, at US$14 / bbl border price, were worth US$700 million



- 37 -                          Appendix A
and GOI subsidy amounted to US$150 million. Substitution of these fuels with non-exportable
natural gas will improve the balance of payment, reduce the burden of subsidy and support
economic recovery. Gas sold and transported by PGN in 1998 substituted petroleum product
fuels with an export value of about US$230 million. Given a level playing field (i.e., eliminating
subsidy on diesel) and taking into account the available gas supply, PGN could have substituted
liquid fuels with an export value of about US$300 million in 1998.
Gas Supply. To realize the full potential of the economic benefits of gas in domestic
energy consumption, supply constraints, notably investments and price, need to be addressed
through competition in gas production. Given economic recovery and adequate investment in
field development and transportation facilities, non-exportable natural gas could substitute about
900 million barrels of liquid fuels in domestic consumption over a ten-year period.
PGN's Finances
Past Finances. During the period 1991-96, PGN's finances were robust. Its rates of return
on revalued net fixed assets in operation (18% - 27%) were well above the covenanted minimum
of 10%. PGN's net fiscal contributions to the Government totaled some Rp 301 billion during the
period 1990-98. However, as indicated in the Table Al below, the key indicators of PGN's
recent financial health have been weakened considerably mainly as a result of the financial crisis.
(a) Profitability. In sharp contrast to the pre-crisis period, PGN's profitability has been
eroded considerably in the post-crisis period, as indicated by a decrease in gas profit margin from
$1.36/MMBTU to about $0.6/MMBTU in 1998. Indeed, its ROR was only 1% in 1997, if
adjusted for the foreign exchange loss (Rp 99 billion) related to gas purchased in end 1997 but
paid in US dollars in 1998. Further, the ROR in 1998 was a negative 12%, if foreign exchange
loss related to gas purchase (Rp 61 billion) had been included as part of the gas purchase cost
instead of non-operating expense. The significant reduction in ROR in 1998 was, in part,
attributable to the commissioning of the Grissik-Duri gas transmission pipeline in October, which
resulted in a sharp increase in the rate base but with only three months of operational revenues.
(b) Liquidity and Solvency. The erosion of profitability, coupled with an increasing debt
service burden, contributed to the weakening of PGN's liquidity position in 1998, as indicated by
a reduction of the current ratio (to I time), although the debt service coverage ratio remained
satisfactory at about 2.4 times. In addition, the quality of its accounts receivable has also
deteriorated in the wake of economic recession. During the period 1996-98, its average collection
period increased from 43 days to 55 days, and bad debt provision increased from 1% to 6%.
(c) Capital Structure. In recent years, PGN's long-term debt/total capitalization has
increased significantly, reaching a high level of 81% by 1998. This could be attributed to a
number of factors, including (a) implementation of capital-intensive projects largely financed by
foreign debt; sharp devaluation of the Rupiah has further increased the valuation of foreign debt
in rupiah equivalent terms; and (b) non-implementation of earlier initiatives for partial
privatization.



Appendix A                               - 38 -
I'able Al
1996    1997      1998
Gas Sales Volume (MMSCFD)                      147      180      153
Average Gas Price (US$/MMBTU)                  $3.5    $3.45    $2.14
Gas Profit Margin (US$/MMBTU equivalent)
(a) Audit report data                       $1.36    $1.10    $0.69
(b) Adjusted for FX loss in gas purchase    $1.36    $0.59    $0.59
(in Rp EBillions)
Gas Sales Revenues                             444      639     1,266
Net Income                                      80      83        91
Net Fixed Assets                               184      246      1,972
Long Term Debt                                 225      758     1,871
Equity                                         290      372      441
Ratios
Rate of Return (revalued net fixed assels)
(a) Audit report data                       27%      20%      -9%
(b) Adjusted for FX loss in gas purchlase   27%       1%     -12%
Debt Service Coverage Ratio (times)            3.3      2.1      2.4
Current Ratio (times)                          1.9      1.7      1.0
Accounts Receivable (days)                      43      48        55
Bad Debt Provision (% A/R)                     1%       3%       6%
L/T Debt/Total Capitalization (%)              45%      67%      81%
Macroeconomic Parameters
Average FX Rate (Rp/US$)                      2,362    2,827    10,600
Domestic Inflation rate (%)                    6.7%    12.7%     80%
Future Finances. In part due to the recent appreciation of the Rupiah, as well as the
operation of the recently commissioned Grissik-Duri gas transmission pipeline at its full capacity,
PGN's 1999 budget has projected a significant improvement in financial performance. Based on
an assumed gas profit margin of about $1IMMBTU, its net income is projected at Rp 368 billion.
Notwithstanding the projected improvements in PGN's finances in 1999, the company is
faced with consicderable challenges and uncertainties in its future financial outlook. In particular,
its financial sustainability is critically dependent on a number of factors, including:
(a) Competitiveness of gas price and adequacy of gas sales volume -- As noted above,
GOI's pricing policy that allows for a level playing field through the elimination of subsidy for
diesel is essential for the achievement of targeted gas substitution for diesel. However, for the
near term, consideration for the socio-economic impact of raising domestic diesel price may well
inhibit its implementation. In this context, it is understood thatGOI is considering the reduction
of government take in the production sharing contracts for gas production as a temporary measure
to allow for the reduction of end-user price of gas without a corresponding reduction in PGN's
gas profit margin. It is further understood that diesel subsidy is envisaged to be eliminated
gradually over the medium tern.
(b) Adequacy of gas supply at reasonable terms - Some of PGN's gas supply contracts are
expiring in 2001 and the company is in the process of negotiating new supply contracts. In this
connection, the mission noted that international oil price movements have been characterized by
volatility (Annex 3). Thus, it is common international practice for the buyers and sellers of gas to



- 39 -                          Appendix A
share both the upside and downside risks through such provisions as gas price adjustments based
on indices for oil prices and inflation rates. Indeed, precedents have already been set for selected
gas purchase contracts in Indonesia.
(c) Adequacy of gas profit margin - Notwithstanding PGN's efforts to control its costs,
the results of the company's preliminary financial forecast indicated that the gas profit margin
would need to be maintained at about $11MMBTU in order for the company to achieve the agreed
minimum targeted financial performance targets, including rate of return on revalued net fixed
assets of no less than 10% and debt service coverage ratio of no less than 1.3 times.
(d) Appropriate Capital Structure - The current capital gearing ratio ofPGN is above the
benchmark for prudent financial management. To mitigate the financial risks faced by PGN, it
was agreed that it would take all measures to gradually reduce its debt/total capitalization ratio
from the current level of 81% to about 60% over the long term. Potential measures would include
the implementation of earlier initiatives for privatization (includingIPO, strategic partner etc). It
is understood that PGN has already carried out substantial preparatory work, including the
separation of accounts for the transmission and distribution operations as well as various studies
on corporate restructuring and privatization carried out with the assistance of consultants.
However, considerable more work would need to be done after the passage of the enabling
legislation that would allow for the implementation of the privatization program.
Accounts and Audits
During the project implementation period, PGN's audit reports had consistently included
an unqualified opinion from the State auditor (Financial and Development Supervisory Board).
However, its audit reports did not provide supplementary information that clearly and separately
show the expenditures and financing of the project, although annual audited reports on the
Special Accounts had been provided to the Bank by the Ministry of Finance. On hindsight, it
would have been helpful if PGN had established and maintained separate project accounts in
accordance with sound accounting practices; the apparent inadequacy in the maintenance of
separate project accounts had hampered the efficiency and effectiveness in the compilation of
actual project cost and financing data. Subsequent to the ICR mission, PGN clarified with the
Ministry of Finance that import duties and taxes (except for a small amount for value added tax)
had been exempted under the project; the actual project cost and financing data were finalized on
this basis.
Next Steps
The mission's draft of the Implementation Completion Report is expected to be sent to
GOI, PGN, LEMIGAS and UKODA (co-financier for the Project) for review by mid April 1999,
with a view to receiving their comments by May 10, 1999.
Jakarta
April 1, 1999



Appendix A                             - 40 -
Annex 1
LIST OF KEY PEOPLE MET
State Ministry of State Owned Enterprises
Mr. Bacelius Ruru                                      Assistant to Minister
Mr. Harry Susetyc                                     Director for Mining
Mr.. Hebron Sinaga                                     Assistant to the Deputy
MIGAS
Ir. Soepraptono S,uleiman                              Director General
Dr. Wiranto Wiromartono                                Secretary
PGN
Drs. A. Qoyum                                          President Director
Ir. Rohali Sani                                        Director of Development
Drs. W.M.P. Simandjuntak                               Director of Finance
Ir. Nursubagio Prijono                                 Director of Operations
LEMIGAS
Dr. Maizar Rahman                                      Director
Dr. E. Legowo                                          Head, TEKNOGAS
Dr. E. Soedarmo                                        Head (Designate), TEKNOGAS



- 41 -                        Appendix A
Annex 2
GAS UTILIZATION PROJECT: Operational Plan
In East Java, the high and medium pressure gas transportation and reticulation
system covering Surabaya and twelve other towns in the vicinity has the capacity to
distribute about 150 MMCFD without major investments. Prior to the monitary crisis,
PGN's surveys indicated a demand of about 300 MMCFD on the basis of prevailing
requirements of the existing industries as well as the requirements under their
expansion plans.
Since the crisis, PGN has reviewed the demand and now its estimate is based
only on the substitution of petroleum product fuels currently in use in the existing
industries. Such demand is estimated at 140 MMCFD.
Currently PGN is selling about 40 MMCFD. On the basis of gas supplies
available (from ARCO and LAPINDO gas fields), PGN plans to increase its sales to
about 115 MMCFD by the year 2010. This is subject to satisfactory remedial
measures taken by GOI to restore competition between gas and diesel (its main
competitor) which has been eliminated since the crisis due to GOI's price subsidy on
diesel. The projctions of gas sales, essential investments for customer attachment and
expected sale price are given in the Attachment 1.
In North Sumatra, the high and medium pressure transportation and
reticulation system covers the industrial areas of Medan and PLN's power stations in
the vicinity. The high pressure transportation system is capable of supplying 120
MMCFD to PLN power stations. The reticulation networks can sustain sales of the
order of 40 MMCFD. Current gas sales are around 9 MMCFD while the supplies are
limited to 12 MMCFD. Additional supplies of 12 MMCFD are expected from the year
2002. Taking into account the demand of existing industries on fuel replacement
basis, the availability of gas supplies and subject to restoration of competition with
diesel, PGN expects to increase it gas sales to about 35 MMCFD by the year 2010.
The gas transportation for PLN, based PLN's generation plans, would remain at 70
MMCFD. The projections of gas sales and transportation, essential investments for
customer attachment and expected sale price are given in the Attachment 1.



Gas Utilization Project (Loan 3209-IND)
Operational Plan
x 
East Java                                                                                                     
Cumulative Number of Industrial Customers      115      135     136      143      146      166     191      211      226      246      333     328      328           C
Cumulative Number of Commercial Customers        I       11      21       3 1      41       51      61       71       81       91      101      111     121
Average Day Sale (mmscefd)                   36.96    47.15    61.00    64.00    79.00    82.00    91.00    97.00   105.00   109.00   114.00   114.00   114.00
Annual Investment (million US$)                        0.79     0.05    0.35     0.16     1.15     1.53     1.31    1.05     1.50     7.00     7.49     8.01
Average Purchase Price (USD/MMBTU)            2.16     2.16     2.16    2.16     2.16     2.16     2.16    2.16     2.16     2.16     2.16     2.16     2.16
Average Sale Price (USD/MMBTU)                2.40     2.60     2.90     3.05    3.20     3.40     3.50    3.60     3.60     3.60     3.60     3.60     3.60
North Sumatra
Cumulative Number of Industrial Customers       37      47       52       68       77       88      94      106      106      106      106      106      106
Cumulative Number of Commercial Customers      372     400      440      484      532     586      644      709      779      857      943    1037    1141
Average Day Saie (mmscfd)                     8.51     9.90    13.00    16.00    18.00    20.00    22.00    24.00    28.00    29.12    30.28    31.50    32.76
Average Day Transportation (mnmsefd)         71.52    64.60    70.00    70.00    70.00    70.00    70.00    70.00    70.00    70.00    70.00    70.00    70.00           t")
Annual Investment (million US$)                        0.44     0.28      0.8    0.48     0.63     0.37    0.79     0.84      0.9    0.97      1.03      1.1
Average Purchase Price (USD/MMBTU)            0.31     0.37     0.35    0.33     1.50     1.50     1.50     1.50    1.50     1.50     1.50     1.50     1.50
Average Sale Price (USD/MMBTU)                1.30     1.30     1.50     1.60    2.50     2.50     2.50    2.50     2.50     2.50     2.50     2.50     2.50
Average Transportation Price (USD/MMBTU)    0.0389   0.0486   0.0486   0.0486   0.0486   0.0486   0.0486   0.0486   0.0486   0.0486   0.0486   0.0486   0.0486
Total
Cumulative Number of Industrial Customers      152      182     188      211      223     254      285      317      332      352      439     434      434
Cumulative Number of Commercial Customers      373     411      461      515      573     637      705      780      860      948     1044    1148    1262
Average Day Sale (mmscfd)                    45.47    57.05    74.00    80.00    97.00   102.00   113.00   121.00   133.00   138.12   144.28   124.50   146.76
Annual Investment (million US$)               0.00     1.23     0.33     1.15    0.64     1.78     1.90    2.10     1.89     2.40     7.97     8.52     9.11
Cumulativelnvestment(millionUS$)              0.00     1.23     1.56    2.71    3.35      5.13     7.03    9.13    11.02    13.42    21.39    29.91   39.02
Note: Exchange rate in 1998 = Rp. 10,000/USD in 1999 = Rp. 8,000/USD and escalated by 5% thereafter



- 43 -                          Appendix A
Annex 3
Actual/Projected Intemational Oil Price Movements
1989=100                        Crude Oil Prices
Year   Deflator (US$)            1990 Prices        Current Prices
_Annual % Cumulative   ($/bbl)  Annual %    ($/bbl)  Annual %
1990        5.7    105.7%       22.88      23.3%      22.88      30.1%
1991        2.1     107.9%      17.00    -25.7%       17.30    -24.4%
1992        4.3     112.6%      17.84       4.9%      19.02       9.9%
1993       (0.3)    112.2%      15.84    -11.2%       16.84    -11.5%
1994        3.6     116.3%      14.41      -9.0%      15.89      -5.6%
1995        8.2     125.8%      14.41       0.0%      17.17       8.1%
1996       (4.4)    120.3%      17.91      24.3%      20.42      18.9%
1997       (5.1)    114.1%      17.72      -1.1%      19.17      -6.1%
1998       (3.9)    109.7%      12.57    -29.1%       13.07    -31.8%
1999        1.3    111.1%       11.39      -9.4%      12.00      -8.2%
2000        2.6     114.0%      13.88      21.9%      15.00      25.0%
2001        2.7     117.1%      14.42       3.9%      16.00       6.7%
2002        2.6     120.1%      14.48       0.4%      16.48       3.0%
2003        2.5    123.1%        14.54      0.4%      16.97       3.0%
2004        2.5     126.2%       14.59      0.4%      17.48       3.0%
2005        2.5     129.3%       14.68      0.6%      18.00       3.0%
2006        2.4     132.5%      14.47      -1.4%       18.18      1.0%
2007        2.5     135.8%       14.27     -1.4%       18.36      1.0%
2008        2.5     139.2%      14.07      -1.4%       18.55      1.0%
2009        2.5     142.6%       13.88     -1.4%       18.73      1.0%
2010        2.5     146.2%      13.70      -1.3%      19.00       1.4%
2011        2.5    149.9%       13.53      -1.3%      19.27       1.4%
Sources: Global Commodity Markets, The World Bank, January 1999
Note: 1990-1998 crude oil prices are based on actual average spot prices of Brent,
Dubai and West Texas Intermediate (equally weighted); future oil prices
are the projections included in the latest issue of the "Global Commodity Markets"






Appendix B
-45 -
PT. PERUSAHAAN GAS NEGARA (PERSERO)
31. K.H. Zainul Arifin No. 20, Jakarta 11140
Implementation Completion Report
Gas Utilization Project
WN'orld Bank Loan 3209-IND
March 29, 1999



Appendix B                               - 46 -
PT. Perusahaan Gas Negara (Persero)
GAS UTILIZATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
WORLD BANK LOAN 3209-IND
1.  Introduction
Although use of indigenous natural gas. as fuel and feed stock. started in Indonesia in 1960s it
was confined to some major industries directly supplied by  Pertamina and to some small
industries. commercials and householcds supplied by PGN. In 1986 GOI decided to  promote
domestic use of natural gas to save oil for export. A project called Gas Distribution Project
was launched with World Bansk suppo:-t (Loan 2690-IND). and w-itlh PGN as the implementillg
agency, to develop the gas market in Jakarta and Bogor in West Java and in Medan in North
Sumatera Encouraged by the success in market dev-elopment wNhile the project was still under
implementation. GOI launched a second project. 1991. called Gas Utilization Project again wvith
Bank support (Loan 3209-liND) and iNith PGN as the implementing agency for development of
gas market in East Java and further development in Nledan. North Sumatra. The first project
was very successfully completed in 1994. The second project has  recently completed
(December 3 1,1998) and is the subject of this completion report.
The purpose of this report is to revicw the implementation of the Gas Utilization project,
particularly in respect of market development and the associated skills upgrading and
institutional development.
2.  Project Objectives and Description
The primary objective of the project was to support GOI's program of diversifying domestic
energy use by substituting petroleumn product fuels in power generation. industrial and
commercial sectors with natural gas. This objective was to be pursued through: a) the provision
of an assured supply of natural gas. at competitive prices, to power plants. manufacturing
industr;c-.. anid commercial entities in Surabava and telve other to\ns n its vicinit- in East
Jai a and n Mcdan in Northi Sumatra: b) the integration of gas utilization plans and operations
to achlcx  cconomies of scale in the devclopnicnt and operation of gas supply infrastrmcture:
and c) Institution building. technology transfer and, marketing studies to accelerate safe and
efficien-. Atilization of natural gas and to help dcfine its long-temi dcx elopmcnt plans.
Specifically, the project consisted of follow\ing four components:
I) Provision of natural gas supply, system in Surabaya and its environs involving: a) about
80 klm of high prcssure pipclincs. 190 knm of mcdium pressure steel pipclines and 165 km of
medium pressure polyeth\clene pipciincs: b) fixe gas offtake metering, pressure regulation and
odorization stations with associated instrumentation and four pressure reducing stations: and c)
service lines, metcring and regulating stations for 375  medium  size industries and 150
comnmercial enterprises and the paper nill at Leces.
rcpornaI d-,c



- 47 -                            Appendix B
II) Expansion of natural gas supplI system in Medan involving: a) about 24 km of high
pressure pipeline wvith associated cathodic protection, pressure/flo  monitoring facilities and
three pressure reducing stations; and b) service line and pressure regulating and flow metering
stations for two PLN power stations at Belawvan.
111) Technical assistance involving: a) enhancement of PGN's skills and efficient
implementation of its cxpansion project; b) establishment of a Gas Technology Development
Unit in LENIIGAS: and c) upgrading skills in MIGAS to facilitate the coordination of
development plans in gas scctor and to institute a regulatory system for safe utilization of
natural gas.
IV) Feasibility studies for natural gas marketing in Palembang (South Sumatra), Jambi
(Central Sumatra), Batam Island (Riau). and Balikpapan (Kalimantan).
Of the total cost of USD 118 mnillion. USD 86 million wvas financed from the World Bank loan
(Ln 3209-IND). USD 5 million out of a grant from the United Kingdom Overseas Development
Administration (ODA) and the remainder by GOI contribution and PGN's internal cash
generation. The ODA financing covered the technical collaboration (twinning) of PGN wvith
British Gas.
The project objectives and components Nvere clearly defined and achievable. Competitive pricing
to be achieved through contract negotiations for purchase and sale of gas, in contrast with
prices fixed by GOI under the first project. was a new concept for PGN and there wvas some
uncertainty about its success given a verv small gas market and its early stage of development.
The need for reviewing and modi&'ing (if necessary) the interantional standards and procedures
to enhance the safety of gas transmission / distribution operations in the Indonesian environment
was felt under the then ongoing Gas Distribution Project, hence it was provided for in this
project through support to NI1GAS and LEMIGAS.
3.  Project Design
NIIGAS w-as to oversee the overall implementation of the project. wvith direct responsibility for
its skills upgrading. gas transmission / distribution safetv enhancement and studies. PGN was to
responsible for all gas market and infrastructure development and its institutional development.
LEMIGAS Nvas to be responsible for the establishment of Gas Technology Unit (TEKNOGAS).
The project dcsigned to enable PGN to achieve gas market and infrastructure development. over
a six-year period. in parallel with its institutional development and skills upgrading.
PGN's board of directors Nxas to be expanded and reorganized to enable efficient management
of (a) project implementation along wvith (b) the implementation of the ongoing Gas Distribution
Project and (c) the operation of the distribution system already in existence. An additional
director a cas to be appointed to be responsible for human resource development, personnel
managemnt. legal and general affairs, relieving Director Finance of these responsibilities. Thus
a full time director for finance, corporate planning. bugeting and cost control was provided.
Also. the branch in Surabava. the main project area. wxas to be upgraded and given more
autonomy.
All gas market and infrastructure planning. conceptual design and costing was to be done in-
house by PGN. while all detail design and construction was to be contracted out
reperta  doc                               2



Appendix B                               - 48 -
In view of the success of PGN's institutional development and skills upgrading through
twinning with British Gas under the Gas Distribution Project, it was decided to extend this
arrangement to cover this project.
Although originally not included in the project design. during implementation it Nas felt
necessary  to crcate a full-fledged division. under Director Development, dedicatcd to
procurement processing and a standing tender evaluation comrnittee to expedite procureeniit.
4.  Achievement of Objectives
Diversification of domestic energy  consumption away from petroleum products vas wvell
achieved: against the overall company target of 153 mmcfd for 1997. actual sale of 178 mmcfd
was achiieved. In the same year. gas sold and transported by PGN substituted petroleum product
fuels with an export value of about USD 300 million. The sales, however, declined from July
1997 due to monctarv crisis in the countrv.
Negotiated gas purchase and sale pricing and efficient distribution operations provided and
assured, supply of gas at competitive prices Nwhich encouraged expanded and more efficient use
of gas. Before the monetary crisis, about 40% of the gas sold in East Java was utilized in co-
generation and a demand of about 350 mmcfd (as against 100 mmcfd stipulated at project
design) from a large variety of consumers had been generated. Also, the success of co-
generation in East Java prompted the consumers in West Java to persue such usage and by
1997 about 30% of the gas sold in West Java Nvere used for co-generation.
Bv, including all the industries in the major industrial areas of East Java, covering twvelve towns
besides Surabava. PGN wvas able to achieve economies of scale in the provision and operation
of gas transport and marketing infrastructure. This contributed significantly to the enhancement
of PGNM's rate of return (ROR) on revalued net fixed assets in operation w hich was consistently
above 20% from 1992 to 1996 as against a maximum of 10% covenanted under the Loan.
(ROR f'ell to 3.5% in 1997 and -12%2Xo in 1998 due to monetary crisis).
Enhancement of environmental protection and safety of PGN's operations was achieved
through: a) closure (two vears ahead. of schedule set under the project set under the project) of
old and inefficient gas manufacturing plants (producing corrosive gas) at Bandung. Scmarang,
Surabava and Ujung Pandang and substitution of this gas supply with  natural gas (in
Surabava) and LPG (in other towns): b) efficient maintenance and operation of the system.
minimizing escapingz gas. %hereby gas losses Nere reduced to 2'o by lq92. thrce years ahead of
targct set ullder the project- and have been maintained below 2'o since then.: and c) revicxw and
appropriate modification, in line with lndonesian cnvironment, of standards and procedures
relating to gas distribution operations. and promulgation of such standards and procedures.
Of a total staff of 1206, PGN has core group of 318 professionals with expertise in gas
markcting and customer conversion: gas transmission and distribution infrastructure planning.
design and costing: distribution systems operation and maintenance: construction of distribution
infrastructure: procurement processing: contract management: quality control: project planning
and managcncmnt: finance. cost accounting. budgeting. and corporate planning: and human
resource dc\clopment. The expcrtise upgrading has been achiccd through discrcte courses (list
of training placcs filled in Attachment---) and through on-the-job training. PGN now has the
capability to provide in-house training to about 20 professionals per ' ear.
repona I doc                               3



-     -                            Appendix B
With the institutional development received under the project PGN has, %%hilc implementing this
project: a) planned and managed the implementation of Asamera-Duri gas transmission project
(estimated cost USD 400 million): b) planned and conceptually designed and costed the
proposed South Sumatra-West Java gas transmission project (estimated cost USD 350 million):
c) planned. designed and costed WNest Java gas distribution project; d) conducted in-house
studies of West Java gas market. W est gas distribution planning. Palembang gas market. Jambi
gas market. Batam and Balikpapan gas market development: e) supenrised South Sumatra gas
reserve certification study: and f) supervised environmental impact study of the development of.
South Sumatra gas fields. South Sumatra-West java gas transmission pipeline and West Java
gas distribution infrastructure. It has recently engaged in the preliminary planning and
negotiations of export to Singapore.
Prior to monetary crisis. tak-ing note of its successful development, more than twenty
international companies expressed interest in joint ventures vith PGN.
Financial Aspects - Impact of MIonetary Crisis
Since the monetarv crisis broke out in July 1997. PGN has been facing erosion of its
profitability because of its exposure to currency exchange risk. since mostly (65%) of gas
purchases were payable in US Dollars but all of its gas sales were in denominated in Rupiah.
In responding to the impact of this adverse economic situation, mitigation measures taken
included a cost cutting program to keep the operating and investment cost to minimum,
deferring gas purchase payment to Pertamina (purchases from PSCs continued to be paid for at
market exchange rate). raising gas sale price and, a soft loan of Rupiah 75 billion from GOI.
The amount of loan was based on PGN's ability to pay for gas purchases from Pertamina at the
exchange rate of Rp 5000 per US Dollar as against the prevailing market rate of Rp 7500 per
US Dollar. it enabled PGN to clear the above mentioned deferred payments by October 1998.
The price was raised in five steps between November 1997 and July 1998. In the agreements
with the consumers implementing the last price raise PGN passed on the currency exchange risk
in its gas purchases to the consumers by denominating this element of the price in US Dollars
wvhile the distribution operating cost remained Rupiah denominated.
T}le sale price gas is now about eno and half time the price of dicscl. its main competitor.
as the price of diesel, has been rnaint-ined at prc-crisis level through heavy GOI subsidy. This
is a handicap in the achievement of the r-.nar\- objectiv c of the projcct.
Before the crisis GOI reTulations prohibited gas sale pricing in currencies other Rupiah.
the currency- exchanLe rate \xas controlled bv GOI and the prices of petroleum product fuels
wvere raised by- GOI wxith slippage in the value of Rupiah. The monctary crisis Nvas not
anticipated even by the international lenders. thereforc PGN did not hedge against currency
exchanuc risk NNhich " ould added to the costs
repota I d.x                               4



Appendix B                                 -  50-
PGN's financial ratios before and since the crisis are given below.
1991     1992     1993    1994    1995   11996    1997    1998
R OR                      17.8 %   .21.8 %   24.7 'o  22.4 %   25.2 o  26.6 'o  16.7 %
Current Ratio (times)    2. 0      .2.64    2.21     2.27      2.35      1.90   1.67
Debt to Equity  Ratio  0.72        1.91     0.70     0.80      0.79     1.25     2.52
(tim es)                 ___  _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   __ _ _ _  _ _ _ _
Market I)evelopment
SURABAYA
Mlarket dcvelopment activities in green field gas distribution  project are normally
sequenced as folloxxs:
a) market identification and evaluation;
b)  sezmentation and prioritization of distribution areas on the basis of rate of return (ROR)
estimates:
c)  customer cost/benefit analysis and commitment i.e. entering into gas supply contract,
ordering of conversion equipment and installation of internal gas piping;
d) planning. procurement and installation of distribution facilities; and
e) customer conversion and commencement of gas supply.
This approach is necessary to avoid idle investment in distribution facilities. As the
customer commitment leads the planning and installation of gas distribution infrastructure. the
establishment of the distribution's credibility with regards to availability and security of gas
supply is essential. The delay in gas supply to East Java Nvas therefore a major impediment to
the implementation of the Surabaya component.
There NNas little scope for PGN to recover much or this lost time by re-phasing the
aforementioned activities as
*   it is not possible to fully speci3" and size thc distribution systems until most of the
custon,mer off takes have been identified:
*   it makes good commercial sense for PGN to phase investment in line with the level of
market commitment: and
*  it would sacrifice negotiating strength with potential customers.
The mitigation measures adopted thercfore included:
a) obtaining flexibilitv form PERTAP41NA in gas purchase --ramp up":
b) intensification of markct development activities:
c) reorganization of procurement and construction acti\ ities in line with (b) above:
d)  installation of temporary metering,/regulating facilities till the regular equipment has been
procured:
repona I d. 



- 51  -                            Appendix B
e)  introduction of "measurable contracts"' as against lump sum"' contract to provide greater
flcxibilitv in construction management: and
f) greater autonomy in project implementation to the regional management.
Despite the two delay in gas availability form PERTANIINA. PGN managed to achieve a
relatively high build up in sales since the commencement of gas supplies in 1994. By end June
1997 a demand of the order of 250-300 MMCFD had been generated. Gas sales in Surabava
were averaging around 44 MMSCFD compared with 56 MINSCFD (36 MMSCFD general
industry. 20 NMMSCFD Paper Leces) in SAR to a total of 89 general industrial customers.
Although Leces Paper. a large consumer, was still not connected the annual contract quantitv
for supplies from ARBNI could be achieved by about November. From July 1997, with the
onset of monetary crisis the sales started shrinking due to its main competitor. The price of
diesel has been maintained at pre-crisis level by GOI subsidy Nvhile the price of gas escalated to
make up for Rupiah depreciation. Since July 1998. the price of gas is about one and a half time
the price of diesel. However. by November 1998 the decline in gas sale bottomed out. possibly
due to scarcity of diesel as GOI could subsidize limited imports of petroleum product fuels.
Sales in East Java arc currently about 39 MMCFD. Given sale price parity with diesel. PGN's
projections. based on most recent survey, indicate gradual gro\\th of sale reaching maximum
take of 96 NIMSCFD under purchase contract in about 7 years s-ithin about 7 years. rather
than the 14 N'ears specified in the original contract schedule.
Accelerating the sale build up, in pre-crisis times. has been largely on account of concentrating
marketing efforts in areas of high potential demand (particularlI in the Waru, Drivorejo and
Rungkut areas). and also in capturing medium sized industrial combined heat and power loads,
ranging up 10 MMSCFD. This is still seen as a key growvth area for the future.
The projected sales plan included attachment of of 25 NIMSCFD demand from the Paper
Mill at Leces +vhich could not be done as the consumer got into financial difficulties. The
pipeline has, however, been built and commissioned up to Pasaruan.
Planied vs. actual sales in Surabava are as follows. All sales finures are in MMCFD.
YEAR               SARPLAN                     ACTUAL SALES
General | Paper    Total    General   Paper   Total
i Industrv   Leces              Industrv   Leces
1993            0        0         0           0       0
1994   .                          10(        7.4       o       7.4
195   I        1,        0                   22 'IS    (I       28
1996  l        "l                 43          35        o    _____
1997   !       36      20     56             41{       0l       41
19it98   I21rs,    '() {          70l        41j       01       41
MEDAN
Attachmen3t kives a comparison of actual xersus the plan in the Staff Appraisal Report. The
SAR targeted ani increase in sales to industrial. coninmercial and household customers in Mledan
from 5 of 12 mmscfd. and an increase in transportation of Pertamina gas to PLN's Belawan
power stations from 30 to 48 nmmscfd. Gas sales to industry in Medan peaked in 1992 at about
10 nnmscfd. hosNever since that time a number of large consumers have closed down as their
reporta] doc                               6



Appendix B                              _ 52_
outdated plants were not competitive or switched over to cheap fuel oil form Singapore. T.his
has led to a reduction in sales to about 7 mmscfd. Market surve-s identified potential for gas
fuel in Tanjung Morawa. with 35 industries wvith a total demand of about 10 MMCFD and a
supply main has been laid to this localitv.
PLN's requirement for gas rransportation has now- escalated to over 100 mmscfd. as a
result of changes to its generation strategv and increased power demand in the Medan area. The
necessary  modifications to  the distribution  network  have  been  implemented. These
modifications will enable PGN to react to increases in demand by the PLN power stations. A
suitablv sized mater/regulating unit has been installed at the PLN BelawN-an complex.
Sales and PLN Transportation in Medan. Planned VS Actual.
(mmcfd)
YEAR           SAR PLAN          Total            ACTUAL               Total
PLN       General                PLN        General
Transport  Industry              Transport   Industry
1992       30       [ 5            33  1   27            1(0          37
1.993      l 48         12         601    29             7            36
1.994      48           1 2        60   r  35            8            43
1.995      48           1 2        60       66           9            75
1.996      48           12.        60       72           9            81
1997       48           12         60       76           10           86
i_ 1998    48           1 12       60       80           10           90
Distribution System Design and Development
East Java
*   Natural gas is supplied from five off take stations into the PGN system Nia PERTAMINA
offshore/onshore transmission pipeline from Kangean field approximately 350 km to the
east of Surabava. Kangean field and pipeline also supplies gas to tw-o major industrial
customer. PLN Gresik and Petrokimia Gresik.
-   *This configuration is designed to maximize the use of PERTAMNINA line, by installing a
number of off take station instead of laying trunk lines parallel to PERTAMFNA line. The
system is designed \ith inter links between each off tak-e station to provide security of
supply in the ecvent of a station failure of planned shutdown for station maintcnance or
modificatioln ctc.
*   High pressure system  includes:
*  high pressure stcel pipelincs of i ar\ ing sizes from 4" to 16' API5L Grade B to API5L
X46:
*  five offtake regulating stations capable of operating at a maximum inlet pressure of 70
Bar and supplying a total of 400 M11MCFD at a minimum inlet pressure of 20 Bar.
twin stream activc/monitor/slam configuration and complete with an odorisation unit.
ThCse stations are located at Porong. Warum Gunung Sari. Tandes and Gresik:
*  four ofifake orifice metering stations to be operated by Pertamina and operating at a
maximum inlet pressure of 70 Bar complete with chromatograph. RTU. flow computer
and micro\ave link- to the Pcrtamina/'Arco onshore receiving facility (ORF) Porong:
7



- 53 -                             Appendix B
*  SCADA with RTU's at five regulating sites relaying information to the master
SCADA at PGN Gembong via designated telephone lines:
*  pig trap installations at Waru. Mojokerto, Porong and Probolinggo to facilitate the
intemal inspection of the pipeline wvith an on-line intelligent pig, All pipeline bends
vere a minimum of 3D configuration and tees greater than 50% of the main pipeline
diameter were fitted with pig bars to allow uninterrupted access of an on-line
inspection vehicle; and
*  customer  meter/regulating  stations,  twvin  stream,.  ith  active/monitor/slam
configuration fitted with a turbine meter and by-pass in sizes from 30 SCMH to 12500
SCMH.
*   Medium pressure distribution network comprised:
*  Construction of PE pipe SDR1 I vanring in size from 63mmn to 180nmm, supplIying five
discrete low pressure netvorks designed to operate between 30-100 mBar to supply
domestic and small commercial consumers.
*  Construction of a medium pressure ring main within the Surabaya city area with
I 80mm PE pipe SDR I I operating between 2-4 Bar to supply commercial consumers.
* Provision of district pressure regulating stations, monitor/active/slam configuration for
each discrete network.
The majority of PGN's customers are generally located adjacent to main highw-ays. and
therefore the pipeline routes for the most part followved the verge of these main highways.
To increase the level of safety over and above the requirement of B3 1.8, the pipeline stress
wvas therefore limnited to a maximum of 30% SMYS for a maximum design operating pressure
of 40 Bar, although it was envisaged that the normal maximum operating pressure would be
around 25 Bar or less.
In addition pipe wall thickness for the largest diarneter pipeline of 16" NB w -as increased to
12.7 mnm vall thickness. vhilst all pipelines wvere to be buried to a minimum depth of cover of
1.5 meters thereby minimizing the possibility of third party interference.
Detailed routing and preparation of alignment drawvings were prepared by an Engineering
Design Contractor (EDC) and commenced in 1992. The EDC was responsible also for
obtaining the relevant information from third parties concerning the location of other utilitics
alonz the rou.. of the pipcline. Permits in principlc from local authorities. such as the Public
Works. Toll road owners. rail%%a!s. irrigation and in some instances from pn%atc landoN\ners
%%ere also obtained.
During this period also. PGN engaged the services of a Quantity Sur% c\ ina Contractor to
assist PGN in the preparation of detailed design specifications and Bills of Quantities for the
construction phases of the project.
Specifications for all materials. equipment and specialist designs such as cathodic
protection and SCADA %\ere prepared by PGN and assisted by in-house consultants from
British Gas.
rnpoeril do                                8



Appendix B                              -54  -
Cathodic Protection designs included for both sacrificial anode and impressed current
svstems depending on location and soil resistivity surve% s. Generally however, pipelines located
in the city area and pipeline branches were designed as sacrificial anode systems.
Specifications and designs for the off take metering stations were prepared by PGN and
assisted by specialist consultants.
An environmental impact assessrnent (EIA) ".AIDAL" report was prepared for the "hole
project and approved by the Ministry for Mines and Energy in 1992.
North Sumatra
Reinforcinm PGN's operation in Medan the system would include:
--l6 x 24 km pipeline to the newly constructed PLN's gas fired 2 x 260 MW combined
cycle gas turbine power plant and PERTAMINIA's pipeline from  Pangkalan Brandan to
Wamnpu alongt widh metering and regulation station to supply over 100 MMCFD gas: and
--pipeline netwNork to Tanjung Moraw\a Industrial Area and along the road to Binjai.
Procurement
Procurement division w-as established to implement the international procurement process.
This division was managed by experienced personnel wvho have a direct involvement in
intemational bidding.
The division handled the all itendering process, tendering in most cases wvere wvell
performed by complying with "milestone"' target dates and completing the process in
accordance w ith the previouslh agreed, scheduled.
It im1plemented the tendering using the World Bank guidelines for procurement processing
including time scales for preparation and drawing up appropriate technical specification for
materials and construction wsorks by using recognized international standards. evaluation of
tenders on pre-selected administrative., technical and financial criteria.
The success in improving the cfficiency of procurement process had been achieved. i.e
for steel linac pipe procurement. the tendcr proccss took 28 weeks starting from tender document
preparation until notification of awNard: procurement of sorks for steel pipe. thc tender process
took 32 \xecks starting from tcndcr document preparation until the notification of a\ard.
compared \N ith 527 weeks before the establishment of the division.
CATEGORIES                PACKAGES           VALUE (US S)
1. WORKS                                       8          21.777.000
2. GOODS                                      24          38.175.000
3. CONSUJLTANCIES                              2           1.806.000
4. TRAiIN ING                                 15:I         4.542.000
TOTAL VALLUE                          _                   66.300.000
repora I doc                               9



- 55 -                            Appendix B
Impact of Monetary Crisis
As a result of monetarv crisis in Indonesia. all of the contractor / suppliers suffered lack of
liquidity because of high interest rate of Bank Loan and the increases of prices. Therefore the
Government decreed the Guidance for Escalation of Unit Price and Contract Value (Bappcnas
Finance Department Decree No. SE-100/A/21/0689 - SE-2916/D.VI/06/98 dated June 11- .
1998).
The formula used to calculate the price escalation as follow
Hn =Ho(a+b.Bn/Bo+c.CniCo+d.Dn/Do+            .
Where
Hn = Actual unit price goods/services
Ho = Bid unit price for goods/services (28 days before bid closing date)
a = Fix coefficient representing profit and overhead ( a = 0, 15)
b.c-d = coefficient representing labor, component, tools, etc
Bn, Cn, Dn = Actual price of major component
Bo, Co. Do = Bid price indices of major component (28 days before bid closing date)
In the above fomiula, applicable price indices from Central Bureau of Statistic Nvere to be used.
or if not available, indices from related department or Associated Indices approved by related
department. Also, Major Component Coefficient of Contract performned by Public Work
Department / related department were to be used.
The price escalation / adjustment formula was only applicable for:
a. Contract supply for equipment and services in Rupiah portion for multi years and single Xyear
on current project funded by overseas loan
b. Multi vears contract with attached prices adjustment if contractor require.
T1here wvere 4 contracts wvhich fulfilled the requirement of the above price escalation formula.
consisting of I procurement of good (Off Take Metering Stations) and 3 procurement of w orks
(Tandes-Gresik Project. PE/I and PE/I1). The total compensation value as a result of price
escalation was around Rp. 3.984.680.000.
Skill Upgrading
PGNI in now capable of planning. designing. operating and maintaininge gas distribution
net-works. it has the capability of planning and development gas transmission projcct i.e.
Asamera-Duri-Batam and South Sumatra-West Java. it has sound financial management skills
and a wide range of marketing and utilization skills. During the two bank funded project PGN
has development the following core skills in gas marketing. distribution system  planning.
design. construction. operations and maintenance (O+M) and gas utilization/customer
conversion. This level of skills development is sufficient to manage PGN's expansion plans at
existing levels. The core skills developed are:
ntpcrt.! doc                              l ()



Appendix B                               -56
Market Development
*  Medium sized industrial consumer market identification and sector evaluation
*  Dem,land forecasting
*  Market segmentation and prioritisation
 Customer cost/benefit analx sis
Distribution System Planning. Dcsign and Construction
*  Estirmation of peak/average loads and degree of demand diversitv
* Development of design criteria
*  Analsis. simulation and optimization of small to medium sized distribution network;
*   Conceptual design and spccification of pressurc/flow control and gas measurement systems
* Adoption of 'best practice' standards
* Cost estimate and analvsis
*  Project programming and procurement processing
* Construction supervision and quality control
*  Shake down and conurissioning of facilities
Distribution System Operations and Maintenance
*  FlowN and pressure control of medium sized networks and supply mains
*  Operation of corrosion svstem
( Calibration of pressure for monitoring netw ork condition. third party intervention. gas
balances and gas loss
Gas Utilization and Customer Conversion
   Conceptual design and specification of small off take gas burners and control equipment
for medium sized industries
* Design of internal gas piping for consumers prernises
*   Estimation of conversion cost
*   Design and fabrication of simple bumers. jets and nozzles
Procurement
*   The capabilitx to draw  up appropriate technical specification for materials procurement
and the tendering of construction  -orks
*   The capability to draN\ up tender and contract documents, using recognized international
standards X\hcrc appropriate. c. FIDIC
*   The implementation and manacement of Banrk and GOI approved tcndering procedurcs.
and the tend.rin- of goods and scrx iccs under international competitive bidding procedures
*   The capability to c aluatc complex. high value tenders on preselectcd administrativc.
technical and financial critcria
Informaltion Technology and System
*   Thic procurement. distribution and implementation of proprictary soft\\are systems and
packages use support and mainmenance procedures
*   A software specification and evaluation capability, tailored to the needs of the business
(for example. PGN has specified and procured a geographical information sy stcm, capabl.
of integrating its mark-eting database and customer accounting records  ith a netWork
analysis facilitv to cnable more sophisticated netwsork planning and system design)
*   Th.c capability to specify and procure hard -are. and to integrate it with existing equipment
ppoa rI d                                   1



- 57 -                           Appendix B
*   The capability to design, implement and manage a small scale local area network ad ie
associated data management and distribution control systems
*   The specification, procurement  and management of communications systsems --c
equipment throughout the organisation, e.g. PABX, pagers, radiotelephone. etc
Financial
*   The development and implementation of financial and management accounting prcced
and associated management information systems
.  .The development and implementation of appropriate budgetary and financia c:r zn
systems and procedures
   The streamnlining and tightening of customers accounting and billing procedures
*   The introduction of formal capital expenditure appraisal and approval procez:
improved financial modelling and forecasting skills
*   Improved intemal audit systems and procedures
The development of skills has been demonstrated in the planning of the \W-s: :-1--
Distribution Expansion project wvhere PGN have produced detailed planning stu.ies _c
implementation planning guidelines of high quality.
In summary PGN now has a trained core of staff that includes around 311 pro ss;.-
(sales executives, engineers, accountants, procurement specialists and economistL s   r
around350 technicians. In country training comprising on-the-job training and courses ws
supplemented with overseas training including Masters Degree courses in the UIK aixi --
practical training in the UK, Japan, Australia and the USA. In addition to training of itsz --
employees PGN has also implemented training of customers and contractors in equipnr
conversion and installation of utilisation equipment and in new construction techniques
polyethylene pipelines.
Implementation Delays and Closing Date Extensions
Infrastructure development under the project has been delayed due to: (a) a 9 month *
in the commencement of TA provided through a twinning arrangement with British Gas x-=
delayed the initial planning and (b) a 2-year delay in gas supplv to East Java by Pert=z
wvhich caused PGN to delay finming up customer commnitment (as slippage Nvould ere
credibility) and consequently procurement processing to avoid idle investment in distnbr.b  r
facilities. In October 1994. PGN undertook an accelerated implementation program a.iT  -a
substantially complete the project by the loan closing date of September 30, 1996. It a-s -cr
successful in this cffort as it could sustain the burden of planning its large transmission pFcr e-:
in addition to accelerated implementation of this project. The revised scaled di---
implementation program has included strengthening the implementation establishmelt =.c
authority of the Branch in Surabaya, where over 90 % of the remaining works of the proje:z z
to be executed, formation of separate stand alone tender evaluation comnittee for d}co
development and transmission projects and reallocation of responsibilities arnong the dir.-zzr-
in the hcad office. The loan closing date has been extended by 18 months (as a gaints s
and 9 months lost) to March 31, 1998. The implementation is generally progressing as plaze
except wvhere interfacing wNith PERTAMINA is involved. Specifically the procurerr.. -r
offitake metering stations and SCADA facilities (valued around $ 5.0 million) has been &ik,
on this account and consequently the closing date has been extended again until Dece-mel% 1
1998. An extension of 27 months as against 33 month lost.
rTpoM l.doc                              12



Appendix B                             - 58 -
Sustainability
According to the market studies conducted bv MIGAS and PGN's survevs, prior to
monetary crisis, the prevailing potential demand. much of vhich  was unmet due lack of
infrastnicture, from general industrial consumers, was of the order of 600 mmcfd and 350
mmcfd in West Java and East Java rnspectively. Taking into account the fuel requirements of
general industry in the urban areas of Sumatra. Java. Sulawesi and East Kalimantan, total
demand could reach around 1200 mmcfd b)y year 2000 and at a 7% growvth rate wvould increase
to about 2500 mmcfd by the year 2010. The general industry was expected to provide the
biggest demand growth (apart from power generation), steady (minimum swing) consumption
and a large customer base therebI minimizing the risk for gas distribution operations. Given
economic recovery, this would still be the most likely scenario. PGN has very good experience
in sale of gas to this category of consumers and there are sufficient proven and potential
reserves (12 TCF) of non-exportable gas to support such demand over a 15 year period and
given competition in production more reserves could be proved in this category. PGN has
developed into an efficient gas company with a good track track record in the development of
gas markets and required infrastructure minimizing idle investment. Provided competition
between gas and diesel (its main competitor) is restored, the project objective of accelarating the
utilization of non-exportable natural gas in domestic energy consumption is fully sustainable. In
fact it has a lead role in the economic revival.
iepoat.l dcc                             13



- 59  -                           Appendix B
PT. PERUSAHAAN GAS NEGARA (PERSERO)
ACADEMIC QUALIFICATION OF STAFF EMPLOYED
QUALIFICATION               PGN Regular Staff                Outsourced
1996      1997     1998      1996      1997      1998
Master Degree                       29        31        34         0         0         0
Bachelor Degree                    156       171       173        10        12        16
3 year Diploma                      57        61        64         2         1         2
2 year Diploma                      16        33        47         0         0         0
1 year Diploma                      45        48        53         0         0         1
Senior High School                 412       404       374        26        44        55
Junior High School                 295       282       264        96       100        88
Elementry                          205       197       183        20        20        20
Elementry (not graduate)            17        16        16         1         1         1
Total                             1.232     1.243    1.208       155       178       183
Core Professional Group            258       296       318
1996      1997     1998
PGN Regular Staff                 1.232     1.243    1.208
Outsourced                         155       178       183
Total                             1.387     1.421    1.391



Appendix 13                          - 60 -
PT. PERUSAHAAN GAS NEGARA (PERSERO)
FORMAL TRAINING PLACES FILLED
NO                SUBJECT                     NUMBER
____________________________       OF  TRAINEES
I   Technical                                       1.725
Distribution and Transmission Systems
(Planning, Design, Construction, C) & M,
Instnrmentation, Metering & Specialised
Courses on Long Term Planning Gas
Utilization)
Finance                                          263
(Financial Management, Accounting, -
investment Planning)
Ill  Specialist                                     1.056
Function/Management
(Market Development, Demand Forecasting,
Procurement Legal, Admin, Personnel
Management)
IV  General Management                              1.467
(Utility Management, Corporate Planning,
Human Resource Development, Project
Management)
Grand Total                       4.511



PT Pcersahaani Gas Negara (l'ersero)
PGN'S Staff Atteniding Overseas & Local Master Degree
Name                                  I'osition                                Plrograum                       Institution
A. (Oierscas
I. Drs. Y. Sasongko Y.P    Head of Treasury Sub Division                      Business Administration         Univ of Birmingham, UK
2. Ivan Irawan. SH       Head of Legal and Public Relation Sub Division        liter'l European Trade Law     Univ. of Leicester
8. Ir. Agus Dhiharjo     Head of Business Development and Information Sub Ccntre   Gas Engineering & Management   Univ. of Salford
4. Ir. Bambang Banvudoyo   Head of Planning Division                          Gas Engineering & Management   Univ. of Salford
5. Ir. Melanton Ganap    Head of Marketing Sub Division                       Gas Engineering & Management   Univ. of Salford
6. Ir. Arsyad Rangkuti   Head of Business Development and Inforrnation Centre  Gas Engineering & Management   Univ. of Salford
7. Ir. Triyono Heriyanto  Head of Contruction Sub Division                    Gas Engineering & Management   Univ. of Salford
8. Ir. Iwan Heryawan     Project Manager of Trans Central Sumatera            Gas Engineering & Management   Univ. of Salford
7. Jr. M. Napitupulu     Logistic Manager of Trans Indonesia Project          Gas Engineering & Management   Univ. of Salford
S. Ir. Daniel H. Hutauruk    Head of Contruction Section ( Jakarta Branch)    Gas Engineering & Management   Univ. of Salford                    0
9. Ir. Tagor Samosir     Staf of Distribution Division                        Gas Engineering & Management   Univ. of Salford
10. Ir. Komaruddin       Engineering Manager of Central Sumatera              Construction Management         Univ. of Birmingham
11. R. Arman W.          Head of Planning Sub Divison                         Construction Management         Univ. of Strathcyde
12. Ir. Jobi Triananda   Contruction Manager of Central Sumatera              Mechanical Engineering          Univ. of Strathcyde
13. Ir. Djoko Saputro    Assistant to Business Development and Information Centre   Electrical Power Engineering  Univ. of. Manchester
14. Drs. Mangatas Panjaitan Head of Accounting Sub Division                   Corporate Finance               Univ of Salford
15. Ir. Budiarto        Head of Logistic Sub Divison                          Purchasing &- Logistic MNanagement Univ. of Salford
16. Ir. Ismet S.A. Pane  Head Section of Planning Division                    Purchasing & Logistic Management Univ. of Salford
17. Dra. Del Castriza   Head of Accounting Sub Division                       Accounting                      Univ. of Birmingham
18. Drs. M. Zulfikri    Staf of Human Resources Division                      Media Technology for Tootl      Univ. Now Castle, ULl
19. Heri Yusuf, SH      Head of Legal and Public Relation Sub Divison         Post Graduatc in Law            Universitv of Widener
20. Ir. Busrani          Head of Fire and Safety Sub Division                 Energy Planning & Energy Policy   Univ. of Technology, Svdney
M
w



PT Perusabaan Gas Negarn (Persero)
PGN'S Staff Attending -Overscas & Local Master D)egree
I-,.
x
Nar_ _ _                               Pos ion                                     Pbrogram                         Instituttion
B. Local
1. Dra. Siti Nurlhafiui  Hacd Section of Budget Division                         Acoounting Managemcnt            Universitas Indonesia
2. Ir Uji Subroto         Head of Operation Service ( Surabaya Branchi )         Maiketing Managemcnt             Universitas Airlangga
3. Drs. Rosichin          Head of Human Resources Sub Division                   Financial Management             Sckolah 'ritggi Manajemen Labora
4. Drs. Irwan Tascha      Head of Treasury Division                              Financial Mauagenient            Universitas Trisakti
5. Drs. Agus Suryono      Head of Human Resources Sub Division                   Human Resources Management    Sekolah Tinggi Manajemen Labora
6. Ir. Herman Usman       Head of Operation Service (Jakarta Branch)             Business Administration          Institut Manajemen Mitra Indonesia
7. Drs. Timbul Pramono    Head of Finance & Accounting Section (Jakarta Branch)  Administration & Business Policy   Universitas Indonesia/ LAN
8. Drs. Sutikno           Head of Budget Division                                Administration & Business Policy   Universitas Indonesia/ LAN
9. Ir. AMR Abas           Project Coordinator                                    Administration & Business Policy   Universitas Indonesia/ LAN
10. Ir. M.A.R. Zarnzani   Head Section of Distribution Division                  Administration & Business Policy   Universitas Indonesia/ LAN
11. Ir. Sulistyo Elly     Assistant Manager of Trans Indonesia Project           Administration & Business Policy   Universitas Indonesia/ LAN
12. Drs. Arief Djunaedi   Expert on Privatization                                Administration & Business Policy   Universitas Indonesia/ LAN
13. Dra. Endang Nadina   Head Section of Intemal Supervision Centre              Communication Management         Universitas Indonesia
14. Ir. Syafrudin Lubis  Head Section of Planning Division                       Industrial Safety                Universitas Indonesia
15. Ir. Joki Eko Juswanto    Head of Distribution Sub Division                   Administration                   Universitas Indonesia/ LAN
16. Ir. Bahri Sinulingga  Head of Planning Section (Jakarta Branch) .            Administration                   Universitas lndonesia/ LAN



- 63 -            Appendix B
ICR SUMMARY SLIDES
LOAN IBRD 32094IND
ESTABLISHMENT OF TEKNOGAS
_ GAS TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT UNIT
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT CENTER FOR OIL
AND GAS TECHNOLOGY "LEMIGAS"
_JAKARTA



Appendix B                             - 64 -
I ISUBJECTS
l  BACKGROUND
0 PROJECT OBJECTIVE AND DESCRIPTION
!  PROJECT DESIGN
!  IMPLEMENTATION C)F OBJECTIVES
'0 ACHIEVEMENT OF TEKNOGAS
j 0 SUSTAINABILITY
0 FUTURE OPERATION OF GTDU
_ICR. 320WND                                         GTrU - -LEMIGAS_
_]    _._ _ _ _   _   _.     _   _ _    _   _ _    _I_        _
BACKGROUND
El GOI is developing alternative energy sources
0 Natural gas and LPG are significant sources of energy for
domestic use
0 GOI has recognized ithe need for a gas technology center
0 LEMIGAS establish GTDU (TeknoGas) under IGT supervision
| through Technical Assistance Contract and funded by The World
Bank Loan IBRD 3209-IND
I ICR- 320641                                        GTDU - LEMIGAS'
_                                         .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 65 -                           Appendix B
nlPROJECT OBJECTIVES ANDi
D IDESCRIPTION A
The primary project objective was establishment of GTDU'
(TeknoGas) within LEMIGAS for the development of in-house
expertise:
* R &D and compilation of standard and code
* Studies and research in gas transmission, distribution and
utilization                                             i
* Analysis of fuel and material for efficient gas utilization
* Human resource development
a Dissemination of technical information
ICR - 3209-ND                                      GT. LBAIGASI
D PROJECT DESIGN
Project activities was comprised of three prmary components:
O Procurement of Good for laboratory equipment
0 Professional Development Program (PDP), consist of:
Overseas training, Local Training, Master Degree Prdgram
I    Institutional Development Program (IDP)
Designed based on implementation of 18 Activity function
grouped into 4 cluster (Planning, Information and support
services, Distributionlutilization, Technical Services)
ICR. 3209-HO                                    GTDU - LEMIGAS'
2



Appendix B                            - 66 _
' IMPLEMENTATION
PROCUREMENT OF LABORATORY EQUIPMENT
0 Procurement of laboratory equipment, consist of:
* Data and Informnation Support
* Analyfical, Testing and Laboratory equipment
* Mini Gas Demonstration System
* Supportng Laboratory Equipment
0 Procured through ICB in accordance with the Bank Guidelines
0 Laboratory equipment and supporting materials procured has
been received   and substantially commissioned and final
disbursement is currently in progress
_IECR - 3209IND                                     GTDUl -LEMIGAS_
] IMPLEMENTATION
PROFESSIONAL DEVEILOPMENT PROGRAM
El 3186 training days for 37 TeknoGas staff have been completed in
l  IGT Chicago during tree years project period
0 Seven TeknoGas staff have been graduated forrn Master Degree
Program in UK as scheduled
0 41 training day for 25 TeknoGas staff have been completed for
local training bases on special needed
I[CR -  IND                                         GTDU- 'LEMIGAS'
3



-  67 -                          Appendix B
H IMPLEMENTATION
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
21 Implemented based on 18 AIF grouped into 4 clusters
!   11 Project Models was carried out, 5 of them was succeedslI
(Project 1, 4, 7, 9 and 10)
0  TeknoGas have participated in various gas activities and
institutional relationship with other organization
0 TeknoGas was established within LEMIGAS and positioned to;
sustain itself as an acfive participation in gas expansion
Li x activities in Indonesia
ICR. 3209-IND                                        GTDU - 'LEMIGAS'
| IMPLEMENTATION
FINANCIAL ASPECTS
[ATECRY       jAOR      REALIZATION  COMM BED  |ALANCE
I.Equipment  7j  0000   |     37,770 |              2,754t77  |
2ICOISuHIFSt   I901."sIWSS  I  i,901.084.    .31.3.43
3. TraiininAcademic  '2-14.91.0 l  ZA4 S.fl4.X   | |
_   0cR.3-N D                                        GTMU. LEMI-GAS" _
4



Appendix B                                  - 68 -
ACHIEVEMENTS OF TEKNOGAS
R0  TeknoGas staff have been professionally supporting the gas industry through
externally funded project, total value of the assignments completed is now
over US S one million equivalent.
El Research and development activites have been conducted, the result being
scientific papers relatng to gas technology and have been published. Some
studies have also been used as input for the GOI
El Recognizing its performance, GOI is processing the incorporation of
TEKNOGAS as R & D Gas Technology Division within LEMIGAS, under GOI
regulation and as a dMision within LEMIGAS.
ICR-3200-ND                                                  GTDU * LEMIGAS J
SUSTAINABILITY
O  TEKNOGAS now has:
* 37 staff trained in various gas technology subjects
* 7 staff l'aster Degree holders
* Facilitated with library, training material, software and
laboratory equipment
O  Teknogas will be able to professionally support safe and
effective use of nataural gas in Indonesia
t ICR-32094ND                                               GTDU - "LEMIGAS' I
S



- 69-                            Appendix B
]|t FUTURE OPERATIONS
1. Providing Training for PGN
* Subjects:
Developing an In-Country Training Program for Mid.
Echelon and In-Country On-The-Job Training for Non-
Echelon PGN Distfibution Staff
Developing Specialized Technical Area for PGN
Professional Distribution Staff
O  Cooperation with IGT as a Local Partner
IC-R -3209INDOIUEN                                               '
1    FUTURE OPERATIONS
2. Implementation of SOP for Gas Distribution
3. Preparation ofSOPfor:
- Planning
* Reporting
* Measuring of Gas
* Logistic
4. Evaluation of Cathodic Protection System of Gas
Distribution System
5- Preparation of Business Promotions Brochures for PGN
6. Gas Distribution Network Analysis
| ICR.32og440                                       0           G1OU  _
6



Appendix  B                                      - 70  -
[] * FUTURE OPERATIONS
7. Geographic Information System of Gas Distribution Networks
8. Preparation of PGN Corporate History
9. Preparatfon of Gas Industry Personnel Cerification Requirements
10. Preparation of Gas Indusfry Contractor Certification
Requirements
I1. Gas Master Plan for Indonesia
I R4320S6MD                                                        GlDU.  LEKIGAS' I
I  FUTURE OPERATIONS
12. Development of Capabilities of Critical Industry Services:
- High Consunption Consumer Culpoit
- Environmental Proteclion in Gas Tansportation and Utilzation
- Pmrotion bf Environnental Benefits and Safety in Gas Utilization
- The Development of Marginal and Isolated Gas Source Utilization
- Develpment of Data Base for Gas Transporation and Utilization (HycauIic
Modeling, GeogrWNhic; Information System, Customer Inforrnation System)
- Economic Analis of Gas Produclion, Transportion, Utilization Infra
Strcture (Cost and BenefitAnalysis)
- Investigation of Gas Transportation and Slorage Techndogies
- Devebpment of Public Awareness of Safe and Effects Gas Utilization
. cR .CE.2ND                                                       G1WD - LEMIAS   I
7



- 71 -                            Appendix B
HIIFUTURE OPERATIONSI
TRAININO FOR INDUSTRY:
*-*Gas firing equipment
'-'Corosion Control
%*Energy Management and Conservation
%-Emergency Response Planning of Gas Customers
'-*SCADA system
I ICR-3206ND                                         GTDU.-LEIIGSI



GAS UTILIZATION PROJECT                                                  ,
)                         MED;,  4      H                               2"'Th. b-d.,j.,  A.-
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ...                                                                                     NE 19



