Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
A-A 3c2'0 - /-VL)
Repon No. 8112-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
GAS UTILIZATION PROJECT
MAY 8, 1990
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department V
Asia Pegional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            =    Indonesia Runiah (Rp)
US$1.00                  =    Rp 1,750
Rp 1,000                 =    US$0.57
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 barrel (bbl)                =    0.159 cubic meters (cu.m.)
1 standard cubic foot (cf)   =    0.028 cu.m.
1 British Thermal Unit (btu) G    0.252 kilocalories (Kc)
MCF                           =    thousand standard cubic feet
MMCF                          =    million standard cubic feet
MMCFD                         =    million standard cubic feet per day
MCM                           =    thousand cubic meters
MMCM                          =    million cubic meters
BCF                           =    billion standard cubic feet
TCF                           =    trillion standard cubic feet
Kl                                 kiloliter
toe                           =    tons of oil equivalent (in heating
value)
boe                           =    barrels of oil equivalent (in
heating value)
tpy                                metric ton per year
bbl/d                         =    barrels per day
KWh                           =    kilowatt hour (1,000 watts per hour)
MW                                  megawvtt (1,000 kilowatts)
Km                            =    kilomEter
HP                            =    horse ,ower
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAKOREN                       National Energy Coordinating Board
BAPPENAS                      National Development Planning Board
ERR                           Economic Rate of Return
FRR                           Financial Rate of Return
GOI                           Government of Indonesia
HSD                           High Speed Diesel
ICB                           International Competitive Bidding
IDO                           Industrial Diesel Oil
LIB                           Limited International Lidding
LNG                           Liquefied Natural Gas
LEMIGAS                       Research and Development Center for Oil
and Gas Technology
LPG                           Liquefied Petroleum Gas
MIGAS                         Directorate General of Oil and Natural
Gas, Ministry of Mines and Energy
PERTAMINA                     National Oil and Gas Company
PGN                           State Gas Corporation
PLN                           State Electricity Corporation
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
GAS UTILIZATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary ...................................... i-iii
I.      THE ENERGY SECTOR AND GAS SUBSECTOR ...........................    1
Introduction ......................................                                      1
Primary Energy Resources ......................................    1
Power ......................................                                             3
Organization of the Energy Sector .............................    4
The Natural Gas Subsector ........... .             ........................    4
Bank Role and Strategy ..........................                                        9
II.  THE BENEFICIARIES ..........................                                              10
PGN  (STATE GAS CORPORATION) ..........................                                10
Background ..........................                                              10
Statutory Functions ..........................                                     11
Organization ..........................                                            11
Proposed Reorganization ............................ . .....  12
Technical Assistance Requirements ..........................  13
Human Resource Requirements and Training .13
Accounts .14
Audit .15
Budgeting .15
Billing and Collection .16
Insurance .16
MIGAS AND LEMIGAS .16
III. THE PROJECT .17
Background .17
Market ........................................................  17
Gas Supply .......................                                                     19
Project Objective and Rationale .......................                                19
Project Description .......................                                            21
Project Costs ........................                                                 24
Financing Plan .......................                                                 26
Implementation .......................                                                 27
Procurement .......................                                                    28
Disbursement .......................                                                   29
Environment .......................                                                    30
Reporting Requirements ... ....................................  30
This report was prepared by ilessrs. S. Khwaja (Sr. Gas Specialist), M. Sergo
(Sr. Financial Analyst), and Ms. M. Manzo (Energy Specialist) on the basis of
a field appraisal during May 1989. Ms. Rosa Lema assisted in the typing of
this report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IV.  FINANCIAL ASPECTS ..........................................    30
PGN's Margins on Gas Sales .................................... 30
Past Financial Performance .................................... 32
Present Financial Position .................................... 33
Financial Projections ......................................... 34
Risks in Financial Projections ................................ 37
Project's Financial Rate of Return ............................ 38
V.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS.     r.            .......... _U
Economic Evaluation of the Project .39
Project Risks .42
Fiscal Impact of PGN's Operations .43
Benefits from Institution Building Component..                 44
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED ........................                     45
ANNEXES
1.01 Estimated Gas Reserves
1.02  Historical Gas Production
1.03 Gas Production/Utilization Balance
1.04 Historical Gas Productior & Consumption By Region
2.01  Composition of Current Industrial Demndnd in Surabya and Medan
2.02 Gas Demand and Supply Projections for Medar and Surabaya
3.01 PGN's Existing and Proposed Organization
3.02 Organization of MIGAS and LEMIGAS
4.01 Implementation and Technical Assistance-Terms of Reference
4.02 Planning Study for Gas Technology Development Center-Terms of Reference
4.03  Regulatory System for Safe _Jilization of Natural Gas
5.01 PGN's Project implementation Sch lule
5.02 Phasing of Expenditure
5.03  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
5.04 PGN's Progress Reporting Requirements
6.01 Notes and Assumptions on Financial Statements
6.02 PGN's Income Statement for FYs 1986-1997
6.03 PGN's Balance Sheet for FYs 1986-1997
6.04 PGN's Sources and Uses of Funds for FYs 1986-1997
6.05 Efficiency Improvement Program for PGN
6.06 Income Statement for Medan Component of the Project
6.07 Income Statement for Surabaya Component of the Project
6.08 Financial Internal Rate of Return
7.01 Assumptions Underlying Economic Analysis
7.02  Economic Analysis - Internal Rate of Return
7.03 Domestic and International Prices of Petroleum Products
7.04 Economic Rate of Return Calculations based on Least Cost
Alternative.
7.05 Fiscal Impact of the Project
8.01 List of Documents in the File
Maps
General       IBRD 21723
Region-wise    IBRD 21724R1, IBRD 21725R1



-i-
INDONESIA
GAS UTILIZATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:               Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiaries:          Perum Gas Negara (PGN)
Amount:                 US$86 million equivalent
Lending Terms:          Repayable over 20 years, including five years of grace,
at the standard variable interest rate.
On-lending Terms:       The Government would onlend US$76 million to PGN at a
rate of 13Z per annum, with repayment over 15 years
including a grace period of five years.
Project Description:   The primary objective of the project is to accelerate
the substitution of exportable petroleum product fuels
in domestic consumption with non-exportable natural
gas. This would be achieved through: (a) the provision
of an assured supply of natural gas, at competitive
prices, to power plants, manufacturing industries, and
commercial entities in Surabaya and twelve other towns
in its vicinity in East Java and in Medan in North
Sumatra; (b) the integration of gas utilization plans
and operations to facilitate balanced development; and
(c) institution building, technology transfer and
marketing studies to accelerate safe and efficient
utilization of natural gas and to help plan for its
long-term development. The project would consist of:
(a) design and construction of a natural gas supply
system for Surabaya and its environs and expansion of
existing natural gas supply system for Medan; (b)
technical assistance involving enhancement of PGN's
skills in growth management and efficient expansion of
its gas supply infrastructure, establishment of a Gas
Technology Development Unit in LEMIGAS and upgrading of
skills in MIGAS to facilitate the coordination of gas
sector development plans and to institute a regulatory
system for safe utilization of natural gas; and (c)
feasibility studies for natural gas marketing in
Palembang (South Sumatra), Jambi (Central Sumatra),
Batam island (Riau) and Balikpapan (East Kalimantan).
Benefits:               The main benefits of the project are: (a)  substitution
of low value natural gas for high value petroleum



_4 i-
products for power generation and manufacturing
industry thus releasing more oil for export; (b)
strengthening of institutions so as to improve the
efficiency in the gas sector; and (c) reduction of
environmental pollution and forest depredation with the
replacement of polluting fossil fuels and wood by
relatively clean natural gas. The project is expected
to yield an economic rate of return of about 59Z for
the Medan and Surabaya components combined.
Risks:                  The potential risks to the project fall in four
categories: (i) timeliness of gas supply; (ii) delays
in market development; (iii) declining retail prices
(in real terms) of the fuels to be substituted; and
(iv) shortfalls in institutional capability to
implement the project. These iisks are recognized and
the precautions to minimize them have been built, as
far as possible into the project design. The
substantial benefits from the project far outweigh
these risks.
Estimated Costs:
Local  Foreign   Total
A. Natural Gas Transmission and                     ------US$ million-----
Distribution Systems for
Surabaaa & its environs
Pipelines                                   8.2    52.4      60.6
Regulator Scations                          0.3      1.7      2.0
Meter Stations & Service Lines              0.7      5.1      5.8
Subtotal                     9.2    59.2      68.4
Medan
Pipelines                                   2.6     3.1       5.7
Meter Stations & Service Lines              0.0      0.4      0.4
Subtotal                     2.6     3.5       6.1
Base Cost (A)                              11.8    62.7      74.5
B. Technical Assistance
PGN
Twinning Arrangement                        0.0     5 0       5.0
Staff Training                              0.0     2.5       2.5
Equipment (computers & software)            0.5      0.6      1.1
Subtotal                     0.5     8.1       8.6
LEMIGAS (Gas Tech. Development Center)
Consultancies                               0.0     2.0       2.0
Staff Training                              0.0     1.5       1.5
Equipment                                   1.3      4.0      5.3
Subtotal                     1.3     7.5       8.8



-iii--
MIGAS
Staff Training                              0.0     0.5       0.5
Base Cost (B)                               1.8    16.1      17.9
C. Studies
Marketing Feasibility
Studies for Palembang
Jambi, Batam Island & Balikpapan            0.0     0.3       0.3
Base Cost (C)                               0.0     0.3       0.3
Total Base Cost (A+B+C)                    13.6    79.1      92.7
Physical Contingencies                      2.2     4.0       6.2
Price Contingencies                         1.4     8.0       9.4
Total Project Cost a/                      17.2    91.1    108.3
Capitalized Interest During Const.          2.5     8.0      10.5
Total Funding Required                     19.7    99.1    118.8
a/ includes taxes and duties amounting to US$11.0 million equivalent.
Financing Plan
The total funding required (US$118.8 million equivalent) is expected
to be financed as follows:
Source                          Local      Foreign        Total
---------US$ million----------   z
Proposed Bank Loan                -          86.0          86.0   73
Bilateral Sources                 -           5.0           5.0    4
PGN Internal Cash Generation    9.7           -             9.7    8
GOI                              10.0         8.1          18.1   15
Total              19.7        99.1         118.8  100
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD Fiscal Year         1991    1992    1993   1994   1995   1996
Annual                     9.5    36.1    29.8    4.3    3.6    2.7
Cumulative                 9.5    45.6    75.4   79.7   83.3   86.0
Economic Rate of Return:           59Z
Maps:    IBRD 21723, 21724R1, 21725R1



INDONESIA
GAS UTILIZATION PROJECT
I. THE ENERGY SECTOR AND GAS SUBSECTOR
Introduction
1.1      Indonesia is endowed with large and diverse energy resources
including oil, gas, coal, hydiopower and geothermal resources. Until
recently, the energy sector was the main source of export earnings for the
country, accounting for as much as 81% of total exports in FY1981/82.
However, triggered by a lower international price of crude oil and OPEC
production quotas, and with the coriconmitant promotion by the Government of
non-oil exports, the share of energy exports has since steadily aeclined.
In FY1987/88 and FY1988/89, the sector accounted for 48% and 39% of total
export revenues, respectively. Although its export share has been reduced,
the energy sector still remains the largest single source of foreign
exchange earnings. To mitigate the decline in oil export earnings, the
Government has adopted a two-pronged energy development strategy that calls
for (a) maximizing the country's export of energy resources through
development of tradeable energy resources including oil, coal and gas, and
(b) the diversification of domestic energy consumption away from heavy
reliance on petroleum products towards alternative fuels for which there
are non-exportable surpluses (gas and coal) or which are non-tradeable
(hydropower and geothermal).
1.2      Given the abundance of gas reserves and its relatively low
marginal cost to develop, the natural gas subsector offers wide
opportunities for pursuing Got's energy development .rategy. On the
export side, LNG exports to Japan and Souch Korea represent 25Z of total
energy exports and there are planned increases in exports with the
commissioning of additional LNG facilities to meet supply commitments to
Taiwan and additional contracts with Japan. On the other hand, the share
of natural gas in domestic energy consumption is only 1Z, indicating a need
for greater recognition of the prospects offered by gas as a more efficient
and cheaper fuel for domestic use. Accordingly, GOI is promoting the
expanded production and use of gas as substitute fuel for power generation
and industrial manufacturing. Highest priority has been given to the
regions of East Java and North Sumatra where recent gas findings have
confirmed the adequacy of reserves accessible to the major economic growth
centers of Surabaya and Medan. The avdilability of gas supply in these
regions is expected to attract existing industrial users of more expensive
liouid fuels to shift to gas, as well as promote more industrial
development. Gas supply for power generation is likewise intended to meet
the rising energy demand at a reasonable cost and thus sustain the regions'
growth.
Primary Energy Resources
1.3      Oil.  Indonesia's proven and probable reserves have been estimated
at about 70 billion barrels. Cumulative production as of 1988 has reached



-2-
12.9 billion barrels and the remaining proven recoverable oil is estimated
at 8-10 billion barrels.  Oil production reached a peak of 1.7 milli.-
barrels per day (bbi/d) in 1977, but due to depletion of reserves and OrEC
quota restrictions, production has since declined to 1.2 million bbl/d in
1987 and is expected to continue at about 1.1 to 1.3 million bbl/d in the
coming years. In a bid to spur more exploration and production of oil, GOI
recently announced easier terms for oil contractors especially in the more
remote areas of eastern Indonesia. In July 1989, GOI signed nine new
production-sharing contracts with international oil firms with fourteen
more scheduled to be concluded by the end of the year.
1.4      Natural Gas.  Indonesia's natural gas resources are estimated at
about 106 trillion cubic feet (TCF), of which a total of 84 TCF is proven.
The proven reserves are in Sumatra (22 TCF), Java (5.5 TCF), Kalimantan (20
TCF), Natuna in South China Sea (36 TCF), Sulavesi (0.4 TCF) and Irian Jaya
(0.2 TCF). About 90 4 of these reserves is non-associated and can be
developed independently of oil. In 1987, gross ratural gas production was
about 1.7 TCF (300 million boe).1/ Since 1980, natural gas output has
increased at an annual average rate of 7.5 Z. Indonesia's large gas
reserves suggest a continued growth in natural gas production which is
projected to outpace production of crude oil in the coming decade. GOI
estimates gas production to increase to 2.8 TCF (490 million boe) by
1993/94.
1.5      Coal.  Total coal resources are estimated to exceed 25 billion
tons located primarily in Sumatra and Kalimantan, proven reserves of which
a,e estimated at 1280 million tons. The current production level is 2.7
million tons per year with plans to boost production to over 10 million
tons annually in the early nineties. GOI envisions coal as a major fuel
for power generation as well as a growing export commodity. Work on a
three million ton-per-year mine at Bukit Asam in South Sumatra and on a 0.6
million ton-per-year mine at the nearby Muara Tiga coal field is nearing
completion.  TLe Bukit Asam mine is estimated to have 2 billion tons of
coal reserves. Its output is now usei mainly as fuel for power generation,
specifically for the thermal station in Suralaya, West Java. In Ombi'Lin,
West Sumatra, which is estimated to have 150 million tons of reseives, GOI
is implementing a rehabilitation and development program to raise the
production rate from the current 0.75 mil'lion tons per year to 1.3 million
tons per year, mostly for export. In Kalimantan, exploration activities
undertaken by contractors under production-sharing arrangements with the
GOI have defined 700 million tons of recoverable coal in the region.
1.6      Hydropower.  Hydroelectric potential has been estimated to total
75,000 MW consisting of 22,370 MW in Irian Jaya, 21,600 MW in Kalimantan,
15,000 MW in Sumatra, 10,200 MW in Sulawesi, 4,200 MW in Java, 620 MW in
Bali and Nusa Tenggara, and 430 MW in Maluku. It is estimated that some
34,000 MW of the total potential can be developed for power generation.
But while Indonesia's hydroelectric resources are large, their development
is limited by their geographic distribution relative to demand. The
greatest potential (over 307) lies in Irian Jaya where the demand is less
1/ 1 TCF of Gas = 176 million barrels of oil equivalent



-3-
than 12 of total domestic demand, while Java wqhich accounts for 80% of
electricity consumption has less than 6% of the total potential.  Existing
hydroelectric installations total about 2800 MW and are mostly situated in
Java (1,840 MW). Sumatra *(736 MW), and Sulawesi (203 MW).  Schemes with an
aggregate capacity of about 300 MW are currently under construction and
based on a systematic countrywide resource survey conducted by the State
Electricity Corporation (PLN), various prefeasibility and feasibility
studies of identified hydroelectric sites are being pursued.
1.7      Geothermal Energy.  The Indonesian archipelago lies in a volcanic
belt and has large geothermal energy potential estimated at 10,000 MW of
which 5,500 MW is in Java and Bali, 1,100 MW in Sumatra, 1,400 MW in
Sulawesi and 2,000 MW in other islands. Several sites have been
investigated of which the first to be developed was the Kamojang field in
West Java. In 1976, GOI, in collaboration with the Government of New
Zealand, initiated development of the field and the first 30 MW generation
set was commissioned in 1983. Additional power plant installation, of 110
MW was commissioned in 1987. In 1982, PERTAMINA (The National Oil and Gas
Company) entered into a joint operation contract with Union Geothermal, a
subsidiary of Union Oil of California, for development of the Salak field
in West Java. A. potential of over 200 MW has been proven by exploration.
Pertamina has also explored geothermal fields in the Dieng and Drajat areas
in Java, which appear promising for further development. During the next
five years, exploration drilling in 14 areas in Java has been programmed as
well as the development of the Salak and Drajat fields to the extent of 110
MW each.
Power
1.8      Electricity demand has grown rapidly in Indonesia with per capita
consumption expanding from 59 kWh in 1977 to about 200 kWh in 1988.
Despite the rapid growth, only 24Z (542 urban and 13% rural) of all
households in Indonesia have been electrified as of 1988. The principal
sources of electricity supply have been PLN (State Electricity Corporation)
and self-generation by industries. PLN's total installed capacity in
1988/89 was 8100 MW. PLN's sales grew by about 14Z per year since 1982 due
to increased consumption by existing customers, opening up of new service
areas and the gradual take-over of supply to industries with captive
generation. At the same time, captive capacity continued to increase,
reaching 7000 MW in 1988 2/ meeting the growth in industrial demand that
could not as yet be serviced by PLN. GOI's development program for the
electricity sector is aimed at raising the electrification ratio to 35% by
1993/94 and to 54% by 2000/01. It also calls for tv- substitution by PLN
grid supply of 80X of captive generation in Java by .993/94. To achieve
these targets, PLN's proposed expansion program will .aise PLN's installed
rapacity to 12000 MW by the end of 1993/94 and to 22000 MW by 2000/01. By
giving priority to the development of coal, natural gas and geothermal-
based power plants, PLN's least cost program will result in a reduction in
the share of oil anc diesel-based capacity from nearly 60Z in 1987/88 to
less than 32Z by 1993/94.
2/ Including 1900 MW capacity in five major enclave projects.



-4-
Organization of the Energy Sector
1.9      The Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME) is the principal agency
responsible for the development and implementation of Government policies
in the energy sector. The MME was established in 1978 to coordinate and
supervise the activities of public and quasi-public enterprises operating
in the sector, namely: PERTAMINA, responsible for the development of Al,
gas and geothermal resources; P.T. Aatubara and P.T. Bukit Asam for coal
mining and developm,;nt; PLN for electricLty supply; and PGN for gas
distribution. Othe miristries and agencies at, also involved in the
sector. These include the Ministry of Public Works, which deals with
hydropower resource surveys; the Ministry of Forestry, which oversees
forestry products; and the National Atomic Energy Commission. which is
responsible for nuclear development. To ensure proper coordination of
energy policy, the GOI has established a cabinet-level interministerial
National Energy Coordinating Board (BAKOREN) to oversee sectoral
development. Reporting to BAKOREN is the Energy Resources Technical
Committee currently chaired by the Director-General for Electricity and New
Energy; the committee is tasked with the formulation of the energy
development plan and providing policy advice and assessment to BAKOREN.
The Natural Gas Subsector
1.10     The gas subsector is regulated and monitored by the MME through
the Directorate General of Oil and Natural Gas (MIGAS). The entities
supervised by MIGAS are ka) PERTAMINA which is responsible for exploration
and development of gas fields (including supervision of production-sharing
contracts), as well as transmission and distribution of gas to bulk users;
and (b) PGN (State Gas Corporation), which is responsible for the supply
and distribution of manufactured and natural gas to medium-sized and small
industries, commercial establishments and domestic consumers. In addition,
MIGAS issues licenses to service companies that conduct business in the
petroleum and gas sector, enforces safety and environmental regulations and
supervises training for local workers. MIGAS also includes LEMIG'AS
(Research and Development Center for Oil and Gas Technology) and PPTMGB
(Oil and Gas Manpower Development Center).
Gas Utilization
1.11     Natural gas production has steadily increased from 0.5 TCF in 1981
to 1.5 TCF in 1984 and reached 1.7 TCF in 1987. Of the 1987 production,
(4600 MMCFD), 232 was used for field operation, 8.5Z was flared, 53Z was
used in liquid natural gas (LNG) production, 9Z in fertilizer production,
and the balance of 6.52 (300 MMCFD) was utilized as commercial fuel and
process gas. Domestic consumption of natural gas has largely been
restricted to use as feedstock, process gas and fuel in fertilizer
production, the steel industrv, refinery and LPG operations, and cement
plants located near gas supplies. Small city and town systems operated by
PGN and power generating units run by PLN have also used small amounts of
gas. In 1987, the cement sector accounted for 0.7X of total commercial
fuel and process gas consumption; the steel industry for 2.4?; LPG
production, 1.42; refinery operation, 1.22; the power sector, 0.32; and
other industries, 0.5Z.



1.12     Developrn,ent of natural gas for domestic use as fuel has been
limited because large gag fiejds are generally located far from the major
centers of population and industry and infrastructure for bringing these
gas supplies to the end-consumers at reasonable costs have yet to be
sufficiently developed. Consequently, most gas production has been
directed towards LNG operations situated on-site or adjacent to the fields.
But with slowdown in the growth of the Far Eastern LNG export markets, use
of Indonesia's large surplus reserves for domestic energy consumption is
becoming more economically attractive. In particular, the large offshore
and onshore reserves in Java and Sumatra readily lend themselves for
development as fuel sources in view of their accessibility to the major
economic and industry centers at Surabaya and Medan. Natural gas is now
considered as the most economical fuel (except for coal in certain cases)
fo: power generation and manufacturing industries in these regions.
Accordingly, GOI is promoting the use of gas as a substitute for higher
value oil, thus releasing petroleum products for exports. Potential demand
for gas in FY91, on a fuel substitution basis, is estimated by GOI to reach
480 MMCFD (31 million boe/year) in West Java, 300 MMCFD (19 million
boe/year) in East Java (19 million boe/year), and 337 MMCFD (22 million
boe/year) in Sumatra.
Key Sectoral Issues and Strategy
1.13     Dominant issues in the gas sub-sector relate to (a) development of
a regulatory framework to promote safe and efficient utilization of natural
gas; (b) establishment of least cost long-term gas development program; (c)
creation of modern and efficient institutions to manage natural gas
transportation and utilization; and (d) formulation of an appropriate gas
pricing policy.
1.14     GOI's strategy to facilitate economic substitution for petroleum
products in domestic energy consumption, by non-tradeable, indigehLous
natural gas involves coordinated pursuit of four courses of actions:
(a) expansion of gas supply in Java and Sumatra through efficiently phased
and designed infrastructure projects; (b) building of institutions and
upgrading the Indonesian expertise in gas technology; (c) studies to help
define long-term plans; and (d) review and formulation of a gas pricing
policy that would attract investors further to explore and develop gas
resources, as well as to encourage energy consumers to substitute gas for
liquid petroleum products wherever economical.
Natural Gas Sub-sector Planning
1.15     Due to the availability of ample gas reserves in Java and Sumatra,
where the demand for energy is immediate, and to forestall environmental
pollution, GOI has given priority to the expansion of gas supply and
distribution systems in these islands. As a first stage of planning, GOI,
through PGN, has formulated a medium-term program consisting of discrete
expansion projects for existing service areas of PGN in Java and Sumatra.
The on-going Gas Distributien Project (Loan 2690-IND) for expanding PGN's
facilities in Jakarta and Bogor in Java, and for Medan in North Sumatra is
part of this strategy. It involves laying of supply and feeder mains to
nine industrial and commercial areas and setting up local distribution



-6-
networks to serve an initial core group of 350 new industrial consumers and
800 large commercial consumers. As part of the same program. GOI plans
next to expand the use of gas for power generation and manufacturing
industries in and around Surabaya (East Java) and Medan (North Sumatra)
through the rehabilitation and expansion of gas transmission and
distribution systems in these cities. This will be the core of the
proposed Gas Utilization Project.
1.16     Parallel to the implementation of the medium-term program, GOI is
defining a long-term plan for Java and a strategy for expanded gas
utilization for which it has commissioned the Java Gas Grid Study under a
bilateral assistance from the Dutch Government. This study commenced in
September 1988 and is expected to be completed by June 1990. A similar
study for Sumatra is under consideration.
Insitutional Development
1.17     Apart from the expansion of infrastructure, the building of
institutions to sustain the growth and to ensure efficient utilization of
gas has been a key component GOI's planning from the outset. Under the
current Gas Distribution Project (LN. 2690-IND), PGN is being transformed
into a modern gas utility through a Bank-designed long-term technical
collaboration (twinning) with British Gas; and an Energy Pricing Policy
Study is being conducted to provide a basic framework to promote the
efficient use of fuels. Under the proposed project, GOI plans to develop
and institutionalize Indonesian expertise in (a) promoting safe and
efficient gas usage, through the establishment of a Gas Technology
Development Unit, (b) long-term planning and growth management of gas
utility business by enhancing PGN's capabilities, and (c) coordination of
development planning in the gas sector and improvement of gas safety
regulation by upgrading the capabilities of MIGAS.
1.18     The Gas Technology Development Unit will be established within
LEMIGAS, which is a department of MIGAS entrusted with research and
development of oil and gas technology under a statute that permits it to
undertake such activities. Its scope is outlined in the terms of reference
(Annex 4.02) for its on-going planning study. This study is being
conducted by the Institute of Gas Technology (IGT) of Illinois, USA and is
expected to be completed by June 1990. Through high quality research and
reliable dissemination of knowledge, this Unit is expected to establish
itself as a primary source of technical information on natural gas. Its
principal interactions will be with:
-   the government, for legislation and human resource
development;
-   the gas producing and marketing companies, for research on
standards, materials and equipment;
-    the universities, for development of curriculae for gas
engineering and technology courses;



-7-
manufacturing industry, for the manufacture of efficient
materials, equipment and appliances; and
-   the consumers of gas and other fuels, for interfuel
substitution and energy conservation.
1.19     PGN is steadily developing its expertise in all areas of the gas
utility business and has increased its credibility with its customers and
the Government. It has demonstrated its medium-term planning skills in the
preparation of the proposed project and now intends to develop its skills
in longer-term planning, growth management and system optimization, under
the proposed project.
1.20     Development planning for the gas sector requires active
coordination by the Ministry of Energy through MIGAS. It involves
assessing exploration and production schedules at the supply end, and
matching these with the build-up of suitable markets and the phasing in of
investments in transmission and distribution systems. To pursue this role
effectively, MIGAS will need to strengthen its technical expertise in
detailed evaluation of natural gas expansion plans.  MIGAS also intends to
enhar.ne its capability for developing a legislative, regulatory and
technical program (with technical support from the proposed Gas Technology
Development Unit) to ensure that natural gas delivery and utilization
systems in Indonesia will continue to be installed and operated safely.
Gas Pricing
1.21     The gas tariff in Indonesia is characterized by differential
pricing, largely reflecting GOI's development priorities among users.
Producer prices paid by PERTAMINA are determined within the context of
production sharing agreements. PERTAMINA, in turn, sells gas to consumers
at prices fixed by the GoveLnment which may be higher or lower than the
producer prices, thus implying cross-subsidies among users. The current
categories of users and the applicable gas charges are as follows:
Table 1
Category                     US$/MMBTU a/
Krakatau Steel                 0.65 for use as feedstock in
production process
2.00 for use as fuel for power
Fertilizer                     1.00
Other Industries               3.00
PLN (Electricity)              2.53 in East Java; 3.00 in North Sumatra
PGN purchase price             2.00
PGN city gas selling price   2.86
a/ At the exchange rate of Rp l,750/US$.



-8-
1.22     Since the present structure of gas and other fuels pricing is not
consistently based on the economic costs of supply and the economic value
to Indonesia of alternative energy resources that gas replaces, the signals
received by the gas producers and users make it difficult to ascertair :he
appropriate balance between supply and demand for gas. Accordingly,
through the on-going Energy Pricing Policy Study funded by the Bank under
the Gas Distribution Project (Ln. 2690-IND), GOI is reviewing gas tariffs
in the context of an overall energy pricing review, with the objective of
developing a comprehensive energy pricing strategy that will encourage
increased gas production, especially of non-associated gas, as well as
promoting increased gas utilization by the power and industrial sectors.
1.23     The general objective of the energy pricing review is to minimize
distortions in domestic prices by using economic costs of supply and
netback value as benchmarks. Specifically, the price for nontradeable
surplus energy resources such as natural gas, coal and geothermal steam
would be established with the costs of competing fuels as ceilings and the
economic cost (LRMC) of supply as the floors. The domestic prices of
petroleum products, particularly kerosene and diesel, will also need to be
re-aligned to correct distortions between domestic and international
prices. To illustrate, preliminary findings of the Energy Pricing Policy
Study indicate that the marginal cost of most gas supply in Indonesia is
estimated to be less than US$0.50 per MCF at field gate, and depending on
the transport route, gas costs wo;l d range from US$1.00 and US$1.50 per MCF
at city-gate. The latter cost is .ess than half the international price of
substitutable petroleum products (equivalent to US$2.9 per MCF in the case
of fuel oil and to over US$4.0 per MCF for other products). These suggest
that gas tariffs to the final consumer could be set between US$1.50 and
US$2.9 per MCF if fuel oil is to be replaced, with the actual level to be
determined by the equipment conversion cost of customers, and by financial
and fiscal considerations.
1.24     In addition, under the Power Sector Efficiency Project, the GOI
has agreed to specific proposals for institutionalizing the process of
review of the energy prices, including the prices of petroleum fuels (LPG,
kerosene, gasoline, diesel, fuel oil), gas, geothermal steam, coal and
electricity.  The proposals consist of the following:
(a) establishment of an Interdepartmental Energy Pricing Task
Force to review and to advise Government on energy prices --
the Steering Committee for the "Energy Pricing Policy Study'
would be the core group for this; and
(b) establishment of an Energy Pricing Unit in MME to provide
analytical support and technical data to the Task Force --
the counterpart team for the Energy Pricing Policy Study
could be the core group for this.



-9-
Bank Role and Strategy
1.25     The Bank's involvement in Indonesia's natural gas subsector began
with the Fnergy Assessment Report of 1981, which concluded that alternative
energy sources could be developed economically and expeditiously to replace
oil consumed domestically in order to conserve the limited oil reserves for
exports. This was followed by studies (in 1984 and 1985) for Natural Gas
Utilization and City Gas Distribution financed under Fifth Technical
Assistance Project (Cr. 898-IND). The Natural Gas Utilization Study
supported the policy of developing large-scale domestic markets for natural
gas as a substitute for oil. The City Gas Distribution Study confirmed the
potential for economical distribution of natural gas to medium and small
industries, commercial entities and households in urban areas. It resulted
in a decision to rehabilitate and extend the use of gas distribution
systems in Jakarta, Bogor and Medan, with the prospect for further
implementaticn in other cities. Assistance for this project was provided
by the Bank through LN 2690-IND. This was the first Bank-financed project
in the natural gas sub-sector in the country. Since then, the Energy
Options Review report of August 1987 prepared by the Bank has confirmed the
important role of natural gas as a substitute for petroleum products to
meet the growing fuel requirements of the power, industrial and commercial
sectors, especially in Java.
1.26     Currently, the Bank's involvement in gas is through three
activities: (a) the gas distribution project (Ln 2690-IND) which, inter
alia, aims to strengthen the institutional capability of PGN to play a more
effective role in gas distribution, (b) the Energy Pricing Policy Study
financed from the same loan, which is designed to help GOI to rationalize
fuel prices and thereby promote efficient utilization, and (c) monitoring
the Java Gas Grid Study, funded by a Dutch grant, which should help define
long-term gas development strategies. Also, through close involvement in
the power sub-sector, the Bank has been promoting gas utilization for power
generation which, in certain cases, can be managed to exploit economies of
scale in gas transportation, and allow the gas to be supplied to industrial
and other pitential consumers at the lowest possible cost.
1.27     The expansion of natural gas utilization in Java and Sumatra would
evolve through a number of discrete but interlinked projects. Formulation
of adequate policies is necessary at this stage to ensure efficient sector
development. Through project financing and ensuing policy dialogue, the
Bank can assist GOI irn (a) developing a natural gas pricing policy
framework for optimizing its development and utilization, (b) determining
the appropriate scale and phasing of investments, (c) formulating policies
conducive to private sector participation in natural gas utilization,
including spawning of an efficient natural gas appliance manufacturing
industry, and (d) creating modern, efficient institutions to regulate and
manage natural gas transmission, distribution and utilization, as well as
to develop technology and standards suitable to local conditions.
1.28     Mo,reover, the Bank will continue to assist GOI to coordinate the
developmer.t of gas and power strategies and to devise suitable
institutional and financing arrangements which would attract private sector
participation in gas-fired power plants.



-10-
II. THE BENEFICIARIES
2.1      The promotion of natural gas utilization in domestic energy
consumption would involve three organizations namely: PGN (State Gas
Corporation), for building and operating of gas supply facilities and
consumer conversion; MIGAS (Directorate General of Oil and Gas), for safety
regulation and coordination of development plans; and LEMIGAS (Research and
Development Center for Oil and Gas Technology), for research and develop-
ment of standards to facilitate safe and efficient usage. Since PGN would
be the core organization for project implementation, receiving about 9oz of
the proceeds of the loan, this chapter mainly refers to PGN and the other
beneficiaries are briefly discussed at the end.
PGN (STATE GAS CORPORATION)
Background
2.2      PGN (Perum Gas Negara) was .reated in 1958 as a Government agency
to take ovpr the foreign interests in the manufacture and distribution of
town gas in the cities of Jakarta, Bogor, Bandung, Cirebon, Semarang and
Surabaya in Java; Medan in North Sumatra and Ujung Pandang in Sulawesi.
With the availability of natural gas in west Java, several local
distribution systems in Jakarta, Bogor and Cirebon were wholly or partially
converted to natural gas during 1979-1982. Under a Government regulation
of 1984, PGN was turned into a Public Corporation, which gave it some
operating autonomy within the Government regulations but restricted the
capital ownership to the Government. By 1985, PGN's total gas sales
amounted to 95 million cubic meters (MMCM) per year, equivalent to an
average sale of 7.4 million cubic feet per day (MMCFD), with a sales mix of
702 natural gas and 30X manufactured gas, which was about 20X of the then
estimated potential demand from private industries and commercial entities.
It had failed to expand the use of natural gas in the growing fuel market
primarily due to lack of technical expertise. As a remedial measure, in
1986 GOI negotiated and signed a Bank loan (No. 2690-IND) for PGN's first
major expansion project (the Gas Distribution Project) providing a ten-fold
increase in natural gas distribution (from about 5 MMCFD to 50 MMCFD) by
1992 to about 350 medium size industries and 800 commercial entities in
Jakarta, Bogor and Medan.
2.3      The implementation of the Gas Distribution Project began in
December 1986; its progress has been satisfactory and it is expected to be
completed by July 1991. The institution building of PGN is a key
component, for which the Bank designed a long-term collaboration (twinning)
of PGN with a prominent and experienced gas utility (British Gas). This
relationship provided the means to integrate the know-how transfer and
staff training on site in the course of project implementation and exposed
PGN to an experienced operating organization acting as a role model. It
has been very successful, and has enabled PGN to upgrade its management and
technical skills. PGN's on-going skills development program covers 130
professionals (engineer, accountants and sales executives) and 250



-11-
technicians of PGN, 200 technicians of gas pipeline construction
contractors and internal gas n4Ding installers, and 800 technicians of
industrial consumers.
2.4      Since 1986, PGN's sales have increased at an average rate of 362
per year and its gas losses have been reduced from 302 to 6Z. Prior to
1986, PGN operated at a loss, in FY88 it achieved breakeven and, in FY90 it
made a 2.6Z return on net fixed assets in operation, which was short of the
target of 10X but still reflects a turnaround in its operations. (The
reasons for the shortfall are discussed in para 4.3). It is to PGN's
credit thet, despite the adverse domestic price movements in gas and liquid
fuels, it was able to expand its gas sales in a competitive market through
skillful marketing.
Statutory Functions
2.5      The main functions of PGN under its charter are as follows:
(a) production, supply and distribution of manufactured gas;
(b) supply and distribution of natural gas to customers with a
contracted demand not exceeding 5 MMCFD (except in specific
cases with the prior permission of GOI);
(c) planning and construction of natural gas distribution
systems; and
(d) provision of services associated with the supply of gas and
gas by-products.
Current Organization
2.6      PGN, being a state-owned utility, is held responsible to the
Government through the Minister of Mines and Energy. It is managed by a
Board of Directors, which comprises a President Director and a maximum of
four Directors appointed by the President of the Republic on the
recommendations of the Minister of Mines and Energy. The Board of
Directors is entrusted, under the statutes of the Government and within the
guidelines set by the Minister of Mines and Energy, to draw up the annual
work plan and budget, appoint and discharge employees, establish pay scales
and determine the numbers and categories of staff required. The
performance of PGN is periodically reviewed by a Board of Supervisors.
This Board, also appointed by the President of the Republic, comprises
senior staff of the Ministrv of Mines and Energy and the Ministry of
Finance.
2.7      The President Director is the Chief Executive Officer of the
corporation. He is assisted by a Director Operations, a Director
Development, a Director Finance and General Affairs and an Internal
Auditor. The Director Operations is responsible for gas marketing and
distribution systems operations. The Director Development is responsible
for planning and design of new transmission and distribution systems, their



-12-
construction management and procurement of materials. The Director Finance
and General Affairs is responsible for finance, personnel management,
general administration and stores management.
2.8      PGN's field activities are geographically organized through eight
regional branches, located at Jakarta, Bogor, Bandung, Cirebon, Semarang
and Surabaya in Java, Medan in North Sumatra and Ujung Pandang in Sulawesi
The gas marketing and distribution system operations in the regions are
managed by Branch Managers who report to the Director Operations and
maintain functional links to other Directors. The construction activity is
managed by Project Managers who are responsible to thz Director Development
and maintain functional links to Branch Managers and the other directors.
2.9      Each Director is supported by Sub-Directors with responsibility
for a major function or a group of smaller functions. Additionally some
key functions i.e. research, train.ing and information service, are headed
by Senior Managers reporting directly to the Board of Directors. This
structure (Annex 3.01) was agreed with PGN and implemented as a condition
of loan effectiveness under the on-going Gas Distribution Project (Ln.
2690-IND).
Proposed Reorganization
2.10     To facilitate the management of increased corporate and
development activities under the proposed project, PGN will enlarge its
existing management structure and regroup some of the functions. In the
proposed reorganization (Annex 3.01) the President Director will be
assisted by four Directors and an Internal Auditor. The titles of the four
Directors and their responsibilities will be:
Director Operations         - gas marketing, operation and
maintenance of gas transmission
and distribution systems;
Director Development        - planning and design of gas
transmission and distribution
systems, materials control
and construction management;
Director Finance            - corporate budget, finance,
accounting and cost control; and
Director Administration   -  personnel management, procurement
and Logistics               and stores management, general
administration and legdl services.
2.11     The significant changes involved in the organization are: (i)
consolidation of personnel management, logistics and administration under
the fourth Director to provide the necessary focus on performance and
skills development; (ii) appointment of a sub-Director with the sole
responsibility for each of the functions of material control, maintenance,



-13-
cost control and logistics to enhance operational efficiency and cost
effectiveness; and (iii) the addition of regional planning in the
responsibilities of the Branch Manager to coordinate the project
preparation and design with local authorities.
Technical Assistance Requirements
2.12     PGN has matured considerably during the execution of the on-going
Bank financed Gas Distribution Project (Ln 2690-IND) with substantial
increase in skills in all areas of its operation, and has developed
credibility with its customers and the Government institutions with which
it interfaces. This rapid maturation has given PGN an adequate base from
which to undertake another expansion project. However, there is still a
large experience gap within the company as a result of earlier years of
stagnation and lack of recruitment. Therefore, PGN will require further
technical assistance, along the same lines as that in the current project.
2.13     This technical assistance is in the form of a long-term technical
collaboration (twinning) with an experienced operat..g entity to provide a
broad based package of technical assistance in key operating areas,
integrate know-how transfer and staff training on site in the ,urse of
project implementation and expose the client to mature operations of the
collaborating entity. In such an arrangement the seconded staff of the
experienced operating entity work in parallel with the client's nominated
staff to build-up the client's skills and to upgrade its operations rather
than the consultants being made responsible for discreet tasks. It ensures
a higher level of on-the-job training and a higher level of understanding
and commitment by the clients' staff who remain responsible for all aspects
of project execution. It also permits the work program to remain flexible
overtime, permitting some variation in the input of technical assistance to
suit the project needs and staff capabilities.
2.14     Apart from strengthening its skills in the areas addressed in the
current project, PGN needs to develop skills for a larger role in the gas
utility business, notably in long-term planning, growth management and
system optimization. As PGN's current technical collaboration (twinning)
relationship with British Gas is working well, it Lntends to extend this
arrangement (Annex 4.01) for the duration of the proposed project which
will provide both continuity and consistency of approach. This has been
acceptable to the Bank.
2.15     PGN will finance this arrangement through bilateral aid and has
sought assistance from the Overseas Development Administration (ODA) of the
UK Government which in principle has agreed to continue funding it. Since
the twinning arrangement is considered critical to the successful
implementation of the project, its finalization would be a condition for
loan effectiveness.
Human Resource Requirements and Training
2.16     The proposed project will involve about a two-fold increase in
PGN's operation and a three-fold increase in its gas sales. Since under



-14-
the current project (Ln 2690-IND) PGN is developing a sizeable base of
highly skilled manpower (130 professionals i.e., engineers, accountants
and sales executives and 250 technicians) it will require proportionately
less additional manpower to manage the proposed project and follow-on
operations. The additional staff it would need to employ would comprise
about 80 professionals in the fields of engineering, marketing, human
resource development and finance and approximately 100 technicians. As
PGN's pay scales are comparable with other public sector corporations, the
recruitment of additional staff is not expected to po e any problems.
During negotiations, it was agreed that GOI would allow PGN to maintain its
pay scale at a level as remunerative as that offered by similar public
sector corporations.
2.17     In the proposed project, PGN's skills development program will
cover, (a) the training of its newly recruited staff under a program
similar to that being followed in the on-going project but expanded to
recognize the new areas of PGN's operations (e.g. gas transmission and
compression); (b) advanced training to its existing professional staff in
long-term planning, growth management and system optimization; and (c) the
training of an aaditional 200 technicians of pipeline construction
contractors and internal gas piping installers and 700 technicians of the
industrial consumers in basic skills and safe operations. During
negotiations assurances were obtained that PGN, with the help of the
consultant to be appointed after the proposed loan is made, will prepare a
detailed training program and discuss it with the Bank for implementation
under a timetable acceptable to the Bank.
Accounts
2.18     PGN's accounts are maintained in accordance with the "Indonesian
Accounting Principles' issued in 1983, the relevant parts of the
Government's 1984 regulations on public corporations, the 1984 Government
decree converting PGN into a public corporation, and the instructions from
PGN's management on specific accounting procedures. Each branch office is
expected to send a monthly financial report (mainly income statement) to
the head office within 5 days of the close of the month for consolidation,
as well as an annual report within two months of the close of PGN's fiscal
year. PGN's annual consolidated statements are generally completed within
three months of the close of its fiscal year as required for tax purposes.
PGN's Board of Directors is required to submit the annual financial
statements to concerned Government agencies (including the State Audit
Board) within six months of the close of its fiscal year. Furthermore,
PGN's Board of Supervisors submits quarterly and annual reports to the
Ministries of Mines and Energy and Finance.
2.19     The accounts of each branch office are supervised by a certified
bookkeeper and the timeliness and accuracy of reporting is generally
satisfactory. On the whole, PG1's accounting system follows generally
accepted principles and utility practices. Under the ongoing project, a
team was formed within PGN for the implementation of an integrated
accounting system, including cost accounting and budgeting and for
computerization of accounting routines (e.g. billing/collection, wages,



-15-
stores, budgets and project accounts) to permit PGN to expand its
operations in an efficient way. With the assistance of the twinning agency
and consultants, PGN has made substantial progress in the simplification
and computerization of its accounting routines and PGN staff have well
absorbed the necessary computer skills. The new integrated accounting is
expected to be operational in FY91.
2.20     In recent years, PGN may have charged excessive amounts of
interest to capital investment and transferred work in progress (WIP) to
assets in operation before the work was actually commissioned and started
to produce revenues.  The computerization of VIP and stores will be
completed in FY91, and this will provide PGN with the tools to improve its
project accounting procedures. This may have an impact on PGN's income
taxes as well as the rate of return. During project implementation, this
matter will be reviewed to ensure a sound and consistent basis for rate of
return calculations.
Audit
2.21     According to its 1984 charter, PGN's accounts are audited by
Government auditors: the Finance and Development Supervisory Board (BPKP),
and if serious reasons so indicate, the State Board of Auditors (BPK). For
projects financed by the Government, the Tschnical Department of the
Ministry of Mines and Energy also carries out project audits. PGN's
internal audit unit reports directly to its Board of Directors and consists
of five officers. External audits are carried out following generally
accepted audit practices and PGN's audit arrangements on the whole are
satisfactory. PGN's financial statements are generally submitted for audit
within 4 months of the end of PGN's fiscal year. The number of
observations in the audit reports has been substantially reduced in recent
years and PGN expects a FY89 report without qualifications. Audit reports
are often finalized late, however, about a year after the closing of PGN's
fiscal year. During negotiations, agreement was obtained that PGN will
provide the Bank with its unaudited annual financial statements within six
months of the end of its fiscal year, and the corresponding audited report
within nine months after the end of its fiscal year.
Budgeting
2.22     Under its charter, PGN is required to submit its project and
operating budgets to it,; Supervisory Board for review and to the Ministries
of Mines and Energy and of Finance for approval. Budgets have to be
submitted at least three months before the start of the budget year. If
the Government does not object to PGN's budget before the budget year
begins, the budget is implemented as submitted. Supplementary or amended
budgets may be submitted during a budget year following the same procedures
as for the annual budgets. As a public corporation, PGN can redistribute
amounts between different headings in its operating budget on directive
from its Board of Directors. The budget procedures prescribed for PGN are
reasonably flexible and should be adequate for carrying out the proposed
project. PGN's internal procedures for preparing its budget and monitoring
actual expenditures have been improved with the assistance of the twinning
agency; as from FY90, expenditures are compared with budget estimates
monthly within five days of the close of the month.



-16-
Billing and Collection
2.23     PGN bills its customers monthly and gas bills generally reach the
customers within a month after the close of the billing period. In 1986,
bills were prepared with the help of obsolete office machines and monthly
summaries for accounting purposes were prepared manually. Under the
ongoing project, PGN was provided with adequate equipment and is now
implementing the computerization of its billing and collection procedures.
Customers generally pay their gas bills ;ithin one month after receipt, as
required by PGN, and the value of outstanding bills currently equals less
than two months of billing, which i3 satisfactory. The number of unpaid
bills is insignificant and PGN's current provisions for bad debts appear
adequate.
Insurance
2.24     PGN's assets are spread over eight different cities and any single
loss would be relatively small in comparison with PGN's total assets and
operations; PGN, therefore, did not carry any comprehensive insurance
coverage, except for vehicles and material in transit. Under the ongoing
project, PGN agreed to review the adequacy of its insurance coverage and
discuss the findings of the review with the Bank. This resulted in a
strengthened insurance coverage for PGN, including a blanket cover of
capital works in progress combined with fire insurance for assets in
operation and third party injuries and/or damages. Assets underground are
not insured. This insurance coverage is acceptable and in line with gas
industry practices. However, during the implementicion of the proposed
project, PGN's insurance coverage will be monitored to avoid double
coverage, e.g. by PGN and turnkey contractors for major nipe works.
MIGAS AND LEMIGAS
2.25     MIGAS (MINYAK DAN GAS BUMI) is the Directorate General of Oil &
Gas in the Ministry of Mines & Energy. lt is responsible for planning,
regulating and monitoring the development and utilization of hydrocarbon
and aeothermal resources in the country. It is headed by a Director
General who reports to the Minister of Mines & Energy. The Director
General is assisted by six Directors, responsible for: exploration and
production of oil and natural gas; exploration and production of geothermal
resources; technical services; business development; research in
hydrocarbon development and utilization; and human resource development.
2.26     LEMIGAS (PUSAT PENELITIAN DAN PENGEMBANGAN TEKNOLOGI MINYAK DAN
GAS BUMI) is the organization for research and development of oil and gas
technology. It was established in MIGAS in 1984 with the following
statutory functions:
-    research to acilitate the development and utilization of oil
and natural gas resources in Indonesia;
-    collection and dissemination of technical information; and
-    technical consultancy service to the oil and natural gas
industry in the country.



-17-
2.27     LEMIGAS currently employs about 900 professional and support staff
of whom more than 200 hold university degrees and a further 37 hold post-
graduate qualifications. Its current duties include survey and evaluation
of oil and gas deposits and research in oil production, processing and
utilization.  MIGAS now wants it to acqui-e expertise and facilities for
research to promote safe and efficient natural gas utilization through the
establishment of a Gas Technology Development Unit. Organograms of MIGAS
and LEMIGAS are given in Annex 3.02. The organization of the Gas
Technology Devrelopment Unit will be determined after the completion of its
planning study (para 1.18) and its implementation will be a condition for
the disbursement of funds allocated under the project.
III. THE PROJECT
Background
3.1      The Bank's Energy Assessment Report of 1981 and the studies of
1984 and 1985 for Natural Gas Utilization and City Gas Distribution
financed under Cr. 898-IND, established a basis for expanding the use of
natural gas in domestic consumption, and identified the need for
institutional and policy reforms in the sector to facilitate the
penetration of natural gas in the domestic economy. Accordingly, the on-
going Gas Distribution Project (Ln 2690-IND) was formulated and launched in
1986 for: (a) the expansion of gas supply to medium-size industries and
commercial entities in Jakarta, Bogor and Medan; (b) the institutional
strengthening of PGN to enable it to function as the core organization for
the development of gas utilization; and (c) the Energy Pricing Policy Study
to provide a framework for developing a comprehensive energy pricing
strategy. Subsequiently, the Bank's Energy Options Report of 1987
reconfirmed the importance of natural gas as an economic substitute for
petroleum products to meet the growing fuel requirements of power
generation, and the industrial and commercial sectors, especially in Java.
The proposed projeL.t is a follow-up to consolidate the gains being made in
the on-gcing project and to sustain and accelerate the economic expansion
of natural gas utilization.
Market
3.2      The market to be served by the project comprises medium-sized
industries and large commercial firms and three large customers i.e., PLN's
two power stations in the Medan area dnd a paper mill at Leces, about 80 Km
southeast of Surabaya. Residential and small industrial/commercial demands
have not been considered in view of the relatively higher cost involved in
supplying low volume consumers. Focusing on large-volume consumers would
render PGN's operations more cost-effective permitting strong product com-
petitiveness and enabling PGN to establish its market base faster. Based on
market surveys conducted by PGN, the current and potential average and peak
sales of gas in the project areas of Surabaya and Medan are estimated to be
as follows:



Table 2
FY ending      1992     1993    1994    1998    1998    2000   2005
Ove. max. ave. Max. ave.max.  ve.max.  ave.max.ave.max. ave.max.
---------------------------------UMCFD--------------------------------
Surabaya
Indus./Commercial   0   0   0   6   8    28 27   60 68  80 72  70  84
Paper Lecos    O   0   0   0   6   6    20 22   20 22  20 22  20  22
Total       2   2   0   0  10  14   43 49    70 80   80 94  9018
Medan
Industries    6   6  12  14  1  14   12 14   12 14  12 14  12  14
PLN          ao  46  48  74  48  74    48 74   48 74  48 74  48  74
Total       TS E i  8 088088           80 8i     0      80 g   88 80  i
3.3      In the Surabaya area, PGN's market presence is currently
restrictc_ Lo the distribution of manufactured gas and LPG supply to 38
small industrial and commercial users and 3,572 domestic consumers
situated in downtown Surabaya. Gas sales in FY89 consisted of 0.20 MMCFD
of manufactured gas to industrial and commercial consumers, and 1,290 tons
of LPG to domestic consumers. There are about 3,000 industrial and
commbrcial enterprises using petroleum products as fuel in Surabaya and 12
small towns in the vicinity, of which 340 medium-s.ze industries and 150
commercial entitites, accounting for about 702 of the total demand, have
been targettel for natural gas supply under the project. There is also a
major industry, the paper mill at Leces, that would like to substitute
petroleum product fuels (fuel oil and diesel) with natural gas. According
to the current rules, major consumers (contracting for more than 5 MMCFD
gas supply) should be PERTAMINA's customers, which in this case would
entail duplication of investments in supply facilities. To avoid this,
PERTAMINA and PGN have agreed that the Leces paper mill will be PGN's
customer. The average-day sale of natural gas is projected to grow from
10 MMCFD in FY94 to about 80 MMCFD by FY2000 and to about 90 MMCFD by
'-Y2005.
3.4      In Medan, PGN currently supplies natural gas to about 100 medium-
sized industrial and commercial consumers, 2000 households and a PLN's
power station at Paya Pasir near Belawan. The industrial, commercial and
household consumers are PGN's customers, while the PLN power station is
PERTAMINiA's customer. PGN is paid a carrying charge by PERTAMINA for
transporting gas to the power station. In FY90, PGN's average day supply
to its customers and to PLN's power station reached 5 MMCF and 30 MMCF
respectively. Urnder the proposed project, it is expected to increase to
60 MMCF (including 48 MMCF for PLN9s stations) by FY93. Further growth
will depend on the availability of gas supply from the fields being
appraised and developed in the vicinity. The PLN stations will remain
PERTAMINA's customers and PGN will be paid an adequate charge (being
negotiated) for transporting gas to these stations.
3.5      The sale forecasts are considered reasonable given the stable
base of industrial activity in and around the cities of Medan and



-19-
Surabaya, and the target levels of gas connections under the project are
deemed achieveable particularly in the light of recent PGN experience in
penetrating the liquid fuels market.
Gas Supply
3.6      PGN's Surabaya gas transmission and distribution system can be
provided up to 90 MMCFD natural gas from ARCO's Kangean offshore field
(located about 250 miles east of Surabaya) througn an offshore pipeline to
be laid by ARCO from Kangean to a landing point at Porong. This pipeline
is being planned to provide 220 MMCFD gas supply for PLN's power station
at Gresik and 60 MMCFD gas supply for Petrokimia, also at Gresik, in
addition to the aforementioned quantity for PGN. The supply for PGN will
be at a pressure of 17 to 20 bars. The pipeline is required to be built
and commissioned within thirty months of the signing of the gas supply
contract between PLN and PERTAMINA. (The gas supply agreement between PLN
and PERTAMINA was signed in March 1990.) This gas supply would meet the
level of consumer demand (para 3.2) that is expected to be attained by
2000. Increments in demand above that level can be met from the
development of other offshore fields, particularly Mobil's recent
discovery of non-associated gas about 80 Km offshure Leces.
3.7      The gas delivery from PERTAMINA's onshore fields to PGN's
existing supply system for Medan is being raised from 30 MMCFD to 40 MMCFD
at Pangkalan Brandan to provide additional gas to PLN's power station at
Paya Pasir near Belawan. An additional 20 MMCFD gas from PERTAMINA'S
onshore fie'.a, near Wampu, is now planned to be delivered at Payapasir
through a 24 Km long transmission pipeline to be built under this project.
As this supply would only partially meet PLN's demand of 270 MMCFD,
further development of fields in the vicinity is being undertaken by
PERTAMINA to enhance the supply.
3.8      The conditions of gas supply for the Surabaya and Medan areas
involving quantity, price, and the carrying charge for PGN's
transportation of the desired quantities to PLN's power stations at Medan
are being negotiated. The execution of supply contracts, satisfactory to
the Bank, betT .Fen PGN and PERTAMINA for gas supplies to the Surabaya and
Medan systems covering the project requirements, will be a condition of
loan effectiveness. Additionally, PGN will have to continue to prepare
(as under the ongoing project agreement) a rolling five-year plan covering
its future gas requirements to be updated each year and discussed with GOI
and PERTAMINA to form the basis for further network expansion.
Project Objectives and Rationale
3.9      The primary objective of the project is to support GOI's program
of diversifying domestic energy consumption away from heavy reliance on
petroleum products by substituting petroleum product fuels in power
generation, industrial and commercial sectors with natural gas. This
objective will be pursued through:
(a) the provision of an assured supply of natural gas, at
competitive prices, to power plants, manufacturing



-20-
industries, and commercial entities in Surabaya and twelve
other towns in its vicinity in East Java and in Medan in
North Sumatra;
(b) the integration of gas utilization plans and operations to
achieve economies of scale in the development and operation
of gas supply infrastructure;
(c) istitution building, technology transfer and, marketing
studies to accelerate safe and efficient utilization of
natural gas and to help define its long-term development
plans.
3.10     The use of natural gas by small and medium-sized industries in
Surabaya and Miedan is expected to yield an average economic netback value
to Indonesia of US$4.1 per MMBTU and US$4.3 per MMBTU, respectively,
compared to an estimated cost of gas supply of UJS$1.50 per MMBTU. For
power generation, the netback value for gas is estimated to exceed US$3
per MMBTU relative to a plant using industrial diesel oil (IDO). Gas
sales to industries will be largely market-driven as gas prices will have
to compete with the domestic price of liquid fuels creating a strong
incentive for the gas sector constantly to strive for efficiency in its
plans and operations.
3.11     Identificatior and selection of Surabaya and Medan as project
service areas is based on the availability and accessibility of abundant
proven gas reserves and the existence of a market ready to shift from use
of liquid fuels to natural gas. By integrating the gas utilization plans
of the power sector with that of industrial and commercial users in the
design of common delivery systems, the project would be able to achieve
economies of scale in the establishment of the gas transmission and
distribution networks. Moreover, the economic base in the these cities is
deemed adequate to sustain a growing demand for energy creating favorable
long-term prospects for a stable and expanding market for gas.
Accordingly, by focussing on these service areas, it is anticipated that
faster gains in GOI's program for increasing the share of natural gas in
domestic energy consumption will be achieved.
3.12     The expansion of natural gas utilization, being linked with the
demand and resource development, would involve lumpy infrastructure
investments in the form of discret; but interlinked projects spread over
several years. Efficient planning and phasing of these investments,
implementation of projects and the management of follow-up operations
would therefore require building of Indonesian institutions for long-term
planning, growth management and safe utilization. The proposed project
aims to bring about the development of these capabilities through the
institution building and interaction of PGN, LEMIGAS and MIGAS.
3.13     Specifically the project aims to:
(a) promote the use of natural gas as fuel for power generation,
manufacturing industries and commercial entities by



-21-
constructing new gas transmission and distribution
facilitiesfor Medan and Surabaya;
(b)  develop Indonesian expertise in long-term planning of gas
utilization, including the planning of integrated supply
systems common to all categories of consumn :s, through the
skills upgrading of MIGAS and PGN and through the
establishment of a Gas Technology Development Unit in
LEMIGAS;
(cj  build PGN's expertise in the optimization of expanding gas
supply systems and the management of expanding gas utility
operations;
(d)  develop cost effective standards and codes of practices
appropriate to the Indonesian environment for safe,                          -
efficient transportation and utilization of natural gas
through research at the proposed Gas Technology Development
Unit; and
(e)  promote the establishment of a regulatory system for safe
utilization of natural gas under the control of MIGAS with
the technical support of the Gas Technology Development Unit
and active participation of PERTAMINA, PGN and the
manufacturers of transportation and end-use equipment.
3.14     Other objectives of the project are to:
(a)  enhance the safety and efficiency of PGN's operations in
Surabaya through the rehabilita&ion and replacement of its
out-dated pipeline networks; and
(b)  reduce environmental pollution by using gas which is a
cleaner fuel than the other fossil fuels it would replace.
Project Description
3.15     The project consists of four main components:
A. Provision of Natural Gas Supply System in Surabaya and its
surrounding areas, involving:
(i)  the laying of about 80 km of high pressure transmission
pipelines, 190 km of medium pressure steel pipelines and
165 km of medium pressure polyethylene pipelines;
(ii)  the construction of 5 gas metering, pressure regulating and
odorization stations with associated instrumentation and 4
pressure reducing stations on the pipeline networks; and
(iii)  the construction of service lines, pressure regulation
and flow metering stations for 375 medium size industries
and 150 commercial enterprises and the paper mill in Leces.



-22-
B. Expansion of Natural Gas Supply System for Medan involving:
(i) the construction of about 24 km of high pressure
transmission pipeline with associated cathodic protection,
pressure/flow monitoring facilities and three pressure
reducing stations; and
(ii)  construction of service lines and pressure regulating                   FT
and flow metering stations for two PLN power stations
at Belawan.
C. Technical Assistance involving:
(i) enhancement of PGN's skills and efficient implementation of
its expansion project;
(ii) establishment of a Gas Technology Development Unit
in LEI4IGAS; and
(iii) upgrading of skills in MIGAS to facilitate the coordination
of development plans in gas sector and to institute a
regulatory system for safe utilization of natural gas.
D. Studies: Feasibility studies for natural gas marketing in
Palembang (South Sumatra), Jambi (Central Sumatra), Batam Island
(Riau), and Balikpapan (Kalimantan).
Gas Supply Systems
3.16     The project provides for the detailed design, construction,
testing and commissioning of gas supply systems involving high pressure
and medium pressure natural gas transmission and distribution networks,
pressure regulating stations, service lines and customer meter stations
for the supply of natural gas for power generation, manufacturing
industries and commercial entities in Surabaya and its environs and
additional supply for similar consumers in Medan on the basis of the
conceptual design prepared by PGN with the assistance of its consultants
(British Gas).
3.17     The Surabaya supply system, comprising the gas transmission as
well as the distribution networks, will cover Surabaya city and twelve
other towns in East Java within a 100 Km distance from Surabaya. It will
supply natural gas to about 375 medium-size industries, 150 large
commercial enterprises and the paper mill at Leces. The existing low
pressure manufactured gas distribution system supplying 3600 households in
a limited area in downtown Surabaya will be rehabilitated and integrated
with the planned system after conversion to natural gas.
3.18     PERTAMINA has indicated an input pressure of 17 to 20 bars for
the Surabaya system at the receiving stations. The max-day demands of the
consumers in the medium and long term (i.e. by FY99 and FY2006) are
estimated at about 90 MMCF and 120 MMCF respectively. Since Mobil



-23-
recently discovered non-associated natural gas 80 Km offshore Probolinggo
(near Leces), which is being evaluated, there is a possibility of
additional gas supply at an input precsure of 40 bars. The additional
cost of increasing the system capacity by about 30Z (from 110 MMCFD to 140
MMCFD) and the operating pressure capability by 130Z (from 17 bars to 40
bars) is approximately US$5 million i.e., 1OZ of the basic cost. The
transmission pipelines of this system have therefore been designed to
deliver 140 MMCFD with an input pressure of 17 bars along with provicion
for raising the operating pressure to 40 bars. The design of distribution
pipelines is based on the supply mains operating at 10 bars (the maximum
safe pressure under the prevailing procedures) and the reticulation
networks at a uniform pressure of 4 bars, resulting in a simpler design,
reduction in pipe size and substantial (about 20Z) reduction in cost as
compared with the alternative multi-stage pressure system. This approach
has alreadv been tried with good results in the distribution system
designs under the on-going Gas Distribution Project (Ln 2690-IND).
3.19     The expansion of the Medan supply system involving a high
pressure transmission pipeline from Wampu to Payapasir will enable supply
of additional quantities of natural gas to the two PLN power stations at
Paya Pasir and Belawan. The existing gas supply system for Medan comprises
a transmission pipeline from Pangkalan Brandan to Medan via Wampu and a
compressor station at Pangkalan Brandan for boosting the pipeline input
pressure from 17 bars to 40 bars. The total max-day demand of the
consumers in Medan is estimated at 150 MMCF in FY93, growing to about 300
MMCF by FY2000. About 60 MMCF of this demand will be met after the
proposed expansion of existing supply systerm and the balance of 240 MMCF
through further expansion of this system as additional gas becomes
available upon development of other fields in the area.
Technical Assistance
3.20     To fulfill the institution 1-uilding aims as discussed in para 3.12,
the project will provide multi-disciplinary technical assistance involving
three organizations, namely PGN, LEMIGAS and MIGAS.
3.21     PGN will execute an agreement for its twinning arrangement (TOR
in Annex 4.01) for the duration of the project, with British Gas or with
another gas utilicy acceptable to the Bank to ensure successful
implementation of this project concurrently with the on-going project.
This arrangen&qnt will provide assistance in:
-    detailed design and cost estimates, preparation of tender
documents and evaluation of bids for goods and services,
preparation and monitoring of the project implementation
schedule, construction management, market development, and
customer conversion;
-    planning and operation of integrated gas supply systems with
automated supervisory control and data acquisition;
-    corporate planning and management of an expanding gas
utility business;



-24-
-    long-term development planning, involving demand
forecasting, gas supply systems optimization, investment
appraisal and risk analysis; and
-    preparation of a training program as discussed in para 2.17.
3.22     Bilateral financing for this purpose is being discussed between GOI
and the Government of the United Kingdom. The extension of PGN's twinning
arrangement with British Gas (or execution of a similar agreement with another
established gas utility), on terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, will
be a condition for loan effectiveness.
3.23     A Gas Technology Development Unit will be established in LEMIGAS for
the development of in-house expertise in (a) research on ar.d development of
efficient and safe standards and codes of practices, appropriate to Indonesia,
for all the activities in the transportation of natural gas and its usage; (b)
studies and research in gas utilization, interfuel substitution and energy
conservation; (c) human resource development; and (d) dissemination of
reliable technical information to promote safe and efficient use of gas and to
encourage private sector industry to support it. The technical assistance for
its establishment and initial operation will be obtained through a long-term
(3 to 4 years) collaboration with a prominent gas technology institute in
iNorth America, Western Europe or Japan. The execution of an agreement,
satisfactory to the Bank, for such a collaboration, will be a condition for
the disbursemf!nt of the funds allocated under the Bank loan.
3.24     MIGAS will strengthen its expertise in (i) the coordination and
evaluation of development plans in the sector; and (ii) the institution of a
regulatory system (outlined in Annex 4.03) to ensure continued safe
utilization of natural gas. For this purpose, four engineers and two
financial analysts from MIGAS will be provided broad-based training at
overseas institutes in gas production, transportation and utilization; and
three staff members will be sent to North America and Western Europe for six
to eight weeks to study the regulatory procedures of prominent gas consuming
countries. The training program will be prepared by MIGAS with the assistance
of the consultants to be engaged for setting-up the Gas Technology Development
Unit.
Studies
3.25     Under the project, MIGAS, with the assistance of PGN and its twinning
partner, will conduct studies into the feasibility of distributing and
marketing natural gas in Palembang (South Sumatra), Jambi (Central Sumatra),
Batam island (Riau) and Balikpapan (East Kalimantan). These areas are
developing commercially and are located close to known reserves of natural
gas, with the exception of Batam island which lies on the route of the
pipeline proposed for the transportation of Natuna gas to Singapore.
Project Costs
3.26     The total project cost, based on the scope and design in paras 3.15
through 3.25, is estimated at US$108.3 million, of which US$91.1 million is
expected to be in foreign exchange as shown below (details of project costs
estimates are given in Annex 5.02).



-25-
Table 3
Local    FE    Total  Local    FE       Total
A. Expansion of Natural Gas             ---US$ million---    ---Rps billion---
Transmission & Distribution
Systems for
Surabaya & its environs
Pipelines                    8.2    52.4   60.6  14.35    91.70   106.05
Regulator Stations            0.3     1.7    2.0   0.52       2.96     3.48
Meter Stations & Service Lines  0.7       5.1    5.8   1.23       8.93    10.16
Total         9.2    59.2   68.4  16.10   103.60   119.70
Medan
Pipelines                         2.6     3.1.   5.7   4.55       5.43      9.98
Meter Stations & Service Lines  0.0       0.4    0.4   0.00       0.70      0.70
Total              2.6     3.5    6.1   4.55       6.13    10.68
Base Cost (A)                    11.8    62.7   74.5  20.65   109.73   130.38
B. Technical Assistance
PGN
Twinning Arrangement              0.0     5.0    5.0   0.00       8.75     8.75
Staff Training                    0.0     2.5    2.5   0.00       4.36      4.36
Equip. (computers & software)   0.5       0.6    1.1   0.88       1.05      1.93
Total              0.5     8.1    8.6   0.88    14.16    15.04
LEMIGAS (Gas Tech. Devl. Unit)
Consulcancies                     0.0     2.0    2.0   0.00       3.50      3.50
Staff Training                    0.0     1.5    1.5   0.00       2.62     2.62
Equipment                         1.3     4.0    5.3   2.28       7.00      9.28
Total              1.3     7.5    8.8   2.28    13.12    15.40
MIGAS
Staff Training                    0.0     0.5    0.5   0.00       0.88     0.88
Base Cost (B)                     1.8    16.1   17.9   3.16    28.16    31.32
C. Studies
Marketing Feasibility
Studies for Palembang Jambi,
Base Cost (C)                     0.0     0.3    0.3   0.00       0.52      0.52
Total Base Cost (A+B+C)          13.6    79.1   92.7  23.81   138.41   162.22
Physical Contingencies            2.2     4.0    6.2   3.85       7.00    10.85
Price Contingencies               1.4     8.0    9.4   2.45    14.00    16.45
Total Project Cost               17.2a/  91.1  208.3  30.11a/ 159.41   189.52
Capitalized interest During       2.5     8.0   10.5   4.38    14.00    18.38
during Construction
Total Funding Required           19.7    99.1  118.8  34.49   173.41   207.90
a/  Includes US$11.0 million equivalent as duties anfd taxes.



-26-
3.27     The cost estimates are based on September 89 price levels.  As the
project has been designed in sufficient detail, the physical contingencies
for FE cost have been estimated at 5Z of the base cost, however to provide
for any unforeseen problems in civil works, the physical contingencies for
local cost have been estimated at 10% of the base cost. Price contingencies
for foreign costs have been estimated at 5.4% per annum for 1990 and 4.3%
for 1991 and thereafter and for local costs at 72 for 1990 and 6% for 1991
and thereafter.
Financing Plan
The project funds required, totalling $118.8 million equivalent,
are expected to be financed as follows:
Table 4
Source                        Local     Foreign         Total
---------US$ million----------   2
Proposed Bank Loan              -          86.0          86.0   73
Bilateral Funds                 -           5.0           5.0    4
PGN Internal Cash               9.7         -             9.7    8
GOI                            10.0         8.1          18.1   15
Total            19.7        99.1         118.8  100
3.28     The Bank loan will cover all foreign exchange costs of the
project, ixcept for interest during construction (IDC) and the cost of
PGN's twinning with an experienced gas utility. The Bank loan represents
87% of the foreign exchange cost, 73X of total project funding required or
80% of the total project funding, exclusive of duties and taxes. Remaining
project expenditures will be funded by bilateral assistance (4%), PGN's
internal cash generation (8Z), and GOI (15Z). During negotiations,
agreement was obtained from GOI that it will ensure that MIGAS/LEMIGAS and
PGN are provided with the necessary funds to carry out the project.
3.29     Of the proposed Bank loan $10.0 million will be made available by
GOI to MIGAS/LEMIGAS for the Gas Technology Development Unit, training and
marketing studies; the remaining $76.0 million will be onlent by GOI to PGN
under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Bank. The on-lending
rate will be 13% p.a., with GOI carrying the foreign exchange risk in line
with GOI policies towards public corporations, and PGN will repay the loan
to GOI over fifteen years including five years of grace. GOI is also
expected to fund capitalized interest during the grace period, as it has
done under the ongoing gas project. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained from GOI that $10.0 million of the proposed Bank loan will be made
available to MIGAS/LEMIGAS and that the Bank would be furnished with the
audited project accounts for the Gas Technology Development Unit and the
marketing studies within nine months of the end of each fiscal year. The
signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOI and PGN, satisfactory to
the Bank, will be a condition of Loan effectiveness.



-27-
Implementation
3.30     PGN will have the overall responsibility for the implementation of
the Surabaya and Medan components of the project. It will be assisted by
the consultants (under the twinning arrangement) in the detailed
engineering, procurement, and construction management of the supply systems
as well as in the marketing of gas, customer connect'on and follow on
operations along the same lines as for the on-going project. The project
planning is already in progress, market and route surveys and basic designs
have been completed. GOI will enable PGN to secure the necessary rights of
way/way leave for the pipelines to be built under the project, in a timely
fashion, at least six months prior to the estimated start of the related
construction.
3.31     All construction works will be carried out by contractors.  As the
construction of transmission pipelines for Surabaya and Medan is on the
critical path in the implementation schedule, these works will be
contracted on a turn-key basis, through internationsl competitive bidding
(ICB), following the Bank guidelines, to facilitate early completion. The
construction of distribution pipelin' s, sc4ttered geographically and spread
over tinie, will be carried out by local contractors (as in the on-going Gas
Distribution Project) who possess the necessary skill, equipment and
resources to undertake the expanded workload under the project. To provide
an independent check, an outside agency will be engaged for inspection of
quality and tests.
3.32     The transmission pipelines to Medan and Surabaya areas are
scheduled to be commissioned by July 1992 and February 1993 respectively.
The gas supplies to major consumers, the PLN stations near Medan and the
paper mill at Leces are expected to commence soon thereafter. The
construction of distribution pipeline networks in Surabaya and its environs
will continue till March 1996. The implementation schedule is given in
Annex 5.01. The pipeline construction and customer connection is expected
to proceed as follows:
Table 5
Customers to be Connected in
Pipelines for             Surabaya                     Medan
Fiscal Year   Surabaya    Medan    Industrial  Commercial  Industrial Commercial
-_____(Km)------                       -No-
1992            100        24           30         -             -
1993            129         -           50         -             -            -
1994             72         -           70         50            -            -
1995              71        -           90         50            -            -
1996             59         -          135         50            -            -
431       24          375        150            -            _
3.33     LEMIGAS will be responsible for the establishment of the Gas
Technology Development Unit with the technical assistance as discussed in para
3.23. Its implementation schedule will be determined by the on-going planning
study (para 1.18). The preparation of its implementation schedule,
satisfactory to the Bank, will be a condition for the disbursement of funds
allocated under the project.



-28-
Procurement
3.34     All major items of material, equipment and related services and
construction contracts financed from the proceeds of the loan would be procured
through international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank
guidelines except for items of small value to be used for the distribution
component (not exceeding US$50,000 each and US$3 million in total for PGN and
US$500,000 in total for LEMIGAS) which are available off-the-shelf, such as
electrical switch-gear, flex, low pressure pipes and valves, etc. Such small
value items will be procured through prudent shopping after receiving price
quotations from at least three eligible suppliers in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank. For the purposes of evaluation and comparison of bids
for the supply of goods under ICB, qualified domestic suppliers will be allowed
a preference of 15% of the CIF price or the applicable import duty, whichever
is lower. In the evaluation of bids for construction contracts, local eligible
contractors will be given a preference of 7.5Z. Bidding packages over
US$300,000 will be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement
documentatior. Thus the documents for the procurement covering over 952 of the
lan amount will be subject to the Bank's prior review.  This is not expected
to pose any major problems as the procurement documents have already been
standardized under the current Gas Distribution Project and will be reviewed
again a- the outset of the proposed project to ensure efficient processing.
3.35     The procurement arrangements are summarized in the following table.
The figures in the parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed from
the proceeds of the Bank loan.
Table 6
Project Component                             ICB    LCB    Others   N.A. a/ Total
_______________US$ million-----
1. Gas Supply System
Line Pipes                                  41.5             0.5 b/  6.1       48.1
(Steel pipe,PE Pipe,valves & fittings)  (41.5)              (0.5)    (-)    (42.0)
Other Materials                              6.8             1.8 b/  3.2       11.8
(Compressors, regulators,                   (6.8)           (1.8)    (-)      (8.6)
meters, SCADA, etc)
Construction                                22.9    6.3                        29.2
(22.9)   (-)                      (22.9)
2. Technical Assistance
Equipment for:
PGN                                      0.6                      0.2      0.8
(computer software)                     (0.6)                     (-)     (0.6)
LEMIGAS                                  5.0                      1.5      6.5
(Gas Technology Develop. Unit)          (5.0)                     (-)     (5.0)
Consulting Services for:
PGN                                                      5.0 c/            5.0
(-)
LEMIGAS                                                  2.0 d/            2.0
(2.0)             (2.0)



-29-
Staff Training for:
PGN                                                      2.5               2.5
(2.5)             (2.5)
LEMIGAS                                                  1.5               1.5
(1.5)             (1.5)
MIGAS                                                    0.5               0.5
(0.5)             (0.5)
3. Studies                                                      0.4 dl             0.4
(0.4)             (0.4)
Total                      76.8     6.3    14.2    11.0    108.3
.76.8)    ()      (9.2)    (-)    (86.0)
a/ Customs duties and taxes.
b/ Prudent shopping.
cl Financed by bilateral aid funds (para 3.22).
d/ Following Bank guidelines for the use of consultants.
Disbursement
3.36     The Bank loan will be disbursed against:  (a) 100% of the foreign
exchange cost of imported equipment, materials and related services; (b)
100X of the cost of local equipment and materials (ex-factory); (c) 65% of
the cost of other items procured locally (off-the shelf); (d) 1002 of
foreign expenditures for training; and (e) 1002 of expenditures for
consultants services.
3.37     The implementation period for the project is estimated at six
years and the disbursement schedule (Annex 5.03) is largely in line with
the Bank's standard disbursement profile. Projected disbursements are
based on loan effectiveness and the signing of major pipeline contracts in
FYs92 and 93. Therefore, substantial disbursements are expected for the
early years of the project.
3.38     To facilitate disbursement, a Special Account will be opened with
an authorized allocation of US$5.0 million equivalent, the estimated
average loan disbursement for a four-month period.  The account will be
opened in US dollars in a bank acceptable to the Bank and will have sub-
accounts for PGN, MIGAS and LEMIGAS respectively. Applications for
replenishment of the Special account will be submitted quarterly or
whenever the Special Account is drawn down to 502 of its initial deposit,
whichever comes first. Disbursements will be made against priced corntracts
for the goods, services and works procured under the Bank loan, and SOEs
--if any. Interim certification of works completed and costed at unit
rates in the contracts will be done by PGN/MIGAS/LEMIGAS. DisburseLuents
for training overseas will be made against the actual costs of travel,
subsistence and tuition or training fees. Disbursements against statements
of expenditure will be made for the training component and for goods or
services costing less than US$300,000. Documents supporting the
expenditure statements will be retained by PGN/MIGAS/LEMIGAS and the DG
budget office, as appropriate, and made available for review by Bank
supervision missions. During negotiations, instructions for the operations
of the Special Account were provided to PGNIMIGAS/LEMIGAS.



-30-
Environment
3.39     As the project was appraised (in May 1989) before the
environmental evaluation directive (No. 4.00-A) was issued, it was not
subjective to environmental analysis. Its implementation will however not
pose any significant hazard to the environment. Design configuration and
pipeline system layout has been established taking into account safety
norms and standard design codes. Substantial segments of the pipeline
network will be buried using existing easement strips where there are
minimum obstacles to the laying of pipes. In heavily congested areas,
pipeline routing has been carefully planned to ensure that service lines
will be situated at safe distances from human traffic.  For waterlogged
areas or where soil conditions are heavily corrosive, upgraded materials                    U
and construction design have been provided and are reflected in the higher
cost of pipelines for these segments. Aside from the limits posed by
operating pressure and mechanical loads on the pipes, selection of
pipelines materials are also based on proximity of property and risk of
interference damage.
3.40     The project will also alleviate urban pollution particularly
within the industrial zones with the replacement of liquid hydrocarbon
fuels by natural gas. The combustion products of gas are less polluting
than those for petroleum products. M-reover, replacement of old and
inefficient gas pipelines would reduce the hazards earlier posed by gas
leakage in the old system.
Reporting Requirements
3.41     During negotiations, assurances were obtained that PGN will
collect relevant data through the monthly operating reports, combine it
with project data and use it for compiling quarterly progress reports on
the project. The progress reports should be made available to the Bank
within 45 days of the end of the reporting period. An outline of the
quarterly progress report is given in Annex 5.04.
3.42     The progress reporting requirement for the Gas Technology
Development Unit will be prepared by LFMIGAS after the completion of the
planning study and will require the Bank's approval prior to the
commencement of disbursement of funds allocated under the Bank loan for the
Gas Technology Development Unit.
IV. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
PGN's Margin on Gas Sales
4.1      In recent years, PGN gas sales price varied from about Rp 4,900 to
Rp 5,300/MMBTU depending on the volume the consumer contracts for. A
comparison between this gas price and the current domestic prices of liquid
fuels competing with gas is given below:
;
r



-31-
Table 7
Current Domestic Price
(Rp/liter)   Rp/MMBTU
Fuel Oil                          200         5,200
Diesel (ADO)                      200         5,600
Kerosene                          165         4,700
LPG (per Kg)                      591        13,300
Natural gab                        -       4,900-5,300
4.2      The average natural gas price of about Rp 5,000 thus represented a
discount of 4% to 11  from fuel oil and diesel, the principal fuels
competing with it. According to PGN's experience under the ongoing gas
distribution project, this discount was needed to provide a sufficient
financial incentive for potential customers to convert from liquid fuels to
natural gas. Once the customers have made the necessary investment in
conversion equipment, installed gas burning boilers etc., they experience
firsthand the advantages of natural gas over liquid fuels: lower
transportation and storage cost, improved security of supply, improved
combustion efficiency, lower maintenance costs and increased cleanliness.
In the long run, this permits PGN slowly to increase its gas prices for
already connected users up to, or even slightly exceeding, the prices of
fuel oil and diesel without losing customers.
4.3      Before FY87, when the Rupiah (Rp) was devalued by 452 against slhe
US dollar, the gas price in PGN's supply contract with PERTAMINA was
US$2.70JMMBTU (Rp 3,000/MMBTU). A new price of Rp 3,500 was subsequently
agreed between PERTAMINA and PGN. At the same time, due to weakening wo-ld
market prices, the domestic prices for industrial diesel and fuel oil were
reduced by 9% compared with FY86 ievels,3/ thus reducing the price PGN
could charge potential industrial and commercial customers and still induce
them to shift from competing fuels to gas. These price movements
effectively reduced PGN's margins on gas sales by about 252, and in FY89
PGN operations therefore yielded only a 1.42 return on revalued net fixed
assets in operation against the 10% return covenanted under the ongoing Gas
Distribution Project (which improved to 2.6% in FY90). Without this
unexpected reduction in PGN's gas sales margin, the rate of return covenant
would have been met. The economic argument for increased domestic use of
gas is unassailable and the support for expanded PGN gas distribution is in
line with the Bank's sector strategy. T'o provide PGN with the necessary
flexibility to expand gas sales rapidly in a competitive market, the Bank
therefore agreed to PGN's request to postpone until FY95 the application of
the 102 rate of return covenant under the ongoing project (Ln. 2690-IND).
A monitorable program to ensure continued improvement of PGN's efficiency
(e.g., closure of obsolete gas manufacturing plants, reduction of gas
losses and higher increases in sales than in operating costs) and financial
performance (e.g. interim rate of return targets) was reviewed and agreed
during the negotiations (para 4.18 and Annex 6.05).
3/  With oil at about US$18/bbl the domestic price of fuel oil is now about
1OZ, above its international parity price and the domestic price of
industrial diesel about 30% below.



-32-
PGN's Past Financial Performance
4.4      At appraisal of the ongoing Gas Distribution Project in FY86, PGN
was an inefficient, small scale distributor of natural and manufactured
gas; its iivestments were financed by Government and it operated at a loss.
Under the Gas Distribution project, PGN's rate of return on revalued net
fixed assets increased from a negative 3.72 in FY86 to a positive 2.62 in
FY90. PGN was able to achieve this result mainly by improving its
efficiency: the volume of gas sold increased by over 200Z between FY86 and
FY90 and gas losses were reduced from 30Z to 6Z dur:.ng the same period.
With the assistance of the twinning agency (British Gas) provided under the
ongoing project, PGN successfully implemented a flexible gas marketing
strategy that pernitted PGN to expand sales quickly at competitive prices,
and procedures for maintenance and planning were improved. These
efficiency improvements were necessary to protect PGN's financial viability
after the FY87 reduction in PGN's margin on gas sales.
4.5      PGN's income statements for FYs86-89 (Annex 6.02) are summarized
below:
Table 8
FY ending March 31:       1986      198/       1988       1989 a/ 1990 b/
--------------Rp billion---------
Gas Sales                 18.9      26.0       34.2       44.8    61.3
Cost of Gas Sold          13.6      17.4       25.1       33.5    38.8
Other Expenses (net)       5.2       7.9        9.2        9.6    19.2
Operating Income           0.1       0.7        0          1.6      3.4
Non-operating Tilcome      7.9       (0.7)      0.6        1.0      0.9
Profit after Tax          5.6      (0.1)       0.6        2.2      3.4
Ratios (Z):
Operating Income/Sales   1           3          0          3.6    5.6
ROR on Net Fixed Assets
in Operation:
Valued at Cost         (8.6)      1.7        0          2.4    4.6
On Revalued Basis    (3.7)        1.0        0          1.4    2.6
a/ Unaudited
b/ Provisional
4.6      Over the last five years, PGN's gas sales have increased by over
302 p.a. while the percentage of gas lost has been reduced from dbout 30?
to about 6Z. However, higher cost of gas and operating expenses,
especially wages, consumed PGN's revenue increases causing operations
barely to break even up to FY88. The impact of efficiency improving
measures, initiated under the ongoing project (pars 4.4), was reflected
only in FY89 and FY90, when PGN's operating income increased from zero to
Rp 3.4 billion ($1.9 million) and PGN's rate of return on revalued net
fixed assets in operation from zero to about 2.6? despite unusually large
salary increases in FY90.



-33-
4.7      In the past, PGN's investments were funded by th: Government
Development Fund (DIP) and PGN was able to accumulate some surplus funds
from its own cash generation; those funds were i4ivested in time deposits
providing a substantial non-operating income that was not taxed. As from
FY92, GOI will not provide PGN with new DIP funds and PCN will therefore
have to rely on its own cash generation and other external sources.
4.8      As from FY86, PGN pays 35Z in tax on its net income (excluding
interest on time deposits) and, as from FY87, PGN is not allowed to carry
forward any tax losses to subsequent years. PGN also pays 55Z of after tax
income to GOI as a contributioni (DPS) instead of dividends. This leaves
PGN with less than 301 of income before tax to be retained within the
company.
Present Financial Position
4.9      PGN's unaudited balance sheet as of March 31, 1990 (Annex 6.03) is
summarized as follows:
Table 9
Rp. Billion         z
Net Fixed Assets in Operation          56.2             47
Work in Progress                       35.0             29
Total Net Fixed Assets                91.2              76
Current Assets                        20.5              17
Less: Current Liab.                   (11.3)            (9)
Other Assets, net a/                  20.1              16
Total Assets                         120.5             100
Financed by:
Equity                              79.5              66
Social Fund                          1.2               1
Long-term Debt                      39.8              33
Total Liabilities                    120.5             100
Current Ratio (times)                   1.8
Debt/Equity Ratio                    33/67
a/ including time deposits
4.10     PGN's past investments have been financed largely by Government
equity contributions from DIP funds and PGN has therefore, despite poor
financial results from its operations, a strong financial position with a
current ratio of 1.8, a debt equity ratio of 33/67 and over Rp 10.0 billion
in time deposits. Nearly all long-term debt is to the Bank for the ongoing
project.



-34-
4.11     PGN's plant and equipment were revalued in FY80 as required of all
public corporations by the Ministry of Finance. The revaluation was
recorded in PGN's books and the method was accepted by the Bank. In FY86,
a revaluation of land owned by PGN as of FY85 was also recorded in PGN's
books, resulting in a Rp 18.3 billion increase, or about a doubling of the
value of PGN's net fixed assets. PGN's old gas distribution networks,
which are obsolete and nearly fully depreciated, are being replaced under
the ongoing and proposed projects. The average age of PGN1's fixed assets
is therefore re'latively low; in FY89 about 50X had been in operation for
less than five years and in FY97 this percentage will be about 75Z. In
FY89, the currency fluctuations and price increases since the FY80 and FY86
revaluations were estimated to have increased the replacement cost of PGN4's
assets by 55Z and this percentage was used to revalue PGN's FY89 fixed
assets for ROR calculations as agreed under the ongoing project. The
Indonesian accounting practices do not provide for regular revaluation of
fixed assets and the revaluation exercise was therefore done on a
memorandum basis outside PGN's books; these arrangements are satisfactory.
4.12     PGN's FY90 fixed assets in operation may be overstated due to
transfer of capital works to assets in operation before they were actually
put into operation and capitalization of interest that should have been
charged against income. The distortion of PGN's asset values is not
material, steps are however being taken for future correction (para 2.2).
4.13     Under the ongoing project, it was agreed that the value of land
(for gas manufacturing properties that will not be needed for PGN's gas
operations when manufactured gas has been replaced by natural gas or LPG)
would not be included in the rate base for ROR calculations. This
agreement will continue under the proposed project. For fixed assets other
than such land, assurances were obtained from PGN during loan negotiations
that PGN will revalue its fixed asse.s in operations annually according to
methods acceptable to the Bank and that this revaluation will be submitted
to the Bank, together with PGN's unaudited financial statements (para
2.20), within six months of the end of each financial year.
Financial Projections for PGN
4.14     PGN's budget for FY91 is based on a margin on gas sales of about
Rp 2,000/MMBTU between PGN's gas cost of Rp 3,500/MMBTU and an average
sales price of Rp 5,500/MMBTU would be sufficierLt to produce adequate
returns for an efficiently operated gas company of reasonable size. Under
the proposed Gas Utilization Project, PGN would achieve both the necessary
economies of scale and efficiency: the volume of gas sold would increase
three times from FY91 to FY96. Gas losses would be reduced from 6Z to 2X;
and obsolete gas manufacturing plants closed and replaced by either natural
gas or LPG distribution. A program to achieve these objectives was agreed
during negotiations and will be closely monitored under the proposed
project (Annex 6.05). The income projections for PGN (Annex 6.02) indicate
that a 1O return will be achieved in FY95, reaching 17? in FY97, when all
facilities under the proposed project would be fully utilized. PGN would
provide all local project costs (except for GOI funded capitalized
interest) out of its internally generated funds, after payment of all
operating costs, debt service, income tax, DPS contributions to Government



-35-
and pensions; this would be satisfactory considering the rrpid pace of
expansion.
4.15      PGN's projected financial statements for FYs9l-97 with notes and
assumptions are given in Annexes 6.01 through 6.04. Some highlights are
presented below:
Table 10
FY ending March 31:         1991   1992   1993   1994   1996   1998   1997
Gas Sales: (Million M3)     360    540    690    850   1140   1320   1880
(Rp Billion)           74.8  109.8  146.8  177.4   234.3  270.0  340.6
Operating Income/Sales (%)    10.8   16.8   17.7   16.0    20.2   21.7   23.8
Net Profit/Sales (X)         8.6    8.4    8.8    8.6     9.5   10.6   12.2
Rate of Return a/ on:
Book Value Bisis (%)      8.4   13.1   12.5    9.2    14.5   18.2   24.9
Revalued Basis (%)        6.0    8.6    9.6    7.1    11.0   12.8   16.6
Current Ratio (times)     2.3    2.3    2.8    3.1      3.2    3.3    3.4
Debt/Equity Ratio     42/68  68/42 66/35   86/36  65/35  64/36   59/41
Debt/Service Ratio(times)b/   n.a.    1.7    2.0    2.6   2.3    3.1    1.9
/  After income tax (35%) but before interest and DPS contributions, which
have been treated as appropriation of after tax profits as indicated by
the Ministry of Finance.
b/ Defined as: internal cash generation divided by debt service (including
Interest charged to income). FY91 ratio is abnormally high as most
interest will be capitalized and amortization of Ln 2690-IND and an EXIM Bank
(Japan) loan start only in FY92.
4.16      These projections are based on a gas margin of about Rp 2,000 and
gas sales projections according to PGN's plans, which have been worked out
with the assistance of the twinning agency (British Gas). As under the
ongoing project, PGN is expected to manage a quadrupling of its gas sales
with an increase of only about 20% in its staff; the new transportation and
distribution network will require less maintenance than the old ones, gas
manufacturing plants will be closed, gas losses reduced from the current 62
to 22, staff will be trained, and offices will be equipped with modern
technology, all to further improve PGN's efficiency. This efficiency
improvement program is ambitious, but should be ach.evable judging from PGN's
performance since FY86 under the ongoing project. During negotiations, the
implementation of an efficiency improvement program for PGN (Annex 6.05) was
discussed and agreed, including monitorable targets for: closure of gas
manufacturing plants; natural gas sales; gas losses; number of staff; and,
training.
4.17      PGN's debt/equity ratio will increase during the project period to a
maximum of 65/35 in FYs93 to 95 due to the new loans required to implement
the proposed project; as from FY97, this ratio will decline rapidly. A 65/35
debt/equity ratio is acceptable, as gas distribution is a relatively stable
and predictable business. In FYs9O and 91, PGN will receive part of an EXIM



-36-
Bank (Japan) loan as government equity. However, GOI will not provide PGN
with new DIP funds for the project; and therefore PGN will have to fund local
project costs from internal cash generation as from FY92.
4.18     Under the ongoing project, a lOX ROR on net fixed assets in
operation was agreed for PGN as from FY89. Due to the FY87 squeeze on its
gas sales margins (para 4.3), PGN was unable to achieve this rate of return
despite a satisfactory performance in gas sales and efficiency improvements.
PGN would first have to implement the efficiency improvement program (para
4.16) before a ROR of 1OZ can be achieved. In FY95, at the end of the
proposed project when most new gas users have been connected and produce
revenues, financial projections indicate that PGN will produce a ROR over
102, reaching 17Z in FY97. During negotiations, interim ROR targets were
agreed and assurances were obtained that PGN will take all necessary
measures, including the implementation of an efficiency improvement program,
to produce a rate of return on revalued net fixed assets in operation of not
less than 42 in FY91, 52 in FYs92-93, 8Z in FY94 and 10Z thereafter. If GOI
increases the retail prices of fuels competing with gas, thus permitting PGN
to increase its margins on gas sales, the date for application of the 1O0
rate of return covenant will be advanced.
4.19     PGN's funds flow statements for FYs86-97 are given in Annex 6.04.
The cumulative funds flows for the FYs92-96 project period are summarized
below:
Table 11
FY ending March 31:                                 1992 - 1996
(Rp billion) (US$ million) (2)
Internal Cash Generation                      285.0          162.8    126
Less: Debt Service                            111.5           63.8      49
Tax & DPS Payments                       95.8           54.7     43
Increased Working Cap.  a/              18.8            10.7      8
Change in Other Assets, Net              39.4           22.5     17
Funds Used for Capital Works                   19.5           11.1       9
Proposed Bank Loan b/                         133.0           76.0      59
IBRD Loan 2690-IND                              8.8            5.0       4
Other Loans c/                                 64.0           36.6      28
Total sources                                 225.3          128.7    100
Proposed Project d/                           195.3          111.6      87
Other Capital Works                            30.0           17.1      13
Total Requirements                            225.3          128.7    100
Debt Service Ratio (Times)                      2.6            2.6       -
a/  Mainly accounts receivable and inventories; excludes current maturities,
which are included under long-term debt.
b/  Excluding $10.0 million in FE for the gas technology center and studies
for LEMIGAS/MIGAS.
c/ Includes capitalized interest during construction, which will be financed
by GOI under the GOI/PGN on-lending agreements, $5.0 million for continued
twinning to be financed by bilateral assistance, and GOI funding of ongoing
works.
d/ Project cost includes capitalized interest during construction, but excludes
the LEMIGAS/MIGAS component ($10.5 million), expenditures incurred before
FY92 and twinning ($5.0 million) and training ($1.5 million), which are
expected to be charged against current income.



-37-
4.20     In the past, GOI has provided PGN with equity contributions of DIP
funds for its investment program. As from FY92, however, GOI will not
provide new DIP funds to PGN and the financing plan for the proposed project
has been made on this basis. Out of total capital investments, including
capitalized interest during construction during FYs92-96, PGN is expected to
contribute US$11.1 million (or 92) from internally generated funds (this
would cover all local project costs except for GOI funded capitalized
interest), the proposed Bank loan US$76.0 million (or 592), Loan 2690-IND
US$5.0 million (or 42), bilateral assistance US$5.0 million (or 42), and GOI
the remainder (242, mainly for capitalized interest and ongoing works).
During negotiations, assurances were obtained from PGN that by January 1 of
each calendar year, it will prepare an annual investment program and submit
it to the Bank for comment.
4.21     In addition to the capital expenditures for the proposed and ongoing
projects, PGN will in FYs91-96 repay an EXIM Bank loan of about US$13.5
million equivalent, amortize the Bank Loan 2690-IND with about US$4.5 million
p.a. as from FY92 and pay taxes and DPS dividends to GOI totalling about
US$54.7 million equivalent. Even so, PGN is expected to generate $22.5
million equivalent in excess of project needs; those funds will be invested
to cover eventual social fund obligations. Now that PGN's operations are
financially viable and earlier qualifications have been removed from its
audit reports and its FY89 report is expected to be without qualifications,
PGN has the option to issue obligations in its own name or make other
commercial funding arrangements. As from FY96, when the project will be
completed, PGN's financial performance and cash generation will improve
substantially and PGN would be able to repay project financing at an
accelerated rate. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOI
that it will ensure that PGN will be provided with sufficient funds to carry
out the project.
Risks in Financial Proiections
4.22     As in 1986, there is a possibility that PGN's margin on gas sales
could be squeezed again by adverse movements in the cost of gas and the
domestic prices of competing liquid fuels. However, this risk is considered
minor, as GOI is considering an increase in domestic liquid fuel prices and
the conservative assumption (based on the Bank's commodity forecast for crude
oil) that prices of petroleum products will largely remain at today's levels
in real terms until the end of the century has been used for projection
purposes. Project implementation may be delayed, which would lead to slower
than projected growth of PGN's gas sales. This risk will be minimized by
extensive use of turn-key contracting. The risk of delayed gas supplies will
be minimized by requiring the signing of supply contracts as a condition for
loan effectiveness. Finally, efficiency improvements, e.g., further
reduction of gas losses and closure of old gas manufacturing plants, may take
longer than planned. However, projections are based on what PGN has been
able to achieve under the ongoing project and the twinning agency (British
Gas or another experienced gas utility) will remain with PGN under the
proposed project to assist as necessary. If, for unforeseen reasons, PGN's
sales margins were further reduced by about 20Z and project implementation
were delayed up to two years, PGN would still be able to raise its rate of
return to 102 by FY97.



-38-
Project's Financial Rate of Return
4.23     The calculations of incremental financial rate of return (IRR) and
projected income statements for the main project areas (Surabaya and Medan)
are given in Annex 6.08. Assuming a carrying charge of $0.23/MCF in Medan
for gas transported by PGN to PERTAMINA customers, a constant margin on PGN
gas sales at current $1.14!MCF and including all taxes and duties in the
project capital and operating cost, the IRR for Surabaya would be 162 and for
Medan 142. These IRRs are satisfactory and above PGN's cost of capital.
4.24     A sensitivity analysis of the IRRs was carried out with the
following results:
Table 12
IRR Z
Surabaya        Medan
(a) Capital Expenditures + 102             15              12
(b) Operating Cost + 10X                   16              14
(c) Revenues - 102                         14              ;0
(d) Combination of (a), (b), (c)           13               8
This analysis indicates that the IRR is sensitive mostly to changes in
project cost and revenues, but even in the case of combined adverse events,
the IRR would be acceptable. A delay in project execution is likely to delay
costs and benefits at roughly the same rate, so the impact on the IRR would
not be substantial, even if the present value of the project would decline;
the extensive use of turnkey contracts for the project should reduce the risk
of delayed project implementation. The risks for lower IRRs due to
insufficient or late gas supplies and inadequate carrying charges and/or gas
margins will be minimized by requiring PGN and PERTAMINA to agree on these
vital project parameters before loan effectiveness (para 3.8).
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
5.1      The primary justification for the proposed project are the fuel cost
savings and potential foreign exchange earnings to be generated by
substituting non-tradeable surplus gas for exportable petroleum fuels. The
abundance of gas reserves in East Java and North Sumatra which are accessible
to the major industrial centers at Surabaya and Medan has set a stage
conducive to expanding the domestic energy market for natural gas. With the
incremental cost of gas supply estimated to be lower than alternative energy
sources, the promotion of gas use in the power and manufacturing sectors has
become a cornerstone of GOI's energy diversification program. It is thus
opportune that the gas sector in East Java and North Sumatra offers extremely
favorable prospects for accelerating the diversification program and this has
prompted the GOI to accord high priority to the development of the proposed
project.
5.2      The project will serve medium-sized industries engaged in various
manufacturing activities with significant demand expected from the steel and
fabricated metals sector, glass and ceramic manufacturing, paper production
and chemical industries (Annex 2.01). The bulk of fuels to be replaced by
gas among these industries consist of high value middle distillates. At the



-39-
same time, the project will make gas available to PLN's power stations at
Medan, and thus ensure stable and more economical fuel supply to meet the
region's growing electricity requirements.
5.3      By integrating the gas utilization programs of the industrial and
power sectors, and through the upgrading of the managerial and technical
knowhow in the gas industry, the project will promote optimization of
investments and greater efficiency in operation of the gas subsector. In
addition, the project will lead to a reduction of environmental pollution
arising from the use of gas which is a cleaner fuel than the fossil and wood
fuels it would supplant.
Economic Evaluation of the Project
5.4      In assessing the economic viability of the proposed Project, an
evaluation of the costs and benefits to the country with and without the
Project was undertaken and the associated economic internal rate of return
estimated. Essentially, this involved quantifying the value of liquid fuels
to be replaced by natural gas among potential users in the Surabaya and Medan
service areas. The net savings to the country resulting principally from
this shift to gas use by r-GN's potential customers is estimated to reach
US$97 million annually, of which US$9 million is due to PGN's operations in
Medan and US$88 million in Surabaya.
5.5      Project Economic Benefits.  Benefits consist of the gas sales to
PGN's industrial and commercial customers and supply deliveries to PLN
thermal power stations. The projected gas sales attributable to the project
are as follows:
Table 13
Ey ending:        1993      1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999  2000
----------------------MCFD-------------------
Surabaya
Ind./commercial    0          5      12      23      36     50      55   60
Paper (;eces)       0         5      20      20      20     20      20   20
Sub-total           0        10      32      43     56      70      75 800
Hedan
Industries          7         7       7       7       7      7       7    7
PLN                18        18      18      18      18     18      18   18
Sub-total          25        25      25      25     25      25      25   25
Grand Total        25        35      57      68      81     95    100  105
5.6      The benefits due to PGN's gas sales are valued in terms of the
international market value of the tradeable petroleum fuels to be replaced.
A survey of potential PGN customers in Surabaya indicates that the
structure of industrial fuel demand is such that approximately 43Z of gas
deliveries will substitute for industrial diesel oil (IDO), 202 for high
speed diesel (HSD), 182 for fuel oil and residual, 10X for kerosene and the
balance will replace LPG and wood fuel. A similar survey conducted among
industries in Medan yielded an energy demand profile replaceable by natural



-40-
gas consisting of 582 IDO, 20X HSD, 122 kerosene, 92 LPG and 1% fuel oil.
In the case of the paper mill at Leces in Surabaya, 602 of gas use will
substitute for HSD and 402 for fuel oil. But while the gas supply to PLN's
power plants will displace fuel oil, benefits attributable to the project
were assessed only in terms of pipeline carrying charges to PERTAMINA
assumed at US$0.23 per MCF in Medan. (For purposes of this analysis, PLN's
investments and operating cost savings associated with the power plant
conversion and construction were excluded.)
5.7      The value of petroleum products to be replaced by gas was arrived
at assuming an average price of US$18 per barrel of Indonesian crude and
applying average price of petroleum products on the Singapore spot market
during the last three years (Annex 7.03). Their equivalent gas values are
as follows:
Table 14
Equivalent
International Price         Value of Gas
(US $/Kl)                  (US $/MCF)
Kerosene                    164                          4.7
Automotive Diesel           166                          4.6
Industrial Diesel           154                          4.2
Fuel Oil                    112                          2.9
LPG  ($Iton)                198                          4.4
Applying the above values to the structure of liquid fuel demand to be
displaced by gas, the estimated equivalent economic value of gas sales to
PGN's industrial customers is US$4.1 per MCF in Surabaya and US$4.3 per MCF
in Medan. The value of gas supply to the paper factory at Leces is
equivalent to US$4.0 per MCF.
5.8      Since natural gas lends itself more readily to combustion than de
liquid fuels, the resulting increased thermal efficiency is estimated to
yield 52 to 10% more savings to industrial users in terms of fuel value,
depending on the industry and type of burner used. For purposes of the
analysis, a 5% increase in benefits to medium-sized industries is imputed.
Moreover, gas utilization affords lower operating costs to industries due
to reduced fuel handling and storage expense, as well as reduced risk of
pollution compared to the use of fuel oil and diesel. These added benefits
were not, however, quantified.
5.9      The present heavy reliance of industries on diesel compared to
fuel oil is partly attributable to the absence of any domestic price
differential between the two products. The current price of Rp 200 per
liter approximates the international price of fuel oil but is 25% to 33%
below that for diesel products. If domestic diesel prices were realigred
with international prices, it is likely that many of the industries would
opt to use cheaper fuel oil without having to disrupt their production
process. Still, a limited number may elect to continue using diesel and
pass on the added costs to the consumers, depending on their nature of



-41-
operations and produce mix. In any case, it is technically possible for
all the industries concarned to shift to fuel oil. Accordingly, in the
absence of the natural gas option, the least cost scenario would be one in
which fuel oil use would predominate among the industries in Surabaya and
Medan. Against this scenario, the incremental benefits derived from the
proposed project are reduced by 40?. To the extent that it may take some
time for GOI to correct existing domestic price distortions among petroleum
products, the proposed project will mitigate the effects of these
distortions by encouraging industries to accelerate their shift to a more
cost effective energy source, in this case, natural gas.
5.10     Project Cost.  The major cost components considered were:
(a) the capital cost of the Project excluding taxes and duties,
with the cost of local materials subjected to a standard
conversion factor (SCF) of 0.8;
(b) investments to be made by the new industrial and commercial
customers for conversion of their equipment, assumed at US$10
million for Surabaya; and
(c) operating expenses associated with gas distribution estimated
to be equivalent to 2.52 of the purchase cost of gas supply.
5.11     Natural gas supplies in East Java and North Sumatra which will
feed into PGN's d...tribution systems in Surabaya and Medan are considered
to be surplus to Indonesia's LNG export requirements and are thus non-
tradeable. Accordingly, the cost of gas supply to the project is taken at
its long run marginal cost plus depletion charge estimated on the high side
at US$1.5L per MCF. At this level, ample provision for depletion premium
has been made not having accounted for the very recent large gas
discoveries in Maduras Strait offshore East Surabaya which may result in
negligible depletion charges.
5.12     Economic Rate of Return.  Based on the aforementioned costs and
benefits, the Project is expected to yield an overall economic internal
rate of return of 592. The project component in Medan is estimated to
result in a return of 154Z, while that in Surabaya is expected to yield a
return of 51Z. The high rates of return derived reflect the high value of
petroleum products to be displaced as well as the relatively low
investments required for the transmission and distribution of gas to the
established industrial centers at Medan ed Surabaya, further complemented
by the low marginal cost of gas production in the region. To the extent
that the calculations exclude the net benefits attributable to PLN's
conversion of its power stations into gas-fed units, the rates of return
are underestimated. Even if PLN stations were not supplied through PGN's
proposed distribution system, the project's rate of return would still
exceed 50Z.
5.13     Relative to the least cost alternative scenario of correcting
domestic price signals for diesel such that the fuel structure to be
replaced by natural gas would be predominantly fuel oil, the derived
economic rate of return for the over-all project is 381. The rate derived



-42-
for the Medan component is 882 and that for Surabya, 33Z. (Results of
these ca.culations are given in Annex 7.04.)
.,
5.14     Sensitivity analyses indicate that the project remains viable even
under adverse variations in market demand, relative value of substitute
fuels, project costs and carrying charges.   The results of the sensitivity
tests are as follow:
Thble 15: Economic Rate of Return (Z)
Medan           Surabay         Total Project
Base Case                       154               51                59
Market Demand
Down 10 2               139                47               54
Down 25 Z               116                42               44
Value of ,ompeting Fuels
Down 10 Z                132               45               52
Down 25 2               103                36               41
Project Costs
Up 10 l                  140               48               55
Up 25 Z                  124               44               51
Carrying charge
Down 10 2               152                51               57
Down 25 Z               148                51               58
Project Risks
5.15     Among the major determinants of the project'b viability are a) the
timely availability of gas; b) build-up in gas sales; c) stable values of
petroleum fuel to be replaced; and d) shortfalls in institutional
capabilities to implement the project.
5.16     The supply of gas to Surabaya is expected to commence by June 1992
at the latest based on the expectation that ARCO's proposed Kangean-Gresik
pipeline would be completed within thirty months from the signing of the
gas supply agreement between PERTAMINA and PLN. The latter is scheduled by
end of 1989. On the other hand, gas supply in Medan from the JAPEX fields
offshore Brandan is expected to be provided by December 1991. A delay in
the aforementioned arrangements will affect the project's operational
schedule and reduce the Project's EIRR and present value of benefits; e.g.,
a one-year delay in operation will result in the following:
Medan         Surabaya        Total Project
Economic IRR:
Base Case                    154Z             51%                59%
One-year delay                832             40%                 452
Net Present Value at:   10%    12%        10    12%        10o      121
(in million US $)
Base Case                  64     54      367    295        430      349
One-year delay             55     46      316    249        371      295
To minimize the risk of delays in gas supply arrangements on PGN's project,
close coordination with PERTAMINA and the gas producers is being undertaken
by PGN. Moreover, the high priority given by GOI on the early



-43-
commissioning of PLN's gas-fired power stations at Gresik and Medan is
expected to result in the timely conclusion of the gas supply contracts.
5.17     A second determinant of the project's success is the build-up of
demand among the target industries. There is no foreseeable risk of a
slowdown in this demand since based on the survey of existing industries,
the demand to be met by the project is considerably lower than the
potential loads in the business districts of Surabaya and Medan. Further,
based on PGN's successful track record in expanding gas sales under the
Bank-financed Gas Distribution Project, its marketing, pricing and
technical service programs are deem3d responsive to customer requirements
provided the competitive price of gas is sustained. In this connection,
any reduction in PGN's sales margins would affect the financial performance
of PGN (para 4.22) but not the project's economic viability. Prospects for
greater gas demand become even more favorable should GOI, in the context of
the on-going energy price review, decide to realign domestic prices of
diesel (which account for the bulk of petroleum fuel to be replaced by gas)
with the price it could fetch in the international market. The resulting
greater flexibility in gas pricing could significantly accelerate market
demand for gas. Nevertheless, assuming actual sales were to fluctuate
below the projected levels, the project can withstand a 502 reduction in
demand and still be able to generate an acceptable return of 35? due to the
high value of fuels being replaced by gas.
5.18     The risk of a decline in the international prices of petroleum
products is considered minor in view of current Bank forecas's suggesting
gradual increases of 22 per annum in international prices (in real terms'
for crude oil between now and year 2000. Nevertheless, sensitivity tests
indicate that, should there be downward movements in the international
prices of petroleum products, say to US$11/barrel of crude, the prDject
would still yield an acceptable rate of return of 28Z. Theoreticall7 such
a decline in the value of oil would correspondingly be reflected in a
decrease in the depletion value of natural gas leading to a reduction in
the cost of gas supply to the project. Adverse impact on the project's
economic viability would thus be minimized.
5.19     The risk of shortfalls in the institutional capability of PGN to
implement the Surabaya and Medan components of the project is minimized
through the proposed technical assistance (twinning) arrangement, which
will be a condition of loan effectiveness. Similar risk in the
establishment of a Gas Technology Development Unit will be covered by the
technical collaboration of LEMIGAS with a prominent gas technology
institute in Western Europe or North America, on terms satisfactory to the
Bank, and which will be a condition of disbursement of funds allocated for
the Gas Technology Development Unit under the Bank loan.
Fiscal Impact of PGN's Operations
5.20     Under the on-going and proposed Bank-financed projects, PGN's
operations will expind to a level which will allow the company to begin
reaping the benefits of efficiencies and economies of scale. A
manifestation 3f these gains would be the reduced reliance of PGN on GOI
budgetary support and an increasing capability on PGN's part to contribute
to the national treasury and thus support other development priorities of
GOI outside of the gas utility sector (Annex 7.05).



-44-
5.21     During the period 1990 to 1997, PGN's operations are expected to
result in a total fund transfer to GOI of about Rp 305 billion consisting
of debt service remittances (42Z), contributions to the DPS fund (25%),
income tax payments (24Z) and customs duties and taxes associated with
construction work under both the on-going and proposed Bank-financed
projects (9Z). On the other hand, GOI fund releases for PGN will total
nearly Rp 119 billion during the same period, assuming the foreign exchange
rate remains stable at Rp 1,750 to US$l. The bulk (76Z) of these GOI
outlays constitutes debt service payments by the GOI as borrower of foreign
loans relent to PGN. The balance represents GOI's final DIP equity
contribution of Rp 28 billion programmed for fiscal years 1990 and 1991.
Thereafter. GOI outlays for PGN would be restricted to debt service
payments. The resulting net fund transfer between PGN and GOI amounts to
Rp 185 billion in favor of the national treasury. However, should there be
a devaluation of the Rupiah such that there is effectively no differential
between debt service levels of PGN and GOI, the net funds flow from PGN to
GOI would be around Rp 147 billion.
Benefits from Institution Building
5.22     A salient aspect of the proposed project concerns the
strengthening of expertise within the gas subsector in the areas of long-
term planning, growth management, formulation of cost effective standards
and appropriate codes of practices, and establishment of regulatory
framework for the safe utilization of gas. Although not directly
quantifiable, the benefits due to these institution building efforts are
significant and far-reaching. Enhancement of planning capabilities will
help ensure that the sector's long-term expansion will be based on a least
cost program. Accordingly, investments by various entities in the sector
can be optimized thus avoiding duplication of facilities and resulting in
better synchronization of their respective development activities. The
establishment of standards for engineering design, equipment and consumer
appliances which are tailored in the context of local requirements, will
enable the gas sector to avail of greater economies in the domestic
production of these goods and services. Development of zafety regulations
will protect the population and environment from potential hazards of gas
operations and will help sustain industry's credibility as a safe and
stable source of domestic energy. The proposed marketing surveys and
research on consumer preferences and behavior with respect to gas use, as
well as on inter-fuel demand, would go a long way in ensuring that the gas
industry is responsive to consumer needs. Consistency in customer
satisfaction is a key gauge to m&rket growth and stability. Finally, the
technology transfer and enhancement of managerial skills associated with
the project will develop the sector's human resources and add to the pool
of experts needed to manage the growth of the gas industry. The expected
over-all impact of these institutional upgrading is the accelerated
development of the gas sector on an economically rational basis thus
expediting the country's diversification from oil-based domestic
consumption and increasing its foreign exchange earning potential.



-45-
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED
6.1      Prior to negotiations, assurances were received from GOI that the
quantities of gas required for Surabaya and Medan components of the project
shall be made available to PGN.
6.2      During the negotiations, agreements have been reached with GOI
that,
(i)  it will provide PGN and LEMIGAS with necessary funds to
carry out the project (para 3.29 and 4.21);
(ii) it will prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its review and
comments, a proposal for the establishment of a Gas
Technology Development Unit in LEMIGAS, taking into Account
the recommendations of its ongoing planning study and the
Bank's comments, in accordance with a timetable acceptable
to the Bank (paras 2.27, 3.22 and 3.33);
(iii) it will furnish the Bank with audited project accounts for
the Gas Technology Development Unit and the marketing
studies within nine months of the end of its each fiscal
year (para 3.29);
(iv)  it will ensure that PGN obtains, in a timely fashion, the
necessary rights of way/way leave for the pipelines to be
built under the project (para 3.30);
(v)   it will allow PGN to mainti.in its pay scale at a level as
remunerative as that offered by similar public corporations
(para 2.16); and
with PGN that it will,
(i) furnish the Bank with a detailed training program
(including the component for efficiency improvement)
according to a timetable acceptable to the Bank (para
2.17);
(ii)  provide the Bank with its unaudited financial statements
within six months and the corresponding audited report
within nine months of the end of its fiscal year (para
2.21);
(iii)  prepare a rolling five-year plan covering its future gas
requirements, which will be updated each year and discussed
with GOI and PERTAMINA to form the basis for further
network expansion (para 3.8);
(iv)  submit to the Bank quarterly progress reports according to
a format acceptable to the Bank (para 3.41);



-46-
(v) revalue its fixed assets in operation annually according to
the method acceptable to the Bank and submit it to the
Bank, together with unaudited financial statements within
six months of the end of each fiscal year (para 4.13);
(vi) implement the efficiency improvement program (para 4.16);
(vii)  take all necessary measures to produce a rate of return on
revalued net fixed assets in operation of not less than
4Zin FYs9l-93, 82 in FY94 and lOZ thereafter (para 4.18);
(viii) by January 1 of each calendar year prepare an annual
investment program and submit it to the Bank for comment
(para 4.20); and
6.3      Conditions of the effectiveness of the proposed Loan would be:
(i) the execution of gas supply contract, acceptable to the
Bank, for the supply of natural gas to PGN'9 Surabaya and
Medan transmission and distribution systems covering the
project requirements (para 3.8);
(ii) the execution of a technical assistance agreement,
acceptable to the Bank with an established gas utility in
order to assist PGN in the implementation of the project
kparas 2.15 & 3.21); and
(iii) the execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory
to the Bank, between the Borrower and PGN (para 3.29).
6.4      Condition(s) of disbursement of funds allocated for the Gas
Technology Development Unit would be,
(i) the Borrower's approval of its organization as determined by
its planning study, including ar. implementation schedule and
reporting requirements satisfactory to the Bank (para 3.22);
and
(ii)  signing of a technical assistance agreement satisfactory to
the Bank, with an established gas technology instituate
(paras 3.22, 3.33 & 3.42); and
for the marketing feasibility studies, it would be the Bank's approval of the
terms of reference and expertise required for their conduct (para 3.24).
Recommendation
6.5      With the above agreements, the proposed project would be suitable
for a Bank loan of US$86 million, repayable over 20 years, including 5
years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate, with the Government
bearing the foreign exchange risk.



-47-                                Annex 1.01
INDONESIA
GAS UTILIZATION PROJECT
GAS SECTOR DATA - ESTIMATED GAS RESERVES
As of January 1. 1988
(In Billion SCF) .
REGION                        PROVEN  POTENTIAL   TOTAL
ACEH                            16930      1070    18000
NORTH SUMATRA                     800      1320     2120
CENTRAL SUMATRA                   450       500      950
SOUTH SUMATRA                    4224       880     5104
WEST JAVA                        3148      2690     5838
EAST JAVA                        2336       120     2456 a/
EAST KALIMANTAN                 19620      7180    26800
CENTRAL KALIMANTAN                  -      6200      6200
NATUNA                          36180      1570    37750
SOUTH SULAWESI                    410       200       610
CENTRAL. SULAWESI                    -      220       220
IRIAN JAYA                        200       210       410
TOTAL                           84298    22160   106458
a/ Excluding potential reserves of about 2.5 TCF
based on recent discovery.
Source: MIGAS



INDONESIA
GAS UTILIZATION PROJECT
HISTORICAL GAS PRODUCTION
(in Billion SCF)
PRODUCER                            1981      1982    1983       1984     1985      1986      1987                   1
Pertamina                            103       184      199       215      218       229       240
MIGAS-CEPU                            0.2      0.2      0.2       0.2      0.2       0.2       0.2
Contract of Work Contractors           70       69       75        20       20        22        21
Production Sharing Contractors       369       859      912    1,286    1,342    1,378    1,471
Total                           542    1,112   1,186    1,521    1,580    1,629    1,732
Source:  MIGAS



-49-                                 Annex 1.03
INDONESIA
GAS UTILIZATION PROJECT
GAS PRODUCTION/UTILIZATION BALANCE. 1985-1987
(in Billion SCF)
1985          1986           1987
A. Gross Production                       1580.0         1628.9         1732.1
B. Own Use
1. Gas Injection                       253.7         245.7          249.7
2. Gas Lift                             48.7          52.9           58.7
3. Fuel Gas                             75.1          83.1           88.0
Subtotal                           377.5          381.7          396.4
C. Net Production                         1202.5         1247.3         1335.7
D. Sales
1. Electricity (PLN)                     0.1           2.8            5.2
2. City Gas                              1.3            1.3           1.7
3. Fertilizer Plants                   127.6         136.1          138.3
4. Cement                                1.0           2.1            2.7
5. Cilamaya 1/                          66.7           76.5          77.8
6. Refinery                             12.9          19.0           20.9
7. LPG Plants                           47.1           41.0          24.5
8. LNG Plants                          816.8         834.4          917.0
9. Gas Industries/Others                 0.1          0.17            0.3
Subtotal                          1073.5         1113.3         1188.3
E. Flared                                  129.1          134.0          147.3
_______________________
1/ Delivered to Kujang fertilizer plant, Krakatua Steel, Cibinong Cement
and City Gas for Jakarta and Bogor.



Annex 1.04
-50-
INDONESIA
GAS UTILIZATION PROJECT
HISTORICAL GAS PRODUCTION BY REGION
(in Million SCF/Day)
REGION                  1984/85      1985/86     1986/87      1987/88      1988/89
Aceh                      1,821        1,866        2,001       2,220        2,424
North Sumatra                94           99           87          95          121
Central Sumatra              83           86           91          92           85
South Sumatra               316          323         339          342          365
West Java                   425          436          467         444          433
East Java                     -            5            5           3            3
East Kalimantan           1,450        1,484       1,497        1,550        1,687
Total                4,189       4,299        4,487        4,746       5,118
HISTORICAL GAS CONSUMPTION BY REGION
(in Million SCF/Day)
REGION                  1984/85      1985/86     1986/87      1987/88      1988/89
Aceh                      1,190        1,200       1,332        1,542        1,702
North Sumatra                16           22           18          19           42
South Sumatra               165          174         174          173          174
West Java                   171          202          240         218          216
East Kalimantan           1,289        1,277       1,272        1,312        1,479             r
Total                2,831       2,875        3,036        3,264       3,613
Source:        ==        ==IG AS=  =======
Source: MIGAS, July 1989



INDONESIA
GAS UIILIZATION PROJECT
COMPOSITION OF CURRENT* 1NDUSIRID.L DEUAND IN SURABAYA AND MEDAN
(in Thousand Cubic Motor)
A. SURABAYA
Texti le
Area           8aMetal   Chem       Food     Class   Others  Pherm.  Palo Oil Print.   Rubber   Wood    Ceramic   Pzpar  Elect.    Total
Kot                    1      916     4031     3462         2        1     1301        1      939        4        0        0        0    10648
Dupak                 0         0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
Tend.s            30312       477        0        0        2        0       281        0        0        0        0        0        0    31072
Si;o               6961         0     1123        0        0         0        0        0      3e7        0        0        0        0     7441
K. Pi;ang          2497         0      122        0     2700         0      183        0     1413        0    26772    14804        0    47361
Runokut            6287      263      2714    41830     8067         0    13602        0       61        0        0      381        0    74404
S.goroeadu         1903         0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0     1903
R-are               246      1643      426        0       778        0      434        0        0        0    27014    17230        0    47976
Driyorejo           117    27629      1260        0         7        0        0        0       92        0        0    31872        0    60967
Waru              14462      1222     9113        0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0    24617
Aloha             29623      2086        0        0      607        0         0        0        0        0    0416         0     3760   42380
Tuaa              17890                664    60246      244        0         0        0        0        0     9046        0       0   84078
Total       108211    36739    19435   101633    12397         1    16701         1    2872         4   68246    64147     3760  433036
As 3 of Total        261       8a        4X      23%       31       0%        4X      0        1%       0%      161      165      1%    1001
S. MEDAN
Area            B.Mtal   Chem       Food     Wood     Text.   Print.   Phare.   Class   Elect.   Others    Total
Bolawan           22948    49348      8437      126     1743       700    1363    16236       200    6674   106763
sinjoi             1792     6966    47704       324     1660      392        0         0        0       24   68771
Tg. Morgue         2178    14613      711       660        0        0      168     8886        0      1118   28214
Total        26918    70946    66862       999     3293     1092     1511    26121      200    6816   193748
As a 1 of Total      14%      37%       291      1        2%      1i        is      13%       01       4%    3001
_- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _   _    _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _    _   _   _    _   _   _   _    _   _   _   _   _   _   _  _



GAS DEMAND AND SUPPLY PROJECTIONS FOR S')RA8AYA AND MEDAN
(All Figures in MMCFD)
A. MELAN
DEMAND                                                      SUPPLY
P1)     PLN PW   N     PGN                    Total Demand   PlA    PLN       PGN  PGN                  Total Supply
Year     AV.     MAX.   AV.      MAX.   Total Demand       MAX.        AV.      MAX.    AV.  MAX. Tota! Supply       MAX.
Ending   DAY     DAY    DAY      DAY       AV. DAY         DAY         DAY      DAY     DAY  DAY   AV. DAY           DAY
1991     61      94      10       12       71              106           30    40      6      a      36              48
1992     71     109      12       14       83              123           30    S0      5      6      35              so
1992     85     131      1S       18       100             149           48    74      12    14      80              88
1994     91     140      17       20       108             160           48    74      12    14      s0              88
1995     106    162      19       22       126             184           48    74      12    14      80              88
1996     112    173      20       24       132             197           48    74      12    14      60              88
1997     132    204      22       28       164             230           48    74      12   24       60              88
1999     177    273      23       28       200             301           48    74      12    14      6o              88
2000     177    273      25       30       202             303           48    74      12    14      so              88
2001     177    273      27       32       204             306           48    74      12    14      6o              88
2002     177    273      28       34       206             307           48    74      12   14       80              88
2003     177    273      30       38       207             309           48    74      12    14      80              88
2004     177    273      30       36       207             309           48    74      12    14      s0              88
2005     177    273      30       38       207             309           48    74      12    14      so              88
2006     177    273      30       38       207             309           48    74      12    14      80              88
48    74     12    14      6o              88
8. SURABAYA
DEMAND                                                      SUPPLY
Total     Total
MED. Size      MED. Size       Paper   Paper                                     MED. Size    MED. Size    Paper  Paper    Demand   Demand
Year  Industrial      Industrial     Loces    Lecos    Total Demand   Total Demand   Industrial   Industrial   Leces  Loces         AV.        iAX.
Ending   AV. DAY        MAX. DAY      AV. DAY  MAX. DAY   AV. DAY         MAX. DAY      AV. DAY       MAX. DAY    AV. DAY MAX.DAY   DAY         DAY
1991      12              16             i8       20        28              38            0            0              0       0       0          0
1992      12              16             16        20       28              36            0            0              0       0       0          0
1993      12              16             16       20        28              36            0            0              0       0       0          0
1994      12              16             16       20        28             3S             6            8              5       6      10          14
1995      23              30            l         20       33             60             12            16            20     22      32          38
1996      38             42              16       20        62             82             23           27             20     22      43          49
1997      50              50             16       20        68             72             36           42             20     22      s6          84
1996      55             66              16       20        71            s8              60           S8             20     22      70          80
1999      60              72             16       20        76             92             S6           66             20     22      75         a8
2000      84              77            l         20       80             97             SO            72            20     22      80          94
2001      67              81             16        20       83              101           sO            72            20     22      SO          94
2002      70              84             18        20       se              104           60            72            20     22      80          94
2003      ?4              89             18        20       90              109           86           80             20     22      85          102
2004      78              94             18       20        94              114           65           80             20     22     8a           102
2005      82              98             16       20        98              118           70           84             20     22      90          106
2006      8e              103           l         20       102             123           70           84             20     22      90          106          X
Note:  AV. DAY = average day;   MAX. DAY = maximum day.                                                                                                         C



INDONESIA
GAS UTILIZATION PROJECT
PGN
Existing Organogram
r ------------------------------
l                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~PRE8BNT DIMCTtlUl 
I~~
l  _                             Dlf ebr                                A<sbutbn~~~~~&ona  VW          Interna
~~~~- -   -W -   -ab -               -eob -   -                        ---           
Sub-                                                     Sub-
Sub  ~ ~     ~     Sb      ~ ctr         Bachs*Sb                                      Okractnw
Okectof   Operaflon  Boranch     O~ct       Oletr      Oirctot   Stores and
Conditruc-         MWOIS    Mi Mdi           QVb,ace                 cowut    Pereonnd    AdVndi-
oon   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~eneostretlon
C"drd                   - Set". -     Coroon  -J
- CorAratrl  CSw4Iop-    Coentol   - sow
-Standards   OaeUp                              Motwung  d-
Can"rl    -Mtra         - Cuawu012~teru 
Cm,nS nCowraonmet Clir b-
- QadIy       ->*e CSItO       -      S f_tn
Cottl         Srica      op. mU   - BU
- corue-                            - SW.be
- Fcooem                            -W
am ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~a~
- AStrdb                                 I
Sale Operaionm  Accowies Aeulstl@fl
16-a,cb      E catIm     Cet er
Cenz1_ter   2l       Sl ersicn                                                                                          ak/w45 166a          0
c  con2of    serwees                                                                                       " 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



INDONESIA
GAS UTILIZATION PROJECT
PGN
Proposed Organogram
l                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRSOENT DIRECTORI 
[~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ Xprun                                                                          Fwaeo t  Xcea a                            hueo
I~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lr
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
-ped-    - FS    - OltS                  - 80U1.    - Ogbt,lI-    - Coa0*Sb                                                   S - JbkO,tO
Sull    - ODirt      CSlAl rMccu butl@n                        Contrel _I   - Sogo
-~~~~~~~~Le -waw   -,b rklwd   -                qm041er WO  tE
Caeerim             L4oin   -            -a sb      Operations   M.aing-  ModanAlak
PCnnr-    C          Cuon _   .           htrmn  -                                  Cot_ro
- vmst)'      - c..*- t Coitbg    -Jakm 4au
- Camba-e   Cattiot   SuCdc. 9ewrC o    - Boom
=.d      - COna~               wcw.         W     - Msxedban
- Accao.Wa            Op a o     a
- A6t.batloa          and Cam
I  I       I L       I         I
sa,. PiaFS_  opwatlon  Accounts Atsnftlo                                              lb D
I         I fD   ID
l &.w.b     Edac&bUM   CentaX
a"          a"         tw 
CeDoge        1ra*f    bdomaUo.
C_de        Caetb    Stci e                                                                                                                       O
Tral"Ifte  bW4WWAMM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3~0-



INDONESIA
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF MIGAS
DIRECTOR GENERAL
Dietr         ,)rctr           Director,
Director,       Director,        Director,    Director,       Director,       Director,
Exploration     Exploration      Technical    Business        Research and   Human Resource
& Production    & Production    Services       Development    Development    Development                          I
of Oil & Gas    Geothermal                                    Centre for
Resources                                     Oil & Gas
Technology
(LEMIGAS)
: 1
o .
IA 
N*



INDONESIA
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF LEMIGAS
DIRECTOR
Divisional Head,   Divisional Head,   DivislInal Head,   Divisional Head,  Divisional Head,   Divisional Head,
Research and        Technical Ser-     Research and        Technical Ser-    Data Collection    General Affairs
Development in     vices for           Development in      vices for          and Analysis         (Finance,Personnel      I
Petroleum          Petroleum           Petrochemical       Petrochemical                          and General Services
Exploration        Exploration and    Process and          Process and                            Administration)
and Exploitation   Exploitation        Application         Application
OFa
mo 
w
o0.
FN 
N



57                          Annex 4.01
Page 1 of 9
INDONESIA
GAS JTILIZATION PROJECT
Implementation and Technical Management Assistance
Terms of Reference
I. Introduction
1.1      The Government of Indonesia (GOI) proposes to develop and expand
natural gas utilization in and around Surabaya and Medan. Perusahaan Gas
Negara (PGN), henceforth called the "Client", will be responsible for
implementing the project and operating the facilities. PGN is a public
corporation placed under the supervision of the Ministry of Mines and Energy.
It is already engaged in the transportation and distribution of natural gas
and manufactured gas for power generation, industrial, commercial and domestic
use in these areas. Since the project would entail a manyfold expansion in
PGN's operations, it requires institutional strengthening to enable it to
discharge its expanded responsibilities efficiently. For this purpose PGN
intends to enter into a long term technical collaboration (twinning)
arrangement with a prominent gas utility, hereinafter called the "Consultant".
1.2      The proposed twinning arrangement will be characterized by a closer
involvement between the two parties than is generally obtained in a standard
client-consultant relationship. It is intended that the twinning utility
should identify itself fully with the needs and objectives of PGN, and would
provide PGN with continuing back-up services, advice, and experienced
personnel over a number of years.
The objectives of such twinning would be:
(a)  to provide sustained technical and managerial support aimed at
strengthening PGN to the point where it can independently
operate all asnects of a complex gas distribution system;
(b) to assist in the development and implementation of the systems
required by a commercial gas utility, including:
(i) design of market development strategies and systems,
including market surveys, pricing, and contractual
arrangements;
(ii) planning and design of gas compression, transmission and
distribution systems;
(iii)  material control and procurement;
(iv) construction of pipelines compression, pressure
regulation, flow measurement, telecam/SCADA, and
odorization facilities;



-58-                            Annex 4.01
Page 2 of 9
(v) gas compression, transmission and distribution operations
and maintenance;
(vi)  accounting, billing and collection;
(vii)  management information and cost control;
(viii)  long-term planning, investment appraisal and risk
analysis;
(ix)  financial management and control;
(x) human resource development.
(xi)  advisory service to customers on efficient and safe
utilization of natural gas; involving design of
houselines, selection of suitable gas firing equipment
and safety procedures;
(xii)  preparation of all necessary standards and manuals for
construction and maintenance of the gas systems; and
(xiii)  to the extent requested by the Client, advice on
institutional structure and personnel arrangements.
(c) to provide back-up support in day-to-day technical and financial
operations; and
(d) to provide conventional technical assistance services in support
of the design and execution of the proposed expansion project
(the Project) as described in Section II.
1.3      The mechanisms for achieving these objectives would include:
- secondment of experienced professional personnel from the
Consultant's own organization into parallel positions in the
Client's organization.
- provision of back-up services from the headquarters organization
of the Consultant.
- design and implementation of a comprehensive training program,
including training courses, on-the-job training, and the
selective assignment of the Client's personnel to the
Consultant's organization for the first-hand exposure to
operations.
- provision of specialist technical personnel and services to
undertake discrete tasks as required.
II. The Project
2.1      Most of the activities of the Client over the next six years will
comprise of the expansionlrehabilitation of its gas supply systems for



-59-                            Annex 4.01
Page 3 of 9
Surabaya and Medan.  This project will be undertaken concurrently with the
on-going Gas Distribution Project, which is due to be completed by July
1991.
2.2      The main components of the Project are:
(a) Provision of Natural Gas Supply System in Surabaya and its
surrounding areas, involving:
(i) the laying of about 80 km of high pressure
transmission pipelines, 190 km of medium pressure
steel pipelines and 165 km of medium pressure
polyethylene pipelines;
(ii)  the construction of about five gas metering, pressure
regulating and odorization stations with associated
instrumentation and about four pressure reducing
stations on the pipeline networks; and
(iii)  the construction of service lines, pressure regulation
and flow aetering stations for 375 medium size
industries and 150 commercial enterprises and the
paper mill in Leces and conversion of consumer's
equipment (excluding PLN's) involved in gas usage.
(b) Expansion of Natural Gas Supply System for Medan involving:
(i) the construction of about 24 km of high pressure
transmission pipeline with associated cathodic
protection, pressure/flow monitoring facilities and
three pressure reducing stations; and
(ii) construction of service lines and pressure regulating
and flow metering stations for PLN power station at
Belawan and conversion of consumer's equipment
(excluding PLN's) involved in gas usage.
(c) Technical Assistance involving long-term consultancy for the
enhancement of PGN's skills and efficient implementation of its
expansion project;
(d) Studies: Feasibility studies for natural marketing in Palembang
(South Sumatra), Jambi (Central Sumatra), Batam Island (Riau),
and Balikpapan.
III. Scope of Consultancy Services
3.1      General.  On assignment the Consultant will promptly plan and render
all necessary advice/assistance to the Client to achieve the objectives set
forth in para 1 and 2 above within the time frame to be specified in the
contract. Such assistance will include but will not be limited to the
following:



-60-                            Annex 4.01
Page 4 of 9
(a)  back-up services from headquarters organization of the
Consultant for systems development referred in para 1.2 (b);
(b)  review of clients existing organization and submission of
recommendations for changes as considered necessary for
strengthening the organization in the functions of (i)
marketing/conversion/consumers service; (ii) systems
operations/maintenance; (iii) systems planning/design; and (iv)
project implementation/procurement of materials.
(c)  assistance in the implementation of the systems referred to in
Section I above, by providing the services of well-qualified and
experienced personnel from the Consultant's own organization.
While the exact number of such personnel will be determined in
consultation with the Client, it is imperative that at least
five such personnel be posted at the Client's head office to
assist/advise the Client's management and ensure achievement of
the objectives set forth above. These five personnel will cover
(i) marketing/conversion/consumers services; (ii) cransmission
and compression systems design, operation/maintenance; (ii4)
distribution system operation/maintenance; (iv) distribution
system planning/design; and (v) project implementation/
procurement of material; and
(d)  providing, to fullest extent possible, on-the-job training to
the Client's staff at all levels, starting from the level of
sub-directors downwards. The four personnel referred to in (c)
above will have as counterpart the respective sub-director of
the Client's organization responsible for his particular
discipline.  The advisors will be responsible both for (i) the
successful implementation of the Project, and (ii) through the
full involvement of the Client's staff at all levels in the
execution of the Project, for building up the capability of the
Client to discharge efficiently the functions of a modern gas
utility upon completion of the Consultant's assignment.
3.2      The Consultant will carry out the assignment using modern up-to-date
techniques of gas industry. He will work in close cooperation with the
Client's representative, henceforth called the "Manager', who will render all
assistance to the Consultant in carrying out the assignment. The Consultant
will render to the Manager all necessary advice, including but not necessarily
confined to, the items listed in this section, to ensure the successful
implementation of the ;roject. It is understood that the Manager will
seek/receive and the Consultant will promptly render/initiate all such advice
in time; and also that in order to enable the Consultant to be held
responsible for the assignment, the Manager will normally act upon the advice
in time or keep the Consultant advised of the reasons to the contrary. In
general, the Consultant will keep the Manager continuously informed on
progress of the project, particularly with reference to problems that could
cause delays.
Detailed Assignments
3.3      The detailed assignments of the Consultant have been specified in
relation to the Project to be implemented by the Client. However, in all



-61-                             Annex 4.01
Page 5 of 9
aspects of his work, the Consultant's responsibility will be two-pronged,
aiming both at a successful Project implementation and at transferring the
know-how involved to the Client's staff. The Consultant will, therefore, be
expected to organize the work in consultation with the Client's counterpart
staff and fully involve the Client's staff in the execution of his
responsibilities, which will include but may not be limited to the following:
(a)  Preparatory studies and engineering.  The Consultant will review
all existing studies, data, designs, and acquire additional data
if necessary to ensure that the expansion of the distribution
systems is carried out in a rational manner giving due
consideration to long-term market prospects. He will, with the
assistance of the Client's staff, fully design the project and
establish the criteria for its detailed design and construction;
prepare the project master plan (CPM) and a project cost
estimate which will be continuously updated with the progress of
the project.
(b)  Project Management.  The advisory services of the Consultant
will relate to the full responsibilities of the Manager. In
particular the instructions to and reports of the various
suppliers/contractors will be processed by the Consultant for
necessary advice. The Consultant may also render such
management functions as may be mutually agreed with the
understanding that he will be at all times and in all situations
do so in the best interest of the Client. In general, the
Consultant shall:
(i) provide the necessary progress and budgetary
monitoring control and information systems to keep all
parties concerned adequately advised of progress,
problems and developments;
(ii) periodically review and report actual and estimated
expenditures;
(iii)  issue a formal progress report covering all aspects of
the project;
(iv) organize and coordinate the efforts of all others
participating in the design, construction and
commissioning of the project;
(v)  establish effective communication procedures and
maintain liaison with the Client and other concerned
parties;
(vi) advise the Client on insurance coverage;
(vii)  advise the Client on regulatory framework and
licensing requirements for the distribution of natural
gas;
(viii) advise the Client on the gas purchase and gas sale
contracts;



-62-                            Annex 4.01
Page 6 of 9
(ix)  prepare procedures for all activities involved in the
distribution of natural gas;
(x)  utilize and cooperate with the Client's staff to
provide experience and on-the-job training for its
personnel to the fullest extent practical.
(c) Project Engineering. The Consultant will be responsible fot the
timely preparation of all engineering design of the project.
This will include all items necessary for the successful
construction and commissioning of the project such as:
(i)  preliminary activities including data acquisition, route
surveys, systems evaluation, etc. depending on the
requirements of each specific project components;
(ii)  material and equipment specifications;
(iii)  codes and standards requirements for construction and
operation of distribution system;
(iv)  flow sheets, diagrams, construction and fabrication
drawings, and as-laid drawings;
(v)  detailed cost estimates;
(vi)  operation/maintenance manuals and inventory of spare
parts for all the installation involved in the
distribution of natural gas;
(vii)  lists of materials, equipment, material and equipment
requisitions and technical portion of bid documents for
purchase, service and construction contracts;
(viii)  construction, commissioning and start-up assistance as
required.
(d)  Procurement.  The Consultant will advise and assist the Manager
in establishing procurement procedures covering all activities
and responsibilities from the requisitioning stage to the
receipt of contract services, goods and payment of invoices.
The procedures will include:
(i)  preparation of bid documelits and purchase orders,
prequalification of bidders, evaluation of bids and
quotations, recommendation for awards, placement of
orders or contracts;
(ii)  delivery status and controls;
(iii)  inspection, testing and other quality control measures;
(iv)  contract services, material and equipment receiving and
storage; and
(v)  payments, accounts and records.



-63-                            Annex 4.01
Page 7 of 9
(e) Construction Supervision. The Consultant will be responsible
for the supervision of all construction activities and field
services. His responsibilities will include:
(i) advice on establishment of the necessary organization and
physical facilities to enable the execution of these
responsibilities;
(ii)  supervision and coordination of all work progress by the
Client, suppliers/contractors and other concerned
agencies with reference to the critical path, so as to
modify the respective bodies of delays, with advice on
ways to expedite matters;
(iii)  establishing and executing all necessary inspection,
testing and other quality control procedures and
measures;
(iv)  maintaining the necessary records, progress reports and
other management information system;
(v) maintaining "as built" records, contractual variations
and change orders and negotiating settlements for
changes; and
(vi)  certifying acceptance of invoices and contract services
completion reports.
(f)  Commissioning and Operating Assistance.  The Consultant will be
responsible for the commissioining and shake down of the
facility and for the first six months (or any other such period
that the Client might wish to negotiate at a later date) of
commercial operations. These responsibilities will include:
(i) preparing and assembling all necessary operating and
maintenance procedures and instructions and plant record
books;
(ii)  organizing a start-up team.  This team will start-up and
shakedown the facility with the full participation of the
Client's operating staff; and
(iii)  designate and organize the operating and maintenance
teams that will assist the Client's staff to operate the
facilities.
(g)  Conversion.  The Consultant shall organize the conversion of
industrial consumers to gas fuel and shall take all necessary
actions for this purpose in order to meet the schedule of
industrial gas connections provided in the project
implementation program. This will involve, inter alia, detailed
surveys of customers processes and plants, evaluation of
available engineering skill and know-how and estimation of gas
fuel requ,rements; leading to the design of houseline,
estimation of material requirements and recommendations on



-64-                           Annex 4.01
Page 8 of 9
suitable type(s) of gas firing equipment. The recommended
equipment should be simple and robust in design so as to
minimize the outage time and maintenance costs and it should be
procureable on competitive basis in order to make the conversion
as cost effective as possible. As far as possible the services
of local contractors should be used for installation of
houselines and gas firing equipment.
(h) Administration. The Consultant will review the Client's
accounting, administrative, and personnel procedures and conduct
necessary feasibility studies to advise the Client on suitable
office machines, computer and software. The Consultant will
also assist the Client in writing specifications for hardware
and software to be procured and, after procurement, in
implementation of new equipment and procedures as necessary.
IV. Assistance to be Provided by the Client
4.1      The Client through the Manager will provide the following services
and facilities to the consultant:
(a) administrative assistance in obtaining visa, custom
clearances and any other administrative permits required by
the Consultant in the performance of this assignment;
(b) existing data, maps, surveys and studies;
(c) office space, secretarial and other office staff in
Indonesia;
(d) transport as required within Indonesia;
(e)  liaison with go-ernment and local bodies; and
(f) any other assistance not readily available which the
Consultant may reasonably request.
V. Project Schedule
5.1      The Consultant's proposals must be received by                 .  It
is expected that the Consultant will be selected by                  and that
a contract/agreement will bi signed by _        _     . The Consultant would
then be expected to mobilize and start work at the earliest date possible
but not later than                  after the award of the contract so as to
meet the project completion date of _
5.2      It is expected that at least four basic personnel will have to be
seconded to PGN head office for most of the Project period (para 3.1 (c)).
However, this core team will have to be supported by a number of support-
level engineers during the peak design/construction period. Moreover,
provision should made for short-term specialized assignments to deal with
such matters as design of MIS systems; review and planning of computer and
office systems; preparation of standard documentation and manuals; tariff
studies; market studies; etc. The Consultant will provide a proposed work
program detailing the timing of each assignment to be discussed and agreed



-65-                           Annex 4.01
Page 9 of 9
with the Client. The proposed work program should provide for a phased
reduction in the size of the Consultant team assembled in Indonesia in line
with the objective of ensuring self-sufficiency of the Client in all major
operational areas.



-66-
Annex 4.02
Page 1 of 4
PLANNING STUDY
GAS TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
CENTER IN INDOtESIA
TERMS OF REFERENCE
I. INTRODUCTION
Indonesia is embarking upon a major program to increase the domestic use
of natural gas. The impact of such a program is far reaching and would
necessitate development of a whole new range of technical expertise for (a) planning
and design of gas transportation systems and conversion equipment, (b) research on
transportation systems and conversion equipment, (c) preparation and promulgation of
codes and standards for regulation of the gas industry and consumers for safe and
efficient operation, and (d) measures to encourage private manufacturing industry to
support domestic gas utilization. To successfully achieve these goals, there is a
need to form a central organization (a gas technology development center) to assist
the Government in the coordinated development and regulation of gas industry. This
center will be organized within LEMIGAS whose statute permits it to undertake such
activities.
II. MAIN FUNCTIONS AND SCOPE
The main function of the center would be:
a. research, development and compilation of standards and codes of
practice, appropriate to the Indonesian environment, for all
activities, infrastructure, materials and equipment involved
in the transportation of natural gas and its usage;
b. studies and research in gas utilization, interfuel substitution
and energy conservatior. for suppliers, distributors and users;
c. analysis of fuels and materials for efficient gas utilization
and environmental protection;
d. human resource development;
e.  dissemination of technical information.
The research on standards and codes of practice will cover all the
activities in the transportation of gas from the gas well to the consumer. These
are broadly categorized as gas treatment, compression, transmission, distribution,
measurement and corrosion control. It will involved both a review of and research
into: (a) standards and codes of practice of major gas consuming countries of the
world; (b) current Indonesian standards, codes of practice, operational procedures



-67-                            Annex 4.02
Page 2 of 4
and skills: and (c) environmental, social and industrial conditions specific to
Indonesia. After thorough research, with the full participation of the gas industry
and the consumers, the standards will be progressively formulated and submitted to
MIGAS for approval and promulgation.
The studies in gas utilization will identify the potential for its economic
development and appropriate scale and phasing of investments. The research in
interfuel substitution, combustion engineering and energy conservation shall be
aimed at equipment and appliances. The Indonesian manufacturing industry. as well
as PGN, will be fully associated with this work.  All studies and research papers
will be published. Processes and designs will be patented.
The direction and quality of research and studies for each research activity
will be controlled by a standing committee composed of the profe3sional staff of the
center and professionals from MIGAS, PERTAMINA and PGN, together with
representatives of gas consumers and manufacturing industry.
The center's involvement in such research activities will give it a unique
insight into the gas industry's manpower expertise and skills and would enable it to
provide valuabie guidance in the industry's manpower planning. Its human resource
development function will be organized to perform the need analysis for the planning
and upgrading of gas industry's manpower expertise and to design and conduct
appropriate courses for this purpose. These courses will support the training of
those in the industry who need to develop specialized knowledge and skills. It will
also assist the country's technical universities in the development of curricula for
courses in gas engineering and technology.
A technical information service will be organized in the center for reliable
and efficient dissemination of technical information on all aspects of gas
development and utilization. It will perform this function through, (a) acquisition
of technical information and literature and by the setting up of a reference
library, (b, publishing the center's technical papers and reports, (c) organizing
conferences and seminars and, (d) liaison with the news media and publishers of
technical literature.
Through high quality research and reliable dissemination of knowledge, the
center will establish itself as a primary and authentic source of technical
information on natural gas. Its principal interactions will be with:
- the government for legislation and human resource development;
- the gas producing and marketing companies for research on standards,
materials and equipment;
- the universities for development of curricula for gas engineering
and technology courses;
- the manufacturing industry for manufacture of efficient materials,
equipment and appliances;
- the market for interfuel substitution and energy conservation; and
- overseas research institutes for exchange of technical information
and expertise.



-68-
Annex 4.02
Page 3 of 4
III. Consultant's Scope of Work
The consultant is required to prepare a detailed plan and cost estimates for a
gas technology development center, which will include but will not be confined to:
- formulation of the institutional framework for the center, taking
into account manpower availability and national and legal policy
requirements;
- establishment of the center's charter and bylaws;
- recommendation of an appropriate organizational structure;
- preparation of position descriptions for seniors personnel;
- evaltdtion of professional staff requirement;
(every professional staff position should be separately identified.
Qualifications and experience, as well as a job description for each
job should be written. Manpower availability in and outside Indonesia,
should be evaluated for each job)
- preparation of an appropriate training program;
(on the basis of staff requirement, educational and professional
training needs for each job alongwith a cos0  estimate)
- preparation of a work program for the center for the next five
years, in line with national energy policy for both the short and
and long term;
- identification of special support to be provided by the center to
the gas industry for existing operations, and that needed for
development of new operations to meet future needs;
- determination of the availability of foreign technical and manpower
resources to be used to support the center's activities;
- preparation of a conceptual plan for the center's building and physical
facilities and utilities for laboratories, library and technical
information services; and
- preparation of capital and operating cost estimates for setting up
the center and its operation for a five year period and detailed
procurement specifications of all equipment and literature required.
IV Time Frame of the Study
The work by the Consultant should be finished not later than six months after
the Service Contract according :o the following tentative schedule



-69-                              Annex 4.02
Page 4 of 4
Elapsed Time from Project Start Date
Number of Months
1.  Scope of Reports                                  1
2.  Interim Report                                    3.5
3.  Draft Final Report                                5
- Program Plan
- Organization
- Implementation Schedule
4.  Final Report and Plan                             6
V. Reporting Requirements
All reports of the work should be in the English Language (25 copies to be
supplied). There should be one interim report and one final report. The interim
report should contain the plan of work, explaining the steps to be taken by the
Consultant. Such a report should also present the schelule of work, manning and
financial requirements.
The Final report is to be submitted at the end of the sixth month, followed by
a formal presentation.
VI. Budget Estimate for the Study
a. Direct Labor                                    $200,000
b. Local expenses in Indonesia                       31,250
c. Travel
5 RT tickets at $3,000 each                      15,000
d. Hotel expenses & per diem (70 days @ 150/day)  10,500
e. Report preparation, communications &
presentation                                   10,000
f. Fee                                               27,175
g. Others                                             5,000
Total        $300,000
VII. Communication
All communication related to this work is to be directed to:
The Secretariat of Gas Technology Development Center
Attention: Dr. Wiranto
LEMIGAS Cipulir Kebayoran Lama
Jakarta Selatan 12230
Indonesia
Phone: 739-8276; 739-4422 ext. 247
Telex: 47172 LMGB IA and 47150 LMGB IA
Fax: 716-150



-70-                         Annex 4.03
Page 1 of 4
INDONESIA
GAS UTILIZATION PROJECT
Regulatory System for Safe Utilization of Natural Gas
Introduction
The ability to safely transport and distribute natural gas in
highly populous regions has been abundantly demonstrated in Iestern
Europe, North America and in several developing countries.   The good
safety record is the result of the industry's recognition that gas
networks must be built of suitable materials to meet sound engineering
principles; it must be tested frequently to identify and rectify leaks
or potential problems; and users must be educated to install and operate
gas-fueled equipment safely. In order to have an effective safety
program there must be a means of enforcing the regulations and a means
of taking corrective action when violations are found.  In most cases
this would require that the safety regulations nave the force of law so
that violators can be dealt with by an administrative body or the
courts.
Safety regulations have been developed by the industry and
government agencies in many countries and, while the specific details
vary to meet local conditions, all incorporate certain essentia'.
elements. They should:
- establish guidelines for selection, testing and inspection of
materiaus used in all parts of the supply system.
- define acceptable methods for installing pipelines, metering
and regulating equipment, and customer piping and equipment.
- set the requirements for periodic inspection and testing of
equipment and facilities.
The purpose of this paper is to outline the requirements for a
system of safety regulations which could be utilized by the Government
of Indonesia and the gas industry in the development of the natural gas
delivery system downstream of the producing fields.
Scope
As currently envisioned, the r4gulations would apply to the
selection of materials and equipment, installation and commissioning of
all pipelines, metering and pressure regulation equipment and
appurtenant equipment used by the gas transporter to deliver gas from
the field delivery point to the outlet of the customer's meter; and the
piping and equipment installed on the customer's premises.



-71-
Annex 4.03
Page 2 of 4
Objective
The objective of the work effort will be to establish a
legislative, regulatory and technical system to assure that the natural
gas delivery system in Indonesia will continue to be installed and
operated in safe manner.
Regulatory System Requirements
The regulatory system must include a minimum of tbree components:
- The legislative basis for regulating the actions of private
or public entities. Legislative intervention is usually based
on the government's duty to protect the public health and
safety. In some instances existing safety laws may be amended
or reinterpreted and new legislation would not be required.
- Safety codes and regulations. These are general rules
promulgated by a governmental authority which define the
limits on materials to be used, performance and operational
requirements. They may take the form of performance standards
which set and define the function(s) a material must perform
safely, or equipment standards which specify the equipment to
be used for each purpose. The former are more commonly used in
industrialized countries.
- Engineering standards. These are prepared by each individual
company and used by engineers and operators to design, specify,
install and operate the system. They must meet the minimum
requirements of the safety codes.
Each of these elements is discussed briefly below.
The first requirement for an effective safety regulation system is
a legislative base. In most industrialized countries the natural gas
industry was, for many years self-policing. That is, the industry
established technical standards and each company applied them according
to its own interpretation. In the event of an accident, the injured
party sought remedy via the courts. However, as the pipeline network
grew and the potential for losses increased local and federal
legislatures instituted laws setting minimum safety standards; providing
for administrative control and relief; and establishing penalties for
non-compliance.  In the United States the Pipeline Safety Act, which
applies to both natural gas and liquid products pipelines provides a
legal foundation for regulating the lines; establishes the scope of the
regulations; and delegates authority for implementation to the Federal
Department of Transportation. Similar laws have been passed in other
industrialized countries.
The second element is a set of regulations established by the
responsible government agency which define the minimum standards for



Annex 4.03
-72-                           Page 3 of 4
selection, installation and operation of equipment. The regulations
usually define the inspection and control procedures which the agency
uses to assure compliance and reporting requirements. The regulations
are based on international engineering design standards and experience
in the use of specific equipment for natural gas delivery systems. A
method for monitoring the industry's operations must be established.
The minimum would be a method of periodic reports on operations and
safety related issues plus a program for periodic inspection of
facilities and operations. Reporting procedures and forms would have to
be formulated and an administrative body established to receive, analyze
and follow-up reports and carry out a fie'ld inspection program.
The third element is the safety standards established by each
company. These detailed engineering design and operations standards may
vary from company to company but all must meet the minimum standards
mandated by the government agency. They should cover all aspects of
company construction and operation and should be updated periodically to
incorporate technological advances. The agency should-also be
responsible for periodically revisvling the standards to assure that they
are adequate. Field inspect'ons would be conducted by the regulating
agency to assure that the standards are being met.
Work Plan
Preparation of a program appropriate for the conditions in
Indonesia would require:
a. review of the existing legislation which provides the
basis for safety regulations to determine if it provides
an adequate legal base for natural gas safety regulations
or if new legislation must be adopted.
b. identification of the issues which must be addressed by
the Indonesian natural gas safety regulations. These would
include, but not necessarily be limited to legal issues
related to liability and procedures; technical issues
concerning operational requirements, the operating environ-
ment, the degree of public exposure; the institutional
requirements for monitoring industry operations and
adherence to regulations.
c. preparation of a draft of enabling legislation, or proposed
amendments to existing legislation, if appropriate.
d. preparation of an outline of typical technical safety
standards which should be prepared by each company.
e. preparation of a plan for monitoring industry operations,
including reporting requirements, inspection programs and
the plan for the administrative structure required to
implement the regulatory program.



-73-                            Annex 4.03
Page 4 ot 4
Implementing Agency
HIGAS intends to develop and direct this program with the
assistance from the proposed Gas Technology Development Center.



P64's PP02FCT FLARNINg AND l.PLEMENTATlON SCHEDULE
FOR SURABSYA AND lECALN
APR              "AR             APR              MAR              APR              CAR              APR             MAR
ACTIVITY               FY 198/99        FY 1989/90       FY 1990/91       FY 1991/92       FY 1992/93       FT 1993/94      FY 1994/95       FY 1995/96
:MARKET SURVEY                 : ---------- 
:ROUTE SURYEY
:SYSTER DESIGN                            I ----------I
:FINANCIAL & ECONCOIC ANALYSIS:             I--------I           : 
:APPRAISAL MISSION             :                :   1-1          :
:DETAILED ROUTE SURVEY AND    :                 :
:PERMISSIONS                                         ------------I                                 :
:DETAILED ENGINEERING           :                    -----------------------------------------------------------1:
:LOAN NESOTATION                                 :       I--I    :                :                :                :
:LOAN EFFECTIVENESS                             :                :
:PROCUREMENT                                        I-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------1:
:CONSTRUCTION                                   :                :                                           -----------
:IMEDAN COMPONENT)             :                :                :                                                                   a :
:CONSTRUCTION                                                                                             I-------_------------------------------------------:
:(SURABAYA COMPONENT)                                                                      :                :                        :
FY - FISCAL YEAR ENDING MARCH 31.



-  C  0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0  9,                                                                                                             09            00                                                       C~~- - -    -    - -    - - 
-   -9                                                              .9 9Z                                                                                                                                                                        , M ::  n =1  i= :
ZZ      00%l.00.                      90            00;Zoo0.-Z00Z9
Z   N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 9
o o o oZ 0I                 .                        -    -9   -       -0 -0-        -        0        :                                                                                                                                               0
z s ::          gz 0               9       0              0 0         0 9             0             0 4g g                        
-  .          ~                    -                                       0        0        0        0        0       9         0 0 0 00ZoL,0p, --0-                                                     0 0 00-0 0 0 0
0 00z z0                                                                   0       0                                                                                                 0          0       00Z0                              0         0       0919                    9



-76-                      Annex 5.03
INDONESIA
GAS UTILIZATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
(US$ million)
TBRD FY and            Disbursement         Cumulative    Indonesia Disbursement
Semester Ending      During Semester       Amount    2      Profile (Industry) 2
FY91:   12/31/90             3.0              3.0      3
6/30/91            6.5             9.5      11             20
FY92:   12/31/91            10.1             19.6    23
6/30/92           26.0            45.6    53               50
FY93:    12/31/92           20.8             66.4    77
6/30/93            9.0            75.4    88               77
FY94:    12/31/93            2.3             77.7    90
6/30/94            2.0            79.7    93               90
FY95:   12/31/94             1.8             81.5    95
6/30/95             1.8            83.3    97               98
FY96:    12/31/95            1.4             84.7    98              98
6/30/96            1.3            86.0    100             100
a/ Ref. Implementation Schedule (Annex 5.01), project planning and
detailed engineering has commenced.



Annex 5.04
Page I of 4
INDONESIA
GAS UTILIZATION PROJECT
PGN's Progress Reporting Requirements
1.       The following information is required to be reported from time to
time in relation to the progress of work on the project and to the operations
of PGN.
2.       During the construction of the project qu,:terly reports covering:
(a) technical progress;
(b) cost estimates, expenditures and disbursements; and
(c) management and operations
should be delivered to the Bank not later than 30 days after the end of each
calendar quarter.
3.       In addition, annual reports on thi fulfillment of certain agreements
contained in the loan documents and on the financial situation and prospects
of PGN shall be submitted to arrive in Washington not later than three months
after the end of the fiscal year.
4.       Finally, PGN will be required to send, not later than three months
after the project completion date, a Completion Report summarizing the
experience with the project and the lessons learned.
5.       The following describes the reports in question:
I. Quarterly Technical Progress Reports
6.       The report should cover the following events:
(a)    physical work accomplished during the reporting period;
(b)    a comparison between the planned and actual progress of
construction;
(c)    changes, events or conditions which would materially delay
the construction of the project or increase its cost and
the Borrower's proposed remedies, if any;
(d)    changeR in key personnel;
(e)    expected completion date.



-78-                            Annex 5.04
Page 2 of 4
7.       Such progress report shall concentrate on the main physical
components of the project, broken down as follows:
1. gas pipelines
2. pressure regulating stations
3. conversion
4. customer meter stations
Progress of construction should be covered in the text of the report and
shown graphically in charts.
II. Construction Schedule
8.       A chart showing planned and actual progress on each of the
principal events referred to above shall be presented.
9.       Simplified CPM or PERT diagrams car. be presented with the chart to
give a comprehensive picture of the schedule.
III. Schedule of Orders and Deliveries
10.      A schedule of orders and deliveries for major items of equipment
shall be presented in the following form:
Description of item
Date of bid invitation
Date of order
Name and address of supplier
Contract amount
Delivery Dates
Original
Revised
Actual
11.      The schedule shall list major items for which orders have been
placed or bid invitations issued, and those for which bid invitations are
scheduled to be issted in the next quarter. The amount in the currency of
the contract shall be shown and its equivalent in US$           to be rounded
to the nearest 4.J1000 equivalent.
IV. Quarterly Report on Cost Estimate, Expenditure and Commitments Statement
12.      The report consists of one table, which should be submitted with,
and cover the same period as the technical progress report. The figures of
original estimated costs should be those used in the corresponding tables
submitted to the Bank.
13.      The table should show any substantial changes in the cost estimates
that have become necessary since the previous report. The reasons for such
changes should be explained in the text of the report. Estimates should be
reviewed and if necessary revised from time to time. Such revisions may be
necessary after important contracts have been awarded.



-79-                             Annex 5.04
Page J of 4
14.      The table shall include the following:
(a) Foreign Costs
- Original estimate                           (1)
- Revised estimate                            (2)
- Disbursements
Previous                                    (3)
This quarter                                (4)
Total                                       (5)  - (3+4)
- Balance of outstanding commitments          (6)
- Total                                       (7)  - (5+6)
- Remaining costs to complete project         (8)  - (2-7)
(b) Local Costs
Same as in (A) above.
V. Quarterly Report on Management and Operations
15.      This snould be a narrative report, supplemented by graphs or
schedules if necessary. The subjects which should be included are:
(a)     changes in key personnel;
(b)     changes in organization of PGN;
(c)     arrangements for financing project including overruns;
(d)     development of training program for PGN staff and its
implication; and
(e)     any significant problems or development in PGN's general
operations.
VI.  Project Completic. Report
16.      The project completion report is a comprehensive review of the
extent to which expectations and objectives at the time the loan was made
have been, or show promise of being achieved. For each major project
component the original cost estimate and construction time should be
compared with the actual result, with comments on the reasons for the major
deviations. Non-physical objectives, such as the installation of new
accounting systems, etc., should also be reviewed and the degree of
accomplishment described, with an analysis of the reasons for any delays or
lack of success.
17.      The report should also cover whenever appropriate:
(a)   the major problems (physical, financial, management, etc.)
which have arisen, why they arose, and what was done to solve
them or minimize their effects-



-80-                            Annex 5.04
Page 4 of 4
(b)   the performance of consultants and contractors;
(c)   any unusual features of procurement or disbursemer.t;
(d)   any unusual procedures of the Bank which gave rise to
problems;
(e)   staffing and training aspects of the project;
(f)   any deviation from the original financing plan and reasons;
(g)   any problems or changes of an environmental or sociological;
(h)   the financial results of operations during the project
execution (sales, operating expenses, operating income, etc.)
and the actual financial position and prospects of the
company; and
(i)   any actions which need to be taken in order to maximize the
benefits from the projects (associated investments, further
technical training or advisory services, etc.).
18.      In brief, the report should review the appraisal of the project in
the light of events to date in order to determine if the original basic
assumptions and judgements have turned out to be substantially correct.



-81-                    Annex 6.01
Page 1 of 3
INDONESIA
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Notes and Assumptions on Financial Statements
1.       The financial projections are based on:
(a) Financial Statements for FYs85-88 as prepared by PGN and
audited by the State Board of Audits;
(b) Unaudited Statements for FY89 and provisional statements
(c) PGN's FY91 budget;
(d) PGN's long-term plan for FY92-97; and
(e)  Current financial policies, amended for fut4re changes planned
by GOI and PGN.
2.       The financial projections are expressed in current Rp, assuming an
average inflation in 1991-97 of about 6X for domestic costs and about 42
for foreign costs and a constant exchange rate of Rp 1750/US$,
Income Statement
3.       Revenue projections assume an average gas sales price of about Rp
5,500/MCF as from FY92, a PGN margin on sales of about Rp 2,000/MCF and
sales volumes according to PGN's survey with minor modification by Bank
staff.
4.       The currently discounted gas price of Rs 3,100/MCF is expected to
be increased and as from FY92 gas is assumed to be purchased from Pertamina
at RP 3,500/MCF.
5.       Gas losses are expected to decrease substantially from current
level of 62 once new distribution systems are put into operation and are
expected to be about 2Z of total sales by the end of project period. LPG
schemes are assumed to replace manufactured gas and gas manufacturing
plants closed.
6.       Administrative costs (mostly salaries and wages) are expected to
increase by 102 per annum as from FY92; about 62 due to general inflation
and 42 due to real term increases and new staff.
7.       Distribution costs are expected to increase by 152 per annum as
from FY91; 62 due to inflation and 9Z in real terms due to increased
volumes of gas distributed.



-82-                        Annex 6.01
Page 2 of 3
8.       Depreciation charges have been calculated at a rate of 10  per
annum on year end net fixed assets in operation (declining balance method)
according to currently prescribed procedures.
9.       Interest has been calculated at 122 per annum of PGN's average
outstanding debt for the first World Bank loan, 13Z for the proposed second
loan and other new funds and 61 for existing commercial loans (EXIM) in
line with the subsidiary loan agreements.
10.      PGN's surplus funds are expected to be held in time deposits
Rccording to current practice.  As from FY92, no net retu.n has been
considered on these funds; the heading "interest received end others'
includes pension payments, which should roughly equal the interest received
from time deposits over the project period.
11.      Income tax is calculated at a rate of 15Z for net income up to Rp
10 million; 251 for net income between Rp 10 to 50 million; and 352 for net
income over Rp 50 million according to the Income Tax Law of 1984. For
projection purposes, 35Z of net income before tax has been used. Under
recent Indonesia tax laws, tax losses cannot be carried over to subsequent
years.
12.      Social fund contributions have been calculated at 20? of after tax
income according to PGN's statute; the social fund is carried by PGN as a
liability and balanced by other assets.
13.      Development fund (DPS) payment from PGN to GOI is treated as an
appropriation of after-tax net income in accordance with PGN's statutes. A
rate of 55? of after tax income has been used.
Balance Sheets and Sources and Applications Statements
14.      Work in progress is assumed to equal capital expenditures for the
year.
15.      Cash an' bank deposits are assumed to equal about Rp 10 billion,
increasing at 62 per annum.
16,      Accounts receivable are assumed to equal about 6.5Z of billing for
the year; other current assets and miscellaneous assets bave been assumed
to increase at 6Z per annum.
17.      Inventories are assumed to increase ac from FY92, in line with the
increase of fixed assets.
18.      Existing long-term debt consists of IBRD and EXIM Bank (Japan)
loans for the ongoing project. New debt as from FY92 is mainly from the
Bank for the proposed project. The repayment of existing long-term debt to
EXII bank and World Bank starts in FY92.
19.      Current liabilities exclude the current portion of long-term debt,
which has been included under long-term debt.



-83-                      Annex 6.01
Page 3 of 3
20.      GOI has agreed to provide a major part of the EXIM Bank funds to
PGN as equity contribution up to FY91; however, it is assumed that no new
government equity contribution will be made as from FY92 for the proposed
project.
21.      The revaluation reserve remains constant throughout the project.
Asset revaluations for the monitoring of the Bank's ROR covenant will not
be recorded in PGN's books.
22.      Customer deposit remain roughly constant over the rroject life.
23.      Accounts payable and miscellaneous liabilities increase in line
with inflation at 6Z p.a. over the project period.
25.      PGN fixed assets in operation have for ROR calculation purposes
been revalued up to FY97 according to the Bank's MWV index in dollars
terms, for imported assets, and with 6Z p.a. for local cost assets.



GAS UTIL:ZATIrN PROJsT
P28 I6CaE STAT8EWT FOR m  1986-1007 (Rp MILLION)
FP ending March 31:             1066      1987       1068      1980      lo0         1991      1002       1003      1994      1005       1006      1007
(AIDTED) (ALOITED) (A10TED) (tNADITED) (PROVYISIONL)(9CET)  ---------------FAECASTT----------------------------------------
Coo Soles                       17.528    24,10    31S,989    41,060    s7.30        70,028   104.800   134,000    165,000   221S300   256.300   326,200
Pipe & Meter Rontn               1,850     1,766      :,236     3,720      3,420       4,785     5.000    11,800    12,400    13,000    13.700    14,400
Total 4" Sales                  16,807    2s.956    34,225    44,789    61.250        74,783   109.000   145.800   177,400   234.300   270.000   340,600
Coet Of a" Sold                 I0,761    14.419    22.147    30,854    36.564        42,861    66,700    85,200   105,000   140.800   163,100   207.600
a" Lost                          2.706     2.907      2,928     2.098      2,194       2,052     2.000      1.700     2,100     2.800      3.200     4.200
Ore Margin On Ca.                5,810     6,540      9,10    11.237    22,501   S 0.170    41,100    88,000    70,800    90,700   103.700   1218.00
Soles t by Product.                108       188        200       16S        140           0       125        125       125       125        125       125
Ine telletlons                     114       186        00         91       103          335        75        78         75        75        75         75
TtAl Oth,r Opereting Income        307       a36        200       254       342          335       200       200        200       200        200       200
Adaini-tration                   2,286     2,80CC     4,742     4,079      9,935      11.363    12,500    13,700    15,100    le6.00    18,300    20,100
Distribution                     1,551     2,162      1.914     2,025      6,188       7,169     3.100      SA500     4,100     4,700      5,400     6,200 
OD
oepr.ciation                     1,680     3.268      2.793     2.887     3.204        3,869     6,s3      16.100    25,000    22,100    21.500    21.600                            4O
Total Opeleting Coat             5.467     0,220      9.449     0,801    10.417       22.401    25,900    33,300    42,200    43a400    45,200    4'.900
Bpirating Incoe                   I10        647         0      1,600     3,426        8,104    17.400    25,800    28.300    47,800 o    8.7oo    81,100
Interoat Received  eth*.....    7,942         0       577        900       925        806       2.000     2,000      2.000     3.s00     5,000      7.000
Inter-t, Charged To Income          0       (729)        0          0         0           0      8,300     8,000      6.00o 0  18.0c    19,700    24,200
Income SBfore Tax                8,072       (02)      577      2,580     4,351       8.970    14,100    19.800    23.400    34,100    44,00O    63,900
Income Tom                      (2.406)        0         0       (410)     (974)      (2.563)   (4.900)   (6,000)   (8,200)   ( 11.00)  (15.400)  (22,400)
loS Income After Teo             5.664       (82)      577      1,170     3,377        6,407     9,200    12.900    15.200    22, l0    28,600    41,500
Aepropriation,
OPS                                0         0    (1.001)      (317)   (3,218)      (1,857)   (5.100)   (7.100)   (8,400)  (12.200)  (15.700)  (22,800)
Sociel Fund                        0         0         0          0    (1.170)        (675)   (1,800)   (2,600)   (3,000)   (4,400)   (5,700)   (8,300)
Rmtained Earning A Rtea.r.     5.604       (82)   (1.324)    1.653    (1.011)        3.875     2,300     3.200      3,800     5.000      7.200    10.400 D
Gas Sale  (Million cu.-)           10 137              11        251       305        3s0         540       600       050      1,140     1.320      1,680                             O
RaNt Baa, (a) At Cost           26.374    37.031    37,040    48,714    5S3.514       65,730    95.100   150,700   217,700   245.500   238,200   23s,300
(b) On Revalued Oasis 61.300    62.400    72,300    02,500    03,100      110.800   147,000   180,500    282,400   324.400   338.700   352.800
Ratios:
RIR eons8" (b)(S)                -8.8       1.7       0 0        2 4       4.6          84       13.1      12.5        9 2      14 s      1s 2       24 0
ROR on Bee  (b)(S)               -3.7       1.0       0 0        1 4       2.6          5 0       8 5       9.5        7.1      11 0       12 8      16.6



GAS OTILIZATItO POJECT
PIN'S lIAA11E SHEET FOR FYS 1986-1997 (Rp HILLION)
FT eudia; Iatcb 31:                 19B6        1987        1988        1989       199            1991        1992        1993        1994       1995        1996        1997
(WIODTEN)  (AUDITED)  (AUDITEOD) (OUIDITED) (PROVISIOMAL)  INIET    - ----- -             -FOECES                                  T---------------------------------------
WETS                              ---------  ---------  --------- ~--    ----------- -           --------~~ ---------  ---------  ---------  ---------  ---------  ---------~~~~~
Laud                              18,922      18,736      19,507     20,053      20,188         20,512      18,500      18,500     18,500      18,500      18,500     19,500
Other Fiied Assets                31,670      33,983      41,160     47,693      56,259         78,827    128,900    216,400    302,000    317,000    331,000    354,400
Les: s, .lepreciatioe             (7,9921   (11,257)   (14,049)   (16,936)   (20,22V)          (24,098)   (32,400)   (48,500)   (71,500)   (93,600)  (115,100)  (136,700)
-- -- -- - -- -- -- -- --- -- -- -- --- -- -- -- --- -- -- -----  -- -- -- ---  -- -- -- ---  -- -- -- ---  -- -- -- ---  -- -- -- ---  -- -- -----  -- -- -- --
*t Filed Assets                   42,600      41,462     46,618      50,810      56,218         75,241    114,900    186,400    249,000    241,900    234,400    236,200
fork ia Progress                     517       2,451       4,153     31,117      34,973         50,055      87,500      85,600     15,000      14,000      23,400     24,500
Total Fiied Assets                43,117      43,913      50,771     81,927      91,191        125,296    202,400    272,400    264,000    255,900    257,800    260,700
Casb A lank                        2,965       3,617       8,686      9,445      11,604         17,989      12,000      12,700     13,500      14,300      15,100     16,100
Accounts receivable,Net            3,614       3,578       4,001      5,435       3,745          2,100       6,800       8,700     10,700      14,300      16,600     21,100
Prepaymeots                          158          46         377        627         906          1,304         600         600        700         700         800        800
Inventories                        5,673       5,833       3,602      3,098       3,763          6,177       8,100      13,000     17,400      16,90\0     16,900     16,900
Other Carrent Assets                 961         614         969         514        486            677         700         800        800         900         900      1,000
- - - - .^-   - -- -- ----- -- -- -- --- -- -- -- --- -- -- -----  -- -- -- ---  -- -- -----  -- -- -- ---  -- -- -- ---  -- -- -----  -- -- ----  -- -- -- - --
lotal Correot assets              13,371      13,688      17,635     19,109      20,504         28,247      28,200     35,900      43,100      47,100     50,300      55,900                           U
Tise Deposits                      8,016       8,966       6,483     10,000      10,000         10,000      10,000      10,000     10,000      10,000      10,000     10,000
Niscellanenus                         19           0      19,357     11,222      34,293         36,780      36,800      23,700     41,100      69,200     76,200      62,500
--- - --   - -- --- -  -------- - - - - ----- -  -- -- - ----  -------   -- ---  -  -------- -  -------- - -  ---- ---  --- - --     -- -- --
Totil Other assets                 8,035       8,966     25,840      21,222      44,293         46,780      46,800     33,700      51,100      79,200     86,200      72,500
- -----    -- ------  -- ------   -- ------   -------       -- -----    -- -----  -- ------   -- ------   -------   -------    -- -----
TOTAL ASSETS                      64,523      66,567     94,246    122,259    155,9fl          200,323    277,400    341,500    358,200    382,200    394,306    389,100
LIABILITIES
Gov.Equity Contribution            7,451       9,894      12,015     25,544      29,125         53,605      53,600      53,600     53,600      53.600     53,600      53,600
Retaited Earingq A Reserves        6,476       6,394       5,071      6,923       5,912          9,787      12,100      15,300     l9,100      24,700     31,900      42,300
Revalantion Reserve               44,450      44,450     44,450      44,450      44,450         44,450      44,500     44,500      44,500      44,500     44,500      14,500
- - - -t- - -- -- -- -- --- -- -- -- --- -- -- -- --- -- -- -----  -- -- -- ---  -- -- -- ---  -- -- -- ---  -- -- -- ---  -- -- -----  -- -- -- ---  -- -- -- ---
lotal Equity                      58,377      60,738     61,536      76,917      79,487        107,842    110,200    113,400    117,200    122,800    130,C00    140,400
Social Food                            0           0           0           0      1,170          1,845       3,600       6,200      9,200      13,600     19,700      27,600
Loin  Term Debt                                            6,489     28,887      39,790         78,038    150,900    208,500    217,600    230,800    227,100    204,300
Accounts Payable                   2,113       4,874       3,985      5,326       5,426          5,426       5,800       6,200      6,600       6,900       7,400      7,800
listellameoms                      3,633         525       3,595      2,827       5,897          6,720       6,400      6,700       7,100       7,600      8,000       8,500
Total Carrent Liabilities          5,746       5,399       7,580      8,153      11,323         12,146      12,200     12,900      13,700      14,500      15,400     16,300
Castoser kposit A Others             400         430      18,641      8,301      24,210            452         500         500        500         500         500        500
TOTAL LIARILITIES                 64,523      66,567     94,246    122,258    155,908          200,323    277,400    341,500    358,200    382,200    394,300    389,100                          o
latios: Crrent Ratio (Times)           2.3         2.5         2.3         2.3         1.8            2.3        2.3         2.8         3.1        3.2         3.3        3.4
lebt/Equity Ratio            0/100      0/100       10/90       28172       33/67          42/158     58142       65/35       65135      65135       64/34       59/41



INDCNESIA
GAS UTILIZATION OJECT
PON'S SCRCQ APES FilRS 1986-1997 (Rp. i II ion)
Ft nding March 31:              1986      1987       1988      1989       1990         1991      1992       1993      1994      1995       :99       1997
(AUDITED)  (AUDrTE0)  (AWITED) (UNALAITED) (PROVISIONAL) (8WGCET)  ------------  FS T----------------------------------------
S 0 U R C E S 
- Operateng Income                180       647         0      1,800     3,426         8.104    17,400    25,600    23,300    47,500    58,700    81.000
- Depreciation                  1,680     3.26b      2,793     2,887     3.294        3,689      8.300    16,100    23,000    22.100    21,500    21.600
- Internal Cash Oeneroticn      1.7b0     3.912      2,793     4,487     6,720        121,973    25.700    41.900    51.300    69.600    80,200   102,600
- Interest Reci.'ed a Others    7,942         0       677        980       925          866      2,000     2,000      2.000     3.500     5.000      7.000
- Ooverent Contribution (DIP)   4,e68     2.443      2,121    13,529     3,581        24,480         0         0          0         0         0          0
- Increase L.T Debt                 0         0      6.489    22.398    10,911        36.240    82,800    70,500    22,000    26.100       4.400         0
- Adjustents                        0         0         0          0        (1)           0      1,900 s/   (100)         0         0         0         0
- Total Sourcs                 14, 590    6.355    11,980    41.394    22,136         75,559    112,400   114,300    75,300    99,200    89,600   109,600
REQUIREMENTS:
00
- Proposed Project                  0         0         0          0         0            0    67,300    65,600    15.000    14,000    .3,400            0                       i
- Other Inveetment              5,066     4,061      9,680    84,044    12,SS7        37.974    20,000         0          0         0    10,000    24,500
- Total Capital tnveatasnt      5,066     4,061     9,650    34,044    12,S87         37,974    67,300    65,600    15,000    14,000    23,400    24,500
- Intrst Charged to Income         0        729         0          0         0            0      5,300     8,000      6,900    16,900    19,700    24,200
- Amortization                     0          0         0          0         0            0      9,900    12,9C0     12.900    12,900     6.10D    24,700
- Total Debt Services              0        729         0          0         0            0    15,200    20,900    19,800    29,800    25.800    48,900
- To                            2,408         0         0        410       974        2,563      4,900     6,900      8,200    11,900    15.400    22,400
- Che in working Capital        7,185       664      1,766       901    (1,778)       6,920       (100)    6,900      6,500     3,200     2,300      4,700
- Chnge in Other Aasets           (62)      981    16,674    (4.618)   23,071         2,487          0   (13.100)   17,400    28.100      7,000   (13,700)
- Chnge in Other L;bilities       (7)      (30)  (18,211)    10,340   (15,909)      23,756          0         0         0          0         0         0
- CPS Cootrobutione                0          0      1,901       317     3,218         1,687     5,100     7,100      8,400    12,200    15,700    22,800
- Total Requirent              14.590     6,388     11,960    41,394    22,138        75,559    112,400   114,300    75,300    99,200    89,600   106,860                         r
Debt Serv,;, Covarag  (Times)     -          5.4       -         -         -             -          1.7       2.0        2 6       2 3       3 1       2 1
af Sa1l of land not needed for opsr-taonal purposee.
r                    U



-87-                          Annex 6.05
INDONESIA
Gas Utilization Project
Efficiency Improvement Program for PGN
1.        To achieve its financial objectives at current margins between gas
sales prices and gas cost, PGN would have to further improve its efficiency
under the proposed project. For this purpose, the following efficiency
improvement program was identified:
(a) closure of obsolete gas manufacturing plants and replacement
by LPG or natural gas distribution according to the following
schedule:
Bandung            1994
Semarang           1993
Surabaya           1993
U. Pandang         1990
(b)  increase in the volume of gas sold from the FY90 level of
about 300 million cu.m. to 1,600 million cu.m. in FY97;
(c)  reduction of gas losses from FY90 level of about 7Z to 2% in
FY94;
(d)  limit the increase in PGN's staff to 20% of current 1,200
employees during the project period; and
(e)  implement a staff training program not later than by December
31, 1991.
2.        For the monitoring of this efficiency improvement program, the
following performance indicators have been established:
1990  1991   1m      1993   1994   1996   1998    1997
Gas Sales (million cu.m.)  305   360    640    890    8so   1,140  1,320  1,680
Gas Losses (X)             7      4      a      2      2        2      2       2
No. of Staff            1,200 1,300  1,380  1,400  1,420   1,430  1,440   1440
Rate of Return on
Revalued Assets (1)     2.6   4.0    6.0    6.0    8.0   10.0    10.0  10.0



DONESIA
GAS UWILZATINi PROJECT
DCOE STATBe.! OF HED FtlR FYS 1986-1997 (Rp MILLION)
FY ending brch 31:               1986      1987       1988       1989         1990       1991       1992      1993       1994       1995      1996      1997                     t
(AUDITED)  (AUDITED)  (AUtMTED)  (UND4AITED) (PROVISIONAL) (8lU) -----  FCST ---------------
Ca, Sales                          787      2.324      4.467      6,838        10.193    11.605    12,000    26,000    26,100    26,100    26,100    26.100
Pipe A Mtor Ronto                  82       1.249      1.9 *      3,563         3,428     4.755      5,000    11,800    12,400    13.000    13,000    13.000
T4tal Ga. S lo-                   1.610     8.678      6.38*     10,401        13,621    16,360    17,000    37.800    38,500    39,100    39.lU0    39.100
Cost Of Gag Sold                   542      1.769      3.806      5,724         7,662     8.126      8,600    17.600     18.000    18.000    18,000    18.000
as Last                             37          3        10         162          206        229        300       300        400       400        400       400
:'es Margin On Use               1.031      1.601     2.569       4,515   5,553           a.         8.100    19.900    20.100    20.700    20.700    20.700
By Products                          0          0         0           1            0          0         0          0         C          0         0          0
Instllmtions                       10         32         4          11           1S         35        100         0         0          0         0          0
Total Other Income/                 10         32         4          12            18        35        100         0          0         0         0          0
Administration                     133        165        539       6W5            499       551        600       700        700       800        900     1.000
ODitribution                        95        124       216         265           961     1.131      1,200     1.300      1.300     1,400      1,500     1.600                       CO
Depreciation                        54        639       516         497           811       823      1,100     6.200      9.600     8,600      7,800     7.000                        O
Total Operating Cost               282        828      1.271      1,447         2,271     2.505      2,900     8,200    11.600    10.800    10.200       9.600                        1
Operating Incmeo                   759      1.005      1,302      3.a,o         3,300     5.535      5,200    11.700      8.5C0     9,900    10,S     11.100
Interst Receivd A Others             0          0         0          39           57         21         0          0         0          0         0          0
Intereet Paid                        0          0         0           0            0          0    (2.000)   (2.000)   (2.000)   (3.000)   (4.000)   (4.000)
Income Before Tom                  759      1,005     1.302       3,119        3.357      5,556     3,200      9.700      6500     6,900      6,500     7.100
Income Ta:                           0          0         0         100 a/       200 a1    600 a/  1.100    3S400         2.300     2.400      2,300     2.500
Incaee  Aftr Tax                   759      1.005     1.302       3,019        3,157      4.956     2.100      6.300      4,200     4,500      4.200     4,600
Appropriation:
________________
OPS                                0          0         0           0 a/       S0 */    300 */  1,200       3,500      2.300     2.500      2,300     2,500
*/ Estimated Madan ahdro, considering that other PON areas produce loses and thereby reduce tes payment and OPS.
all
0



DCmNEIA                                                                                                                                                                         l
GAS UTILIZATION FROJ=T
DiE STATBET OF StlAAVA lFO F'S 16-1997 (Rp MILLION)
FY ending March S1:             1986      1987       1988      1989         1990       1991       1992       1993      1994       1995      1996       1997
(AuDITWD)  (AUDATD)  (DWITD)  (lMMITD) (PROVISIONAL) (5DGCU) ------------------ FD ASTT----------------------------------------
n-e Soles                        1,295     1,319      1.198     1,581         2.046     1,840      1,900     2.000    20,100    64.200    86,400    112.400
Pipe A  toe Rents                 247        224        101        35             0         0          0         0          0         0          0         0
Total Ons Sole.                  1.642     1.643      1,29      1.616         2.048     1.840      1.9C0     2,000    20.100    64,200    86,400   112,400
Cost Of Gas Sold                1,421      1,399      1.334     1.817         1,686     1.653      1,600     1,700    12,800    40,600    SS000    71,500
ta Lost                           185        148        198       208            81        4S          0         0        300       S0       1,100     1,400
Oross Margin On G(64)                         (4)      (233)      404           281       242        300       300      7,000    22,600    30,300    39.5C0
By Product'                        46         14         75        27            77         0          0         0          0         0          0         0
Installations                      14         47        3S          4            5          0         0          0          0         0          0         0
Toal Other Income/Nt               60        121        110        31            82         0          0         0          0         0          0         0
Administration                    210        256        326       420           409       430        S00       600       6S0        700        700       80O
Distribution                      275        316        349       464         1,112     1.097      1,200       400      1,600      1,800     2.100     2,400                        20
Depreciation                       96        121        110       107           204       2*9        600     4,800    11.500    11,300    11,300    11.100                          0
Total Operating Cost              S'l        693        784       991         1,725     1.766      2,200     6.800    13,700    13,800    14.100    14,300                          t
Operating Inome                  (885)      (876)      (907)   (1,364)       (1,362)   (1,524)   (1,900)   (6.300)   (6,700)    8,600    16.200    25,200
Interest Received A Othera         39       1I5         93        149          235        812         0          0         0          0         0          0
Interest Pa;d                                                                    0          0         0          0    (2,000)   (5,000)  (10.000)  (15.000)
Incom Before Tax                 (546)      (441)      (814)   (1.215)       (1.127)   (1.012)   (1.900)   (6.S00)   (8,700)    3.300        6.200    10.200
Incom  Tom                          0          0         0          0            0          0         0          0         0     (1,100)   (2.200)   (3.600)
Income After Tax                 (846)      (441)      (814)   (1.215)       (1,127)   (1,012)   (1,900)   (6,500)   (8.700)    2,200        4,000     6,600
Approriation:
WPS                               0          0         0          0            0          0         0          0          0    (1,200)   (2.200)   (3,600)
0m
0



Annex 6.08
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
GAS UTILIZATION PROJECT
Financial Internal Rate of Return (IRR)
1.       The financial IRR calculations are based on the following
assumptions:
(a)  the capital expenditures include taxes, duties and estimated
contingencies, but exclude technical assistance and other minor
project costs not related to gas utilization in Surabaya and
Medan;
(b) the capital investments are expected to have a 20-year useful
life and no residual values have been taken into account after
that period;
(c) incremental operating costs, mostly gas losses, have been
estimated at 2.5? of total gas purchases;
(d) all projected income taxes for PGN's Surabaya and Medan
operations have been considered incremental to the project;
(e) revenues are based on a carrying cl.arge of $0.23/mcf for 48
MMCFD in Medan for gas transported by PGN to Pertamina customers
(mainly PLN); PGN's current margins on sales to its own
customers have been assumed to equal $1.14 throughout the
projection period;
(f) only gas volumes that will be distributed due to project
investments have been considered; future benefits from increased
gas d.stribution through low, marginal investments in
compression have been ignored; and
(g) resulting IRRs have been reduced by a factor of 1.06 p.a. to
reflect a projected constant inflation rate of 62 in Indonesia
as from FY92.
2.       Based on the above assumptions, the following cash flows were
projected in US dollar millions:



Annex 6.08
-91-                         Page 2 of 2
Financial IRR - Suraoaya
Operating  Income  Net  Gas       Net
FY      Investment       Cost       Tax   Revenues  Cash Flow
1992       26.2           -         -         -         (16.6)
1993       26.5           -         -         -         (_1.2)
1994       13.6           0.2       -         4.2         0.3
1995         9.4          0.6       0.6      12.5         7.8
1996         4.5          0.8       1.3      16.7        11.3
1997         -            1.0       2.1      23.4        20.3
1998         -            1.3       2.3      29.2        25.6
1999         -            1.4       2.4      31.3        27.5
2000         -           1.5        2.4      32.7        28.8
2001-11      -            1.6       2.5      35.0        30.9
IRR = 16.3Z
Financia) IKR - Medan
Operating  Income  Net  Gas       Net
FY     Investment       Cost       Tax   Revenues  Cash Flow
1992         7.0          -         -         -          (4.0)
1993         -            0.1       1.3       2.9        (1.5)
1994         -           0.1        1.3       2.9         1.5
1995-2001   -             0.1       1.3       2.9         1.5
IRR = 14.0Z
IRR Z
3.  Sensitivity analysis:                         Surabaya            Medan
(a) Capital Expenditures + 10Z                      14.7               12.0
(b) Operating Cost + 10Z                            16.2               13.9
(c) Revenues - 10X                                  14.2                9.7
(d) Combination of (a),(b), and (c)                 12.6                7.9



-92-                           Annex 7.01
INDONESIA
GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Assumptions Underlying Economic Analysis
COSTS
Capital Costs: Project cost estimates, net of duties and taxes, without
price contingencies but including physical contingencies.  Shadow price
factors applied on local costs are 0.8 for materials, 0.65 for unskilled
labor, and 1.0 for skilled labor.
Conversion Costs: $10 million for Surabaya and $1 million for Medan.
System O&M Costs: Taken at 2.5 z of annual cost of gas supply.
Cost of Gas Supply: Long-run marginal cost of natural gas estimated at
$1.50/mcf.
BENEFITS
Volume of Fuel Replaced: Based on market surveys of potential industrial
gas demand in PGN's proposed service areas in Surabaya and Medan, the
following profile of existing energy use for substitution by natural gas is
assumed:
Fuel                      Surabaya         Medan     Conversion Rate a/
(Z)            (Z)       (kcal/liter)
Industrial Diesel              43             58             9270
High Speed Diesel              20             20             9063
Fuel Oil                       18              1             9766
Kerosene                       10             12             8840
LPG                             6              9            11220  per kg
Others                          3            nil
Natural Gas                                                  8790  per cu.m.
Total                 100            100
a/ Unadjusted for changes in combustion efficiency due to conversion.
Value of Fuel Replaced: Border prices of petroleum products to be replaced
were applied, as shown Annex 7.03
Value of PLN Sales:  The benefit due to gas deliveries to PLN is taken to
be the value of transporting the gas through PGN's pipelines,i.e., $0.23
per mcf in Medan.
Industrial 0 & M Savings: It is assumed that medium-sized industries will
save 5 Z in fuel value due to higher thermal efficiency. Benefits due to
lower fuel handling and storage expense as well as reduced urban pollution
were not quantified.



Annex 7.02
-93-                                            Page  1  cf  2
INDONESIA
GAS UTILIZATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC  ANALYSIS - INTERNAL RAgE   2FRN. BY PJECT CENF
(In LIS$ Thousand)
IFnA
Gas Sales (in mmefd)        Gas Sales Margin
Conversion Operating  Total                                                            Net
Year     Total    Costs      Costs    Costs    PLN   Industry  Total    PLN   Industry   Total  Benefits
1991/92    5872          0         0     5872        0       0       0         0        0         0    -5872
1992/93                          102      102       18       7      25      1511     7665      9176     9074
1993/94                          102      102       18       7      25      1511     7665      9176     9074
1994/95                          102      Ud2       18       7      25      1511     7665      9176     9074
1995/96                          102      102       18       7       25     1511     7665      9176     9074
1996/97                          102       102      18       7       25     1511     7665      9176     9074
1997/98                          102      102       18       7       25     1511     7665      9176     9074
until                            102       102      18        7      25     1511      7665     9176     9074
2009/11                          102       102      18        7      25     1511      7665     9176      9074
EIMR -   154.5X
S1JMAAYA
Gas Sales ,'n  IACFO)               5as Sales Margin
Converslon Operating  Total                                                                               Net
Year    Total     Costs      Costs    Costs    PLN   lrdustry Leoes    Total       PLN   Indcstry   Leces    Total  Benefits
1991/92   21176          0         0    21176        0       0        0        0         0        0         0        0   -21176
1992/93   21264       3000         0    24264        0       0        0        0         0        0         0        0   -24264
1993/94   10940       3200       146    14286        0       5        5       10         0     5110      4563     9673    -4613
1994/95    7356        1800      467     9623        0       12      20       32         0    12264    18250    30514    20891
1995/96    3580        1000      628     5208        0      23       20       43         0    23506    18250    41756    36548
1996/97                1000      818      1818       0      36       20      5$          0    36792    18250    55042    53224
1997/98                         1022     1022        0      50       20       70         0    51100    18250    69350    68328
1998/99                         1095     1095        0      55       20       75         0    56210    18250    74460    73365
1999/00                         1168      1168       0      60       20       80         0    61320    18250    79570    78402
2001/02                         1226      1226       0       64      20       84         0    65408    18250    83658    82432
2002/03                         1270      1270       0       67      20       87         0    68474    18250    86724    85454
2003/11                         1314      1314       0       70      20       90         0    71540    18250    89790    88476
EIRR      50.7X
---------------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Annex 7.02
-94-                                               Page  2 of 2
INDONESIA
GAS UTILIZATION PROJECT
ECONOIIC ANALYSIS - INTERNAL RATW OF RETURN CALCULATIONS
I(0AN AND S9RASAYA GMI8INED
(In LIS$ Thasand)
Project Investment                                       Gas Sales (in mcfd)                 Gas Sales Margin
------------------- Conversion Operating  Total    ----                                              --                   Net
Year    Forex  Local   Total    Costs      Costs    Costs  PLN  Inrdstry   Lecus   Total    PLN   indastry   Leces   Total  Bensefits
1991/92  24696   2352   27048           0        0    27048     0         0        0       0       0         0        0       0   -27048
1992/93  21000    264   21264       3000       102    24366    18         7        0      25    1511      7665        0    9176  -15190
1993/94  10500    440   10940       3200       248    14388    18        12        5      35    1511    12775      4563   18849     4461
1994/95   6300   1056    7356        1800      569     9725    18        19       20      57    1511    19929    18250   39890    29965
1995/96   3360    220    3580        1000      730     5310    18        30       20      68    15'1    31171    18250   50932    45822
1996/97      0      0       0           0      920      920    18        43       20      81    1511    44457    18250   64218    63298
1997/98      0      0       0           0     1124     1124    18        57       20      95    1511    58765    18250   78526    77402
1999/00      0      0       0           0     11i97    1197    18        62       20     100    1511    63875    18250   83636    82439
2001/02      0      0       0           0     1270     1270    18        67       20      105    1511    68985    18250   88748    87476
2002/03      0      0       0           0     1329      1329    18       71       20      109    1511    73073    18250   92834    91505
2003/04      0      0       0           0     1372     1372    18        74       20      112    1511    76139    18250   95900    94528
2005/11      0      0       0           0     1416     1416    18        77       20      115    1511    79205    18250   98966    97550
EIRR     58.9%
-- -- - -- -- -- --_-=



Annex 7.03
INDONESIA
GAS UTILIZATION PROJECT
Domestic and International Prices of Petroleum Products
Ratio of
Share of         International    Domestic         Domestic
Category          Consumption a/   Parity Price b/  Price 1989   to World Price
(Z)              (Rp/liter)     (Rp/liter)         (Z)
Aviation Turbo        2.6                  270            250             0.92
Gasoline Premium      0.9                  296            440             1.49
Gasoline Regular    18.2                   278            385             1.38
Kerosene             27 2                  286            165             0.58
Automotive Diesel   33.9                   290            200             0.69
Industrial Deisel    5.2                   270            200             0.74
Fuel Oil             11.9                  195            200             1.02
/        1987 data.
b/       Based on estimated average price of Indonesian Crude at US$ 18.00 per
barrel, converted at 159 liters per barrel   Uses average price relatives of
petroleum products in the Singapore spot market for the period May 1986 to May
1989 plus transport and distribution costs.
Source: Bank estimates



Annex 7.04
INDONESIA
GAS UTILIZATION PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculations Based on Least Cost Alternative
Economic Rate of Return (2)
Medan     Surabaya        Total Project
Assumes 10OZ of Gas
Sales will Replace Fuel Oil        88           33               38
Market Demand
Down 102                       79           31               34
Down 25%                       66           27               30
Price of Competing Fuels
Down 102                       75           28               32
Down 25Z                       55           18               21
Project Costs
Up 10                         80           31               35
Up 25%                         70           29               32
Carrying Charge
Down 10%                       85           33               37
Down 25%                       82           33               37



INDONESIA
GAS UTILIZATION PROJECT
Fiscal Impact
(Estimates of the FYs 1990-97 Fiscal Benefits of PON's Operations)
PGN Payments to GOI                                                        GOI for PGN
Custom     Income     Debt          DPS      Total PGN          DIP          Debt    Total GOI Pay-   Net Fiscal
FY Ending   Duties a/   Tax       Service     Payment  F%Yment to GOI  Contribution   Service   ments for PGN0        Impact
1990          1,389       974          0     3,218          6,581           3,581         2,328        5,909           (348)
1991          4,139     2,563          0     1,857          8,559          24,480         3,410       27,890        (19,331)
19m           6,730     4,900      7,000     5,100         25,730               0         6,802        6,602         17,128
1993          4,726     6,900    13,100    7,100           31,825               0         9,880        9,860         21,965f
1994          2,275     8,200    12,400      8,400         31,276               0        13,370       13,370         17,905
1995          1,488    11,900    21,900    12,200          47,488               0        15,085       15,086         32,403
1996f         2 490    15,400    26,800    15,700          69,390               0        18,450       18,450         40,940
1997          2,671    22,400    48,900    22,800          98,771               0        21,557       21,557         76,214
Total      25,886    73,237   129,100    76,375         304,598          28,081        90,662      118,723        105,875
(D
x
-a
0
U'



-98-                             Annex 8.01
INDONESIA
GAS UTILIZATION PROJECT
List of Documents in Project File
1.   Financial Statements of PGN for 1988/89 (unaudited, in Indonesian)
2.   Approved Budget of PGN for 1989/90 (in Indonesian)
3.   Financial Statements of PGN for 1988/89 (audited, in Indonesian)
4.   Financial Statements of PGN for 1937/88 (audited, in Indonesian)
5.   Financial Statements of PGN for 1986/87 (audited, in Indonesian)
6.   Chart of Accounts of PGN, 1977 (in Indonesian)
7.   General Accounting Principles of Indonesia 1974 (in Indonesian)
8.   Exposure Draft - Indonesian Accounting Principles 1983 (in English)
9.   Regulation of GOI No. 27 of 1984 on Conversion of the State Gas
Company into A Public Corporation: PGN Statute (in both English and
Indonesian)
10.  Summary of Financial Report required by PGN Statute (in both English
and Indonesian)
11. Instruction No. I-84.24 about Calculation of Depreciation and
Bookkeeping since 1984 (in both English and Indonesian)
12. Instruction by Board of PGN on Accounting Method (in Indonesian)
13. Regulation No. 3 of 1983 on Procedure of Promoting and Supervising
Departmental Agency, Public Corporation, and Lim.ted Liability State
Corp. (in both English and Indonesian)
14. Current Tariff Schedule of Gas (in Indonesian)
15. Annual Volume of Gas Sales - City by City (in English)



IBRD 21723
THILAND                                                                                                   a           -                                              ue
-,THAILAdD ACh                                                                                                   "n.        :..INDONESIA
ndun   MAIAY S~                                                                    BRWEIB                             >             PHILIPPINES    <GAS UTILIZATION PROJECT
1 3                     MALAYSIA                                                    BANDAR SERI BEGAWYAN A
Foe "2zI tf        tea              KUALANAVA \                                                                        f      _
/KRL227.24                        LUMPUR                                                                                                                                                                                                   SAR  G.s F.eld
_   _  /     \                                  2                                                                                                                 S    ELnvinre ratpitis~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l Plvnc  aptl
Simrn/o.                                                                                                                                                                                                                               * 12   J  (  MALAYSIA   5  tM S  Notional Coinuls
M-nad.                   HALMAHEfA                             -     Pneinn. Boundaries
Nin,                                          SINGAPORE                                         ,                   7                                                                                                                 an7majenalEBundaris
-o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ rOC.  I  AlGf
AlA ERA                                 Ponnianuls              CtI/iTA                                               OGMN                                                                                      D/A
Eitdan8S                                                                                                             PaUs ',KAL  ANu
Snbo,nnn                   10  ju2 ANGOA                                        f'      Pa/~kangiayu     -_S                          WS    s>   -,8         ,AU           OIMStttPNl;ps 
t DKl.JAKAETA               8             >                                                                                                                                                             16 -IOO                                                     El '' i
0. YOGYAIZARTA  Bangku/u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                  JAYATIIYAE
S IAWA TlMUk                       <,                                                           Bunjanass 7S           I/TF v          -                                                   go1srna   UU Ambun  GiNA n                                  JA YA             Z
6  LAMPUNOG                           a       f   6                                                                                          1           . )
~5  7  BENGK/ULU                        B_rtand.,                                                                                       ,    \               S                                                                                                          Iv
B  SUMATEEA sELArAIN                     t    aLmpong                                                                      2jnpnag                    ;,{  bTNI
DB JAMBIKARTt
11  SOnROTEgbBARnATNS                                    .AKAR    1                                        KANGMNT5/                         A*                                                                                                         I     V
12  SUMATEgA UTAEA                                                                                                                                                              8tOU [  l,'t, / ARGO)
13  I-A MAENAH                                             BS El  2         se2arang             32.         A                                .
15  KALIMANTAN T         BNGAN                                a                                EMAklM a                                              I I
/AWALIMANTAN                                                   TIMUR I                                                                                                                                                                              JA YA
6B SULAWESI TENGAH  Yogyaktut. SALI                                                                                        SUMtAWA
29  SUM RA/   SELATAN                                                        4                                             - S          V.            O       'j, i_s
21  SWB/AI                                                     RTApur   utrm 1
23  NUSA TENGGARA BARAT                                                                                            /3O) 90< 23  ,                     24
25  MALUKU B' uauuugsu osa.ou.uuuoeefrosuuubsfRmm                                                                                    SOd/HA      7           nag                                               Th                        tG                    r
26  DUIAN IAYA                                            .EReueau_ us na,fl,o
K7 3IMOB  TIM U R                                                                              I. u2',d-frt ,One.aO., a,. .                                                                            17r                     USTKAIA 
nsa'          laO                                                          SB                    AUSTRALIA                            n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AGsTas



I     217;24K,I
I N D O N E S I A
GAS UTILIZATION PROJECT
GAS TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
FOQr MEDAN
* GAS FIELDS
G   PLN THERMAL POWER STSTION
PROPOSED TRANSMISSION PIPELINE
EXISTING TRANSMISSION PIPELINE
EXISTING PRINCIPAL DISTRIBUTION MAINS
m   PRESSURE REGULATING STATIONS
St  MEDAN URBAN AREA
+ AROI-1
ABY-1
P. Susu
t SCG-1
SUMA TERA                    P Brandan
UTARA
\~~~~~~X x ~~~~~~Belawan
0          .0        20          30
'   '    ' -         '              ~~~~~Wampu j\ 
KILOMETERS                                                       Paypas
THAILAND              PIIIUPPINES                                  MEDANN\
Mv  A  BArUNEI        PHILIPPINES                                              g  ,  
MA L A YS~IA'                PAPUA
& glNGAPORE                  GUNEWN
Sulawesi        I            abn       b      llS   -           tf
theraXrs  no      PVS,-I  the tn,a  use ofrm Wod ka   SCttrntO
Jawa  Bi_
Timor
APRIL 1990



MADURA ISL4ND
Cresik
N D O  N E S I A
JA WA                                   landes             \                           GAS UTILIZATION PROJECT
1 ,  N *.   \                   GAS TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
TIM O R                                                           RABAYA                         FOR SU%ABAYA AND ITS ENVIRONS
PLN THERMAL PDWER STATION
Karangpilango                                                                  PROPOSED TRANSMISSION PIFELINES
t  o                                                      PROPOSED PRINCIPAL DISTRIBUTION MAAINS
 Taman                                                                  P auFRESSURE REGULATING SThtlONS
|                                    - *- C;~~~~~~~~~~AS SUPPLY PIFULINE
Driyorej'oO                                OSidoario                                         atli   SUPRABAYA URR'AN AREA
|                                      O  ~~~~~~~~~~~~TOWNS SERVED BY THE SYS1 Ehi
IPandan A PPasuruanpKLMTR
HALAND        p                                       | \ PHIUMNES
LAYS                      P IAPUA
GUfALAA                                                                                                0
t_ lX   EfRUNEI ' i  ;s /'W1Proboli
' JtN                         GN' -A iA  '>0 A                      n n         :::;    ;;1z                                         O
s  9lN </rl /;   @        GNU9        f~~~~ke adnft and , a ise=ly to,the ,nlern*u toef the World df  and .the/nh.ntoa r/
,  /N^nfs,V    _,gai D    g    tz     -.                                                                                                  Leces 
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   __   . _



