Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 3209 IND
                     (Gas Utilization Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                    PERUSAHAAN UMUM GAS NEGARA
                        Dated July 6, 1990
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3209 IND
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July 6, 1990, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the  Bank) and PERUSAHAAN UMUM GAS
NEGARA (PGN).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between the Republic of Indonesia (the Borrower) and the Bank, the
Bank has agreed to  make  available  to  the Borrower an amount in
various  currencies  equivalent  to  eighty  six  million  dollars
($86,000,000), on the terms and  conditions  set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that PGN agrees to undertake such
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement.
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and  PGN,  a  portion  of the proceeds of the
loan provided for under the  Loan Agreement will be made available
to PGN on the terms  and  conditions  set forth in said Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS PGN, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with  the  Borrower,  has  agreed  to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the  General  Conditions  (as  so  defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. PGN declares  its  commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth  in  Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement,
and, to this end, shall  carry  out  Parts  A,  B and C (i) of the
Project with due diligence  and  efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate  administrative,  engineering,  financial  and  public
utility practices.
     Section 2.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods, works and  services required for Parts A, B
and C (i) of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be governed  by  the  provisions of the Schedule to
this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. (a)  PGN  shall  carry  out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.04,  9.05,  9.06,  9.07,  9.08 and 9.09 of the
General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and
services, plans and  schedules,  records  and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A, B and C
(i) of the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation on the  foregoing, PGN shall take all
necessary steps to secure permits  for rights of way/way leave for
the pipelines to be built under  Parts  A and B of the Project, at
least six months  prior  to  the  estimated  start  of the related
construction.
     Section 2.04.  PGN  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except  as  the Bank shall
otherwise agree, PGN shall not take  or concur in any action which
would  have  the  effect  of  amending,  abrogating,  assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a)  PGN  shall,  at  the  request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with  regard to the progress of Parts
A, B and C (i) of  the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  PGN shall  promptly  inform  the  Bank  of any condition
which interferes or threatens  to  interfere  with the progress of
Parts A, B and C  (i)  of  the  Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by PGN of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.06.  PGN  shall  during  the  implementation of the
Project: (a) by the  end  of  each  of  its fiscal years prepare a
rolling five-year plan of its  future gas requirements and discuss
the plan within three months of  the  end of such fiscal year with
the Borrower, the Bank and the gas supplier; and (b) by January 1,
1991 and by January 1 of  each calendar year thereafter prepare an
annual investment program and furnish such program to the Bank for
its comments.
Page  3
     Section 2.07.  PGN  shall,  by  March  31,  1991, prepare and
furnish to the Bank  for  review  and  comment a detailed training
program with respect to Part C  (i) of the Project, which program,
inter alia, to identify  staff  to  be trained, fields of training
and the schedule and location of such training.
     Section 2.08. PGN  shall  adopt  and  thereafter implement an
efficiency improvement program  for PGN's activities, satisfactory
to the Bank.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of PGN
     Section 3.01. PGN shall,  at  all  times, manage its affairs,
improve its  financial  position,  plan  its  future expansion and
carry out its  operations  all  in  accordance with sound adminis-
trative, engineering, financial and public utility practices under
the supervision of  experienced  and competent management assisted
by experienced and competent staff in adequate numbers.
     Section 3.02.  Without  limitation  to  Section  9.08  of the
General Conditions: (a) PGN shall maintain its existence and right
to carry on its operations  and  shall take all steps necessary to
acquire, maintain and renew  all  interest  in land and other pro-
perties and all  rights,  powers,  privileges and franchises which
are necessary or useful in carrying  out  Parts  A, B and C (i) of
the Project or in the conduct of its business.
     (b)  PGN  shall,  at  all  times,  operate  and  maintain its
plants, equipment and  other  property,  and promptly as required,
make all necessary  repairs  and  renewals  thereof, in accordance
with sound engineering, and public utility practices.
     (c)  PGN shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose
of any property or  asset  as  long  as  such property or asset is
required for the efficient  operation  of  its business and under-
taking.
     Section  3.03.  PGN   shall   take   out  and  maintain  with
responsible insurers, or make  other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  PGN  shall  maintain  records and accounts
adequate to  reflect  in  accordance  with  sound and consistently
maintained accounting practices its  operations and financial con-
dition.
     (b)  PGN shall:
          (i)  have its accounts  and financial statements balance
               sheets,  statements  of  income  and  expenses  and
               related statements) for  each  fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  nine months after the end
               of each  such  year:  (A)  certified  copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report  of  such audit by said auditors
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
Page  4
               ing said accounts and  financial statements as well
               as the audit thereof and  said records, as the Bank
               shall  from  time   to   time  reasonably  request;
               including without limitation  on the foregoing, its
               unaudited accounts as  soon  as  available, but not
               later than six months  after  the  end of each such
               year.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, in respect of Parts  A,  B  and C (i) of the Project,
PGN shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawal.
     Section 4.02. (a) PGN shall  from  time to time take all such
measures as shall be required to realize an annual rate of return,
on revalued net fixed assets in  operation, of not less than 4% in
fiscal years 1991-93; 8% in  fiscal  year  1994; and 10% in fiscal
year 1995 and thereafter.
     (b)  For the  purposes  of  calculating  the  annual  rate of
return for this Section:
          (i)  the annual return  shall  be calculated by dividing
               PGN's net operating income  for  the fiscal year in
               question by  one-half  of  the  sum  of the current
               value of PGN's net fixed assets in operation at the
               beginning and the end of that fiscal year;
         (ii)  the term "net operating  income" means the revenues
               from all sources  related  to PGN's operations less
               all   expenses   incurred   on   account   of  such
               operations, including  expenses  of administration,
               adequate maintenance and  taxes  or any payments in
               lieu  of  taxes,  and  provision  for depreciation.
               Interest and other  charges  on  debt  shall not be
               deducted from gross revenues; and
        (iii)  the term "value of PGN's net fixed assets in opera-
               tion" means the gross  value  of PGN's fixed assets
               in operation less the  amount of accumulated depre-
               ciation,  all  as  valued  from  time  to  time  in
               accordance  with  methods  of  valuation,  or, from
               fiscal year  1990/91,  revaluation, satisfactory to
               the Bank.
     (c)  Without limitation to the  foregoing,  on June 1 of each
year commencing on June 1,  1991,  or  such other date as the Bank
and PGN shall otherwise agree,  PGN  and the Bank shall review the
Page  5
adequacy of  the  annual  rates  of  return  referred  to in para-
graph (a) of this Section with  the view to achieve and thereafter
maintain the 10% rate of return prior to Fiscal Year 1995.
     (d)  The provisions of this Section replace the provisions of
Section 4.03 of the Project  Agreement dated June 5, 1986, entered
into between the Bank and  PGN for Loan 2690-IND (Gas Distribution
Project).
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.02. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of PGN thereunder  shall  terminate  on  the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate  in  accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify PGN thereof.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C.  20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                  Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                        197688 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                 248234 (RCA)
                                                 64145 (WUI) or
                                                 82987 (FTCC)
     For PGN:
          Perusahaan Umum Gas Negara
          Jalan K. H. Zainul Arifin No. 20
          Jakarta 11140
          Indonesia
          Cable address:                  Telex:
               GAS PUSAT                        63917 GASMI IA
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on  behalf  of  PGN  may  be  taken  or  executed by the
Direktur Utama (President Director) of PGN or such other person or
persons as the Direktur  Utama  (President  Director) of PGN shall
Page  6
designate in writing, and PGN shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By /s/ Gautam Kaji
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                         PERUSAHAAN UMUM GAS NEGARA
                         By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
                            Procurement
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Indonesia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  the  Borrower  may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
     With respect to Parts A, B,  and  C (i) of the Project, goods
estimated  to  cost  less  than  the  equivalent  of  $50,000  per
contract, up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to exceed $3,000,000
Page  7
equivalent, may be procured  under  contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of  price  quotations  solicited  from  a list of at
least three suppliers eligible  under the Guidelines in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part E:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to  each  contract  for  goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $300,000  or more, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the  contract  required  to be funished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph  2  shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the  making  of  the  first  payment  out  of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant  to  paragraph  4  of  Schedule  5  to the Loan
Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals from the Loan  Account  on  the basis of statements of
expenditures. Such contracts, together with such other information
as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably  request,  shall  be  retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of the Loan Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
