Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3209 IND
                     (Gas Utilization Project)
                              between
                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated July 6, 1990
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3209 IND
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July 6,  1990, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     (B)  Parts A, B and C (i)  of the Project will be carried out
by Perusahaan Umum Gas  Negara  (hereinafter  called PGN) with the
Borrower's  assistance  and,  as  part  of  such  assistance,  the
Borrower will make available to  PGN  a portion of the proceeds of
the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this  Agreement  and in the Project Agree-
Page  2
ment of even date herewith between the Bank and PGN;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "fiscal year" or "FY"  mean  PGN's fiscal year beginning
April 1 and ending March 31;
     (b)  "Governing Laws" means  Government  Act  No. 19 of 1960,
Law No. 9 of 1969, Government  Regulation  No. 27 of 1984, and any
other legal provisions in force  at any time governing the organi-
zation and operations of  PGN  as  any  of  them may be amended or
supplemented from time to time;
     (c)  "LEMIGAS" means the Research  and Development Center for
Oil  and  Gas   Technology   (Pusat  Penelitian  dan  Pengembangan
Teknologi Minyak dan Gas Bumi)  established and operating in MIGAS
since 1984;
     (d)  "MIGAS" means the Directorate General of Oil and Natural
Gas in MME;
     (e)  "MME" means the Borrower's Ministry of Mines and Energy;
     (f)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and PGN of even date  herewith,  as  the  same may be amended from
time to time, and such  term includes all schedules and Agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (g)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and PGN pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement, as  the  same  may  be amended from time to
time, and such term includes  all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and
     (h)  "Special  Account"
referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, various currencies that shall  have an aggregate value equi-
valent to the amount of  eighty six million dollars ($86,000,000),
being the sum of  withdrawals  of  the  proceeds of the Loan, with
each withdrawal  valued  by  the  Bank  as  of  the  date  of such
withdrawal.
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods  and  services  required  for  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2  to  this  Agreement  and  to  be  financed  out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
Page  3
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in  dollars  a  special  deposit account in Bank
Indonesia  on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  5 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall be September 30, 1996,
or such later date  as  the  Bank  shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time, at a rate for  each  Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified  Borrowings  determined  in  respect  of  the  preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section  2.06  of  this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest  accrued  on  the  principal amount outstanding
during the  preceding  Interest  Period,  calculated  at  the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means  a  six-month period ending
               on the date immediately  preceding each date speci-
               fied in Section  2.06  of this Agreement, beginning
               with the Interest Period in which this Agreement is
               signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means the cost, as
               reasonably determined by the  Bank and expressed as
               a  percentage   per   annum,   of  the  outstanding
               borrowings of the  Bank  drawn  down after June 30,
               1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof
               as the Bank has  allocated  to fund: (A) the Bank's
               investments; and (B) loans which may be made by the
               Bank after  July  1,  1989  bearing  interest rates
               determined otherwise than  as provided in paragraph
               (a) of this Section.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower,  paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii)
of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
               "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the prin-
          cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
          time to time, at a  rate  for each Quarter equal to the
          Cost of Qualified  Borrowings  determined in respect of
          the preceding  Quarter,  plus  one-half  of one percent
          (1/2 of 1%). On each  of the dates specified in Section
          2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
          accrued on the principal  amount outstanding during the
          preceding  Interest  Period,  calculated  at  the rates
          applicable during such Interest Period."
               "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
          Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
          of Qualified Borrowings  determined  in respect of such
          Quarter."
Page  4
               "(c)  (iii) `Quarter'  means  a three-month period
          commencing on January 1, April  1,  July 1 or October 1
          in a calendar year."
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end:
     (a)  without any limitation  or  restriction  upon any of its
other obligations under  the  Loan  Agreement,  shall cause PGN to
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement
all the obligations of PGN therein  set forth, shall take or cause
to  be  taken  all  action,  including  the  provision  of  funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate
to enable PGN to perform  such  obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken  any  action  which  would prevent or interfere
with such performance. To that end, the Borrower shall ensure that
sufficient funds to  cover  expenditures  required for the Project
shall be made available to PGN in a timely manner; and
     (b)  shall carry  out  Part  C  (ii)  of  the Project through
LEMIGAS, and Parts C (iii) and D of the Project through MIGAS, all
with  due  diligence  and   efficiency   and  in  conformity  with
appropriate administrative,  engineering  and financial practices,
and  shall  provide  the  funds,  facilities,  services  and other
resources required for such Parts of the Project. To that end, the
Borrower shall ensure that  sufficient funds to cover expenditures
required for such  Parts  of  Project  shall  be made available to
LEMIGAS (an estimated $9,200,000 equivalent out of the proceeds of
the Loan) and to  MIGAS  (an  estimated $800,000 equivalent out of
the proceeds of the Loan).
     Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower  shall  out of the proceeds of
the Loan relend to PGN an amount equivalent to $76,000,000 under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be  entered into between the Borrower
and PGN, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved
by the Bank which shall include: (i) interest at a rate of 13% per
annum; (ii) repayment over  15  years  including five years grace;
and (iii) foreign exchange risk to be borne by the Borrower.
     (b)  The  Borrower  shall  exercise   its  rights  under  the
Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  in  such  manner  as  to  protect the
interests of the Borrower and the  Bank and to accomplish the pur-
poses of the Loan, and, except  as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower  shall  not  assign,  amend,  abrogate  or  waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
     (a)  procurement of the goods and works required for Parts A,
B and C (i) of the Project  and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to
the Project Agreement; and
     (b)  procurement of the goods and services required for Parts
C (ii), C (iii) and D of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of  the  Loan  shall  be  governed  by  the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.04. (a) The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that
in respect of Parts A, B and  C (i) of the Project the obligations
Page  5
set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the
General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and
services, plans and  schedules,  records  and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively)  shall  be  carried out by PGN
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
     (b)  Without limitation on the  foregoing, the Borrower shall
ensure that PGN obtains, in a timely fashion, the necessary rights
of way/way leave for the pipelines to be built under the Project.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower  shall  cause  PGN to maintain, at
all times, a salary structure  at  a level as remunerative as that
of other similar public corporations (PERUMs).
     Section 3.06. The  Borrower  shall,  through  its Ministry of
Mines and Energy prepare and  furnish  to the Bank, for its review
and comments, a proposal for the establishment of a Gas Technology
Development Unit under Part C  (ii) of the Project, which proposal
to take  account  of  the  recommendations  of  the planning study
currently  being  undertaken  by  MIGAS  for  such  purposes  and,
thereafter, taking  into  account  the  Bank's  comments,  if any,
establish such development  unit  in  accordance  with a timetable
satisfactory to the Bank.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in respect of  Parts  C  (ii),  C  (iii) and D of the
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out such part of the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the accounts referred  to  in paragraph (a) of
               this Section, and  those  for  the Special Account,
               for each fiscal  year  audited,  in accordance with
               appropriate   auditing    principles   consistently
               applied, by independent  auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  nine months after the end
               of each such year,  a  certified copy of the report
               of such audit by  the  said auditors, of such scope
               and in such detail  as  the Bank shall have reason-
               ably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning said accounts and  the audit thereof and
               said records as the  Bank  shall  from time to time
               reasonably request, including without limitation on
               the foregoing  its  unaudited  accounts  as soon as
               available, but not later  than six months after the
               end of each such year.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
        (i)    maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
       (ii)    retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
Page  6
               such expenditures;
      (iii)    enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
       (iv)    ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether the  statements  of  expenditures submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  a default shall occur in  the  performance by PGN of any
of its obligations under the Project Agreement;
     (b)  the  Borrower  shall  have  taken  any  action  for  the
dissolution or disestablishment of  PGN  or  for the suspension of
its operations, without having  obtained  the prior concurrence of
the Bank;
     (c)  any of  the  Governing  Laws  shall  have  been amended,
suspended,  abrogated,  repealed  or   waived   so  as  to  affect
materially and adversely the ability of  PGN to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement; and
     (d)  PGN shall have become  unable  to  pay its debts as they
mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by PGN or
by others whereby any  of  the  property  of  PGN  shall or may be
distributed amongst its creditors.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall  have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower; and
     (b)  any of the events  specified  in  paragraphs (b), (c) or
(d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  has  been  executed on
behalf of the Borrower and PGN;
     (b)  the execution of  a  gas  supply contract, acceptable to
the Bank, for the  supply  of  natural  gas  to PGN's Surabaya and
Medan transmission and  distribution  systems covering the Project
requirements; and
     (c)  the  execution  of  a  technical  assistance  agreement,
acceptable to the Bank, with  an  established gas utility in order
to assist PGN in the implementation of the Project.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
Page  7
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement  has  been duly authorized or
ratified by PGN, and  is  legally  binding  upon PGN in accordance
with its terms; and
     (b)  that  the  Subsidiary  Loan   Agreement  has  been  duly
authorized or ratified  by  the  Borrower  and  PGN and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and PGN in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this  Agreement  is   hereby   specified   for   the  purposes  of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The  Minister  of  Finance  of  the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Minister of Finance
          c/o Director General Budget
          Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
          P.O. Box 2458
          Jakarta, Indonesia
          Cable address:               Telex:
               MINISTRY FINANCE             DJMLN JKT 45799
               Jakarta                      DJMDN JKT 46415
                                            DEPKEU JKT 44319
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C.  20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:               Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                    197688 (TRT)
               Washington, D.C.             248423 (RCA)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                       By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative
Page  8
                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                       By /s/ Gautam Kaji
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each  Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated            % of
                           (Expressed in        Expenditures
    Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Works for                20,800,000        100%
     Parts A and
     B of the
     Project
(2)  Goods:
     (a)  for Parts A,        46,000,000        100% of foreign
          B and C(i)                            expenditures,
          of the                                100% of local
          Project                               expenditures
                               5,000,000        (ex-factory
     (b)  for Part C(ii)                        cost) and 65%
          of the                                of local ex-
          Project                               penditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
(3)  Consultants'
     services:
     (a)  for Part C(ii)       2,000,000)
          of the Project                )
                                        )       100%
     (b)  for Part D of          300,000)
          the Project
                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated            % of
                           (Expressed in        Expenditures
    Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(4)  Training:
     (a)  for Part C(i)        2,500,000)
          of the Project                )
                                        )
     (b)  for Part C(ii)       1,500,000)       100% of foreign
          of the Project                )       expenditures
                                        )
     (c)  for Part C(iii)        500,000)
          of the Project                )
(5)  Unallocated               7,400,000
                             ___________
          TOTAL               86,000,000
Page  9
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made for expenditures in respect of:
     (a)  Category (2) (b)  and  Category  (3)  (a) until the Bank
shall  have  received   (i)   the   Borrower's   approval  of  the
organization of the Gas  Technology Development Unit as determined
by its planning  study,  including  an implementation schedule and
reporting requirements satisfactory to the Bank, and (ii) a signed
technical assistance agreement, satisfactory  to the Bank, with an
established gas technology institute; and
     (b)  Category (3) (b) until the  Bank shall have approved the
terms of reference and the  expertise  required for the conduct of
each of the studies referred to  in  Part  D of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of  the  Project  are  to  promote  the use of
natural gas as fuel for power generation, manufacturing industries
and commercial  entities  in  and  around  Surabaya  and Medan; to
develop  Indonesian  expertise   in   long-term  planning  of  gas
utilization  through  the  skills  upgrading  of  PGN,  MIGAS, and
LEMIGAS; to improve PGN's management capabilities; to develop cost
effective  standards  and  to   promote  the  establishment  of  a
regulatory  system  for  safe  and  efficient  transportation  and
utilization of natural gas.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Provision of Natural Gas  Supply  System in Surabaya and
          its surrounding areas:
          (i)  Laying of about 80 km of high pressure transmission
               pipelines, about 190  km  of  medium pressure steel
               pipelines  and  about  165  km  of  medium pressure
               polyethylene pipelines;
         (ii)  Construction of  gas  metering, pressure regulating
               and odorization  stations  with  associated instru-
               mentation downstream of  the  city gate stations at
               about  five  locations,  and  about  four  pressure
               reducing stations on the pipeline networks; and
        (iii)  Construction of service  lines, pressure regulation
               and flow metering stations of about 375 medium size
               industries and about 150 commercial enterprises and
               the paper mill in Leces.
Part B:   Expansion of Natural Gas Supply System for Medan:
          (i)  Construction  of  about  24  km  of  high  pressure
               transmission  pipeline   with  associated  cathodic
               protection, pressure/flow monitoring facilities and
               three pressure reducing stations; and
Page  10
         (ii)  Construction   of   service   lines   and  pressure
               regulating and flow metering stations for PLN power
               station at Belawan.
Part C:   Technical Assistance:
          (i)  Enhancement of PGN's  skills in market development;
               planning,  design,   construction   management  and
               operation of natural  gas compression, transmission
               and  distribution  systems;  financial  management,
               cost control and  long-term planning; and efficient
               implementation of its  expansion project, including
               provision of related goods;
         (ii)  Strengthening of LEMIGAS  through,  inter alia, the
               establishment of a  Gas Technology Development Unit
               and provision of related goods; and
        (iii)  Upgrading  skills  in   MIGAS   to  facilitate  the
               coordination of development plans in the gas sector
               and  to  institute  a  regulatory  system  for safe
               utilization of natural gas.
Part D:
     The carrying  out  of  feasibility  studies  for, inter alia,
natural gas marketing in Palembang (South Sumatra), Jambi (Central
Sumatra), Batam Island (Riau), and Balikpapan.
                             *   *   *
     The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1996.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (Expressed in dollars)*
February 15, 1996                                1,565,000
August 15, 1996                                  1,625,000
February 15, 1997                                1,690,000
August 15, 1997                                  1,755,000
February 15, 1998                                1,825,000
August 15, 1998                                  1,895,000
February 15, 1999                                1,965,000
August 15, 1999                                  2,045,000
February 15, 2000                                2,120,000
August 15, 2000                                  2,205,000
February 15, 2001                                2,290,000
August 15, 2001                                  2,380,000
February 15, 2002                                2,470,000
August 15, 2002                                  2,565,000
February 15, 2003                                2,665,000
August 15, 2003                                  2,770,000
February 15, 2004                                2,875,000
August 15, 2004                                  2,990,000
February 15, 2005                                3,105,000
August 15, 2005                                  3,225,000
February 15, 2006                                3,350,000
August 15, 2006                                  3,480,000
February 15, 2007                                3,615,000
August 15, 2007                                  3,755,000
February 15, 2008                                3,900,000
August 15, 2008                                  4,050,000
February 15, 2009                                4,205,000
August 15, 2009                                  4,370,000
February 15, 2010                                4,540,000
August 15, 2010                                  4,710,000
Page  11
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04  (b)  of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the  principal  amount  of  any maturity of the
Loan to be  prepaid  shall  be  the  percentage  specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                          Premium
                                        The  interest   rate  (ex-
                                        pressed  as  a  percentage
                                        per  annum)  applicable to
                                        the  Loan  on  the  day of
                                        prepayment, multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                           0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not                           0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before                            1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Indonesia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
     With respect to Part C  (ii)  of the Project, goods estimated
to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed  the equivalent of $500,000, may be
procured under contracts  awarded  on  the  basis of comparison of
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers
eligible  under  the  Guidelines,  in  accordance  with procedures
Page  12
acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to  each  contract  for  goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $300,000  or more, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the  contract  required  to be funished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph  2  (d)  shall be furnished to the
Bank prior to the making of  the  first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals from the Loan  Account  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure. Such contracts, together  with such other information
as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably  request,  shall  be  retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of the Loan Agreement.
2.   The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts C (ii),
C (iii) and D of  the  Project,  the Borrower shall employ consul-
tants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be  satisfactory  to  the  Bank. Such consultants
shall be selected  in  accordance  with  principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on  the  basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories"  means all Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of  the  reasonable  cost  of  goods,  works  and services
required for the Project  and  to  be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
Page  13
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Bank  a  request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which  do  not  exceed the aggregate amount of
the  Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account,  the
               Borrower shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
               deposits into the Special Account at such intervals
               as the Bank shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the  time  of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish  to  the  Bank the documents
               and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4
               of this Schedule  for  the  payment  or payments in
               respect of which replenishment is requested. On the
               basis of  each  such  request,  the  Bank shall, on
               behalf of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the Loan
               Account and deposit  into  the Special Account such
               amount as the Borrower  shall have requested and as
               shall have been shown  by  said documents and other
               evidence to  have  been  paid  out  of  the Special
               Account  for   eligible   expenditures.   All  such
               deposits shall be  withdrawn  by  the Bank from the
               Loan   Account   under   the   respective  eligible
               Categories,  and   in   the  respective  equivalent
               amounts,  as  shall  have  been  justified  by said
               documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the  Borrower  shall,  at  such  time  as  the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the  Bank such documents and other
evidence  showing  that  such  payment  was  made  exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Bank shall not  be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be  made  by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph  (a)  of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible  Categories  less  the  amount  of any outstanding
special commitment  entered  into  by  the  Bank  pursuant to Sec-
tion 5.02 of the General  Conditions  with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of  twice  the amount of the Authorized
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after  and  to  the  extent  that  the  Bank  shall have been
satisfied that  all  such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit  in the
Special Account as of the date  of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment  out  of  the  Special   Account:  (i)  was  made  for  an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the Bank,  the  Borrower  shall, promptly upon notice
Page  14
from the Bank: (A)  provide  such  additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit  into  the Special Account (or, if the
Bank shall so request, refund to  the Bank) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or  the  portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. Unless  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  no further
deposit by the Bank into  the  Special Account shall be made until
the Borrower has provided  such  evidence  or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion  of  the  funds  on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank  made  pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or  for  cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of  this  Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
