Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                 F1IF4                  V
Report No. P-2863-YU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMEN
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON FOUR
PROPOSED LOANS
TO
KOSOVSKA BANKA PRISTINA
PRIVREDNA BANKA SARAJEVO
STOPANSKA BANKA SKOPJE
INVESTICIONA BANKA TITOGRAD
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A
FIFTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
October 1, 1980
This document bss a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bak authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
Currency Unit                         m                    Yugoslav Dinar (Din.)
US$1                                  -                    Din. 18.996
Din. 1                                                     US$0.053
Din. 1,000                                                 US$52.64
Din. 1,000,000                                             US$52,642.66
*    The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973; on August 29,
1980, the rate was Din. 27.45 - US$1.00.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
PBS        -             Privredna Banka Sarajevo
SBS        -             Stopanska Banka Skopje
TBT        -             Investiciona Banka Titograd
KBP        -             Kosovska Banka Pristina
BOAL       -             Basic Organization of Associated Labor
EEC        -             European Economic Community
ERR        -             Economic Rate of Return
FRR        -             Financial Rate of Return
GMP        -             Gross Material Product
ICB        -             International Competitive Bidding
LDR        -             Less Developed Regions (of Yugoslavia)
MDR        -             More Developed Regions (of Yugoslavia)
SDK        -             Sluzba Drustvenog Knjigovodstva or
Social Accounting Service



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YUGOSLAVIA
FIFTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loans and Project Summary
Borrowers:            Kosovska Banka Pristina (KBP)
Privredna Banka Sarajevo (PBS)
Investiciona Banka Titograd (IBT)
Stopanska Banka Skopje (SBS)
(Each Borrower being a party to a separate
Loan Agreement between the Bank and each
such Borrower).
Guarantor:            Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Am_cunts:                                     US$ million equivalent
KBP                       50
PBS                      30
IBT                      20
SBS                      10
110
Beneficiaries:        Small- and medium-sized industrial enterprises in Kosovo,
Bosnia-Herzegovina, Montenegro and Macedonia.
Terms:                The loans would bear interest at 9.25 percent per annum.
Repayment would be according to schedules reflecting the
composite amortization schedules of the sub-loans financed.
On-lending Terms:    Individual sub-loans would be repaid over a period not
exceeding 15 years from the date the Loan Agreements
are signed including grace periods of normally up to
three years and in cases of foreign cofinancing and
domestic joint ventures, up to five years. The banks
would on-lend the proceeds at 11 percent per annum
with the sub-borrowers carrying the foreign exchange
risk.
Project
Description:          At least twenty-five percent of each of the four loans
would be on-lent to help finance the foreign exchange
cost of imported equipment for investments in industrial
sub-projects with a labor-intensive orientation (defined
as projects creating employment at a maximum cost per job
of US$31,000) and the remainder of each of the four loans
would be on-lent for the same purpose (but without the
specific labor-intensive emphasis) to small- and medium-
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
sized industrial sub-projects in the Autonomous Province
of Kosovo and the Republics of Bosnia-Herzegovina,
Montenegro and Macedonia. Normally, the maximum sub-loan
would be US$4 million equivalent and only sub-projects
costing US$15 million equivalent or less will be financed.
There will be no limit on sub-loan or project size for
labor-intensive sub-projects.  Sub-projects involving
domestic joint ventures up to a total cost of US$20 mil-
lion equivalent may be financed. There are no special
risks associated with the loans.
Final Date for
Sub-proj_ect
Submissions:          Three years from the date of the Loan Agreements.
Free Limit:           US$2.0 million for individual small- and medium-sized
sub-projects and labor-intensive sub-projects up to
an aggregate of 60 percent of each bank's loan.
Estimated
Disbursements:                            1981   1982   1983   1984
- ----(US$ million)------
KBP Loan
Annual                               11.5   19.0   17.5    2.0
Cumulative                           11.5   30.5   48.0   50.0
PBS Loan
Annual                               13.5   14.0    2.5
Cumulative                           13.5   27.5   30.0
IBT Loan
Annual                                8.5    9.5    2.0
Cumulative                            8.5   18.0   20.0
SBS Loan
Annual                                3.0    6.0    1.0
Cumulative                            3.0    9.0   10.0
Staff Appraisal
Report:                Report Number 2965-YU, dated September 5, 1980
EMENA Projects Department



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON FOUR PROPOSED LOANS,
ONE EACH TO KOSOVSKA BANKA PRISTINA, PRIVREDNA BANKA
SARAJEVO, INVESTICIONA BANKA TITOGRAD AND STOPANSKA BANKA
SKOPJE WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE SOCIALIST
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on four proposed
loans, US$50 million equivalent to Kosovska Banka Pristina (KBP), US$30 million
equivalent to Privredna Banka Sarajevo (PBS), US$20 million equivalent to
Investiciona Banka Titograd (IBT) and US$10 million equivalent to Stopanska
Banka Skopje (SBS), all four with the guarantee of the Socialist Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia, to help finance the foreign exchange costs of invest-
ments in medium- and small-sized and labor-intensive industrial projects in
the four less developed regions (LDR) of Yugoslavia. The loans would bear
interest at 9.25 percent per annum and would be repaid according to schedules
reflecting the composite amortization schedules of the sub-loans financed.
Individual sub-loans will be repaid over a period not exceeding 15 years from
date of signing including grace periods of normally up to three years and
in cases of sub-projects involving foreign cofinancing or domestic joint
ventures, up to five years.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A Basic Economic Mission visited Yugoslavia in October and November
1976. Its report entitled, "Yugoslavia: Self-Management Socialism and
the Challenges of Development", 1615a-YU, was distributed to the Executive
Directors on April 5, 1978. An economic mission visited Yugoslavia in March
1979; its report entitled "Yugoslavia: Recent Economic Developments", 2623-YU,
was distributed to the Executive Directors on November 8, 1979.   Basic data
on the economy are given in Annex I.
Institutional Setting
3.        The social sector in Yugoslavia, which includes government, enter-
prises and public institutions has the leading role in economic and social
development. It accounts for 85 percent of GDP and employs over half of the
total labor force. The private sector predominantly consists of peasant
farms and small enterprises, mainly in handicrafts, construction, trade,
transport and tourism.  Decision making at all levels is governed by the
principle of workers' self-management involving a unique set of institutions
and instruments of economic policy. The current system has gradually evolved
1/   Part I of this report has been revised from Part I of the Report and
Recommendation of the President for the Eleventh Highway Project (Report
No. P-2733-YU) of March 6, 1980.



- 2 -
over the years with important new changes introduced in the Constitution of
1974. These changes reaffirm and further extend the decision making power of
workers. Responsibility for important social and economic decisions has been
shifted from the federation to the republics and provinces and communes.
Concurrently, the control of workers, through their workers' collectives, over
the socially owned means of production has been potentially increased by a
restructuring of all economic organizations. All economic organizations (such
as enterprises) consist of legally autonomous Basic Organizations of Associated
Labor (BOALs) which are the smallest units of production producing a marketable
output. The creation of BOALs as the basic decision making cell provides
workers with a more wieldy unit to manage particularly as the product of their
work becomes more easily identifiable.
4.        In addition to the strengthening of decision making power of
workers at the microeconomic level, recent changes have extended the concept
of workers' self-management to the macroeconomic plane. A set of instruments
called social compacts and self-management agreements are gradually gaining
importance in the system of macroeconomic management. These measures enable
widespread participation of all economic agents in the formulation of macro-
economic policy while extending the responsibility for policy implementation
to decentralized decision makers. During the current plan (1976-80) these
instruments have buttressed conventional monetary and fiscal policy in the
areas of prices, incomes, and employment. In addition a new system of economic
planning has been introduced.
5.        The new system of self-management planning is based as in central
planning on an ex ante medium-term view of the development of the econory.
Similarly, it is based on legally binding undertakings, in the form of medium
term contractual arrangements between all economic units, thus reflecting a
strong commitment to plan implementation. However, in sharp contrast to
central planning, plan formulation is based on participation of all economic
units, including government planning bodies, on a non-hierarchical basis.
Following an exhaustive exchange of information, the planning process involves
a series of iterations to achieve consistency amongst the plans of economic
units. Once an acceptable degree of consistency is achieved, economic units
enter into legally binding medium-term agreements on supply and demand. In
case agreements cannot be reached by the prescribed date the state can impose
a temporary injunction.
Economic Trends and Development Issues
6.        The economic development of Yugoslavia over the past two decades has
been impressive, characterized by rapid economic growth and structural trans-
formation. Between 1954 and 1975, GDP grew at an average annual rate of about
7 percent in real terms. The share of investment in GDP has been high
throughout the period, averaging 30 percent of GDP in recent years. Since
population grew at only 1 percent per annum, real per capita income more than
tripled during the period. Per capita GNP in 1978 is estimated to be US$2,380



- 3 -
at 1978 market prices. 1/ The social sector, in particular industry, has been
the driving force of the economy.  The share of industry in GDP has increased
to about 49 percent while agriculture has declined to about 14 percent, paving
the way for development of a modern industry/service oriented urban society.
The past two decades have also been associated with a growing integration of
Yugoslavia into the world economy. Between 1954 and 1976 exports and imports
of goods and non-factor services grew by around 8.8 percent and 9.5 percent
per annum in real terms, respectively; much of this in the convertible currency
areas.
7.        Although overall growth performance has been impressive, Yugoslavia
continues to be characterized by large regional income disparities. Four
regions, namely Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro, with two-thirds
of the national average per capita income, and Kosovo, with one-third, are
officially designated as less developed regions (LDR). The difference
between the most developed region, Slovenia, and the least developed, Kosovo,
is 6 to 1. In addition to these interregional disparities there are large intra-
regional disparities with differences in per capita income as high as 10 to 1
between communes. These disparities are a product of diverse factors, notably
differing shares of the low productivity agricultural sector and unfavorable
demographic conditions e.g. higher dependency ratios and population growth
rates. Until recently regional income disparities had tended to widen. Since
1971 sizeable concessionary credits (with about 50 percent grant element),
equal to about 9.3 percent of the GDP of the LDR in 1974, have been transferred
to the LDR through the Federal Fund for the Accelerated Development of the
Less Developed Regions.
8.        Linked to the issue of regional income disparities has been the
problem of providing adequate employment opportunities in the modern sector.
Between 1954-76 employment in the modern social sector increased by around 4
percent per annum facilitating rapid outflows from the agricultural sector.
Despite this impressive record, considerable imbalances exist. Large produc-
tivity and income differentials exist between the modern (mainly social) and
the traditional (private agricultural) sectors. The persistence of these
differentials has resulted in a high level of demand for modern sector employ-
ment on the part of the rural labor force. The increase of the working age
population caused by the relatively high population growth in the LDR has
further added to employment demand. Large numbers of Yugoslavs have sought
temporary employment abroad since the late 1960s. At its peak in 1973 Yugo-
slavia had about 1,100,000 external migrants. However, since 1973, with
changes in policy and the slower growth in the host countries, this trend has
been reversed, accentuating domestic imbalances and placing added pressure on
the social sector to create new work places. Unemployment rates have risen
rapidly from about 7 percent in 1971 to over 12 percent in 1978. 2/ The
1/   According to World Bank Atlas methodology.
2/   These rates are not strictly comparable to those in other countries.  They
represent the ratio of registered job-seekers (including some currently
employed) to social sector labor force. The ratio of registered unemploy-
ment to total resident labor force would have been about 8.3 percent in
1978.



incidence of unemployment is highly regionalized, because population and labor
force growth rates, as well as the proportion of agricultural employment, are
all much higher in the LDR. In 1978 unemployment rates ranged from 26.9
percent in Kosovo to 1.5 percent in Slovenia.
Recent Developments
9.        Yugoslavia has achieved a high rate of economic growth in the first
four years of its current economic plan (1976-80). Despite unfavorable
external conditions, GDP has risen at an average rate of over 6 percent
since 1976. Nevertheless, Yugoslavia's economic development in recent years
has continued to be characterized by stop-go policies and cyclical behavior.
Rapid economic growth and inflationary pressure have resulted in balance of
payments difficulties, leading to measures restricting the level of economic
activity. Such stabilization measures reduced economic growth well below the
historical trend rate in 1975 and 1976, and in the latter year the current
account of the balance of payments rebounded into surplus. Since then there
has been a strong revival in the level of economic activity, but balance
of payments difficulties have resurfaced.
10.       The main engine of Yugoslavia's impressive economic growth during
the current plan has been industry. Although industrial production rose by
only 4 percent in 1976, it averaged almost 9 percent during 1977-79. The
plan placed particular emphasis on energy, raw materials and intermediate
goods production to increase import substitution. These priority sectors
performed well during the first three years of the plan although production
fell slightly short of planned targets. In contrast, the non-priority sectors,
particularly consumer goods, grew at a faster rate than projected. Climatic
factors have resulted in marked annual fluctuations in agricultural output,
which rose between 1976 and 1979 at an aver-age annual rate of 2.9 percent
(compared to a target of 4 percent).
11.       Fixed investment grew at an average rate of almost 9.5 percent
between 1976 and 1979, considerably outpacing the 8.0 percent plan target.
The plan's emphasis on import substitution has led to a wave of investment in
the priority sectors, particularly in energy but also in mining, metallurgy,
electrical machinery and chemicals. The share of gross fixed investment
in GDP has risen from 28 percent in 1975 to almost 32 percent in 1979.
Strong social pressures on enterprises to create new work places through
additional investment may have been important in causing the higher than
planned level of investment. Overall social sector employment growth has been
rapid at over 4 percent per annum during 1976-79 (compared to a plan target of
3.5 percent) and has been even faster in the LDR. Despite these achievements,
the combined impact of net immigration, demographic factors and the contraction
in the rural labor force has caused the unemployment rate to rise from about
10 percent in 1975 to over 12 percent in 1978.
12.       Inflation has also been cyclical.  The stabilization measures
introduced in 1975 and 1976 produced a sharp decline in the rate of inflation
(as measured by the retail price index), which fell from 25 percent in 1975 to
9 percent in 1976. The subsequent revival in activity was accompanied by a
resurgence of inflation. In 1977 and 1978 the retail price index rose by



13 percent, while in 1979, in part due to increases in indirect taxation and
fuel prices, it increased by 24 percent. Cost push factors have also been
present. Although real wage increases have grown more slowly than productivity,
nominal wages have risen rapidly, and enterprises--in order to preserve their
high savings and investment levels--have passed a large part of these increases
on in the form of higher prices.
13.       Yugoslavia's balance of payments record has been one of the weakest
aspects of its performance during the current plan. The plan adopted an
import substitution strategy, and envisaged annual merchandise export growth
of 8 percent to counteract the expected decline in workers' remittances.
Although import growth fluctuated widely between 1976 and 1979, Yugoslavia was
successful in containing the average volume of import growth within the 4.5
percent annual overall limit set by the plan.  Nevertheless, rises in import
prices boosted its import bill sharply. Oil price increases alone added
$500 million to the import bill in 1979. Merchandise exports expanded
vigorously in 1976, but their growth averaged only 2.0 percent per year during
1976-79. Buoyant domestic demand, generated by a rapid rise of nominal
household incomes and high rates of investment, was one of the underlying
causes of this deterioration. Workers' remittances, however, continued to
rise in real terms, partly cushioning the balance of payments. The current
account of the balance of payments, after achieving a surplus in 1976, moved
into deficit in 1977 and reached an estimated $3.7 billion in 1979. In
response, government targets for 1980 emphasized stabilization: investment
and output were targeted to rise considerably less rapidly and great stress
has been placed on price stability and the expansion of exports. In early
June 1980, the Government announced a 30 percent devaluation of the dinar
against the US dollar together with a temporary price freeze. This was
followed by amendments to the 1980 plan resolution, reducing growth targets
further and revising merchandise trade targets in the light of terms of trade
developments. Initial results for both exports and imports in 1980 are
encouraging and suggest a significant reduction in the current account deficit
will be achieved. A stand-by arrangement with supplementary financing
equivalent to SDR 339 million has been agreed with the International Monetary
Fund in support of the Government's program to reduce the balance of payments
deficit. Stabilization measures, which will entail slower growth in order to
ease inflationary and balance of payments pressures, are expected to continue
in the early 1980's.
Medium Term Prospects
14.       Yugoslavia's current plan was prepared during a period of mounting
external difficulties which were precipitated by the 1974 oil price increases.
It responded to these problems by a concerted import substitution drive in
a number of priority sectors. Despite considerable success in reducing its
dependence on imports, Yugoslavia once again is formulating its five-year
plan against a background of substantial external imbalance and a renewed
tightening of foreign exchange constraints. Priority investments undertaken
in the 1976-80 Plan should help Yugoslavia to meet its future energy, raw
material and intermediate goods requirements increasingly from domestic
sources. Yugoslavia will continue to emphasize import substitution in the
forthcoming plan (1981-85). The next plan will also need to emphasize



- 6 -
merchandise exports, by making it more attractive for enterprises to orient
their efforts towards exports rather than home markets. Yugoslavia's export
opportunities should be widened by a new cooperation agreement with the EEC,
which provides Yugoslavia with duty-free access to EEC markets for a wide
range of industrial products and provides concessions on a number of important
agricultural products. Nevertheless, the probable continuation of its external
difficulties may force Yugoslavia to accept a period of slower growth than it
has achieved in the current plan.
15.       Slower growth will make it more difficult for the social sector to
generate additional employment at the pace of the current plan while the
demand for new work places will remain high. Given these difficulties,
more emphasis will be laid on the development of labor intensive activities
including small-scale enterprises.
16.       Finally, the reduction of regional disparities will remain a major
objective of Yugoslavia's economic planning. Financial transfers between
republics will play an important role in this process. In addition, the
Yugoslavs have experimented with encouraging social enterprises in the more
developed regions (MDR) to make direct investments in the LDR. As experience
is gained, these joint ventures could make a significant contribution to the
overall efficiency of production within the LDRs by facilitating the transfer
of technological and managerial knowhow within Yugoslavia. The regional
problem, however, is expected to remain one of the least tractable facing
Yugoslavia.
Creditworthiness
17.       Between 1976 and 1979 gross medium and long-term capital inflows
averaged $2.6 billion per annum. Total medium and long-term debt (out-
standing and disbursed) which was $5.8 billion in 1976 is estimated to exceed
$12 billion at the end of 1979. In 1979, a significant portion of Yugoslavia's
outstanding euromarket obligations were refinanced on improved terms. Short
term capital inflows were erratic between 1976 and 1979, but--in common with
several other countries--short-term debt rose in 1979 (by about $875 million)
to reach an estimated $1.3 billion. Official foreign exchange reserves fell
by $1.2 billion in 1979 and at the end of the year amounted to slightly over
$1.1 billion. The value of imports covered by official reserves declined from
the equivalent of 2.6 months of imports in 1976 to 0.8 months in 1979.
18.       About three-quarters of the debt extended to Yugoslavia in recent
years has been contracted in convertible currencies through commercial
sources. The bulk of this commercial credit has been provided in the form
of suppliers' credits. Nevertheless, financial credits obtained in the
eurocurrency market have become increasingly important for financing the
economy's foreign exchange requirements. The World Bank is the principal
source of non-commercial long-term credit to Yugoslavia. Yugoslavia will
continue to require a substantial inflow of foreign lending if it is to achieve
its medium-term objectives. The debt service ratio which--taking into account
workers' remittances--averaged 16 percent between 1976 and 1979, is expected



to increase to over 20 percent during the next medium term plan (1981-85).
Given Yugoslavia's past debt service record, pragmatism and its demonstrated
capacity to implement firm stabilization policies when these are called for,
Yugoslavia remains creditworthy for a substantial level of Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA 1/
19.       The Bank has made 61 loans to Yugoslavia totalling about $2,612
million. Of this amount, approximately 46 percent ($1,214.4 million) has been
for 22 loans for the transportation sector -- 12 for highways, 6 for railways,
and one each for a natural gas pipeline and an oil pipeline, and two for a
port project. Historically, Bank lending has concentrated on infrastructure
including, in addition to the transportation loans, five power loans, one
telecommunications loan, two water supply and sewerage and five multipurpose
loans (two of which include substantial irrigation components). In recent
years, Bank lending has increasingly focussed on the agriculture sector and
nine loans totalling $480 million (about 18 percent of the total amount lent
to Yugoslavia) have now been made for agriculture. Fourteen loans amounting to
$300 million (about 11 percent of the total) have also been made for industry
and two for tourism amounting to $30 million. The $27 million first Bank loan
for air pollution control was approved May 25, 1976. In addition, IFC has
made fourteen investments in Yugoslavia totalling about $212 million. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of July 31,
1980 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
20.       The interrelated objectives which the Bank has pursued in its
lending to Yugoslavia remain essentially unchanged. These objectives are:
(i) to support Yugoslav efforts to address the critical issues
of regional disparities and unemployment;
(ii) to promote agricultural development in both the individual
farmer and social sectors by providing basic infrastructure
and credit facilities;
(iii) to encourage structural reforms in the major sectors through
improved coordination, institution-building and technical
assistance;
(iv) to help in identifying and financing gaps in basic infra-
structure-particularly transport and energy; and
(v) to alleviate critical shortages of convertible foreign
exchange by providing part of the required long-term capital,
encouraging and promoting Yugoslavia's efforts to tap other
sources of medium- and long-term capital, and supporting
projects which generate or conserve foreign exchange.
1/   Part II of this report has been revised from Part II of the Report and
Recommendation of the President for the Eleventh Highway Project (Report
No. P-2733-YU) of March 6, 1980.



- 8-
It is obvious that each and every Bank operation cannot address all these
objectives nor be entirely oriented towards the welfare of the LDR, but the
basic thrust of the Bank's activities in Yugoslavia has increasingly been
towards the development of the LDR and the agricultural sector in particular.
21.       The Bank's emphasis on assuring the accelerated development of the
LDR is fully in accord with the Federal Government's policies embodied in the
current (1976-80) Development Plan and in the Guidelines for the preparation
of the next (1981-85) Development Plan. For the current plan period, the
Federal Government has agreed with its constitutents on the level of domestic
resources to be channeled to the LDR through the Federal Fund mechanism (see
para 7) as well as the distribution of external resources including Bank
lending. The distribution pattern for Bank lending has been determined
broadly on the basis of income levels and population size of particular
regions. While the Bank's ability to achieve such a distribution is clearly
influenced by the ability of the regions to generate viable projects, recent
experience in bringing forward well designed and economically sound projects
for the LDR is cause for confidence that the level of Bank activity in the LDR
can be increased, though there will undoubtedly be year-to-year fluctuations.
22.       In recognition of the fact that such an expanded investment program
for the LDR would need to be preceded by a systematic survey of these regions
to take stock of development potential and identify constraints, the Bank
undertook and completed economic surveys of the four LDR. These surveys,
coupled with intensified Bank assistance in project formulation and ongoing
economic and sector analysis, reinforce the impact of the Bank's participation
in the development of the LDR.
23.       Over the past five years, almost two-thirds of Bank lending has
been to the LDR through operations for transportation, power, agricultural
development and industrial credit. In the next few years significant Bank
lending to the LDR through similar operations but with even more emphasis on
agriculture is expected to continue, with special attention being given to the
needs of Kosovo, the least developed of the LDR.
24.       The Bank helped formulate the 1973 "Green Plan", a comprehensive
framework for agricultural development, which recognized the need to encourage
the role of the individual, low-income sector (which holds almost 85 percent of
the cultivated land and employs over 90 percent of the farm population). As a
follow-up, the 1976 "Green Plan" called for even greater attention to agricul-
ture and while the social sector is the main vehicle for growth, the Plan
clearly recognizes that the impetus for accelerated growth must necessarily be
derived from the underexploited resources of the individual farming sector.
25.       The agricultural sector deserves attention for a number of develop-
mental considerations. It is the obvious vehicle for addressing the problems
of rural poverty which underlies regional disparity; it can provide opportuni-
ties for productively employing the rural population, thus reducing the
pressure for creating non-agricultural employment; and it contributes to
reducing reliance on imports and improving the prospects for exports of food



- 9 -
and other agricultural products. A recently approved (February 26, 1980)
Third Agricultural Credit Project as well as forthcoming projects for agro-
industries, irrigation and regional development will support agricultural
development in general and the individual farmer sector in particular.
26.       Decentralized management, the cornerstone of Yugoslavia's socio-
economic philosophy, adds to the inherent difficulties involved in formulating
coherent sector plans. One of the principal features of the 1974 Constitu-
tional changes and subsequent legislation, however, has been to revamp the
institutional framework and to introduce mechanisms for coordination. Given
the complexity of the Yugoslav system which requires that the programs of
all enterprises be discussed, negotiated and reflected in legally binding
agreements, the process of dealing with problems and of evolving acceptable
solutions is cumbersome. The Bank has therefore seen it important to exert
its influence in shaping the policy framework and fostering coordination,
particularly in the power and transport sectors where significant progress has
been achieved.
27.       Through its future operations the Bank will seek to consolidate the
institutional reform successfully achieved in the past. Further development
of the appraisal and supervisory capabilities of the banks will remain a major
objective. In transport, intermodal coordination will be sought through the
implementation of the results of the rail costs and road user studies under-
taken under the Eighth Highway Project (Loan No. 1377-YU approved March 15,
1977). The Bank will concentrate its lending operations in areas where its
incremental institutional and/or policy coordination impact is greatest.
28.       A persistent foreign resource gap looms as the major impediment
to Yugoslavia's ability to maintain its growth momentum and to address the
critical issues of unemployment and regional disparities. The Bank has
successfully introduced Yugoslavia to organized cofinancing and become a
significant vehicle for attracting additional sources of credit through
cofinancing arrangements, forging new banking relationships for Yugoslavia and
in some cases securing improved terms and conditions of commercial loans for
the country. The Bank, however, remains the major source of long-term
external capital for the foreseeable future and, equally important, its
significant level of operations in Yugoslavia is regarded by international
financing institutions as evidence of international confidence in Yugoslavia's
economic performance, policies and prospects. While an increase in cofinancing
on Bank projects is desirable, both the projects and sub-projects involved
must be suitable for cofinancing given the complex system of management in
general and the banking and foreign exchange allocation systems in particular.
29.       Yugoslavia's debt to the Bank amounts to about 8.7 percent of
Yugoslavia's total debt, outstanding and disbursed. The outstanding debt to
the Bank is expected to remain a fairly stable ratio of Yugoslavia's total
debt outstanding and disbursed. Service on Bank loans as a proportion of
total debt service was 5.8 percent in 1979 and is projected to be about 5
percent by 1985.



- 10 -
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
A. The Industrial Sector
Industry - Characteristics and Performance
30.       Industry has been one of the principal sources of Yugoslavia's
impressive economic growth since 1954; it has opened up the country to the
world economy, provided employment to the growing labor force and accelerated
development in the less developed regions (LDR). During 1970-78, the indus-
trial sector continued to grow very rapidly at 7.6 percent per annum, consider-
ably higher than the growth rate of 6.2 percent per annum for the economy as a
whole. In 1978 industry 1/ accounted for 39 percent of GMP 2/ and generated
38 percent of employment and 94 percent of total merchandise exports.
31.       While the industrial structure of Yugoslavia is fairly diversified,
it is still characterized by the predominance of large scale basic industries,
namely energy, ferrous and non-ferrous metals, chemicals and pulp and paper,
with their pronounced capital intensive investment patterns. This is essen-
tially the result of development emphasis on energy production and exploita-
tion of, and processing facilities based on, the country's natural resources.
In 1977 basic industries accounted for 56 percent of social sector fixed
assets but only 32 percent of industrial value-added and 21 percent of social
sector employment.
32.       One of the notable trends in the industrial sector between 1970
and 1977 is the rapid growth of investment in fixed assets (8.4 percent in
real terms), resulting in an increasing share of industrial investment in
total social sector investment (from 37 percent to 44 percent). The high rate
of investment enabled rapid expansion of employment opportunities, particularly
in the LDR where social sector employment 3/ during 1975-78 grew at an annual
rate of 4.5 percent, compared to 4.2 percent in Yugoslavia.
33.       In 1978 industrial exports at $5.3 billion accounted for 94 percent
of total merchandise exports. Exports are fairly diversified, with no one
industry contributing more than 10 percent to total merchandise exports.
Despite the high investment growth in industry, export growth has been low,
1/   In this part the Yugoslav definition of industry is employed, i.e.
manufacturing, agricultural processing, mining and quarrying are included
while construction and public utilities are excluded.
2/   Gross material product or social product excludes "non-productive" (in
Yugoslav terminology) services such as education , health, administra-
tion, defense and other public services. GDP is approximately 14 percent
higher than GMP.
3/   Most of Yugoslavia's industrial enterprises are in the social sector.



- 11 -
increasing by only 1.4 percent per annum in real terms between 1973-78. The
major weakness has been in the markets of the developed market economies,
particularly the EEC, and principally reflects trends in exports of primary
products. These have fared poorly for several reasons including domestic
supply difficulties, restrictions on market access and conscious decisions to
export products with higher domestic value added. Performance in manufactures
has been better, but still insufficient to meet Yugoslavia's balance of
payments objectives. Total industrial imports, comprising mainly intermediate/
capital goods and raw materials, were US$8.5 billion in 1978. This,was almost
double industrial export earnings and represented 91 percent of total imports.
The large volume of industrial imports has contributed to the substantial and
worsening balance of payments deficit.
Industry in the LDR
34.       Over the past 30 years, the share of industry in GMP in the four
IDR grew faster than in the other regions. Though the IDR started with a
considerably lower share of industry after the Second World War, by 1978 the
share of industry in GMP was 41 percent in the LDR compared to 38 percent in
the NDR. Because of the LDR's considerable wealth of natural resources in
mining and energy, basic industries have played a very important role in the
economies of the LDR, implying a more capital intensive industrial structure
than for the MDR. Thus, for 1977 the average overall capital-output ratio for
the LDR was about 1.5 times that for the MDR, while the average value of fixed
assets per worker in the LDR was almost 1.2 times that in the MDR. Among the
LDR, Montenegro and Kosovo continue to have the most capital-intensive
industrial structures. In spite of their rapid development, the industries in
the LDR continue to be affected by a number of development issues which the
proposed project expects to tackle in part (paras.35-37).
35.       Reduction of interregional income disparities has been below expecta-
tions. Although high rates of investment and substantial resource transfers
through the Federal Fund and Budget have resulted in GMP growth rates in the
LDR comparable to those in the MDR, the LDR's relative per capita income
position has not improved since 1970, principally because of the high popula-
tion growth of the LDR. If the per capita income in the LDR is to increase,
it is imperative that the momentum of production growth be maintained. For
this purpose, the proposed fifth industrial credit will assist in the develop-
ment of manufacturing industries in the LDR and in Kosovo in particular.
36.       The rate of unemployment 1/ in Yugoslavia reached 12 percent in 1978
but the average rate in the LDR was 21 percent, with Kosovo in the worst
position with a rate of over 26 percent. The high rate of natural population
growth, continued intraregional migration and the return of migrant workers
from abroad resulting in net immigration are important causes of the LDR's
employment situation. Further contributing to this problem is the high
capital intensity of the LDR's investment projects. This pattern results from
the continued predominance of basic industries in their economies, following
1/   See footnote 2 on Page 3.



- 12 -
the objectives of the 1976-80 Plan. To address these problems of unemployment
and interregional disparities, the next Plan will give more emphasis to
diversifying the industrial structure of the LDR by encouraging investment in
medium- and small-scale processing industries, and promoting labor intensive
projects. These objectives are supported in the proposed project.
37.       The weak performance of Yugoslav exports in the face of import needs
will further worsen Yugoslavia's balance of payments difficulties. This
could, in due course, constrain capacity utilization in industry. Enterprises
have paid little attention to developing export strategies, preferring to sell
in the easier domestic market. The deterioration in the balance of payments,
explained to a large extent by low export growth, raises particular concern in
view of the poor performance in 1979. The Bank is completing a study on the
balance of payments of Yugoslavia, with particular emphasis on export per-             a
formance, and this study has been the subject of discussions between the Bank
and the Yugoslav authorities earlier this year. The Yugoslavs themselves are
also undertaking a number of studies on the export problem. This project does
not fully address export promotion because it is more appropriate to devise an
export strategy for the banks only after the on-going studies and associated
policy measures are completed and/or enacted. However, in preparation for
possible future industrial credit projects, a program of action was agreed
upon during negotiations to idantify the export potential for manufacturing
industries (excluding agro-industries) in each of the four LDR (see para 69).
These programs will be coordinated with the other work on developing an
appropriate export strategy referred to above.
B.  The Financial Sector
38.       Multi-purpose banks are the dominant form of financial intermedia-
ries carrying out all commercial and investment banking functions for all
sectors of the economy. Each region of Yugoslavia has such a major bank,
though these banks can also operate in other regions. The four proposed
borrowers are in this category and, together with their member basic banks
(see para 39), handle some 80 percent of investment and commercial banking in
their respective regions. In addition to these banks, the financial sector
includes the National Banks, which essentially perform the role of central
banks at the Federal and Regional levels, post office savings institutions,
investment loan funds and insurance institutions.
39.       A Federal Banking Law, effective in January 1978, reorganized
the banks to make their services and functions more closely integrated and
directed to the financial needs of their founders (which are their depositors
and borrowers). The new Law changed the banks to a three-tier organizational
commercial banking structure consisting of internal, basic and associated
banks. An internal bank is essentially a service organization established by
BOALs (see para 3) within a Kombinat. A basic bank may carry out all kinds of
credit and banking operations in Yugoslavia, within the framework of its own
resources, and as such forms the core of the restructured banking system. It
can be founded by any social legal entity. An associated bank is established



- 13 -
as a legal entity through a self-management agreement of two or more basic
banks, its main function being to concentrate resources for financing major
investments and to carry on foreign business transactions on behalf of its
member basic banks. It also administers the Federal Fund allocations in its
region. The extent to which this reorganization may have affected the decision-
making role and autonomy of the associated banks is not clear but is an important
issue which the Bank is continuing to monitor closely.
40.       The interest rate structure in Yugoslavia is characterized by
highly differentiated interest rates among the republics and provinces, by
purposes and by sources of funds. Interest rates are often set at low levels
compared to inflation rates.  Long-term loans made from the banks' domestic
sources carry interest rates ranging from 3 percent to 10 percent. The lower
rates apply to resources from the Federal and Republican/Provincial Funds for
the Accelerated Development of Less Developed Regions. Annual rates of
inflation (retail prices) have varied considerably over the last four years,
averaging about 14 percent in the period 1976-79. While inflation increased
sharply in 1979 and 1980, the rate of inflation for the next three years is
projected to average 15 percent. In order to further the Bank's understanding
of the role of interest rates in the present system of decision making in
Yugoslavia, the Government of Yugoslavia at the Banks instance commis-
sioned a comprehensive interest rate study as part of the Second Agricultural
Credit Project.
41.       The study provides an excellent description of the Yugoslav system,
and concludes that non-interest factors arising out of the uniqueness of the
Yugoslav system and its planning mechanism (see para 5), predominate in the
allocation of resources and in determining capital intensity of investments.
It finds that in the current Yugoslav context, interest rates play a signifi-
cant role only in the allocation of resources for non-priority investments
where income maximization is the dominant criterion. Although the study does
not fully define the role interest rates should play in the future, it concludes
that future policy shoufd move to higher interest rates being charged on
non-priority investments, and higher rates being offered on the time deposits
of individuals and deposits of institutional savers. These recommendations
are being used as a basis for continuing our dialogue with the Yugoslavs on
the role of interest rates. They are also being pursued by the Yugoslavs in
the process of drawing up their 1981-85 plan. Forthcoming country economic
and sector missions will follow up these initial discussions on the recommenda-
tions of the interest rate study in association with the dialogue on the
policy framework (see para 66) and the application of the new planning system
as it affects, inter alia, priority project selection and design. Continuing
institution building aspects of our agricultural and industrial credit projects
will aim to support and strengthen resource allocation, particularly through
improving the criteria for project selection and evaluation.
42.       Within the framework of the regional development plans and their
own plans, the multi-purpose banks, including the four borrowers under the
proposed loan, play a key role in allocating funds to sound projects. The
demand on these banks for financing has consistently exceeded the supply of
resources available to them, allowing them to be selective in deciding on
projects they will support. They have the authority, working in cooperation



- 14 -
with the regional Economic Chambers (which encompass associations of workers
in the different economic sectors), to approve, modify or reject specific
investment proposals. The banks are keenly aware of the unemployment problem
and the disparities between developed and underdeveloped communes in their
regions. They, therefore, give priority to labor-intensive projects and
encourage new enterprises, whenever possible, to locate in the underdeveloped
communes.
43.       Total deposits have increased substantially over the past few years.
Most are of a short-term maturity and, therefore, the banks have to rely
heavily on the federal and regional funds to meet the medium- and long-term
domestic investment requirements. The most important activity of the banks in
mobilizing foreign resources is the issue of guarantees in favor of machinery
suppliers. The banks' other efforts in mobilizing foreign resources are
directed at attracting deposits of Yugoslav workers abroad and obtaining
foreign loans. In the face of growing current account deficits, foreign
currency loans of banks have increased rapidly during the last few years to
finance priority development projects. As the balance of payments situation
is not expected to improve substantially in the foreseeable future, the banks
will have to continue their efforts to mobilize long-term foreign currency
resources for priority projects.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
44.       The proposed loans and project are summarized in the Loans and
Project Summary at the beginning of this report and described in detail in the
"Staff Appraisal Report on a Fifth Industrial Credit Project" No. 2965-YU
dated September 5, 1980. This report is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. The project was appraised by a mission which visited
Yugoslavia in October and November 1979. Negotiations were held in Washington
in August, 1980. The Yugoslav delegation was led by Mr. Bozidar Radunovic,
Deputy Federal Secretary for Finance.
Background
45.       The proposed Fifth Project is essentially a sequel to the First,
Second, Third and Fourth Industrial Credit Projects (Loans Nos. 1012-1013 of
June 21, 1974, Loan No. 1277 of June 14, 1976 and Loans Nos. 1611 - 1614 of
July 26, 1978). These loans had the dual objectives of (a) financing small-
and medium-sized sub-projects in manufacturing and processing industries,
thus assisting in the creation of employment and the development of the LDR;
and (b) institution-building. This loan is directed towards manufacturing
industries larger than those covered by the IFC investment in small scale
enterprises but smaller than those which would be considered for direct loans
or investments by the Bank and IFC. All the participating banks under the
proposed Fifth Project, Kosovska Banka Pristina (KBP), Privredna Banka Sarajevo
(PBS), Investiciona Banka Titograd (IBT) and Stopanska Banka Skopje (SBS) have
committed their portions of the earlier loans at a satisfactory rate.



- 15 -
46.       Total employment created by sub-projects financed under the Third and
Fourth Industrial Credit projects is estimated at 12,200 jobs. The estimated
cost per job created ranges from $5,400 to $172,000, with an average of $31,300
in 1979 prices. Twenty percent of the credits were earmarked for labor
intensive sub-projects i.e. those creating jobs at a cost of less than $23,000
equivalent in 1979 prices; as of September 1, 1980, the four banks had com-
mitted $19.0 million for such sub-projects, with an average cost per job of
about $18,300. The estimated financial rate of return (FRR) and economic rate
of return (ERR) of the sub-projects ranged from 12 percent to 41 percent and 12
percent to 47 percent respectively, compared to the agreed minimum of 11
percent.
47.       The last three industrial credit projects encouraged foreign co-
financing by providing a longer grace period for cofinanced sub-projects.
The results to date are encouraging. For the second project 40 percent of
sub-projects involved foreign cofinancing; for the third and fourth projects
by end 1979 over 50 percent of sub-projects involved such cofinancing,
equivalent to 41 percent of Bank commitments at that date. Cofinancing has
been primarily in the form of medium-term foreign commercial credits.
48.       Institution building under the Bank's industrial credit projects has
progressed satisfactorily. The quality of appraisal work has shown overall
improvement with some relapses due to staff shortages. Further improvements
particularly in economic and market appraisal of sub-projects are aimed for
(see para 69). The first full official audit including a detailed portfolio
analysis has been carried out by SDK on the 1979 accounts of the four banks.
The information resulting from these audits, and the outcome of on-going
studies on more general subjects, such as interest rates in Yugoslavia and
prospects for small-scale and labor intensive industries, will enable the Bank
to conduct an indepth analysis of the banks under the setting established by
the 1978 Banking Law. This will be done in conjunction with the preparation of
the first Project Completion Report on the industrial credits, scheduled for
1981.
49.       Disbursements under the third and fourth industrial credits have
been very satisfactory. As of September 1, 1980, disbursements were about 25
percent higher than those expected at the time of appraisal, indicating the
high absorptive capacity in the LDR for the financing provided. These credits
are expected to be fully disbursed by mid-1981, one year ahead of appraisal
estimates.
Objectives of the Proposed Loans
50.       The proposed project will provide foreign exchange resources to
Yugoslavia to finance industrial development, help accelerate the economic
development of the LDR, address the unemployment problem in the LDR, and
assist the participating banks and in particular IBT and KBP to further
strengthen their institutional capabilities (see para 69). In addition,
the project provides for an in-depth analysis of the achievements of the
industrial credit loans, extended since 1974 to the four banks, as part of



- 16 -
the preparation of the first completion report on these loans. Finally, an
agreement has been reached on a program of action to prepare for further
industrial credit lending, with a particular assessment of the role of the
banks in promoting exports from their regions.
The Borrowing Banks
51.       The four borrowers KBP, PBS, IBT and SBS are associated banks (see
para 39). Each bank has its own self-management agreement and statutes; its
operations are regulated by the National Bank and various Federal directives,
and supervised by the Social Accounting Service (SDK)o The Assembly of a bank
is its highest governing body; the Assembly of an associated bank is made
up of delegates elected by the members of the basic banks. Each Assembly
approves the Five Year Plan, Annual Plan and Business Policy (including
interest rates) of its bank, and these plans are harmonized with the plans of
the basic banks and their members, as well as with the Republican/Provincial
Plans and the National Plan.
52.       The Assembly appoints, for a four-year term, each bank's President
who is the chief executive. Appointments are made on the basis of professional
competence, changes are infrequent and the quality of senior management is
generally good. At the end of 1979, the number of employees at the associated
banks varied from 173 in IBT to 448 in SBS. All four banks have similar
organizations, divided into functional departments.
Policies and Procedures
53.       The four banks do not have formal financial policies per se concern-
ing their operations such as exposure limits and maximum debt to equity ratio.
Nevertheless, they generally follow prudent-practices (see para 54). Any
substantial allocation of funds to a particular project has to be in accordance
with the Regional Plan. The four banks use similar procedures for project
appraisal. All projects are first examined and approved by member basic banks,
and projects which exceed their resources, and/or involve federal or republic/
provincial funds, or foreign exchange, are forwarded to the associated banks
for further detailed appraisal and approval. All banks have qualified project
appraisal and supervision staff, though staff shortages sometimes occur.
During 1979 this problem existed particularly in KBP but, following close
supervision by the Bank, it has taken measures to alleviate this situation.
IBT has experienced staff shortages more recently and necessary action is envi-
saged to rectify this acute problem (see para 69). The quality of appraisal
reports received from the banks is generally acceptable and has shown a
general overall improvement, with occasional relapses.  Further improvement is
aimed at, particularly in economic and marketing aspects, technical information
provided and translation. The FRR and ERR are calculated for all sub-projects
above the free limit, as well as for selected small sub-projects. Supervision
work is in general satisfactory, as are procurement and disbursement proce-
dures. However, the staff shortages often interfere with regular supervision



- 17 -
schedules. IBT especially needs to intensify its project supervision work and
steps are being taken to improve its performance in this regard. The banks
are increasingly more involved in the earlier, promotional aspects of project
development. The tentative project pipelines for all four banks are now sub-
stantial.
Financial Position
54.       The banks plan their operations on a disbursement rather than a
commitment basis. As a result, each bank (except IBT) has substantial over-
commitments vis-a-vis available resources at any point in time which it
expects to cover by transfers from the Federal Fund for priority projects and
other sources. The banks maintain a tight liquidity position which is regu-
lated by the National Bank of Yugoslavia together with regional National banks
and supervised by SDK (see para 51). Debt/equity ratios, although seemingly
high at between 12.6:1 to 19.4:1, are not to be conventionally interpreted in
the Yugoslav context. The largest source of the banks' liabilities come from
Federal and Regional Funds, which have the character of managed funds with
banks acting essentially as a conduit for disbursing them in accordance with
the provisions of regional plans and agreements. The solvency of Yugoslav
banks is a function of the solvency of their basic member banks and, in turn,
their founder members (each assuming unlimited liability for the bank's debts)
and, ultimately, the economy as a whole. The fact that the banks are not
profit-oriented is reflected in their income statemeiws. The banks are expected
to earn an income which is adequate to cover their expenses and to make required
allocations to various reserves. Against this background, the net income of
the four banks has been more than adequate. The overall loan recovery position
of the four banks is considered satisfactory. None of the banks have experi-
enced significant write-offs in the past and reschedulings have been few.
55.       Each of the participating banks is audited by SDK following generally
accepted international accounting standards, to the extent consistent with
Yugoslav law. Over the past several years, SDK has expanded the scope of its
international standard audits and in 1979 it started a detailed portfolio
analysis of all four banks as a part of its annual audit. This steady progress
in extending audits is one tangible result of a Bank supported training program
for SDK which began in 1974.
56.       Each of the four banks concerned is considered creditworthy for Bank
lending. This assessment is based on the fact that (a) there have been no
significant loan losses in the past and the arrears situation is manageable;
(b) management of resources and appraisal and supervision of projects are
generally sound; and (c) each bank is such an integral part of the economy as
a whole that failure is conceivable only with the concurrent failure of the
entire economic system.



- 18 -
Operations
57.       The main areas of operation of the four banks are loans and guarantees.
Long-term loan commitments have increased over the past several years, reflect-
ing the increase in investment activities in the regions the banks serve. In
1979, long-term loan commitments of the four banks totalled $2,846 million
equivalent. Guarantees in favor of enterprises have also shown an increasing
trend, totalling $3,051 million equivalent in 1979. Industrial projects
account for about two-thirds of loan commitments and guarantees.
Forecast of Operations
58.       All four banks are presently preparing medium-term plans for 1981-85
which will form the bas4s for the financial projections for that period. In
the meantime, the banks' tentative forecasts of operations for 1980-83 indi-
cate that each expects long-term loan commitments to continue to expand.
Their long-term resource mobilization plans appear reasonable, with Federal and
Republic/Provincial Funds allocations expected to be the largest source.
Features of the Proposed Loans
Allocation
59.       The loans will be allocated $50 million to KBP, $30 million to PBS,
$20 million to IBT and $10 million to SBS. This distribution reflects the
continued importance given to the development of Kosovo. As KBP's pipeline of
medium-sized industrial projects is now substantial, no provisions have been
made to allow KBP to finance large "special", capital intensive projects in
basic industries, as was the case under the Third Industrial Credit project.
Labor-Intensive Sub-Projects
60.       In accordance with the proposed project's specific focus on dealing
with unemployment in the LDR, at least 25 percent of each of the proposed
loans would be earmarked for labor-intensive sub-projects, where the cost per
job does not exceed the equivalent of $31,000 (Loan Agreements, Section 1.02
(g) and Schedule 1). As the main purpose of these sub-projects is to provide
low-cost jobs, there would be no limitations on the size of sub-projects or
sub-loans, provided they satisfy the usual technical, financial and economic
criteria (Loan Agreements, Schedule 4, Part C.6 (b) and (c)). It is expected
that for the labor-intensive component of the project the average cost per job
will be less than $25,000.
Diversification
61.       The balance of the proposed loans (up to 75 percent) would continue
to be used for financing "normal" small- and medium-size sub-projects in
manufacturing and processing, the same types as were financed under the
previous industrial credit lines (Loan Agreements, Schedule 1). This is aimed



- 19 -
to promote diversificatio-a within the industrial sectors of the LDR. The
development of domestic joint venture activities involving transfers of funds
and technology from enterprises in the MDR to those in the LDR would be
encouraged by more liberal sub-project size and grace periods (Loan Agreements,
Schedule 4, Part C.6 (b) and (f)).
Sub-Project and Sub-Loan Size
62.       The maximum sub-loan tc be financed by the Bank must normally not
exceed $4 million equivalent, except for labor intensive projects (Loan
Agreements, Schedule 4, Part C.6 (c)); this compares with a limit of $3 mil-
lion under the previous two industrial credits. At the same time, the total
subproject cost has been raised to $i5 million maximum (from $10 million).
These new limits consider the increasing size of Yugoslav industries, as well
as the dollar equipment cost inflation. To encourage joint ventures between
industries in the LDR and MDR, joint venture projects--involving transfer of
knowhow and capl-tal--will be allowed a maximum sub-project cost of $20 million
(Loan Agreements, Schedule 4, Part C.6 (b)).
Free Limit
63.       In recognicion of the overall improving trend in each bank's project
appraisal work and because of the Bank's growing familiarity with and greater
confleen'-e in these institutions, the free limit on individual sub-loans would
be raised from the $1 million under the third and fourth industrial credit
lines to $2 million. The aggregate free limit for each bank would continue
to be 60 percent ot its proposed loan (Loan Agreements, Section 2.02 (b)).
This will allow the Bank to review in detail about twelve to fifteen sub-
projectE before approval, while it will check a further 25 to 30 sub-projects
below the f-ee limit in a less detailed way.
Terms of Sub-Loans
64.       Individual sub-loans would be repaid over a period not exceeding 15
years from the date of signing of the proposed loans. Grace periods would
normally be up to three years. A longer grace period of up to five years
would be allowed for domestic joint venture projects or when there is foreign
cofinancing and the need for such a longer grace period is demonstrated (Loan
Agreements, Schedule 4, Part C.6 (f)). Sub-projects would have to have a
minimum FRR and ERPR of 12 percent (Loan Agreements, Schedule 4, Part C.6 (d)).
Interest Rates for Sub-Loans
65.       The interest rates for lending in the project will be as follows:
(a) For Bank funds, the onlending rate to be charged by the banks
would be a minimum of 11 percent with subborrowers bearing the
foreign exchange risk (Loan Agreements, Schedule 4, Part C.6 (f)).
This is in line with the average cost of long-term foreign exchange
resources in Yugoslavia and in the international capital market.



- 20 -
(b)  For the portion of domestic funds which are provided from the
banks' own resources (the mobilization and allocation of which
are interest elastic) floor rates would continue to be specified.
For this project the floor rate would be increased to 10 percent,
the current maximum permissible rate, or about 3 percent more than
the current minimum level of 7 percent charged by the banks on their
own resources (Loan Agreements, Section 3.07). Although this would
still not achieve a positive real rate, this increase is significant
and is all that can be realistically proposed at this time. Assur-
ances were obtained during negotiations to the effect that, in the
event that the banks' permitted lending rates are increased as
expected (see para 66), the lending rate for sub-loans under this
project would be correspondingly increased.
(c)  For the portion of domestic funds provided from specially earmarked
funds 1/ (the mobilization and allocation of which are less interest
elastic) no floor rates would apply (Loan Agreements, Section 3.07)
and the rates currently applicable to such funds (3-7 percent) would
continue. Most of these funds are mobilized on the basis of obli-
gatory contributions, similar to taxes, imposed on enterprises in
Yugoslavia to meet specific social objectives.
66.       The above represents no change in the Bank position for recent
agricultural and industrial credit projects in Yugoslavia with respect to
the onlending rate for Bank funds, but it represents a modification with
respect to the lending rate for domestic funds. Under recent Bank loans for
agricultural and industrial credit projects, a floor rate of 6 percent was
specified on domestic funds, i.e. the weighted average of rates on the banks'
own funds and special funds for each subloan had to be at least 6 percent.
The current proposal was arrived at after giving due consideration to the
recently completed study on the role of interest rates in the Yugoslav economy
(see para 41), the Bank's policy in relation to real interest rates, and
specific country considerations. On the basis of current inflation rates,
increases in deposit and lending rates are expected to be implemented under
the 1981-85 Plan. The lending rates proposed embody both the principles
of moving upwards the interest rates on the Yugoslav banks' own resources,
while acknowledging the Yugoslav principle of directing specially earmarked,
low cost funds to priority projects. These proposals could lead to blended
domestic lending rates that are lower than under previous Bank loans if the
Yugoslav banks increase the proportion of specially earmarked funds to finance
subprojects under this project. However, while this is possible, any such
increase is restricted by the limited availability of these funds and intensely
competing claims by investors for them. Moreover in practice the blended
lending rates under previous projects have frequently resulted in a rate
1/   Specially earmarked funds under this project are defined as the Federal
and Republic/Provincial Funds for Accelerating the Development of the
Less Developed Regions and, in the case of Montenegro, the Republican
Fund for Rehabilitation and Reconstruction of Areas Affected by Earth-
quakes.



- 21 -
higher than the minimum specified by the Bank. Efforts to pursue an objective
of increasing interest rates will continue through project-related activities
and the continuing dialogue through country economic and sector work on this
and related matters (see para 41). Specifically, assurances were obtained
during negotiations to the effect that the responsible Yugoslav authorities
would review with the Bank at least annually the interest rate policy of
Yugoslavia in the light of prevailing market conditions.
Procurement
67.       International competitive bidding (ICB) requirements were introduced
under the Third and Fourth Industrial Credit Projects. About 35 percent of
the total amount of these loans have involved or will involve procurement with
ICB requirements. A total of seven projects are involved, including two large
KBP special projects. Based on the experience gained, similar procurement
procedures would apply for this project. While the appropriateness of ICB
should be considered for all foreign procurement, any individual contract for
imported goods that is expected to exceed $2 million equivalent would normally
be procured under ICB. If the borrowing bank and its sub-borrower consider
that ICB is not appropriate, this must be justified to the Bank before the
sub-project will be considered as eligible for Bank financing; if ICB is
followed, and a Yugoslav supplier wins the bid, the ex-factory cost of these
goods would be elig-ible for financing with Bank funds, a situation expected to
arise only in rare instances. The Bank will undertake a full review, prior to
contract award, of all procurement documents and procedures for contracts
expected to cost $5 million equivalent or more. For contracts of $2 million -
$5 million equivalent, the Bank would review the bid evaluation report, award
and final contract prior to the first disbursement. Procurement for contracts
below $2 million will continue to be in accordance with local procedures, which
provide for competitive bidding for both domestic and foreign procurement but
require less extensive advertising than ICB (Loan Agreements, Schedule 4, Part
C.6 (g), (h) and (i)).
Joint Unit and Sub-Units
68.       A joint Unit, consisting of four Sub-Units, one each from KBP, PBS,
IBT and SBS will handle administrative matters involving all four banks. Each
Sub-Unit, consisting of a suitable number of appropriate staff members from
its bank, will coordinate the appraisal and supervision of sub-projects, and
submit loan applications to the Bank (Loan Agreements, Schedule 4 A.).
Institution Building
69.       Assistance in institution building will be provided principally
through review of the appraisal reports on the larger projects submitted as
well as through regular visits and consultations. Regular reporting will be
required, as has been the case under the previous industrial credits (Loan
Agreements, Sections 3.03, 3.04 and 4.06). Bank reviews have identified
problem areas in the past and have assisted in finding solutions to improve
the banks' performance. In view of the recent poor performance of IBT, mainly
due to staff constraints, assurances will be sought from IBT that remedial
steps have been taken before the IBT loan is declared effective (IBT Loan



- 22 -
Agreement, Sections 3.09 and 6.01). These steps consist of a strengthening of
their staff, including training of new staff, a change in project approval
procedures and an increase in project supervision. Agreement was reached
during negotiations on a work program for the preparation of a possible
further industrial credit loan. This work program would identify the export
potential for manufacturing industries in each LDR (Loan Agreements, Section
3.08). The four banks have also agreed to prepare a project completion
report on the First Industrial Credit when it is closed, and on the other
Credits at reasonable time intervals thereafter (Loan Agreements, Sectiow  3.04
(b)). The review of the completion report, scheduled for 1981, will provide
an important opportunity to assess the results of the industrial credit loans
given to the four banks since 1974.
Justification and Risk
70.       The main justifications for the proposed loans at the macroeconomic
level are the creation of additional employment, a priority need in all the
LDR and the correction of regional disparities in development and standards
of living in the LDR. The emphasis on maximizing the number of jobs created
will result in approximately 11,000 jobs being created, of which 3,800 will
be at a cost of less than $31,000 equivalent each (the labor intensive
cost criteria used under the third and fourth industrial credits, updated to
take account of inflation). The proceeds of the proposed loans will not be
used to finance projects in major basic industry, which are relatively capital
intensive, but instead will promote diversification of the industrial struc-
tures of the LDR towards manufacturing and better integration into the overall
Yugoslav industrial structure.
71.       At the project level, the ERR of sub-projects to be financed is
expected to be between 12 percent and 40 percent, based on the experience
gained under the past industrial credits. About half of the subprojects
would involve foreign cofinancing to cover part of the foreign exchange
costs, with the total amount of cofinancing projected under the proposed
loans at $45 millicn.
72.       There are no special risks associated with the proposed loans.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.       Each of the draft Loan Agreements between the Bank on the one hand
and Kosovska Banka Pristina, Privredna Banka Sarajevo, Investiciona Banka
Titograd and Stopanska Banka Skopje respectively on the other hand, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
and the Bank and the reports of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
74.       Special conditions of the loans are listed in Section III of Annex
III. As an additional condition of effectiveness of its loan, IBT must take
steps to improve the staffing situation and procedures of its Sub-Unit (IBT
Loan Agreement, Sections 3.09 and 6.01).



- 23 -
75.       I am satisfied that the proposed loans would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
76.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loans.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
October 1, 1980
Washington, D.C.



24 -                                           AIX I
Page 1 of 6
'EALE 3A
YUGOSAVA    SCIAL lslNTII RTO   DATA SHEET
LANk AREA (THOUSAERjO-_             YUJGOSL~AVIA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV~9,ACES
LANpJ ARMA tHOUSAND 6Q. KM.}                                                               -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)a
TOTAL             255.8                                    MOST RECENT             MIUDLE INC0ME             tNOUSTRIALIZED
AGRICULTURAL      142,7                1960  Lb    1970 Ab ESTIMATE 1b                 EUROPE                  COUNTRIES
ONP PER CAPITA (USO)                    430.0        940.0    2380.0                    2381.1                     8104.2
ENEXGY CONSUNPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGAhMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       872.0        1459.0    2035.0                    1641.4                     7021.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)        18.4         20.4       22.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 27.9            34.8       40.7                     53.9                       76.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                           26.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                             29.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                      2095
PUPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. lih.                         72.0         80.0       86.0                     77.2                      142.8
PER SQ. RM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    124.0           139.0      154.0                    129.5                      523.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            30.5         27.4       25.0                     30.6                       23.5
15-64 YRS.                           63.2          64.8      66.0                      61.1                       65.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      6.3          7.8        9.0                      8.2                       11.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 1.2          1.0       0.9                       1.6                        0.7
URBAN                                 3.6          3.2        2.9                      3.3                        1.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        23.0         19.0       18.0                     22.8                       13.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        10.0          9.0        8.0                      8.9                        9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 1.4          1.3        1.1                      1.5                        0.9
FAhILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..           ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            59.0
FOoD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            85.0         93.0      114.0                     113.1                      110.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREIUENTS)                   125.0        130.0      136.0                    125.3                       131.6
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)            93.0         93.0      101.0                     91.0                        98.0
OF WHICh ANDIAL AND PULSE         28.0          32.0       39.0                     39.6                       62.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         4.0          3.0        2.0                      4.3                        0.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    62.0            67.0       69.0                     67.8                       73.5
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              8b.0         55.5       34.0                     55.9                       13.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
ACCESS TO EXCRETA OISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             1616.0       1000.0      762.0                   1030.1                      624.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        1350.G/c      410.0      409.0                    929.4                      218.9
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              200.0         179.0      166.0                   289.7                       121.2
URBAN                                  ..         70.0       70.0
RURAL                                  ..       1610.0    1770.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..         17.0       17.0                     17.0                       17.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 4.0          3.8        3.8
URBAN                                 3.3          3.2        3.3
RURAL                                 4.4          4.3        4.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 1.6          1.4
URBAN                                 1.7          1.3
RURAL                                 1.5          1.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINCS)
TOTAL                                55.4         87.9
URBAN                                92. 7        98.4
RURAL                                36.1         80.1



-  25  -                                   .^NNE4I,7 I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
YUGOSLAVIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YUGOSLAVIA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATEGE
MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            INDUSTRIALIZED
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b              EUROPE                 COUNTRIES
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                111.0        105.0     100.0                   105.9                     100.1
MALE                 113.0       108.0      101.0                   109.3                    102.2
FEMALE               108.0       103.0       99.0                   103.0                    102.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 58.0         69.0      79.0                    64.0                      87.1
MALE                  63.0        79.0       83.0                    71.1                     84.4
FEMALE                53.0        58.0       75.0                    56.9                     84.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  72.0          72.0      75.0                    28.8                      19.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            33.0         24.0      22.0                    29.4                     21.3
SECONDARY                          13.0         27.0      30.0                    26.1                      16.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         77.0        83.0       85.0                      .,                     98.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0         35.0      88.5                    84.6                    339.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         85.0        166.0     210.0                   192.2                    932.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.4         88.0     161.0                   118.5                    354.8
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  69.0         85.0      89.0                    93.0                    327.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  7.0           4.0       3.8                      5.7                      3.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      8344.6       9174.2/d 10065.7kd
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   35.0         36.5      36.3                    30.4                     36.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              63.0         51.0      33.0                    37.0                       7.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 18.0         23.0      32.0                    29.3                     38.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                45.4         45.0      45.9                    40.9                      44.6
MALE                                  60.3        58.3       59.4                    55.9                     58.1
FEMALE                                31.0        32.3      32.7                     26.2                     31.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.8         0.8        0.7                     1.0                      0.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   16.4/e        15.1/f
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  41.5/e        41.4/f
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.9ke         6.6/f
lOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.0/e        18.4/f      .
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..
RURAL                                ..           ..     430.0                   385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1962; /d Including migrants workers abroad; /e 1963; /f 1968.
April, 1980



- 26 -                                                                         ANNEX I
_________F__%l,IMXCTM                                                                   r'age    3   of    6
bM1    t oJ.o   to. too  000 .ome boo 000000 ,i00o11  j.AqW  50s mOs0 0.0000%1M0.10   A"0                        it .00       000     00.00t*  01.00 0007y    0,30 1.0. .Low-
500.1..., ooofo.1  SO OoorU.1.   ,do1v. of 0000R.008. fawL.0.a. Oo0o, NA 41.000000 ootf. ce           .o)f "ta   f df...o.. bt" 0059 ,007.0
Thstn blefo ,roM   000  o, (11) 07o  6000 GO00000  000   of 000 000)000   0507r   M   (2) a 0.0000  0000  00,00 000000  0100000 wt00.00   0o-  100 ch. 0000007 S-ma;
1.000   WEl of o1. catst"          la a povi00  80 OwtO   0000 100000000".  sOW  t 000 00000        of 00ommose"  ma   %U  t000          r 000100000    M  t0 0,s0001'11107 00
041.0 00d 0.0 .0t 0.11T0..  00001.0  Same 00 00oood i.s nu01t00  me01090  of00   W 0ifoooo  t0 o00. mee                oo.T'a    -.g004. AT. no1y o.of.  in. 'o*,09001t.. 04 r
MA     be )                                                       I~~~~~~~~~~~~~0'000Oo   0  000000.0- rop.400000 0000400 by 00.40I  .P ...ff0 a000"  9fl1
=         I.0 ?0eo00o  00000-.00  0vw 00.M  WA  WOW1  001..                             ctlo   417.0          00001ohol  t0 ..00...00t  1-001.
0  -  ,0 0.00   of .4 1.sloo.1  0r00 -000 o9oss 1.ly .0,                                o00 0ti      ro oo P000  -   oP,P.olto  80,14.d by  Adbr0 of p00000.00t
V0 09.9000000. 0.0000    d   0tOMPOOm   UA or 00 1.1.A&&                                                 Tl            0.0t 0  0,ooo.U..  0.01000.e ... 0000.0- -0000
.001,  Ao 1.971 0t..                                                                             hgbi1.1.1t000   00000.-   000t,001  0Arm mmtb1.f.0..oo. proaar.,L0y .0.81 0
by 00 l.000 oo  pby.1o10.  IsOOb1.0movea0  prom.$00  P-o.ofOLtly c000081.1
~~y            000 14011,Vm   - Ama""0  000.00001.0  of 00000..00.0  "orgy7 (000              ac050 are -t001.08.   Weioo  1.090t0.1. k.00.0.r.  0.410. 0.01t3  NW8 00d10.1.
C 1 .10. 9000 oem, 0010,001 000 o00 ksOro-. amot'er-   0000.0.01  U.1-                      ca000.00000  p.,obaotly  t..4ffd by . 9070101.4  (1.0 07 0 medical1 000000000,
R,4I1.ty) L.0110000 tL ofo 000, -I    1.001, Kr0 0"Pit.0  10., 19.070tole   WA   We. ammo                     .f., 00..  001b -fft-  i0-0.1.00  AROo4001.0  000  PRO-id.
t.010 L.01=   WNW. p,Or-ip.1 p-.10  nd, ooooil1.0-d h00it.0...  000 0.-01
booo0000.  local.1.0  0010  1.ooOOolo 0.0 00edic0l 00d  t.R0011.0  00t.7,
801100000 d  1.o0 of .4... oooo  Am 0.10 July 9.0.001. 11.07 ofA dOe.                                          IL3Toa005000l.Lo   C   1  i.h
000000.40;  .900.1071..oo4 OlO 40  .9   b      OttlprULP                        i   h0100 ..0 oo f 0o.00d0by hoo. = 00   b.os00..7-001.obo   010
1'.  W  .9fort 44,11par0oo0000 00.1.00  f    30.9of1.,1.1.01."ea                                     oOr 1O005 00000
AA-&  OAOtiom;%940    1.0000,   p0100100. 011000000000  0190                            od0..   010010        oro.0010500    r070 0 b   0010081.
OA I000 o0.00lt.0,0,1..17  *1 ppl                   .ol.o. ofc1    000.0 lovoC M0000-          d tti .     i.o  amapobo. A0  0000ar   cral or   b00g. ,.oAT .1 may    tb- 1000005 400
1.Lo .11. P-.oobo0,0 by   31. MA0OA M.000   01.00 ma00.Or,yod o 0..1 00901.0  0,0.0          00 o  0500h0*0ol   900 to  to.1.1-   or.,  .  .o1.ooold  ooo
i100, AM0001 1E=        soO        o W.   00-000  .1040      year000   Of. ?01.07-           Co.o11.000I -0.11.1.001.3 D1.00i01.001 l.  -1.1.,10030000  00-              0005
004.c fo01.o E "Lit   for  Leo bo-O1.000  9     .-I.00-0.                                    0  00001.v  Part...  0   oll41..ooo..Ov1y
.0.0  0,00.0000,  700e.  1.00000.0008L 001.7oftal00  ,010110Ro0000 000.10.0
AA    09.00.   1..  IOf .01 A . almroyOOOop01   000tha.   U   0000         t00000 ...O                  001        00.00.   0701      00.0,11   0.   a   0.1
1b. co01,  mat1.0o   1.0 -i st  t lo--   ti700  I.. o0,00,o..,                           ;H!b,00 ooo.aoo   A10    ol.ol                  C,*Oloo,o .0.o  000.l 040L. 1(1  90000
01..  0  0000      it010  it mafoOo, 0000.1aar                                                                  - coccI. 0.1.MI.  0.0  1.01-1 Am.u0,40000;o000 -
LA t1.0   Year 1.0       C.0                 It                                                        ,00  .0000t0 00, d.000fo,mt yogtho of 0930000.  d0.1.00.7 .000f000
00.00.         -ma                   00 *f0 .210.      ct.t  -IA                         a,,,11.  of12001b.o    fao   oropOoO    000000gor
~~ 04r440100001  1.00             000.0001.1-4001.ma  ....0.                                                                           Loa.000.
--., p     .  -looy o0 00, t.017 y..,100.7  s.,  ......7 -1.d.  o.o-IMTo41! .1.0010
p090111.40 1940. 1707,  .0d 1970 0:.0.00.   0101..,0.0.01p00;  401_.800 oO1:000t0. 0.t. o.000 L
00.000   oor00oo0,.oo  0.0.4- 0.00000 .00000 ,  4.050.00 0   00 01..1.Y000;0_ 01.1.001 0.0i.41.h0
1.0  ooa   g00,04100900001C00  o.1a0   0000  0o.... Loca-l00.3..1...)or0100.   oOLo1o0)      lloy.  o   .001000fo   0.0
0,1.1.1.0,7 0.00.; 04.117 1000070.00 010.04 10 70i-TeO  91.17.  0    .7.            00.0.0.0.00 00.00.1 4      .1090  00oo   f90..,0;.0..   04
0.0.10,01000.0- 1000000,. AaA.1  (00000s00    .0-h0  Coa   000090.                     .00    ,01..  1.0 .oforoo          L004 1.0y.00 d.000Abl 000.00000  00a 000db   o
701. 1-  o1r1..     (.. 19S  .rooo0 ,of oOrOoto00001-6004,000.0 o-000004                                                                             AL00.1.0y0001..000. 40001.00
0l.00 Sia, 41.1-  b. Slr.o as   1.-00.   001 -,0 b..th  P,0000-0.0,00d  f0100  10            7    0..0. Ud--000ooo.00)-T   .o.00  ,0  000.00
01   0,...00   .70. Aod 1950 000400.                                               cow orlpoIo90   0..0pplo.0   010.u.100007   .440.
Gt.000000   L00.004    0  COO10               If (109-10 . .0  - IoOme of  .0. 00 1.00001        0 Oli.1   01ygor1   .0o0   00.00.,4f.0   .a0000.0100
000  P  0.1000,    f040 ,-.0 7000,.0. -Af. 0000  000.0  10 bO. o4 007.                         0,     AR.0   01.4 00.0.1.  700, 10004,   f0.oO00  0, 4                d0..1     100,0
041001o00000  00000   o.0 0A            0;1616.17.  0017   00..                              .4 00001.0  C.1.0          bi0..  C
For.00,0000*1,1  0010,10  1o.oom0  o  rqu10,.a0oo   - 1.ooko,   0, 00d.
0.o~y   0olol.o o  00, .004 oopl0o  00.1.010f0  0000.  900. 00110         1400   001
A0 0. 40101. . ...   C10   A0`0,.0    O00000 00.00 .0.0   .9901.                     7000   1.00 ff.t0d. EOoooOO -.oa 00,0.Ooo.17' c 00000  90000000  Oo.1.u. 
00600f      00000000- I 0 000:4. 00   0t100018 b          0.1001.- d0.00   000          T"00          fo.    4..p d   0000 oeolod1Tv   E.oO,OO0  .044d.000   t0
-0001.01.0  404 d      0004 70041000.04100004.0100.                                                            PAqO.  0,00,.0   .  h.--4 oorro    0   04.1.00.00.; 101., 1071TV  -on -
I.. M    IAMoo.3r o., b0000..  Cma0.i  000 .a.)-.  prtin 000000 of 0 (   .00 000a.00         00000,  (00b    0 -d.l   .00if 0i fopro.  00100t E  oOO0.00t.0, ooo0, 0ookO
000, opp1f  of ~.boO  -s  dibl. 300   001.0.0 30,0 -cic.0      (..S.caff4   Rod0000       ci0.-,:                                   Pat.10.001.7.ooor  000000000dM of t th. labr   o-o f00
C,_I0000  700  .1   400001            h 00 .00 19o00  771.050 170.00  Ooo 1 0.7.d.            97.A  s.01970 4000.
P0,400.0. 0.00l. 01.0 00000. 00, 5Oae 0  00001. 9-.00,01.0002   r.ofooooo   0 top-."       .A               .    th-.o-do.0   Ofloo970.0YR0,oI   30ooy400
400010.0000  00".  00080L o .1.k    R   00rld, oropo     -by&. .I food   01.0,          1061 .. 107 . .0  1.077    y 4.0 . 0000,   hll's  0900i        0000     0000000
400,1 Food      L f000 P07   ...1- IS, 1970 .d04  1077.. 1.q0..                            a5.,,,t00 0140,0o  01.0 -0901.00 R.0t 100-b10,190000008   L90 0.. 0
100  c0000,01.000.0100   00100d00                     y0,0.009..  ofgc. foo  4.               .0  Act 000  040 100 I 00000. -.-pC...ftta1bcf -
-it010.0100.0    000(00~   .0  .7   0105   01 0007    ..                                    0.1    00t00.0_t.00 _L- 000100  to0000040   5                        ..08000
1014 (.1 -1000100000   00   1o.o1       fol00I.01.Ra  E0T  -010,000 at                         .o.1.0001  t0000100
000 o0       id 1-01040; 000100   . 09610 050 00.00-                                           EL0M0,A0000 01010b01A.0961.00                                     d1970d0t
C0,..t. dO   0,,0000  .1    .1.  10Y0, 1070   Col8 107  4.0.If   r...                       IR,           r .. ooo  L.booooooL   1
..P0iWu0. .70S.   _9                                                                            90000d00,,b,,a  O   00000000ty  20t. 000000. A0000*0_ 20  f.000 t004 7000,01.-47 900.00
1.0    0.0.000  11.00   oto0.0) -t*000.'00   'Y00  00A roOro. Ofc 110= 0.o.t0                 900,1
01.11003- 1960. (907 09.0. 1074 4adata
1,1.0  OOOOOOoOO.(0"   1.f. CIL )  PT 0.1 - 4d.00 Rof  .000"0"  oof~    0t00 7000    pdv_ E-0.-1.00t 100i
0,,000            If0 0000   1100  .10.1 11.110000080001.00 Th9..0.... doo.. 1.00.1.,S 00  00d0f,01      00.00 .01.000001m
-S.ib0 Atf -07.  (001 Ch      b...f7 00SC0,01)  80, 00ooo1.00c.d 2        00,          Ztt0000100.1.7fto 04.7.,. 4l.0  04  Iooo.0I. no- fo    00,1..ASIA                       0
000,00sopoly1.400100000.8000  ool.oooooto   r ..o00,-by  0A0 i.000Th000         1.9  rdb.I0.  o   9       g.T           1  IO.PIti-i     -
00000. 0004(3 0   0,.0,700   ...000,03,03,1S..9.00.E0    00007o1:h00                        ltI.00000,4.10d000I,oo ._1(1f00,0010)-oo.o  o   04,0
W    4l F 1 0._.Y; 1,09601.65    009040   14000d. 0   00.0   100P0Oc000   .10..9007  .0.   ...0   ,-014o   OrO                                                    0.0
0,floooo0.l5 0400.  oO.ld 00917010000   1.00.0000,0 00 9.1.00.  01970   1ood  =do1-  100-0000   00001R01.00 -00100   0001f 0.00190i- 0,000   1.00d1  6   - (00,.000,0
Ch0l 04   30040040Oofr704000   040  00dy10 loooOOou 10t0.                                        00 x  O.1- 000.   0  00000   .0000410070.  00"1ol0   00~ 
0.o.01y' 0 00000,-t 40arCh-0.8C.
A40000400               c..00    (000,400 L.    0,4i 40Am 30scoop   .00000   00...0vesC
0.-00.o1-0oo1..~o1poo0lf. 1.000lma;19600     19d 0 I    E'9o77odat. yooooo0ISTR
0,000.0001. 40000..0.0           .. 1.0 i 00-i00-b0.00 00000
0004.  9001.000  00=0 0001.1.M00, P1 0301100-1.000i0.



- 27-                                                         ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
YUGOSLAVIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount                                                 Annual Growth Rates (%)
Indicator                     (million US$ at
current prices)                    '-Actual                   c/                    Protected
1978              1974    1975    1976    1977       1978      1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product/a             52,674              14.8     3.6      3.4     7.7       6.6       7.0     4.1      4.3     4.4     4.0
Agriculture                         6,595               5.6    -6.6      9.6     5.3      5.0        6.0     4.0     4.0      4.0     4.0
Industry                           22,415              17.5     6.8     3.9      9.5      8.7        8.0     4.5     4.8      5.1     5.1
services                           18,019               3.0     4.3     0.2      6.1      9.2        6.0     3.7     3.7      3.7     3.7
Consumption                          41,531              20.7     0.9    -2.2    10.7        5.0       5.5     3.9      3.7     3.8     3.9
Gross investment                     17,561               8.6     8.8      6.0    12.4      9.7        8.8    -1.3      1.2     2.8     2.7
Exports of GNFS                       8,655               2.2    -8.3    10.6    -4.4      -1.0       -3.4     7.9      7.9     7.9     7.9
Imports of GNFS                      12,247              12.7    -8.1    -5.0    12.5       0.0        9.3    -0.3      1.7     3.2     3.5
Gross national savings               14,977              -5.2     8.2    14.6    -0.6         -         -        -       -       -        -
PRICES
GDP deflator                          252.7             134.9   164.3   201.4   221.5    252.7
Exchange rate                          18.6              15.9    17.4    18.2    18.3      18.6
Share of GDP at Market Pric9bs (Z)                            Average Annual Increase (7.)
(at current 2rices)  --                                  (at consta_nt1972 Price8-
196U   19/   1      9z0      1 19   1990IPy          TM=0-f    l1I-5 17-0            18-5        1985-90
Gross domestic product           100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0  100.0                5.9       6.5       5.6         4.5        6.5
Agriculture                     22.5   16.1    13.9    12.6      12.2  10.9               3.3        2.9       3.9        4.0         4.0
Industry                        42.2   37.4    43.8    43.7      45.2   48.7              6.3        8.3       6.4         5.2        8.1
Services                        29.0  38.1    33.6    34.2       33.1   30.9              6.9       4.7        4.9         3.8        5.0
Consumption                       67.2   72.8    74.3    78.4      75.7   72.3              6.5        6.9       4.0         3.8        5.5
Gross investment                  36.5   32.3    33.0    31.4      29.0   28.8              4.7        5.5       7.0         2.8        6.3
Exports GNFS                      13.9   18.5    20.4   18.7       22.0   23.6             10.2        6.7       0.9         7.9        8.0
Imports GNFS                      17.5   23.5    27.7    28.3      26.2   24.6              9.8        6.7       3.0         3.3        4.9
Gross national savings            32.6   29.6    29.9       -        -       -              5.3        6.2        -           -          -
As % of GDP
1960      1970    1975
PUBLIC FINANCE
Total revenues                                             -        33.1    38.8
Total expenditures                                         -        33.2    37.2
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                 -         0.1   -0.4
Foreign financing                                          -         0.0    -0.4
1960-70    1970-75   1975-80    1980-85      1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate  (%)                                     6.1        6.7        6.0        4.2          6.2
GNP per capita growth rate                               5.0         6.6       5.0        3.3          5.3
ICOR                                                     5.4        4.6        5.8        6.8          4.6
Import elasticity                                        1.6        1.0        0.5        0.7          0.8
/a   At market prices; components are expressed at factor costs and will not add due to exclusion of net
indirect taxes and subsidies.
/b   Projected years at constant prices.
/c    Estimate.
EMENA IC
June 4, 1980



- 28 -                                                       ASNEX-1
- 28 -                                        E>~~~~~~~~~~~age 5 of 6
YtlGOSLAVIA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount                                                  Annual Growth Rates (7.)
Indicator                  (million Us$ at                                            (at constant 1972 prices)
current prices)                       Actual                    I                           Projected
1978             1974    1975      1976      1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      1982     1983
EXTERNgAI TRADE
Merchandise exports             5,671             0.0      0.0      14.5     -5.3       1.0        3.6       7.9      7.8       7.9       7.9
PrinaryLa  lb                 1,304           -10.8    -3.1      16.6       3.9       1.5       3.5       7.6       7.4       7.5      7.6
Manufactures-                 4,637             3.5     0.4      13.9      -8.8       0.8       3.6       8.0       8.0       8.0       8.0
Merchandise imports             9,988            16.9    -2.8      -6.5      18.5       3.8       13.8       0.0      1.9       3.5      4.0
Food    /c                      605            13.6   -40.9      45.8       4.3    -24.2        13.8      0.0       2.0       4.0       5.0
Petroleur                     1,432           -11.4    -5.0      10.1      12.0     11.6       10.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Machinery and equipment       3,634            16.4    22.3      -8.8      17.8       7.1       16.6      0.0       2.0       3.5      4.5
Others                        4,317            22.2   -11.9    -12.7       22.1      4.4        9.9       0.0       2.0       4.0      4.0
PRICES
Export price index                                158      172       180      202       220     247.7    276.1    301.3    325.6    345.5
-mport price index          1972 = 100            175      184      189       216       226     239.2    277.0    304.2    329.0    351.7
Terms of trade index                             90.3    93.5      95.2      93.5      97.3     103.6      99.7      99.0      99.0      99.0
Composition of Merchandise tvade (%)                        Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current prices-                                (at constant 1972 PriceES
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985   1990             1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Exports /a                  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0                8.1        5.7        3.6        7.9       8.0
PriearT    /b              49.6   29.4   19.5   24.6   24.3   24.3                          -1.3        5.0        7.6        8.0
Yanufacture6s               50.4   70.6   80.5   ?5.4   75.7   75.7                  -       8.1        2.9        8.0        8.0
Tmports                     100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0                9.0        7.4        4.5        3.7        5.2
Food    /c                  9.1    7.2    5.5    5.6    5 /    6.0                  -        5.0       -0.2       4.3         6.4
Petroleum4                  5.4    4.0   12.3    6.6    5.5    4.9                  -        8.2        6.5        0.0        3.0
Machinery and equipment  36.8   33.2   33.9   42.6   43.7   45.3                    -        9.4        9.2        4.2       6.0
Others                     48.7   54.8   48.3   45.3   45.1   43.8                  -        6.0        2.0        3.7       4.6
Share of Trade with           Share of Trade with                     Share of Trade OTth                   Share of Trade with
Industrial Courtries (Y)        Developing Countries (7.)       Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (%)    Centrally Placne Ec ieQ
1965      1970       1975       1965       1970       1975           1965      1970       1975               1965    1970    1975
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                           40.1      53.3       34.0       17.4       13.6       16.8            0.4        0.1       2.1               42.1    32.4       47.1
Primary                         61.0      70.2       54.0        9.1        8.2        8.9            0.2       0.2        1.9               29.7    21.4       35.2
Manufaetures                    24.0      41.9       26.0       23,8       17.2       20.0            0.6        1.0       2.1               51.6    39.9       51.9
Imports                           55.3       66.1      59.1       16.0       12.7       15.7            0.1       0.1         0.6              28.6    21.1       24.6
/a   SITC 0-4
'I   SITC 5-8
7c   SITC 3;iscludes lubrica-ts, coal and electricitv.
/d   Projected years at co-stant prices.
/0   Estimate.
EMENA 1C
June 4, 1980



- 29 -                                                        ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
YUGOSLAVIA - BALANCE OF PAYNENTS. EXTERNASL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Indicator                                                      Actual                         /e                              Projected
1970     1974      1975      1976      1977     1978        1979    1980    1981       1982    1983    1985    1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods asd services             2,967    7,410    8,172    9,282   10,074   11,685         13,041  15,435  17,936   20,674  23,653  30,785  56,909
of which: Merchandise f.o.b.           1,680    3,805    4,072    4,878    5,254    5,671           6,746   8,115   9,549   11,131  12,856  17,064  33,795
Imports of goods and services             3,368    8,600    9,175    9,112   11,656   12,702         16,264  18,827  21,306   24,069  26,944  33,589  58,059
of which: Merchandise f.o.b.            2,874    7,520    7,697    7,367    9,634    9,988         13,549  15,692  17,553   19,655  21,855  27,059  47,374
Net irsnsfers                                61       -        -         -         -         -           -       -          
Current account balance                    -340   -1,190   -1,003        170   -1,582   -1,017       -3,224  -3,392  -3,370   -3,395  -3,290  -2,804  -1,150
Private direct i-vestment                   -         -         -        -         -         -
MLT loans (net)                             210       482    1,076    1,093    1,402    1,150         1,160   3,955   4,061    4,223   4,416   4,059   3,245
Official                                   55       232      328       427       240       135         -l       64       91      154      145      138      64
sfi           Private                                   155       250       748      666    1,162    1,015        1,161   3,891   3,970    4,068   4,271   3,921   3,182
Other capital                               -81       270      127       -47       -19       182        745    -178    -231       -290    -501    -613    -767
Change in reserves                          186       438     -200   -1,211        199      -315      1,319    -386    -461       -538    -625    -642  -1,329
1/
International reserves                      -       1,609    1,809    3,020    2,821    3,136         1,817   2,203   2,663    3,201   3,826   5,038  10,886
Of which: Gold                            -          62       62        62        64        69
Reserves as months imports                            2.2       2.4      4.0       2,9       3.0        1,3      1.4      1.5       1.6     1.7      1.8      2.3
EXTERINAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross disbursements                         640    1,426    2,171    2,096    2,665    2,700          2,859   5,367   5,793    6,519   7,300   8,662  11,679
Official grants                           -        -         -         -         -        -
Co.eessio-al loans                         67       170      134       134       159        29         13       12
DAC                                       0      135        71        62        66       11          11       11     -         -        -       -        -
OPEC                                   _         -         _         _        _         _           _        _       _         _        _       _        _
IDA-                                             -         -         -         -        --                   -       --                 -       -        -
Other                                    67       35        63        72       93        18           2        1
Non-concessional loans                    573    1,256    2,037    1,962    2,506    2,671          2,846   5,355   5,793    6,519   7,300   8,662  11,679
Official export credits                  39      134       203       283        75       74          22       66      96       115      127     146      188
IBRD                                     37       90       154       119      133       160         207      281     326       349      359     36tl    389
Other nultilateral                      -        -         -         -         -          8          21       24      12       -       -         -       -
Private                                497    1,032    1,680    1,560    2,298    2,409           2,596   4,983   5,359    6,055   6,814   8,157  11,102
Yugoslav export credit (net)               (-35)   (-130)    (-80)   (-100)   (-213)   (-130)         (-130)   (-177)  (-730)  (-290)  (-501)  (-613)  (-766)
External Debt         /2
Debt outstanding anT
disbursed                              1,933    4,926    5,820    7,145    8,946   11,914         12,174  16,129  20,190   24,412  28,829  37,143  57,172
Official                               885    1,647    1,934    2,393    2,712    2,961           2,959   3,023   3,115    3,269   3,414   3,739   4,278
Private                              1,048    3,279    3,886    4,750    6,234    8,054           9,215  13,106  17,075   21,143  25,415  33,404  52,893
Undisbursed debt                       n.e.      1,262    2,784    2,551    3,212    n.a.           1,257   1,268   1,281    1,303   1,355   1,455   1,551
Debt service
Total service paysents                    503    1,217    1,437    1,440    1,612    1,865          2,166   2,046   2,720    3,653   4,619   7,105  12,583
lnterest                                128      285       343       364      381       455         466     634      988    1,358   1,735   2,502   4,149
Payment as % exports                     16.9     16.4      17.6      15.5      16.0     15.9        11.1    13.3    15.2       17.7    19.5    23.1    22.1
Average interest rate on new loans (%)   7.1         6.4       8.1       7.1       7.4      7.7         8.0      8.0      8.1      8.1      8.1      8.1     8.1
Official                                  7.0      6.0       8.3       7.0      7.3       7.7        -        -       -         -        -       -        -
Private                                  7.5      10.5       7.5       8.6      9.3       -          -
Average maturity of new loams (years)   16.5        18.0      15.2      18.3      15.4     15.1        10.8    10.4    10.1       10.1    10.1    10.0       9.f
Official                                18.5      19.0      16.5      10.0     15.9      15.         --
Private                                 10.9       8.1      10.9       5.7      7.5       -
!e    Estimate
/1    Includes estimated foreign assets of cossercial books.
/2 External borrowing reported in the historical balance of paysents is sot consistent with extersal debt data.
ENeA  19C
Jose 4, 1980



- 30 -                    ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of JuL   ~11:9
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations'_)
Number  Year              Bor.rower )            Purp2se           Bank  Undisbursed
Twenty-five Loans fully disbursed                                  732.6
777     1971   SFRY                           Multipurpose Water  45.0       2.9
894     1973   Stopanska Barnka Skopje        Agricultural
Industries          31.0      1.1
916     1973   Naftagas                       Gas Pipeline          59.4    19.9
1012    1974   Stopanska Banka Skopje         Industrial Credik   28.0       0.3
1013    1974   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Industrial Credit   22.0          0.1
1026    1974   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                     Railways             93.0    10.3
1060    1974   Port o Bar                    Harbor Expansion    44.0       4.9
1066    1974   Vodovod Dubrovnik              Water Supply and
Wastewater           6.0      2.5
1129    1975   Vojvodianska Banka             Agricultural
Credit              50.0      5.9
1173    1975   Jugoslavenski Naftovod         Pipeline             48.4      1.9
1262    1976   Republicki Fond Voda           Water Supply,
Sewerage & Water
Resources           20.0      7.8
1263    1976   Saraievo Water Supply &        Water Supply &
Sewerage Enterprise           Sewerage            45.0    22.4
1264    1976   Sarajevo Gas Enterprise        Air Pollution
& Naftagas Gas Unit           Control             38.0      9.8
1277    1976   Privredna Banka Sarajevo,
Stopanska Banka Skopje,
Investiciona Banka
Titograd, Kosovska Banka   Second Industrial
Pristina                      Credit              50.0      7.8
1360     1977   Management Organization    Multipurpose
"Metohija"                   Water               54.0    47.9
1370     1977   Investiciona Banka            Agriculture
Titograd                     Industries          26.0    11.7
1371     1977   Stopanska Banka Skopje        Agriculture
Industries          24.0    19.5
1377     1977   Road Organizations in
Bosnia-Herzegovina,
Serbia, Macedonia, and
Kosovo                      Roads                56.0      3.0
1469     1977   JUGEL and six Electric
Power Organizations in   Second Power
each Republic               Transmission         80.0    44.0
1477     1977   Vojvodjanska Banka           Second Agricul-
tural Credit         75.0    64.3
1534     1978   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                   Railways             100.0    25.9



- 31 -                   ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10 pages
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)            Purpose          Bank  Undisbursed
1535     1978   Road Organizations of
Slovenia, Croatia and
Serbia                    Roads                80.0        31.6
1561     1978   Elektroprivreda
Bosne i Hercegovine       Hydro Power          73.0        49.0
1611     1978   Kosovska Banka Pristina   Third Industrial
Credit              40.0       20.4
1612     1978   Privredna Banka Sarajevo  Fourth Industrial
Credit              20.0       12.8
1613     1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje    Fourth Industrial
Credit              20.0       16.3
1614     1978   Investiciona Banka          Fourth Industrial
Titograd                   Credit              20.0         7.0
1616     1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje    Macedonia Strezevo
Irrigation          82.0       70.0
1621     1978   Privredna Banka             Bosanska Krajina
Sarajevo                   Agriculture and
Agro-Industries    55.0        53.6
1678     1979   Road Organizations of
Kosovo, Montenegro,
Vojvodina and Herci-
govina and Macedonia      Roads               148.0       123.3
1756     1979   Zagrebacka Banka            Croatia Sava
Drainage            51.0       51.0
1759     1979   Road Organization of        Earthquake Rehab-
Montenegro                 ilitation-
Highways            21.0       16.1
1768     1979   Port of Bar                 Earthquake Rehab-
ilitation - Port
of Bar              50.0       50.0
1769     1979   Railway Organization        Earthquake Rehab-
of Montenegro              ilitation -
Railways            14.0       14.0
1801     1980   Vojvodjanska Banka          Third Agricultural
Credit              86.0       86.0
1819     1980   Road Organizations of
Slovenia, Croatia,
Serbia and Vojvodina      Roads               125.0      125.0
Total (less cancellation)                           2,612.5    1,040.0
of which has been repaid                             305.4
Total now outstanding                               2,307.1
Amount sold                             9.2
of which:  Amount repaid             8.0              1.2
Total now held by Bank                              2,305.9
Total undisbursed                                               1,040.0



- 32 -                   ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10 pages
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at July 31, 1980)
Fiscal                                         Type of       Amount in US$ million
Year              Obligor                      Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1970   International Investment              Investment
Corporation for Yugoslavia           Corporation      -      2.0       2.0
1970/  Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.p.A.   Automotive
1972/                                         Industry         12.4    0.6      13.0
1980
1971/  Tovarna Automobilov in Motorjev       Automotive
1980     Maribor (TAM)/Klockner-Humboldt    Industry           9.2    0.9      10.1
Deutz A.G. (KHI)
1972/  FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler-           Automotive
1980     Benz A.G.                            Industry         16.3    0.8      17.1
1972/  Sava Semperit                         Tires             12.5    2.5      15.0
1978/
1980
1973   Belisce-Bel Tvornica Papira           Pulp and Paper  13.3       -       13.3
1974   Zelezarna Jesenice/ARMCO              Special Steel   10.0       -       10.0
1974   Salonit Anhovo                        Cement Plant    10.0       -       10.0
1975   RMK Zenica                            Steel            50.0      -      50.0
1977   Frikom RO Industrija Smrznute         Food and Food
Hrane/Unilever                       Processing       4.0    2.5       6.5
1977   Tvornica Kartona i Ambalaze Cazin   Pulp and Paper
Products        15.6    2.6      18.2
1978   Soko-Mostar                           Hermetic
Compressors      7.0     -        7.0
1980   Investiciona Banka Titograd-
Udruzena Banka                      Tourism          21.0      -      21.0
1980   Radoje Dakic                          Machinery         18.7     -       18.7
1980   Eight Republican/Provincial           Small-Scale
Banks                                Enterprises    31.7      -       31.7
Total Gross Commitments                               231.7   11.9    243.6
less cancellations, terminations,
exchange adjustment, repayment
and sales                                             99.3    5.0    104.3
Total commitments held by IFC                         132.4    6.9    139.3
Total Undisbursed                                      61.1    2.0      63.1



- 33 -                   ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 777 Ibar Multipurpose Water: US$45.0 million Loan of June 30, 1971;
Effective Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The main dam is completed and the reservoir is filled. A small part
of the irrigation network has been completed with the remainder expected to be
completed during 1980 and 1981. Project costs have been substantially above
appraisal estimates, but the overrun financing is being provided by the
Province of Kosovo and from Federal sources. Although slow, progress continues
on land consolidation. After a delay of about five years, a law has been
enacted by the Kosovo Government which will assist in the provision of agricul-
tural extension services to the individual sector.
Loan 894 Agricultural Industries (Macedonia): US$31.0 million Loan of May 25,
1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
All loan funds provided under the project have been committed by
subloan agreements through Stopanska Banka. All but one of the subprojects
financed under the loan have been completed. Progress on this remaining
subproject has been delayed since work ceased after disputes arose between the
contractor and the sub-borrower. These are in the process of being resolved
and work should be resumed shortly. The Closing Date of the loan, originally
December 31, 1978, has been postponed thrice to June 30, 1981, to permit
completion of construction of the last subproject.
Loan 916 Naftagas Pipeline: US$59.4 million Loan of June 25, 1973; Effective
Date: March 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The costs of equipment and civil works had increased by end 1975 by
about 71 percent over the appraisal estimate. As a result of this and of a
reallocation of priorities in the use of natural gas, the project was redefined
(Amendments to Loan 916-YU, May 13, 1976, R76-116). Phase I is a reduced
version of the original plan. Phase II provides for a pipeline extension to
link up with the pipeline constructed under the Sarajevo Air Pollution Control
Project, for which additional Bank financing was obtained. Naftagas obtained
additional local currency financing required for Phases I and II. A delay of
more than three years in project implementation has occurred as a result of the
increased project costs and revision of the project. While two of the three
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 34 -                   ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10 pages
sections have been completed and gas deliveries have commenced, the third
section has been delayed due to the reorganization of the borrower and a
consequent proposed change in project administration of the third section which
is now scheduled for completion by late 1982. This proposed change in project
administration for the third section will be submitted to the Executive
Directors for their consideration after being fully reviewed by the Bank.
Loan 1012 Macedonia/Kosovo Industrial Credit: US$28.0 million Loan of June 21,
1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974; Closing Date: December 31_,
1980.
The loan is fully committed and essentially fully disbursed. The
Closing Date of the loan, originally December 31, 1978, was postponed four
times to December 31, 1980 to allow full utilization of project funds and
completion of disbursements to equipment suppliers.
Loan 1013 Bosnia-Herzegovina/Montenegro Industrial Credit: US$22.0 million
Loan of June 21, 1974- Effective Date: December 19, 1974;
Closing Date:  Decem?ber 31, 1980.
The note under Loan 1012 above applies also to this loan.
Loan 1026 Fourth Railway: US$93.0 million Loan of July 10, 1974; Effective
Date: February 12, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project consists of the 1974-76 slice of the Railways' 1973-77
Investment Plan. Government efforts to combat inflation caused railway
tariffs to lag behind inflation and gave rise to financial and administrative
difficulties which, in turn caused substantial delays in project implementa-
tion.  Tariff increases and institutional developments, including improved
investment planning and management, the formation of COIs and the signing of
Social Agreements on railway and transport policies substantially alleviated
these problems. Serious flooding in Macedonia in early Spring has delayed
completion of some works by RTE Skopje. Closing date has been postponed from
June 30, 1979 to December 31, 1980 to allow full utilization of project funds
and completion of disbursements on contracts.
Loan 1060 Port of Bar:  US$44.0 million Loan of December 11, 1974; Effective
Date: June 13, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
All major port civil works are completed except the grain silo
facility, edible oil reservoirs and the railway marshalling yard. Final
completion of these items had been expected by end 1979. However, the earth-
quakes of April/May 1979 in Montenegro resulted in severe damage to port
installations, particularly in the older parts of the port, caused further
delays but works are now proceeding. Closing date has been extended to
December 31, 1981 to permit completion of works.



- 35 -                  ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10 pages
Loan 1066 Dubrovnik Water Supply and Wastewater: US$6.0 million Loan of
December 24, 1974. Effective Date: June 26, 1975: Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Delays in preparation of final designs and tender documents have
put construction about a year behind schedule. Services to the Bank financed
Babin Kuk Hotel Complex (Loan 782-YU) were, however, completed in time for
its initial operation and the remaining water supply component has now been
completed. Construction is progressing satisfactorily on the sewerage com-
ponent.
Loan 1129 Agricultural Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 20, 1975; Effec-
tive Date: February 12, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The Project Operations Unit of Vojvodjanska Banka, established in
March 1976, is working satisfactorily. Project operations have shown encour-
aging progress with respect to appraisal methodology and related aspects of
institution building. The loan has been fully committed. Disbursements are
behind appraisal projections, given initial organizational and learning curve
problems, delays in procurement, unfamiliarity of participating banks with
withdrawal applications, timetaking translations and the time lag between
commitments and disbursements.
Loan 1173 Naftovod Oil Pipeline: US$49.0 million Loan of November 19,_1975-
Effective Date: July 28, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project has been completed, about a year behind original esti-
mates and deliveries of oil have commenced. The revised cost estimates of
the project indicate a cost overrun of about 45 percent because of required
changes from original project components and increases in local costs. The
Borrower obtained supplementary financing from various sources both foreign
and local. Upon review of the award of a site preparation contract in one
case, and the procurement procedures regarding a telemetry supervision control
system in another case, the Bank concluded that the procurement procedures
were not in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement and the
relevant portions ($470,000 and $112,000, respectively) that would have
otherwise been eligible for disbursement were cancelled from the Loan.
Loan 1262 Morava Regional Development Project - Water Supply, Sewerage and
Water Resources:  US$20.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976; Effective
Date: November 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The regional development study undertaken under this project has
provided the basis for the preparation of a proposed second Morava regional
development project currently being appraised by the Bank. The flood control
and water quality studies are progressing satisfactorily after initial delays
in selecting consultants. Construction of the Vrutci Dam is about 1-1/2 years
behind schedule. Construction is completed on the principal parts of the
Cacak component, the remainder is well advanced. Construction is nearing
completion in Titovo Uzice. Designs of sewage treatment plants in Cacak and



- 36-                    ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10 pages
Titovo Uzice have been completed. The pilot irrigation components which were
delayed pending the establishment of suitable monitoring arrangements, are
underway. The creation of the Morava Region Water Community of Interest was
delayed due to the longer than anticipated process of seeking agreement among
all the Yugoslav parties concerned on the structure of the organization.
Staffing has been strengthened in the water authorities in Cacak and Titovo
Uzice and in the Morava Region Water Community of Interest.
Loan 1263 Sara-jevo Water Supply and Sewerage: US$45.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effective Date: November 9, 1976; Closing Date- June 30,
1981.
Construction of the water distribution system and sewage collection
is progressing satisfactorily and should be completed by end 1980. Con-
struction of the sewerage treatment plan is underway and expected to be com-
pleted by end 1981.
Loan 1264 Sarajevo Air Pollution Control: US$38.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effective Date: May 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The gas transmission line has been completed and initial deliveries
of gas began in December 1979, one year later than originally planned. Diffi-
culties in finalizing contracts for the supply of gas were the the major cause
of delay. Construction of the gas distribution network and high pressure
loop-line around the city of Sarajevo is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan 1277 Second Industrial Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976;
Effective Date: October 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Progress has been satisfactory. The loan is fully committed. Dis-
bursements are, however, somewhat behind appraisal estimates.
Loan. 1360 Metohija Multipurpose Water: US$54.0 million Loan of February 3.
1977: Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Construction of the dam, intake weir and feeder canal are progressing
satisfactorily and overall project progress is about one year behind schedule.
Awards of other procurement contracts are underway and it is expected that by
early 1981 all major contracts would have been awarded.
Loan 1370 Montenegro Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$26.0 million Loan
of March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Progress of all major works is satisfactory. ICB procurement for
the winery and the cold stores is completed and construction is underway.
Disbursements are ahead of appraisal estimates.



- 37 -                   ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10 pages
Loan 1371 Macedonia Agriculture and Second Agro-Industries: US$24.0 million
Loan of March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
Sub-loans for all agro-industrial sub-projects have been approved by
the Borrower. Twenty four sub-projects in the individual sector have been
approved committing 94 percent of loan proceeds. Progress in project implemen-
tation is slower than expected due primarily to lack of employment of an
agro-industries specialist by Borrower and slow processing of bids.
Loan 1377 Eighth Highway: US$56.0 million Loan of April 13, 1977; Effective
Date:  September 7, 1977; Closing Date:  March 31, 1981.
All road contracts have been awarded and work is satisfactorily in
progress. The Highway Master Plan for Kosovo and the studies on Road-User
Charges and Rail Costs have been completed. Disbursement rate is satisfactory.
Loan 1469 Second Power Transmission: US$80.0 million Loan of July 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 31, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Contracts totalling about 90 percent of the loan amount have been
let and physical execution is underway on the most critical sub-stations and
lines. The least cost development study and tariff study have been submitted
to the Bank and are being translated and reviewed, although delays continue to
be experienced regarding management studies and revised interrepublic agree-
ment on joint operations.
Loan 1477 Second Agricultural Credit: US$75.0 million Loan of July 29, 1977;
Effective Date: January 30, 1978: Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
All participating banks have identified the main investors and all
funds are expected to be committed by end-1980. The monitoring and evaluation
system is being implemented and procurement for 15 agroindustrial subprojects
is nearly completed.
Loan 1534 Fifth Railway: US$100 million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date:  September 28, 1978; Closing Date:  June 30, 1982.
Bank financed investments are progressing well and approximately
US$48 million-has been disbursed.  The level of compensation payments is
however increasing and substantial tariff increases have failed to keep pace
with inflation. Disbursements are on schedule.
Loan 1535 Ninth Highway: US$80 million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: August 10, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Contractor prequalification for all project road sections has been
approved, and the construction contracts have been awarded. Disbursements are
on schedule.



- 38 -                    Al.NEX II
Page 9 of 10 pages
Loan 1561 Middle Neretva Hydro Power: US$73 million Loan of May 31, 1978;
Effective Date:  November 15  1978  Closin  Date:  June 30, 1982.
Contracts for equipment totalling about 90 percent of the loan
amount have been let. Physical progress is satisfactory and relatively
problem free.
Loan 1611 Third Industrial Credit: $40.0 million Loan of July 26. 1978-
Effective Date: November 16, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Commitments to date are $30.9 million of which about $10.0 million
is for special projects. The remainder will be committed for a further
single special project (lead smelter). Disbursements are well ahead of
those expected at appraisal.
Lloans 1612, 1613 and 1614 Fourth Industrial Credit: $20.0 million each Loans
of July 26, 1978; Effective Date: November 16, 1978: Closing
Dates: December 31, 1982.
Loans 1612 and 1614 are almost fully committed. Slower commitment
of Loan 1613 was due to the Borrower underestimating time for completion of
project preparation. Commitment process has now been accelerated. Disburse-
ments are well above those expected at appraisal.
Loan 1616 Macedonia Strezevo Irrigation: US82 million Loan of Augus~t 23,
1978; Effective Date: February 14, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982.
Construction of the dam, alimentation canal, mai n canal and irriga-
tion network are underway. Thermal pipeline, diversion tunnel and coffer dam
construction have been completed.
Loan 1621 Bosanska-Kralina Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$55 million
Loan of November 6, 1978; Effective Date: March 28,, 1979;,
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Subproject approval has been proceeding more slowly than expected at
appraisal. About 40 percent of loan has been committed. Substantial cost
overruns may necessitate a reduction in scope of the project.
Loan 1678 Tenth Highway: US$148 million Loan of April 9. 1979; Effective
Date: August 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
All five participati-ng Republics/Provinces have awarded contracts
and established monitoring and evaluation units. Disbursements are somewhat
ahead of schedule.



- 39 -                   ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10 pages
Loan 1756 Croatia Sava Drainage: US$51 million Loan of October 11, 1979;
Effective Date: April 17, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Contract documents for procurement of drainage works are being
prepared. Consultants have been appointed to study and monitor subsurface
drainage. Progress, although somewhat behind schedule, is satisfactory.
Loan 1759 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation - Highways:  US$21 million Loan
of September 21, 1979; Effective Date: December 19, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project on schedule, emergency works completed and contracting for
restoration works completed with some works in progress. Disbursements of
about $5 million made to date.
Loan 1768 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation - Port of Bar: US$50 million
Loan of November 30, 1979; Effective Date: April 29, 1980:
Closing Date: December 31. 1982.
Project implementation schedule about six months behind schedule due
to delays in preparation of final designs and bidding documents.
Loan 1769 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation - Railways: US$14 million loan
of November 30. 1979: Effective Date: April 29, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Disbursements amounting to about $1 million for urgent reconstruction
works being processed in Bank. Contracting procedures for remaining works in
process.
Loan 1801 Third Agricultural Credit: US$86 million Loan of February 29, 1980
Effective Date: August 25, 1980: Closing Date: March 31, 1985.
The loan became effective on August 25, 1980. About 20 percent of
the loan is expected to be committed by end 1980.
Loan 1819 Eleventh Highway: US$125 million Loan of April 23, 1980; Effective
Date: August 7, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The loan became effective on August 7, 1980.



- 40 -                     ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
YUGOSLAVIA:  INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT V
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Country to prepare
the Project:                                June 1979 - November 1979
(b)  Project Preparation agencies:               Kosovska Banka Pristina
Privredna Banka Sarajevo
Investiciona Banka Titograd
Stopanska Banka Skopje
(c) First Bank mission to consider
Project:                                    June 1979
(d)  Appraisal Mission Departure:                October 22, 1979
(e)  Negotiations Completed:                     August 29, 1980
(f)  Loan Effectiveness Planned:                 January 30, 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
A.   Effectiveness
As an additional condition of effectiveness of its loan, Investiciona
Banka Titograd will take action to strengthen its operational capacity
(para 69).
B.   Other
(a) Allocation of a minimum of 25 percent of each bank's loan to labor-
intensive projects (para 60).
(b) Maximum size of project to be financed will be $15 million, but
joint-venture projects between industries in the LDR and MDR will
have a project size limit of $20 million. Maximum sub-loan size
will be $4 million. There will be no limit on project or sub-loan
size for labor-intensive projects (paras 60 and 62).



- 41 -                     ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(c) Domestic funds lent to sub-borrowers from the Borrowers' own re-
sources will carry an interest rate of at least 10 percent (para 65).
(d) Bank funds lent to sub-borrowers will bear interest of at least
11 percent (para 65).
(e) International competitive bidding procedures will apply to contracts
estimated to cost more than $2 million (para 67).
.



