Io~CIAL
DoOCTJMENTSLOAN NUMBER 1911 YU
Loan Agreement
(Fifth Industrial Credit Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INVESTICIONA BANKA TITOGRAD UDRUZENA BANKA
Dated                              , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1911 YU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     1 -y%    n       , 1981, between INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and INVESTICIONA BANKA TITOGRAD UDRUZENA BANKA
acting pursuant to its self-management agreement and statutes
(hereinafter called the Borrower and hereinafter sometimes also
referred to as IBT).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project as hereinafter defined by making
the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (herein-
after called the Guarantor), in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
guarantee the Loan as to payment of principal, interest and other
charges;
(C) the Bank has entered into three loan agreements of even
date herewith with Privredna Banka Sarajevo Udrulena Banka
(hereinafter sometimes called PBS), Stopanska Banka ZdruEena
Banka - Skopje (hereinafter sometimes called SBS) and Udrugena
Kosovska Banka Prigtina (hereinafter sometimes called KBP)
whereunder the Bank has agreed to make a loan to PBS in an amount
equivalent to $30,000,000, a loan to SBS in an amount equivalent
to $10,000,000 and a loan to KBP in an amount equivalent to
$50,000,000 (such loans hereinafter collectively called the
Other Loans) in order to assist PBS, SBS and KBP in the financing
of similar types of projects consisting of various Investment
Projects (as defined in said agreements) in Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Macedonia and Kosovo (as these terms are hereinafter
defined), said loan agreements being sometimes called the Other
Loan Agreements;
(D) the Borrower on the one hand and PBS, SBS and KBP on
the other hand have agreed to cooperate with each other in the
carrying out of their respective projects to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and of the Other Loans through a unit as
further described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement and to each of
the Other Loan Agreements;
(E) the Borrower has undertaken to secure from other lenders
all additional foreign exchange resources (in addition to the


﻿-2-
Loan) which may be required from time to time for the financing of
the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) (i) "Bosnia and Herzegovina", (ii) "Macedonia" and
(iii) "Montenegro" mean the respective Socialist Republics of such
name and "Kosovo" means the Socialist Autonomous Province of
Kosovo.
(b) "Unit" means the unit established jointly by, and
in agreement among the Borrower and PBS, SBS and KBP pursuant to
Section 6.01 of the Second Loan Agreement and to be maintained in
accordance with Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, all for the
purpose of the cooperation among each other as described in
Recital (D) of the Preamble to this Agreement.
(c) "Sub-Unit" means the sub-unit established by the Bor-
rower, pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01 of the Second
Loan Agreement and to be maintained in accordance with Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement.


﻿-3-
(d) "sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to
be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to an
Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project and "free-limit
sub-loan" means a sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a
free-limit sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b)
of this Agreement.
(e) "Investment Enterprise" means an industrial enterprise
to which the Borrower proposes to make or has made a sub-loan.
(f) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a sub-loan, provided, however, that such a devel-
opment project shall not include any project in the agricultural
sector.
(g) "Labor Intensive Investment Project" means an Invest-
ment Project the value of whose fixed assets (including permanent
working capital) shall, when divided by the number of jobs to
be created or to be maintained as a result of the Investment
Project, not exceed the equivalent of $31,000.
(h) "Self -Management Agreement of the Borrower" means the
Self-Management Agreement of the Borrower dated January 16, 1978,
as amended from time to time.
(i) "Borrower's Statutes" means the Statutes of the Borrower
dated January 16, 1978, as amended from time to time.
(j) "Statement of Operations and Policies for the Project"
means the statement of lending and investment operations and
policies for the Project set forth in Part C of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement, as such statement may be amended from time to time
with the prior approval of the Bank.
(k) "Social Accounting Service" means the Sluzba Drustvenog
Knjigovodstva referred to in Article 77 and in paragraph (5) of
Article 281 of the Constitution of the Guarantor.
(1) "Prior Loan Agreement" means either the loan agreement
dated June 21, 1974 (Loan No. 1012 YU) between the Bank and SBS,
or the subsidiary loan agreement entered into by SBS and KBP in
accordance with Loan No. 1012 YU, or the loan agreement dated
June 21, 1974 (Loan No. 1013 YU) between the Bank and PBS or the


﻿-4-
subsidiary loan agreement entered into by PBS and IBT in accor-
dance with Loan No. 1013 YU, and "Prior Loan" means any loan
provided for therein.
(m) "Second Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement dated
June 14, 1976 (Loan No. 1277 YU) between the Bank on the one
hand and PBS, SBS, KBP and the Borrower on the other hand and
"Second Loan" means the loan provided for therein.
(n) "Fourth Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement dated
July 26, 1978 (Loan No. 1614 YU) between the Bank and the Borrower
and "Fourth Loan" means the loan provided for therein.
(o) "Guidelines" means the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977.
(p) "Dinars" and "Din" mean Dinars in the currency of the
Guarantor.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty million dollars ($20,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, for
amounts to be paid) by the Borrower on account of withdrawals
made by an Investment Enterprise under a sub-loan (A) to meet the
reasonable cost of goods and services incurred in currencies other
than Dinars required for the Investment Project in respect of
which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested, or (B) to
meet the ex-factory cost of items manufactured in Yugoslavia which
shall have been procured in accordance with international competi-
tive bidding procedures consistent with those set forth in the
Guidelines; provided, however, that no withdrawal shall be
made in respect of such sub-loan unless (i) the sub-loan shall
have been approved by the Bank, or (ii) the sub-loan shall be a
free-limit sub-loan for which the Bank shall have authorized
withdrawals from the Loan Account.


﻿-5-
(b) A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an Invest-
ment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of (i) $2,000,000 equiva-
lent, when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or of
the Prior Loan or of the Second Loan for such Investment Project
or (ii) $12,000,000 equivalent, when added to all other free-
limit sub-loans financed or proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the foregoing amounts being subject to
change from time to time as determined by the Bank.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of (i) expenditures
before the date of this Agreement or (ii) expenditures by an
Investment Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject to the
Bank's approval if such expenditures shall have been made more
than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have
received in respect of such sub-loan the application and informa-
tion required by Section 2.03 (a) of this Agreement or, in respect
of a free-limit sub-loan, more than ninety days prior to the date
on which the Bank shall have received in respect of such free-
limit sub-loan the request and information required by Section
2.03 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a sub-loan (other than
a free-limit sub-loan) to the Bank for approval, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to
the Bank, together with (i) a description of the Investment Enter-
prise and an appraisal of the Investment Project, including the
financing plan for the Investment Project and a description of
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan; (ii) a description of the procurement procedures
followed or to be followed by the Investment Enterprise in carry-
ing out the Investment Project; (iii) the recommendations of the
Sub-Unit; (iv) the proposed terms and conditions of the sub-loan
including the schedule of amortization of the sub-loan; and (v)
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
sub-loan shall contain (i) a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project, including the financing
plan for the Investment Project and a description of the ex.pendi-
tures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan;
(ii) the recommendations of the Sub-Unit; (iii) a description


﻿-6-
of the procurement procedures followed or to be followed by the
Investment Enterprise in carrying out the Investment Project and
a list of goods and services to be procured; and (iv) the terms
and conditions of the sub-loan, including the schedule of amor-
tization therefor.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a) and       of this Se tion shall be presented
to the Bank on or before qJ ?k4 .
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be October 31, 1984
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
nine and one-fourth per cent (9-1/4%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement as such Schedule shall
be amended from time to time by the Bank to the extent required
to: (i) conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregate
of the amortization schedules applicable to sub-loans which have
been approved or authorized for withdrawals from the Loan Account
under Section 2.02 of this Agreement; and (ii) take into account
any cancellation pursuant to Article VI of the General Conditions
and any repayments made by the Borrower under Section 2.09 of this
Agreement; provided that repayments due hereunder shall be made
on May 1 and November 1 in each year. Such amendments of said
Schedule 2 shall further include amendments to the table of
premiums on prepayment, if necessary.
(b) The amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan
shall provide for an appropriate period of grace, and, unless the


﻿Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree (i) shall not extend
beyond 15 years from the date of this Agreement, and (ii) shall
provide for approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent,
aggregate payments of principal and interest or approximately
equal semi-annual, or more frequent, payments of principal.
(c) The Borrower shall transmit to the Bank, for its prior
approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made by the
Borrower in respect of the repayment provisions of any sub-loan.
Section 2.09. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree:
(a) If a sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to
the Borrower in advance of maturity or if a sub-loan or any part
thereof shall be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise disposed
of for value by the Borrower, the Borrower shall promptly notify
the Bank and shall repay to the Bank on the next following
interest payment date, together with the premiums specified in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement or in any amendment thereof under
Section 2.08 (a) of this Agreement, the amount withdrawn from the
Loan Account in respect of su-h sub-loan or part thereof and not
theretofore repaid to the Bank.
(b) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied
by the Bank, to the maturity or maturities of the Loan in amounts
corresponding to the outstanding amounts of the maturity or
maturities of the.sub-loan so repaid or disposed of.
(c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.04 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of
this Section.
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist the
Borrower in financing such productive facilities and resources in
Montenegro as will contribute to the economic and social develop-
ment of Montenegro. The Project consists of the financing of
specific development projects through loans to industrial enter-
prises in Montenegro as specified in the Statement of Operations
and Policies for the Project.


﻿-8-
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with the Statement
of Operations and Policies for the Project and, to that end,
the Borrower shall, under arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank, maintain in cooperation with PBS, KBP and SBS the Unit and
the Sub-Unit, with the composition and functions set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and the Borrower shall have the
Sub-Unit review every one of its proposed Investment Projects and
sub-loans therefor and make appropriate recommendations thereon to
the Borrower before the Borrower shall make any application or
request to the Bank for approval or authorization of withdrawals
in respect of such sub-loans.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, any sub-loan will be made on terms
and conditions consistent with the Statement of Operations and
Policies for the Project and on additional terms and conditions
whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written contract with the
Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights
adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower,
including, in the case of any sub-loan, the right of the Borrower
to: (i) require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate
the Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with appropriate technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii) require that:
(1) the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirement set
forth in paragraphs 6 (g), 6 (h) and 6 (i) of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, and (2) such goods and services shall be used
exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
(iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the
Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites,
works, plants and construction included in the Investment Project,
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(iv) require that: (1) the Investment Enterprise shall take out
and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with
appropriate business practice; and (2) without any limitation upon
the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely
usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such
goods; (v) obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the


﻿-9-
administratio., operations and financial condition of the Invest-
ment Enterprise; and (vi) suspend or terminate the right of the
Invest-ent Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon
failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its obligations
under its contract with the Borrover.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation
to each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect
the interests of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply with
its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the
purposes of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project and of each Investment Project
(including the cost thereof, the amount of financing provided by
the Borrower, disbursements, repayments, interest and other
charges on such financing, including the sub-loan therefor) and
furnish to the Bank quarterly reports thereon in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request within 45 days of the close of
the quarter concerned.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Project, the Unit and Sub-Unit, their procedures,
operations and records, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment
Projects, and the sub-loans and, where appropriate, the benefits
to be derived from the Loan, the Project, the Investment Projects
and the sub-loans.
(b) Not later than six months after the respective Closing
Dates of any Prior Loan, the Second Loan, the Fourth Loan and this
Loan (or such other date as the Bank may agree), the Borrower
shall in cooperation with KBP, PBS and SBS, through the Unit,
prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution
and initial operations of the Investment Projects financed out of
the proceeds of such loans, their costs and the benefits derived
and to be derived from them, the performance by the Borrower, KBP,
PBS and SBS and the Bank of their respective obligations under the
Prior Loan Agreements, the Second Loan Agreement, the Fourth Loan
Agreement, this Loan Agreement and the Other Loan Agreements and
the accomplishment of the purposes of such loans and the Other
Loans.


﻿- 10 -
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall at all times continue to
conduct its operations and affairs, including the Project, in
accordance with appropriate financial and investment standards
and practices, with qualified and experienced management and
staff, and in accordance with its Self-Management Agreement and,
Statutes.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all necessary measures to ensure that all complementary financing
shall be available to any Investment Enterprise in Montenegro as
and when required to enable the Investment Enterprise to carry out
its Investment Project in a timely manner.
Section 3.07. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower undertakes to charge on its domestic resources made
available to the Investment Projects (other than those made
available by the Federal and Republican Funds for Accelerating
the Development of the Less Developed Regions and by the
Republican Fund for Rehabilitation and Reconstruction of Areas
Affected by Earthquakes), an annual rate of interest of at least
10% per annum.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1981
(or such other date as the Bank may agree), prepare and submit to
the Bank for its review and comments a draft work-program for
Montenegro on the financing of export related development programs
and on the prospects of encouraging exports through such financing
and within the framework of the existing policies and procedures
pertaining to such type of development programs, such draft work-
program to be prepared on terms and conditions agreed upon
between the Borrower and the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall, promptly upon receipt of the Bank's
comments and in any event not later than September 30, 1981 (or
such other date as the Bank may agree), finalize such work-program
taking into account the Bank's comments and take any action
required pursuant to the proposals emanating from such work-
program.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, promptly after the date
hereof, take all action required to strengthen its operational
capability, as such action has been agreed upon with the Bank
before the date hereof.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain procedures and
records adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Proj-
ect and of each Investment Project (including its cost and the
benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by the Social Accounting Service or another competent and expe-
rienced independent auditing organization acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets or on any
assets of any founder bank of the Borrower as security for any
debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower or on any assets of any founder bank of the
Borrower, as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan and that in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect at no cost to
the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower or on any assets of any founder bank of
the Borrower, as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant,
at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the
Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing


﻿- 12 -
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for the payment of the purchase price of such property;
or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall not make any repayment in
advance of maturity In respect of any outstanding debt of the
Borrower which, in the judgment of the Bank, would materially
affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 4.05. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, the staff of the Borrower and
procedures of the Unit and Sub-Unit, the administration, opera-
tions and financial condition of the Borrower, and to any other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request concerning its administration, operations and financial
condition, the progress of the Project and the general status of
the Loan.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall comply with any reasonable
request of the Bank for the Bank's representatives to inspect the
records referred to in Sections 3.03 and 4.01 of this Agreement
and any relevant documents.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall continue to maintain
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank as shall be necessary to
protect itself against the risk of losses resulting from changes
in the rates of exchange between the currencies (including Dinars)
used in its lending and borrowing operations for the purposes of
carrying out the Project and servicing the Loan.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified, namely,
that:


﻿- 13 -
(a) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable; and
(b) a change shall have been made in the Self-Management
Agreement or in the Statutes of the Borrower which will materially
and adversely affect the financial condition or operations of the
Borrower or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following additional event is specified, namely
that the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of
Section 5.01 shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the action referred to in Section 3.09 of this
Agreement shall have been taken and the Borrower shall have
furnished to the Bank evidence thereof satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 6.02. The date of            a)7/              ,is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.03. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 14 -
Cable address:                        Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Investiciona Banka Titograd
Udrulena Banka
Bulevar Revolucije 1
81000 Titograd
Yugoslavia
Cable address:                        Telex:
IBANKA                               61-118 IBANKA
Titograd, Yugoslavia
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By 5/
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
INVESTICIONA BANKA TITOGRAD UDRUZENA BANKA
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the allocation of
the amounts of the Loan to each Category.
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                  Dollar Equivalent)
(1) Sub-loans for                                   5,000,000
Labor Intensive
Investment Projects
(2) Sub-loans for other                            15,000,000
Investment Projects
TOTAL           20,000,000
2.   If the estimate of disbursements under any Category shall
change, the amount of the Loan then allocated to, and no longer
required for, such Category may be reallocated, at the request of
the Borrower, to any other Category, subject to the approval of
the Bank, provided, however, that the Bank's approval shall not
be necessary as regards any request for reallocation of any
amount of the Loan from Category (2) to Category (1).
3. .If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been, eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule*
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)**
May 1, 1983                                       100,000
November 1, 1983                                  200,000
May 1, 1984                                       500,000
November 1, 1984                                  800,000
May 1, 1985                                     1,100,000
November 1, 1985                                1,300,000
May 1, 1986                                     1,400,000
November 1, 1986                                1,500,000
May 1, 1987                                     1,500,000
November 1, 1987                                1,500,000
May 1, 1988                                     1,400,000
November 1, 1988                                1,300,000
May 1, 1989                                     1,200,000
November 1, 1989                                1,200,000
May 1, 1990                                     1,100,000
November 1, 1990                                1,000,000
May 1, 1991                                       800,000
November 1, 1991                                  600,000
May 1, 1992                                       400,000
November 1, 1992                                  300,000
May 1, 1993                                       200,000
November 1, 1993                                  200,000
May 1, 1994                                       100,000
November 1, 1994                                  100,000
May 1, 1995                                       100,000
November 1, 1995                                  100,000
*    The Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant
to the provisions of Section 2.08 of the Loan Agreement.
** To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 17 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions or to Section 2.09 (a) of the Loan
Agreement:
Time of Prepauyment                             Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                     1.85%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                            3.70%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                     6.80%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                                     8.00%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                                     9.25%


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions
of the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section
3.04:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and
the application of such prepayment in addition to, or in
substitution for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of
Section 3.04."
(2) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for
the words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by
the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 2.03 of the
Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted under
paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have
been received by the Bank in respect of any portion of the
Loan, or having been so received, shall have been denied, or
(c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan shall remain
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (d) the Bank shall have
received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07
with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may by notice
to the Borrower terminate the right of the Borrower to submit
such applications or requests or to make withdrawals from the
Loan Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount
or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice such
amount or portion of the Loan shall be -cancelled."


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
The Unit and Sub-Units;
Statement of Operations
and Policies for the Project
A.   Composition
1.   The Unit shall consist of four Sub-Units, one each from
PBS, SBS, IBT and KBP. The Sub-Unit of IBT shall consist of at
least three members appointed by IBT within its staff and accept-
able to the Bank, one of these members being designated by IBT as
head of the Sub-Unit. The head of such Sub-Unit shall in cooper-
ation with the heads of the Sub-Units of PBS, SBS and KBP select
among the heads of said four Sub-Units one of them to serve as
Chairman of the Unit for a minimum period of six months.
2.   The Unit and Sub-Units shall meet as and when necessary.
3.   The Borrower shall provide the required supporting staff
for the Unit and the respective Sub-Unit in cooperation with
PBS, SBS and KBP.
B.   Functions
4.   The Unit:
(a) shall, on a uniform basis for- PBS, SBS, IBT and KBP,
coordinate the preparation of appropriate reports concerning the
information referred to-in Sections 3.04 and 4.06 of this Agree-
ment and of each of the Other Loan Agreements, and forward to
the Bank such reports, in such detail as the Bank shall request,
and all such other information as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request;
(b) shall, in consultation with the Bank, propose to PBS,
SBS, IBT and KBP through the Sub-Units appropriate time schedules
and procedures for supervision and evaluation of Investment
Projects and shall assist PBS, SBS, IBT and KBP through the
Sub-Units in carrying out such supervision and evaluation;
(c) shall maintain on behalf of PBS, SBS, IBT and KBP close.
relations with the Bank and assist the Bank's representatives in
any inspection of Investment Projects financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and of each of the Other Loans and in exchange of


﻿- 20 -
views with PBS, SBS, IBT and KBP on matters relating to the Loan,
each of the Other Loans, the Project and the project financed out
of the proceeds of each of the Other Loans; and
(d) shall prepare the reports referred to in paragraph (b)
of Section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement.
5.   The Sub-Unit of the Borrower:
(a) shall review each proposed Investment Project and
related application or request for a sub-loan on the basis of
a detailed appraisal of the Investment Project prepared by the
Borrower, in accordance with the Statement of Operations and
Policies for the Project;
(b) shall, after its review, make recommendations to the
Borrower on each Investment Project and related sub-loan as to
its conformity to the Statement of Operations and Policies for
the Project and suggest any modifications required to achieve such
conformity;
(c) shall assist the Borrower in establishing and maintain-
ing appropriate records as provided for in Section 3.03 of the
Loan Agreement, in such detail as the Bank shall request;
(d) shall provide the Unit with such information concerning
the Borrower referred to in Section 3.04 and Section 4.06 of the
Loan Agreement; and
(e) shall, in coordination with the Unit, assist the Bor-
rower in carrying out supervision and evaluation of Investment
Projects.
C.   Statement of Operations and Policies for the Project
6.   Investment Projects, and sub-loans for Investment Projects,
shall conform to the following:
(a) Investment Projects will be limited to development
projects in manufacturing, processing and small industries (ex-
cluding those in the agro-industrial sector).
(b)  Investment Projects will be limited to small-sized and
medium-sized projects normally not exceeding the equivalent of
$15,000,000 in total cost, unless the sub-loan is to be made to an


﻿- 21 -
Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project which qualifies
as a joint venturo development project under the Associated Labor
Law of 1976, in which instance such limit shall be the equivalent
of $20,000,000, it being specified that neither limit shall apply
to Labor Intensive Investment Projects.
(c) Except for Labor Intensive Investment Projects, the
amount of a sub-loan shall, with respect to any Investment Pro-
ject, normally not exceed the equivalent of $4,000,000.
(d) Investment Projects should provide satisfactory finan-
cial rates of return in all instances, and in addition satis-
factory economic rates of return must be demonstrated in cases
where the sub-loan to be made is above the free-limit set forth in
Section 2.02 (b) of the Loan Agreement, on the basis of detailed
and realistic estimates of costs and benefits, in addition to
meeting normal criteria of technical feasibility of the Investment
Project, marketability of its production and creditworthiness and
managerial competence of the Investment Enterprise. Normally,
Investment Projects with an internal financial rate of teturn of
less than 12% will be excluded. If the economic rate of return is
calculated to be less than 12%, a particular justification will be
required.
(e) The Investment Enterprise shall have a satisfactory
financial structure. Normally, its long-term debt-to-equity ratio
shall not exceed three to one unless, if higher, the appraisal
of the Investment Project should indicate that such ratio shall
be reduced below the above limit within a reasonable period of
time.
(f) Sub-loans for Investment Projects will be made for
a term consistent with the requirements of the Loan Agreement
and related to the useful life of the assets financed by the
sub-loan, or for a shorter term if consistent with the debt
servicing capacity of the Investment Enterprise, will be repayable
in the same currencies used for the purpose of repaying to the
Bank the corresponding principal amount of the Loan and will carry
interest, payable with respect to that portion of the rate of
interest corresponding to the rate of interest thereon to be paid
by the Borrower to the Bank on account of the Loan in the same
currencies as the principal, at an annual rate of not less than
11% of the principal amount outstanding.
For the purpose of Section 2.08 (b) of the Loan Agreement,
periods of grace of:


﻿- 22 -
up to five years either for Investment Projects appro-
priately co-financed with other foreign exchange
resources and when suitably justified or for Investment
Projects which qualify as joint venture development
projects under the Associated Labor Law of 1976 and when
suitably justified may be deemed appropriate; and
up to three years for other Investment Projects may be
deemed appropriate.
(g) Procurement of the goods and services:
(i) Contracts for goods and services to be financed
in whole or in part out of the proceeds of the
Loan, estimated to cost the equivalent of
$2,000,000 or more, shall be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding procedures in
accordance with the Guidelines unless the Borrower
shall have satisfied the Bank that such procedures
are not appropriate for such awards.
It is specified that for the purpose of evaluation
and comparison of bids for the supply of such
goods: (1) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the
imported goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-
shelf price of other goods, offered in such bid;
and (2) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with
the sale or delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the
goods shall not be taken into account in the
evaluation of the bids.
It is also understood that, in the procurement of
goods, goods manufactured in Yugoslavia may
be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(A) All bidding documents for the procurement of
goods shall clearly indicate any preference
which will be granted, the information re-
quired to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods
and stages that will be followed in the
evaluation and comparison of bids.


﻿- 23 -
(B) After evaluation, responsive bids will be
classified in one of the following three
groups:
(AA) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured
in Yugoslavia if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of
the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Yugoslavia equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of
such goods.
(BB) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(CC) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(C) In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid
of each group, all evaluated bids in each
group shall first be compared among them-
selves, without taking into account customs
duties and other import taxes levied in
connection with the importation, and sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the
sale or delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the
goods. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then
be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A
or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(D) If, as a result of the comparison under
paragraph (C) above, the lowest bid is a bid
from group C, all group C bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the evaluated bid
price of the imported goods offered in each
group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (AA) the
amount of customs duties and other import
taxes which a non-exempt importer would have
to pay for the importation of the goods
offered in such group C bid; or (BB) 15% of
the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said
customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such


﻿- 24 -
price. If the group A bid in such further
comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under
paragraph (C) is the lowest evaluated bid
shall be selected.
(ii) With respect to each contract for goods and ser-
vices to be financed in whole or in part out of
the proceeds of the Loan and estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $2,000,000, the procurement
of such goods and services shall be made in accor-
dance with appropriate commercial practices at a
reasonable price, account being taken also of other
relevant factors such as time of delivery and
efficiency and reliability of the goods and
availability of maintenance facilities and spare
parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of
their quality and the competence of the parties
rendering them, due consideration being given to
the desirability to apply international competitive
bidding procedures.
(h) With respect to all contracts for goods and services to
be financed in whole or in part out of the proceeds of the Loan
estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or more, but less
than the equivalent of $5,000,000, and which are to be procured in
accordance with the Guidelines on the basis of international
competitive bidding procedures:
(i) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the
award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the
bidder to which it intends to award the contract
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such deter-
mination.


﻿- 25 -
(ii) The terms and conditions of the contract shall
not, without the Bank's concurrence, materially
differ from those on which bids were asked or
prequalification invited.
(iii) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be
furnished to the Bank promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Loan Account in respect of such contract.
(i) With respect to (A) all contracts for goods and services
to be financed in whole or in part out of the proceeds of the Loan
estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more and which
are to be procured in accordance with the Guidelines on the basis
of international competitive bidding procedures, and (B) whenever
the Bank shall so reasonably request, all such other contracts
for goods and services to be financed in whole or in part out
of the proceeds of the Loan and which are to be procured in
accordance with the Guidelines on the basis of international
competitive bidding:
(i) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the
invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of
the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Bank shall
reasonably request. Any further modification to
the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(ii) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the
award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the
bidder to which it intends to award the. contract
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the


﻿-26-
Borrower and state the reasons for such deter-
mination.
(iii) The terms and conditions of the contract shall
not, without the Bank's concurrence, materially
differ from those on which bids were asked or
prequalification invited.
(iv) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be
furnished to the Bank promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Loan Account in respect of such contract.
(j) Each Investment Project will be subject to close super-
vision by the Borrower in accordance with the procedures proposed
by the Unit.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  9d        day of      198   .
FOR SECRETARY


