Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
A1  /3 o 1 7 - /H1
Report No. 7293-ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
MARCH 24, 1989
Trade, Finance and Industry Division
Country Department II
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of December 31, 1988)
Currency Unit = Peso (Mex$)
US$1.00                     Mex$2,200.00
Mex$1,O000                  US$0.45
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
We!ghts and Measures
Metric System
Abbreviations
ACF                      Average Cost of Funds
ANAPROMEX                National Flower Industry Association
ANIQ                     Asociacion Nacional de la Industria Quimica
(National Association of Chemical Industries)
BANCOMEXT                Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior (National Bank
o,c Foreign Commerce)
CEPROFI                  Certificado de Promocion Fiscal (Tax Promotion
Certificate)
CONASUPO                 Compania Nacional de Subsistencias Populares
(National Basic Foods Company)
DCR                      Domestic Content Requirement
DRC                      Domestic Resource Cost
ERR                      Economic Rate of Return
FERTIMEX                 Fertilizantes Mexicanos S.A. (Mexican Fertilizer
Company)
FICORCA                  Fideicomiso para la Cobertura de Riesgos Cambiar4os
(Trust Fund to Cover Foreign Exchange Risk)
FIRA                     Fondo Institucional de Recursos Agropecuarios
(Institutional Fund for Agricultural Resources)
FONEI                    Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial (Industrial
Equipment Fund)
FRR                      Financial Rate of Return
GATT                     General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
GIRA                     General Interest Rate Agreement (Between Mexico and
the Bank)
IMIT                     Instituto Mexicano de Investigaciones Tecnologicas
(Mexican Industrial Technology Institute)
INA                      Instituto Nacional de Autopartes (National
Autoparts Institute)
LIBOR                    London Interbank Offered Rate
MFA                      Multifiber Agreement



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAI RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Table of Contents
Loan and Project Summary         ......................... i - iii
I. SECTORAL CONTEXT ................... I1
A. Industrial Sector Competitiveness .
B. vernment Restructuring Strategy.                                    2
C. Bank Assistance Program .6
II. SUBSECTOR-SPECIFIC RESTRUCTURING STRATEGIES     .      .              7
A. Textiles .8
B. Autoparts .12
C. Agro-industry .....................                                17
D. Other Subsectors .20
III. THE PROPOSED LOAN .21
A. Project History .21
B. Project Objectives .21
C. Project Description .....................................          21
D. Loan Amount .24
E. Financing Plan .24
F. Institutional Arrangements .24
G. Relending Terms and Conditions .25
H. Disbursements .28
I. Procurement .28
J. Retroactive Financing .29
K. Monitoring, Reporting and Auditing .30
L. Justification and Risk .30
IV. RECOMMENDATIONS.                                                     30
This report was prepared by Messrs. Eberhard von Loehneysen, Carlos Corti,
LATTF; J.J. de St. Antoine, LA2AG; Ira Lieberman and Leonard Jordan,
Consultants, following two missions to Mexico in November 1987 and January
1988. The report was updated by Mr. Neil Hughes after negotiations.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
LIST OF ANNEXES
1. Long-term Government Strategy for the Textile Industry
2. Long-term Strategy for the Automobile and Autoparts Industry
3. Proposed Financial Instruments
4. Outline for a Technical Assistance Program
5. Borrower and Executing Agencies
6. Key Indicators for Project Implementation
7. Selected Data and Documents Available in the Project File
8. Estimated Schedule of Bank Loan Disbursements
9. Supporting Tables
Industrial Sector
1. GDP by Sector 1980-86
2. Index of Manufacturing Production by Sector
3. Gross Domestic Product of Manufacturing Industry
4. External Trade
Financial Sector
5. Assets and Liabilities of the Banking System (Banco de Mexico)
6. Assets and Liabilities of the Banking System (Commercial Banks)
7. Assets and Liabilities of the Banking System (Development Banks)
8. Nominal and Real CPP Rates, 1978-87



- i -
mco
INDUSTRIAL RZSTR£CTURING PROJECT
Loan and Pro1ee Summary
Borrower:        Nacional Financiera S.N.C. (NAPIN)
Guarantors       United Mexican States
Beneficiarys     NAFINs Banco Wacional de Comercio Exterior (BANCOMEXT);
Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial (FONEI)
Amount:          US$250 million
Terms:           17 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard
"ariable interest rate
Relending        NAPIN would Mi) onlend the proceeds of the loan to
Terms:           industrial enterprises directly or through the commercial
banking system; or (ii) pass on loan funds to BANCOMEXT or
ONEI for onlending directly to enterprises or onlending
through the commercial banking system. Subloans would be
denominated in Mexican pesos or U.S. dollars at the option
of the subborrover. The interest rate for the final
borrower on peso subloans would be at least ACF (the
average cost of funds of the banking system) plus 52 p.a.
For US dollar denominated subloans, the rate would be not
less than 2 percentage points above the six-month LIBOR.
These rates would include margins adequate to cover
financial intermediation costs. Interest rates and terms
on subloans to finance equity and quasi-equity investments
would be negotiated between investors and companies on an
individual basis and would not be bound by any maximum
lending rates.  Maturities would not exceed 13 years for
investment and industry level subloans, 7 years for
working capital and consultant service subloans, and 10
years for the financing of equity investments. Tne grace
period would not exceed 3 years for subloans other than
for equity investments, which would have a grace period
not exceeding 5 years.
Proiect          The project would support a process under which restruc-
Objectivess      turing strategies, combining subsector-specific policy
adjustments with financial and technical assistance to
individual companies, would be developed and implemented
for important industrial subsectors. The first
subsectors/products in this process would be textiles,
autoparts, and cut flowers. A limited amount would also
be made available to other subsectors that have been
liberalized by the Government's trade policy reform.



- ii -
Prolect           The project would support policy adjustments designed to
Descriptions      facilitate further trade liberalization and simplification
of the regulatory environment, and it would provide
financi-l and/or technical restructuring assistance to
companies that are affected by trade liberalization but
have the potential to compete effectively within a changed
economic environment. The Bank loan would consist of (M)
a comoonent to finance equipment and working capital
investments in subsectors for which restructuring
strategies have been prepared (60Z of the loan amount);
(ii) a component for the financing of equipment and
working capital investments in other subsectors (34Z);
(iii) a component to finance industry-level investments
such as training facilities and subsector-wide promotion
programs (4Z); and (iv) a technical assistance component
to finance goods and services needed for improvements of
the delivery capacity of participating interme.iaries and
for project implementation (2Z).
Proiect           The project would (i) help a series of subsectors improve
Benefits          efficiency and increase international competitiveness and
and Risks:        (ii) assist viable enterprises to adjust to the effects of
the government's trade liberalization policies, thereby
supporting Government efforts to revive industrial growth
and increase manufactured exports. Possible risks arise
from possible adverse international economic developments
which could make Mexico's export efforts more difficult
and have a dampening effect on the domestic investment
climate, and possible difficulties in completing the
ongoing domestic price stabilization program and possible
back tracking on trade policy and regulatory reforms; in
addition, inter-agency coordination problems may cause
delays in the implementation of the restructuring
programs. To address these risks, the proposed loan has
been designed to form part of the Government's trade
policy reform program, the proposed loan amount has been
based on a conservative demand estimate for financial
resources, and care has been taken to thoroughly involve
participating government agencies and the private sector
in the design of the subsector studies and project
preparation.
Estimated Costs:              Local           ForeiRn         Total
(US$ Million)
Equipment Subloans             50.0             150.0         200.0
Working Capital
Subloans                      150.0              50.0         200.0
Equity Investments             43.0              43.0          86.0
Industry Level
Investments                     5.0               5.0          10.0
Technical Assistance            2.0               2.0           4.0
TOTAL                         250.0             250.0         500.0



- iii 
FInan-ing Pl.n:
World Bank                      0.0            250.0         250.0
NAFIN, BANCOMEXT,
PONEI                         150.0              0.0         150.0
Intermediaries/
Beneficiaries                 100.0              0.0         100.0
TOTAL                         250.0            250.0         500.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                     (Bank PY / US$ million)
FY89      FY90      FY91      FY92       FY93      FY94       FY95
Annual        22.5       52.5      65.0      58.3       33.4      17.5       0.8
Cumulative    22.5       75.0     140.0     198.3     231.7      249.2     250.0
Retroactive   Retroactive financing of US$25 million will be granted for
Financing     expenditures incurred after January 1, 1988, the date of project
appraisal.
Rate of       Eligible subprojects would have ERRs and FRRs of
Return:       at least lOZ, except for equity and quasi-equity investment
subprojects. which would require rates cf return of at least 12Z.



I. SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. Industrial Sector Competitiveness
1.01     Over the last three decades, Mexico has attempted industrial
development behind high protective barriers, focusing on import-
substitution and rapid expansion of the domestic market. Beginning in the
mid-1950s, the Government started to increase nominal tariff levels and to
impose quantitative import restrictions and dDmestic price controls. By
1970, 65Z of all tariff categories were subject to non-tariff restrictions:
by 1976, the quota coverage of imports had increased to 94?. In 1982, at
the onset of the recent economic crisis, import controls had been extended
to 1002 of tariff categories, and the average tariff rate had risen to 272.
Also, official reference prices (ORPs), which are used to calculate
tariffs, and were initially intended to protect against dumping, gained
increasing importance as a non-tariff barrier.
1.02     During much of this period, Mexico displayed an impressive record
of sustained industrial growth. Gross manufactured output in constant
prices rose 6.3?, 8.3?, and 72 for the decades 1950-60, 1960-70, and
1970-80, respectively, and during each decade real industrial growth
exceeded overall GDP growth. Industrial growth, however, was mostly a
result of capacity expansion rather than productivity increases. and its
contribution to GDP growth was overstated due to the excessive level of
local prices for industrial goods. Through the period 1970-82, total
factor productivity (TFP), which provides a measure of output growth net of
the growth attributable to additional factor ir.puts, increased only
marginally and was particularly poor in subsectors enjoying protection
through quantitative import restrictions (QRs). According to several
subsector samples, average annual TFP growth was less than 12 during this
period, much lower than that of Mexico's industrialized trading partners or
that of comparable middle income countries. Of particular concern was the
high incidence of subsectors in which the average annual TFP growth was
negati.e, implying rising unit costs of production (in constant prices), a
highly extensive growth pattern, and a breakdown of cost discipline across
a wide variety of industries.
1.03     The low productivity growth was reflected in the insufficient
international competitiveness of the Mexican industrial sector, as measured
by the Domestic Resource Cost Ratio (DRC, which compares output at
international prices with inputs at shadow prices). According to
industrial sector data for the late 1970s and early 19809, about half of
all industrial activities in Mexico showed DRC ratios below 0.9
(competitive), and 272 fell in the range between 0.9 and 1.1 (uncertain
competitiveness), leaving at least one fourth of industrial activitis in
the uncompetitive range. Moreover, in many subsectors the DRC ratio had
deteriorated during the 1970s and early 19809 when only 18 of 49 ind4strial
activities registered improvements in their DRC ratio, while for the
remaining 31 subsectors, the DRC ratio deteriorated.



-2-
1.04     With the 1982 economic crisis industrial growth came to an abrupt
halt.  Production dropped 112 from its 1981 peak, and gross domestic
investment as a proportion of GDP fell from its peak of 292 in 1981 to 17%.
In 1983, industrial production dropped another 9Z. The recovery of
industrial out:put in 1984 and 1985 was initially made possible by major
improvements in macroeconomic adjustment, notably a sharply reduced fiscal
deficit and a major real depreciation of the exchange rate. Inflation
began declining rapidly, the crowding out of the private sector diminished
sharply, and net exports soared to ur,precedented levels. However, more
fundamental obstacles to growth were not removed. For example, import
controls were intensified and a system of perverse and oonflicting
industrial incentives was left largely in place. A premature reflation of
the economy in early 1985 gave further impetus to industrial recovery, but
soon led to critical balance of payments difficulties and recession.
Industrial output dropped by about 52 during 1986, aggravated by the
collapse of oil export earnings, but it recovered in 1987 part of the
ground lost in the year before. Growth of manufactured production is
estimated at over 22 for 1987.  Again manufactured exports were responsible
for the recovery of Mexican industry.
1.05     Severe recession in the domestic market was compounded by the
deterioration in the financial structure of many industrial enterprises.
Because of excessive debt exposure, the leve-age of many companies
increased sharply as a result of the massive devaluations of the peso and
the drastic increases iu interest rates since 1982/83. The debt/equity
ratio for the industrial sector climbed from about 1.7:1 in 1980 to more
than 3.2sl in 1983, while the average debt service ratio fell from 2.6 to
-0.2 over the same period, indicating serious financial problems for many
companies. Although the situation was somewhat improved by 1985, more than
402 of all major companies continuetd to have debt equity ratios higher than
2:l in 1985. Since 1985, further progress toward renewed financial health
has been rapid, aided by substantially increased margins, falling real wage
and input costs, and substantial prepayment of private sector debt.
Indeed, by, January 1988, during the early stage of implementat'on of the
Government's "economic pact,' the non-financial private sector, including
private industry had achieved a position of net creditor to the domestic
banking system. However, a significant proportion of viable industrial
companies remains over-leveraged and requires financial restructuring.
1.06     Because of the uncertain prospects for expanding internal demand
rapidly in the near-term, boosting manufactured exports has offered the
most promising path toward renewed inidustrial growth. Manufactured exports
rose sharply in 1983 and 1984, mainly in response to the devaluation of the
Mexican currency and the depressed dmestic market.  After faltering in
1985, manufactured exports renewed rapid growth in 1986-1987, increasing at
an annual rate of over 40 percent. Yet the bulk of this increase was
generated by enterprises in the automobile industry and, to a lesser
extent, by the textiles sector. The restructuring needs and export
potential of these and other subsectors will be addressed under the
proposed loan.
B. Govermnent Restructuring Strateag
1.07     To initiate a structural reform process in the economy that would
lead to increased economic efficiency and a broadened export base, the



- 3 -
Government began in 1985 to imp;,cment a number of far reaching policy
changes designed to liberalize '1i.? economy, reduce subsidies, and remove
distortions that have contributed to the lack of international
competitiveness of the industrial sector. The Government's trade policy
reforms have been opening up the industrial sector to foreign competition.
At the same time, the elimination of fiscal incentives, as well as drastic
changes in the corporate tax system to reduce the bias in favor of debt
financing, are er.couraging companies to take a harder look at the
underlying economic returns to be obtained from alternative production
choices and to seek sounder more risk-tolerant sources of financing.
Moreover, the Government is seeking greater mobilization of risk-capital
financing for the industrial sector, and is restructuring or divesting
itself of a number of important parastatal industries.
1.08     Trade Liberalization.  In the context of the Bank's First Trade
Policy Loan approved in July 1986, the Government began to reduce existing
trade barriers. In July 1985, the Government removed QRs from 3604 of the
8010 tariff positions, reducing the QR coverage to 392 of imports, or about
551 of production. Overall, about 692 of domestic production was subject
to non-tariff trade barriers through import license requirements and ORPs.
1.09     Between August 1985 and June 1986, the Government implemented
further liberalization measures, including: (i) reducing the production
coverage of non-tariff barriers from 692 to about 622; (ii) lowering the
average (production-weighted) tariff level from 29.4Z to 18.22, and in the
dispersion if tariffs from 18.82 to 14.1X; (iii) publishing a trade policy
program which included a calendar for gradual tariff reduction until
December 1988 and the elimination of ORPs by December 1987; (iv) the
publication of an anti-dumping law and the accompanying regulations; and
(v) Mexico's accession to the Generel Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
(GATT).
1.10     With the support of the Bank's Second Trade Policy Loan approved
in November 1987, the Government implemented further trade policy reforms.
By November 1987, the production coverage of non-tariff baeriers had been
reduced to 25.42 (1986 production base). Moreover, in December 1987, as
part of an economic stabilization program designed to fight inflation, the
Government announced an acceleration of its trade liberalization measures,
lowering the maximum tariff range from 452 to 202, and bringing quota
coverage of domestic production down to around 232, removing QRs from most
apparel imports (see para. 2.07). The impact of the trade liberalization
measures taken since 1985 is analyzed in a Trade Policy Impact Study being
discussed with the Mexican authorities.
1.11     To complement its trade liberalization efforts, the Mexican
government also entered into a bilateral trade agreement with the United
States -- it's most important export mar!:et -- in late 1987. The agreement
establishes a consultative mechanism to resolve disputes on trade matters
(including foreign investment and technology transfer). As part of the
agreement, Mexico is granting U.S. exporters a quota of $240 million of
apparel exports; in exchange. the U.S. allows Mexican textile and apparel
exports to the U.S. to increase by 6t a year. Both of these measures --
the opening of the domestic market and the increased access to the U.S.
market -- are important elements of the textile restructuring program, as
they would intensify domestic competition and enable efficient Mexican
nrrA1-4erq tn e-niand their exports.



1.12     The trade liberalization measures were accompanied by changes in
other macro policies.  The Mexican peso was devalued in Jaly 1985 followed
by a policy of a crawling peg adjusted daily. Accompanied by increased
fiscal and monetary policy tightening, the new policy framework helped
generate a !5 percent real exchange rate depreciation by end-1986,
accounting in large part for the surge in exports and the decline in
imports, which occurred despite the liberalization of trade. Since 1986,
the real trade-weighted exchange rate appreciated by roughly 25X. With
imports rising since mid-1987 at a 5OZ annual rate, competitive pressures
on domestic industry have been increasing.
1.13     Elimination of Fiscal Incentives.  The distorting impact of the
protection system existing prior to the trpde liberalization process
initiated in 1985 was compounded by an elaborate system of fiscal
incentives, which promoted "priority, activities and regions throughout the
industrial sector. The most important incentive element was the
Certificado de Promocion Fiscal (CEPROFI), a system of tax credits against
federal tax obligations for the promotion of investment, employment and
specific industrial development goals. CEPROFIs introduced distortions in
resource allocation, because the subsidies supported investments with low
returns; also the system was not neutral across sectors as it was
implicitly favoring sectors with shorter lived assets and higher gearing
ratios and it provided incentives to sectors that benefited from trade
protection.
1.14     In December 1987, the Government temporarily suspended the fiscal
incentives system for the industrial sector as part of the economic
stabilization program. Even before, CEPROFIs had already lost much of
their importances in 1986, they represented a revenue loss to the
Government of roughly US$135 million, down from the 1981 peak of US$720
million. Although the most drastic decline occurred in 1983 when the
Government introduced emergency measures to stabilize the economy,
incentives continued to decline in the following years. At the same time,
CEPROFIs had inc.easingly been concentrated in the iron and steel and the
cement industries, which had raised their share in the tax credits to the
manufacturing sector from 402 in 1982 to 702 in 1986.
1.15     Corporate Income Tax Reform.  In December 1986, the Mexican
Congress approved a package of fiscal reforms, including a comprehensive
reform of the corporate income tax system. The main objectives of thi±
reformt *re: (i) to increase corporate tax revenues, which had fallen from
2.92 of M' in 1980 to only 1.5Z of GDP in 1986, by phasing out the
distortions caused by inflation on the taxable income of corporations; (ii)
to shorten collection lags and tighten enlorcement of tax compliance; and
(iii) to restructure incentives to encourage greater tax collection efforts
by states and municipalities.
1.16     Even with the sharp drop in inflation since the introduction of
the Government's Economic Pact in December 1987, the elimination of the
inflationary distortions in corporate taxation is of particular importance.
Under the previous tax law, corporate borrowers were able to deduct the
full amount of interest ?ayments, including the implicit component for
inflation adjustment, from their taxable income. As a result, companies
had a strong incentive to increase debt financing. Moreover, the previous
tax law recognized asset depreciation based only on historical costs, not



- 5 -
inflation adjusted costs, thus generating a bias against long-term
investments in fixed assets. Finally, inflationary capital gains were
subject to corporate income taxes, thus capital itself was being taxed.
1.17     To reduce the liquidity impact of the new tax law, these
distortions are 1being eliminated over a five year period. Only the real
(non-inflationary) component of interest payments will ultimately be
deductible, thus reducing the bias against equity financing. Depreciation
allowances will be based on inflation adjusted costs or actual replacement
values, and inventory purchases of production inputs can be fully dieducted.
In addition, the carry-forward of past losses can also be inflation
adjusted. To compensate for the increased tax base as a result of the tax
reform, the corporate income tax rate was reduced from 422 to 35Z. Also,
the Government has introduced special depreciation allowances to stimulate
new fixed investment. While increasing the financial burden for companies,
with high debt, the new tax system will also move most companies to
restructure balance sheets and search for alternative sources of capital.
1.18     Equity Mobilization.  The Government is also promoting the
mobilization of additional eqaity in Mexico's financial markets to support
the restructuring activities of the private sector. In addition to the tax
reform, which is expected to reduce the bias against equity investments,
the Government is changing the 1985 law governing the operations of
investment funds to make them more attractive for domestic and
international investors. The attractiveness of existing equity markets in
Mexico, declined sharply following the plunge of the stock exchange during
the last quarter of 1987. Although the market has subsequently recouped a
small part of its losses, the climate for issuing shares in the stock
exchange remains unfavorable.
1.19     The promotion of international debt-equity swaps represents
another potential source of risk capital financing. However, it requires
an evaluation of benefits and costs in terms of increased public doristic
debt financing and crowding out of alternative spending, whenever an
exchange of private equity for public debt is proposed. The Government has
established a regulatory frrmework for debt-equity swaps, according to
which foreiga investo-' -would split with the Government the discount
obtained through t   purchase of a foreign loan when converting the foreign
debt obligation into a peso investment. In November 1987, the Government
discontinued the acceptance of new applications, mainly because of concerns
about the adverse monetary impact of the debt/equity swaps. By December
1987, about US$1.5 billion of debt-equity swaps had been authorized under
this arrangement.
1.20     In response to the Goverr.nent's promotion of equity and quasi-
equity markets, the nationalized commercial banks and privately owned stock
brokerage houses (casas de bolsa) have begun to strengthen their financial
and investment banking skills to develop company-specific work-out plans
and to cope with the application of more complex financial instruments.
The casas de bolsa are offering increasingly sophisticated financial
services to their corporate clients (e.g., stock and bond issues as well as
financial consulting). Some of the larger and more sophisticated
commercial banks are strengthening their corporate finance departments and
are beginning to offer equity and quasi-equity participations to interested
companies.



- 6 -
1.21     Restructuring of Parastatals.  The Government has already started
specific restructuring measures in the parastatal industries. It has
embarked on a major divestiture drive. To date some 600 paratatals
(mostly of minor size) have been either privatized, liquidated, or in a few
cases, transferred to the states, municipalities, or employees, and the
Government has announced that it intends to divest a substantial portion of
its remaining larger holdings. In addition, the Government has signed
restructuring agreements with several large parastatals, including
Siderurgica Mexicana S.A. (SIDERMEX), the state steel company,
Fertilizantes Mexicanos S.A. (FERTIMEX), the fertilizer parastatal,
Ferrocarriles, S.A., the national railroad company; Azucar, S.A., the
Government sugar monopoly; and Compania Nacional de Subsistencia Popular
(CONASUPO), the parastatal agro-industrial enterprise involved in marketing
of grains, milk, edible oils and other basic food products.
C. Bank Assistance Prora
1.22     The complexity and cross-sectoral nature of industrial
restructuring is reflected in the Bank's industrial sector lending
strategy, which combines policy based quick disbursing loans with direct
assistance to industrial companies and subsectors.  A number of loans,
currently in various stages of processing, would have a direct bearing on
proposed industrial sector policy reform and restructuring as follows:
- Trade policy. The Bank has supported the Government's trade
liberalization efforts through two Trade Policy Loans (paras.
1.08-1.10), focusing on the reduction of QRs, the elimination of ORPs
and the lowering of tariffs. A Finance and Trade Sector Adjustzient
Loan, presently under preparation, would provide continued support
for further liberalization of the economy, especially by helping to
remove domestic policy constraints to adjustment.
- Export development. The Bank has also supported a strengthening of
Mexico's export base through two Export Development Loans (approved
by the Board in June 1983 and January 1987), which provided for a
free trade regime for exporters, simplified customs procedures, and
the inclusion of indirect exporters in the export promotion regime.
A proposed third Export Development Loan would focus on additional
simplifications of export regulations that affect exports negatively
and a strengthening of export promotion systems.
- The Bank is also proposing to support domestic industrial policy
reform through an Industrial Sector Policy Loan. The proposed loan
would support a program to: (i) phase out the sector approach to
industrial development; (ii) open the direct foreign investment and
technology transfer regimes and improve the environment for R & D;
(iii) phase out price controls for industry and relax entry barriers;
(iv) simplify regulations and procedures so as to reduce the cost of
doing business; and (iv) make regulatory changes to improve the
provision of essential road transportation and telecommunications
services.
- Parastatal restructuring. The Bank is assisting the Government in
its parastatal restructuring efforts with two operations: (i) a Steel



-7-
Sector Restructuring Loan (approved by the Board on March 2, 1988) to
support sector policy changes including price decontrol and provide
financing and technical assistance for the upgrading of the steel
sector; and (ii) a Fertilizer Sector Adjustment Loan (approved by the
Board on March 15, 1988) to support a major overhaul of PERTIMEX,
including major policy changes in fertilizer pricing and the ultimate
elimination of subsidies, changes in pricing of raw material, plant
closures and rehabilitation, and divestiture of retailing. The Bank
is also proposing to support, under a proposed Public Enterprises
Reform Project, a program to reorganize the Government administration
of parastatals, restructure them managerially, physically and
financially and prepare for divestiture enterprises which are not to
be kept permanently under Government control.
- The proposed Industrial Restructuring Project would be focused on
improving efficiency predominantly in subsectors with export
potential that are dominated by private industry, and it would
combine policy and regulatory adjustments with the provision of
financial and technical assistance to individual companiea.
II. SUBSECTOR-SPECIFIC RESTRUCTURING STRATEGIES
2.01     The Government recognizes the need to complement the changes in
its overall economic and industrial policy reforms with deregulation
efforts in individual subsectors to facilitate and accelerate the
restructuring process of the private sector and thus stimulate a supply
response. Although the industrial sector as a whole currently benefits
from a strong financial position, including substantial liquidity, this
result reflects mainly the position of dominant firms, many of which had
tapped foreign currency denominated assets from abroad. On the other hand,
small and medium-sized firms in general have weaker financial positions and
have been affected more severely by the current tight monetary policy,
which has reduced real banking credit to the private sector by roughly 40?
since the end of 1987. Moreover, the anti-inflation program has brought
with it high real interest rates currently running at annualized rates of
about 40?. Naturally, such high financial costs also deter new physical
investment. However, assuming continued success in lowering inflationary
expectations, real interest rates should decline significantly. With
efficient export capacity rapidly reaching full utilization, enterprises
are expected to shift toward heavy investments for restructuring, for which
all but the largest and most liquid enterprises will require not only use
of retained earnings, but substantial outside financing as well.
2.02     To define subsector-specific deregulation requirements and to help
the private sector in the assessment of its competitive strengths and
weaknesses, the Government has, together with the private sector, initiated
a number of studies (financed by the Bank under previous loans) for
important subsectors. The first subsectors for which studies have been
carried out are textiles, autoparts and agro-industries. These subsectors
have been selected mainly because of their export potential and
restructuring prospects. At present they acccunt for about 25Z of
industrial value added and about 302 of total exports. In each of these
sectors, the Government hast (i) formed working groups with the private
sector; (ii) assessed the international competitiveness of Mexican industry



with the support of international consultant firms; and (iii) formulated
deregulation and industrial assistance programs based on the consultants'
recommendations, and on feedback from industry representatives
participating in the program.
2.03     Under the proposed project the Government will officially announce
a promotion program, including a summary of the restructuring objectives
and the strategy for each of the sectors and a description of the measures
that the Government has taken or intends to take.
A. Textiles
2.04     Background.  Mexico's textile industry, the major employer in the
industrial sector, is facing difficult problems adjusting to a more
liberalized trade envircnment mainly because of the high protection under
which it had operated in the past. The lack of import competition
contributed to high input costs for cotton and synthetic fibers, high
operating costs, often reflecting suboptimal input qualities, and high
inventories to ensure timely availability of raw materials and other
inputs. Moreover, the industry's almost exclusive focus on the domestic
market contributed to low labor and capital productivity as well as low
capacity utilization. Other constraints to higher productivity include:
(i) small plant sizes (particularly in the spinning segment); (ii) outdated
and overaged machinery (especially at the finishing stage ); (iii) capacity
shortages in the printing area; and (iv) an internationally less attractive
product mix, such as too heavy emphasis on synthetic fibers (vs. natural
fibers) and dyed fabrics (vs. printed material).
2.05     As a result of these problems, Mexico's textile industry is
generally uncompetitive versus major producers in the developing world --
Taiwan, Korea, Hong Kong, and among the developed countries -- France,
Germany, Italy and the U.S. In the textile subsector, a combination of
tariff and non-tariff barriers resulted in high levels of protection for
most domestically produced outpu*s. A 102 tariff was levied on raw wool
imports, while imports of wool topb were barred by 1002 QRs). In synthetic
fibers, a combination of high ORPs, which are used to determine tariffs,
and a 372 tariff, discouraged imports. Cotton imports were also prevented
by sanitary barriers, which effectively acted as 1002 QRs, and, when
imports were allowed to cover local shortages, they were imported under a
state monopoly. Finished textile production was also protected by QRs. As
a result, effective protection rates were 252-35Z for most products, and in
the case of wool tops, reached 97Z. The situation in the individual
textile segments is as follows:
- Until recently, synthetic fiber producers were protected by high
tariff barriers and quantitative restrictions, and were thus able to
maintain domestic prices about 202 above world market levels.  In
addition, the industry received implicit subsidies in the form of
domestic inputs of petrochemical feedstocks and energy resources
priced below world market levels. As a result, fiber producers were
very profitable and their margins exceeded those of synthetic fiber
producers in developed countries.



- 9 -
- Compared to other major textile producers, cotton has a lower share
in the fiber mix of the Mexican market. Cotton has declined in
importance because ofs ti) pest-related production problems; (ii)
import restrictions such as licensing and the use of restrictive
sanitary inspections; and (iii) an import monopoly granted to a
parastatal (Algodonera Nacional), which also played an important role
in the domestic cotton trade. Because of import restrictions and an
insufficient quality of domestic supplies, many textile producers
moved away from cotton.
- Wool is a relatively unimportant fiber at present.  In its pure form,
however, it is used widely in synthetic blends. In garments, Mexican
producers are competitive with the potential to export pants, suits,
sport jackets, skirts and other products made from wool blends. The
importation of wool tops at the same tariff rate as virgin wool
(announced by the Government as part of its December 1987 trade
reform) will improve the industry's competitiveness.
- The textile spinning, knitting and weaving segment is highly
fragmented, consisting of some 2,000 individual enterprises whose
competitiveness in terms of technology, modern equipment, labor
productivity and exports varies widely. It is generally a
domestically-oriented sector, enjoying, until recently, heavy
protection.
- The finishing segment has remained outdated, consisting of highly
fragmented small-scale enterprises, and is a major inhibiting factor
to overall industry competitiveness. Dyeing and printing are
particular problems. Investments in this segment are of particular
importance for improved competitiveness of the industry and are
expected to be given priority attention under the proposed loan.
- The confection segment (garments and other finished goods) is also
highly fragmented with, as in other countries, a large informal
component. Traditionally, only about 52 of the total production of
finished textiles and clothing production is being exported.
- The maquila (in-bond) segment has experienced significant growth.
Maquila operations, involving sewing and assembly plants on the
border, have provided employment, but relatively low value added, and
often lack skilled workers, and technical and management personnel.
Moreover, exports are counted towards Mexico's quota under the Multi-
Fiber Agreement (MFA) and thus erode the export potential of the
domestic textile industry.
2.06     Restructuring Program.  During negotiations the Government
presented a statement (Annex 1), acceptable to the Bank clarifying Mexico's
medium and long-term strategy for the textiles subsector. The
restructuring program for the textile subsector would primarily be aimed at
making major segments of the textile industry internationally competitive.
This would ensure an improved supply in the local market of products
competitive in price and quality, and contribute to value-added increases
of exports within the recent trade agreement with the U.S.A. (para. 1.11).
The trade agreement w±.h the U.S.A. is of particular importance in this
context as it grants Mexico growth possibilities in textile exports and
thus helps ensure the viability of the textile restructuring program.



- 10 -
2.07     Because of the high level of protection that the textile subsector
has enjoyed in the past, trade reform is the key to any structural
adjustment process of the industry. In 1987 and 1988, the Government
announced and implemented the following trade liberalization measures:
- QRs and ORPs for textile products other than QRs for apparel have
been eliminated.
- As part of the textile sector restructuring efforts, the Government
had already announced that it would replace the QR coverage of
apparel products through an import quota equivalent to 202 of the
domestic market value. In May 1988 the Government announced the
removal of all QRs ( with some insignificant exceptions) for textile
preducts to increase competitive pressure in the domestic market.
The opening of the textile market represents a remarkable development
since the Government has long maintained that some degree of
protection for the apparel industry would be necessary as a defense
against low-cost Asian producers.
- Following significant tariff reductions for the main textile products
in October 1987, the Government lowered the tariffs on the main
textile products further in December 1987, in the context of the
economic stabilization program to: (i) 102 for synthetic fibers and
spinning; (ii) 152 for weaving; and (iii) 202 for garments.
2.08     To increase the value added of textile exports, beginning in 1989,
the Government will change the way export quotas are being assigned to
individual companies. The value added increase is important, given the
import restrictions Mexican producers will continue to face in potential
major markets. Under the current system, export quotas depend on past
export performance. Under the proposed new system, export quotas would
also favor domestic value added intensive products. In addition, the
Government intends to give some preference in assigning export quotas to
less industrially developed regions. As a result of the changed quota
assignment system, the Government expects that domestic producers will
increase their participation in overall exports, while the share of the
maquiladora industry is likely to decline in relative terms.
2.09     The Government has taken steps to free cotton imports from
implicit import barriers through the restrictive application of sanitary
regulations. While the existence of sanitary regulations does not present
a problem as such, the government intends to ensure that current
regulations are only being used for sanitary purposes and not to restrict
imports. To this end, Secretaria de Comercio y Fomento Industrial (SECOFI)
has requested, and the Government has agreed that the Secretaria de
Agricultura y Recursoc Hidraulicos (SARH) would define by the end of 1988 a
list of countries and regions from which cotton imports would be barred for
sanitary reasons; imports from other countries and regions would then not
be svu'4ect to sanitary import restrictions. In addition, textile companies
and wnulesalers would be able to import cotton freely thereby removing the
monopoly for importing cotton enjoyed by Algodonera Comercial Mexicana, a
state-owned cotton trading company. The Government has authorized the sale
of Algodonera Commercial to the private sector and promoted its
privatization.



- l1. -
2.10     The Government also intends to address the pollution problems
caused by textile producers. Most of the highly polluting washing and
dyeing activities are concentrated in outdated plants in Mexico City and
other urban centers. The proposed textile restructuring program envisages
substantial new investments in the finishing segments; these new
investments would be subject to pollution control regulations and would
only be financed outside urban areas. In addition, the Government wants to
develop, jointly with each of the major polluting companies, relocation
plans as i4tcessary and provide assistance for the resettlement process. To
develop such a plan, the Government would carry out a study (to be financed
under the project and in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank), which would determi.ae the extent of the current pollution
problems, and develop a reloc'ation strategy including relocation options.
The study would be completed within 18 months of loan signature. The
Government's intention in this regard is spelled out in the policy
statement for the textile sector (Annex 1).
2.11     Financial assistance under the textile restructuring program would
focus on investments in plant modernization to lower production costs, and
enhance product quality and design, especially of finished fabrics. The
project would provide financing for modernization investments combined with
technology improvements which are particularly needed in the areas of
dyeing and warp preparation and to a lesser degree in the fiber production
of nylon spinning and polyester filaments. While capacity expansions have
a high priority especially in the printing segments, much of the financing
would also be provided for modernization, balancing investment and working
capital requirements, including financial restructuring of companies.
2.12     Industry-level investments and technical assistance under the
proposed loan would comprise programs to develop labor skills, training
programs for technicians and supervisory personnel to improve labor and
machine productivity, research and development programs, measures to
improve quality and quality control, introduction of appropriate management
systems, as well as expenditures related to product development, market
research and development of marketing and distribution strategies for
exports.
2.13     To help achieve these objectives, a textile development program
would be carried out. The program would be supported and managed by
textile industry associations including Camara de Vestido, Camara Textil
and Asociacion Nacional de Industrias Quimicas (ANIQ). Financing for the
program would be provided under the proposed loan. The textile program
would provide timely information on fashion and fabric changes in
international markets, promote Mexican products abroad, and support
financially studies and training of textile designers abroad. In addition,
it would promote, coordinate, and implement training programs, establish
standards for quality control and classification, and disseminate
information regarding productivity surveys, machinery census and technical
developments. The Camara de Vestido has already prepared a detailed
feasibility study, which will have to be reviewed and approved by the
Camara Textil and ANIQ, representing the fiber producers, to ensure that it
meets the diverse requirements of the various industry segments.
2.14     Organizing agents (formed by larger companies or groups of
companies) would direct and coordinate inputs, processing at various stages



- 12 -
of the production chain, product design and mix, quality controls ard
export marketing for a number of companies which are too small or
financially too weak to execute their functions cost-effectively. Based on
the recommendations of the consultants that prepared the textile study, one
large fiber producer has already formed a separate company that is acting
as an organizing agent for smaller producers.
2.15     Due to the fragmented nature of the industry there is also a need
for improved information dissemination on technology changes, quality
standards, management practices, market opportunities, fashion, etc. The
development of computer-based timely trade and other industry statistics in
SECOFI, as well as technology and other information systems through
industry associations would be an important step in that direction. The
project's technical assistance component would include funding for these
activities.
B. Autoparts
2.16     Background.  The autoparts industry consists of: (i) domestic
producers, (registered autoparts companies that meet the domestic ownership
requirement of 60Z) which represent 64Z of total sales and 282 of total
exports; and (ii) parts production by foreign owned automobile producers
(mainly engines: 36? of total sales, 72? of exports). In addition, the
maquila segment is an important element of Mexican autoparts production;
the total value of maquila exports exceeds that of domestic parts and
automobile producers combined. The autoparts industry experienced annual
growth rates of about 20X from 1977-81 but stagnated over. the last five
years, primarily because of declining domestic automobile sales. Domestic
unit sales fell from a peak of 650,000 vehicles in 1981 to 220,000 vehicles
in 1987, while vehicle exports rose from 20,000 to 170,000 during the same
period. The trade balance of the automobile and autoparts subsectors,
which showed a deficit of more than US$2 billion in 1981, had moved to a
surplus of $1 billion by 1986. As a result of the increased export
orientation and the diminished domestic market, current capacity
utilization in the autoparts industry, averaging about 502, varies
significantly by segment: it ranges from 20? in non-export segments to 702
for motors produced primarily for export.
2.17     The Government has sought to develop the industry through a
combination of negotiated agreements, fiscal incentives and changes in
legislation. The most recent industry decrees (Diario Oficial, September
15, 1983, and August 28, 1984) provided the impetus for the initLal
restructuring of the industry, focusing primarily on automobile producers.
The objectives have been to: (i) integrate automobile producers with
domestic suppliers of autoparts to reduce the negative trade balance of the
sector; (ii) improve the competitiveness of the autoparts sector, as well
as increase downstream employment benefits in related subsectors; and (iii)
promote exports of autoparts. Prior to the restructuring program, the
regulations contained the following:
- Protection of automobile producers. The automobile producers were
being protected through quantitative restrictions; thus, the domestic
market was effectively closed off to external suppliers. The
protection served mainly as an inducement for major foreign



- 13 -
automobile producers to establish domestic production lines in
Mexico. In an attempt to ensure a minimum degree of efficiency under
the protective environment, domestic regulations restricted
automobile producers to only one line of cars ('domestic line")
albeit with different models, in the domestic market.
- Protection of domestic parts producers. Until December 1987,
autoparts producers were being protected through a combination of
explicit trade restrictions and domestic regulations. About 40Z of
the domestic autoparts production was covered through some form of
non-tariff barrier (QRs: 26.32, ORPs: 13.42). The average tariff for
autoparts was about 30X. Heavily protected parts included engines,
frames, carburetors, radiators, and, to a lesser extent,
transmissions. Domestically produced autoparts had to account for at
least 602 of the sales value of cars produced under the 'domestic
line' mentioned above; domestically produced autoparts, in turn, had
to have a domestic content of at least 60X of their respective sales
value. In addition, 30 specified products had to be bought from
Mexican producers. However, since the beginning of 1988, there has
been a significant reduction in the protection offered to the
autoparts industry as noted in paras. 2.21-2.22.
- Stimulation of Exports. To address the trade imbalance of the
sector, the Government established special requirements and
incentives for exports: (i) automobile producers can add a second
line ("export line') to their domestic line provided they export at
least 0S of this second line. The domestic content requirement
(DCR) on the export line is only 302 (as opposed to 601 under the
"domestic line), and the number of 'must-buy-Mexican' products is
only 4 (as opposed to 30 under the domestic line); and (ii) any
import by an automobile or an autoparts producer has to be
compensated through an equivalent amount of exports. At least 50X of
the value of these compensating exports have to come from domestic
autoparts producers. For automobile producers, the compensating
export has to come from the line for which the respective import was
made (Vsame-line-exports').
- Assurance of domestic ownership. To ensure domestic majority
ownership of autoparts producers, foreign participation is limited to
401 of the respective company's capital. For automobile producers,
no similar requirement exists. However, these producers are not
allowed to produce any autoparts other than engines. Recently, the
Government has applied ownership rules more flexibly and has allowed
some ma4ority ownership by foreign autoparts producers (e.g.,
Cummings Engines). However, majority ownership of foreign autoparts
producers remains limited to a few selected cases and the regulations
governing such entry are not transparent.
2.18     The Government has promoted automobile and autoparts exports in
the past few years in part through regulatory changes that have liberalized
the sectoral program governing the sector. The method of calculation for
the DCR of the 'export line' reduced this requirement further to well below
301 (23-251 on average) because the method of calculated excludes options
added on to the vehicle. At the beginning of 1988, a dedicated export line
(1001 exports) was created, which is free of DCRs. In response to the



- 14 -
regulatory changes, automobile producers have been more oriented toward
the production of export lines, consistent with industry trends toward the
"world car" concept (increased international parts sourcing), and it
appears likely that they will eventually abandon purely domestic lines and
supply the domestic market through a portion of the export line. Foreign
investment dedicated to exports has increased substantially; for example,
both Ford and Chrysler have established plants for exports in Mexico. In
addition, major automobile producers have established plants to produce
motors to complement their vehicle assembly exports. As a result motor
exports account for 74Z of total motor production and 342 of total autopart
production.
2.19     The autoparts industry has also been exposed to greater pressure
to meet international cost and quality standards because of increased
automobile exports and reduced protection from the 'watering down" of the
DCRs on automobile exports. As a result, a number of autoparts producers
are facing the need for retooling. For instance, a major producer of
manual transmissions for the domestic market operating at low levels of
capacity is planning to retool his factory to produce automatic
transmissions. This requires new technology, capital investment, and
increased working capital to meet demands of international automobile
producers.
2.20     The maquila program has served as an additional catalyst to
improve the competitiveness of the domestic autoparts industry. Foreign
direct investment in the sector, which historically took the form of joint
ventures with domestir: producers, has increasingly concentrated in the
maquila segment of the industry. Maquila exports reached $1.5 billion in
1986 (wire harness assembly 392, seat belts and radios 29Z, and a wide
array of other autoparts 332) by virtue of Mexico's competitive labor cost
advantage and proximity to the U.S. market. The maquila operations which
are free of regulatory constraints, may have adversely affected potential
export sales by domestic autoparts producers. Maquila exports represented
512 of total sector exports in 1986 versus 82 for domestic autoparts
producers with 242 and 11X of value added, respectively.
2.21     Restructuring Program.  The restructuring program of the autoparts
subsector will be aimed p-rimarily at increasing efficiency and the share of
Mexican exporters in the world market for autoparts. Because of its
generic competitive advantages -- U.S. market proximity and low labor cost
-- Mexico is uniquely positioned to compete successfully with other
emerging parts producers in developing countries like Korea, Taiwan, and
Brazil. In addition, the auto industry's trend toward a "world car"
replacing established parts suppliers through non-traditional sources with
strong price/quality advantages, should facilitate Mexico's attempt to
become a major participant in the world market for autoparts.
2.22     The Government recognizes that trade reform and deregulation are
key means to introduce competitive pressure for the autoparts industry to
restructure. The current restructuring strategy focuses on these areas and
the provision of financial assistance to increase efficiency and exports in
the autoparts subsector. There is however, still a need to effectively
formulate trade reform measures for the automobile industry as a whole,
addressing the protection of both automobile and autoparts producers.
Further policy improvements may be achieved in the context of proposed Bank



- 15 -
operations supporting changes in trade policy and industrial sector
regulations.
2.23     As part of the restructuring program, the Government has
undertaken important trade reforms that have increasingly opened up
autoparts producers to import competition. It removed most QRs on
autoparts (except for diesel engines) and it reduced tariffs to 202. The
Government removed the mandatory parts list for the DCRs that required
automobile producers to purchase specific goods (mainly engines, drive
trains, and transmissions) from domestic producers and it has also reduced
the DCR for autoparts, by allowing it to fall to 302 from 602 if the
component is used for export, and if the net foreign exchange generation
compensates for the reduction in DCRs. Although the Government has made
important progress, the restructuring program does not remove all the DCRs
that provide protection to the autoparts industry.
2.24     Trade policy changes have also been introduced for the closely
related automobile producers, although on a more limited scale, and a
number of industrial regulations have been relaxed. The Government removed
QRs for truck trailers and allowed the importation of used pickups and
light trucks by small farmers and cooperatives. However, QRs on cars and
other vehicles remain. Tariff exemptions have remained in force for
completely knocked-down kits without regard to country of origin and new
tariff exemptions have been granted on imported steel for the automotive
sector when national production is insufficient or not competitive. The
Govertnment has also introduced two important modifications in its
implementation of the autopart decrees that increase the flexibility for
automobile producers: (i) automobile types that used to be classified as a
separate "line" are now considered to be merely "models" of the same line
and can thus be introduced into the domestic market. As a result,
automobile producers can increase the line and model variety in the
domestic market; and (ii) exports compensating for imports do not have tc
come from the same line for which the imports have been made. Rather,
automobile producers can use any component produced by the domestic parts
industry as compensating exports. The Government also intends to revise
the information requirements from both the automobile and autoparts
producers to simplify the process for the indus_.ry and improve compliance
with the decree and the amended regulations.
2.25     To attract capital and technological know-how through foreign
investmeent, the Government intends to introduce more flexibility to the
application of the rules that are governing foreign ownership in the area
of autoparts. According to the current regulations, foreign ownership in
the domestic autoparts industry is limited to 402 of a company's capital.
As stated in its long-term sector strategy (annex 2) the Government is
studying the possibility of granting permits for high technology investment
in the autoparts industry, which then would not be restricted to the 40X
foreign ownership limitation.
2.26     The regulatory changes implemented and currently planned represent
important steps toward: (i) an incentive structure commensurate with the
industry's restructuring needs; and (ii) removing disincentives for exports
(including indirect exports of autoparts used in exported vehicles). The
consultant study underlying the restructuring program for the autoparts
industry predicts that in the future growth of Mexico's automobile and



- 16 -
autoparts industries will be mainly determined by export market potential.
The recent regulatory changes imply that in the medium term, as export
orientation rises and the domestic automobile lines become less important,
DCRs for the domestic line will lose their importance as a vehicle for the
protection of the domestic parts producers. Together with the removal of
the mandatory parts list for the DCRs these measures would reduce
protection of (and regulatory limitations on) autoparts producers.
2.27     The long-term Government strategy statement for the automobile and
autoparts industry (Annex 2) further indicates that the Government is
exploring the possibility of reaching agreement with other countries which
produce automobiles to enable Mexico to compete on equal terms in the North
American automotive market (i.e. with respect to quotas, quantitative
restrictions, local content requirements, voluntary restrictions, foreign
exchange compensation requirements, etc.). The achievement of the
Governments objectives in the sector may therefore depend in part upon the
response received from other countries in the bilateral and multilateral
negotiations on the matter.
2.28     Financial and technical assistance measures would include
resources for plant rehabilitation, technology improvements, and joint
ventures with foreign companies. According to a survey of 18 major parts
producers conducted by the National Autoparts Institute (INA) in 1987, the
industry plans to invest about US$500 million over the next five years in
its restructuring efforts. The program would also support the
establishment of sectoral infrastructure, especially for the benefit of
smaller producers. The proposed measures include:
- setting up of a dedicateu telecommunications network between Mexico
and a major foreign autoparts market to provide the necessary data
and voice communication services to members of the INA;
- establishment of a technological center in a major foreign autoparts
market to support marketing efforts and to transmit swiftly new
performance and design requirements. This project would be tied to
the establishment of a program administered by INA to promote
selected autoparts in major markets;
- design and implementation of a management and worker training program
administered by INA especially for smaller companies.
- establishment of an industry-wide data base in SECOFI that would
contain data on firms' products, financial performance, exports and
other subjects; and
- establishment of Mexican *aftermarket" (i.e. replacement) parts
supply and marketing warehouses at the US border, consolidating
warehousing and traffic functions to key regions in the US.
2.29     The above elements of the technical assistance program will be
prepared under the responsibility of INA. Financial support to the
technical assistance program under the loaxn would require, in each case, a
supporting feasibility study, as well as appraisal by Bank staff. An
initial study has already been prepared on the telecommunications network,



- 17 -
and INA has prepared an action plan to strengthen its own institutional
capability.
C. Agro-industry
2.30     Agriculture and agro-industry employ approximately 41? of Mexico's
work force and contribute 202 of GDP. The agro-industrial contribution to
GDP is estimated at about 10X. In certain segments of agro-industry
Mexico has inherent competitive advantages because of its favorable climate
and its proximity to the U.S. market. The country is already a sizable
exporter of certain commodities, including coffee, cotton, tobacco, and
frozen shrimp. In recent years, growers in the states of Sinaloa and
Sonora have become competitive exporters of such products as tomatoes,
green peppers, eggplants, green beans, as well as other higher value
vegetables and fruits for the U.S. winter vegetable market, in competition
with Florida growers. Additional export potential exists in higher value
vegetables and fruits, flowers, ethnic Mexican foods, and aqua-culture
shrimp.
2.31     Despite its inherent potential, however, Mexico has found it
difficult to penetrate foreign markets mainly because of problems in
production technology, packaging, marketing and distribution. Because of
the protection of the domestir market, growers have had little incentives
to seek export possibilities, with the exception of winter vegetables and
frozen shrimp. Moreover, a number of difficult policy and regulatory
issues have hampered the development of commercial agriculture and agro-
industrial extorts.
2.32     In recent years, Mexico's overall agricultural poliry has been
aimed at achieving self-sufficiency in basic grains, leaving little in the
way of direct support for sgro-industry and specialty agricultural
products. In additLon, problems of land tenure have often caused supply
interrupt.ions at times when industry in diverse product segments had
generated initial success. In the long run, Mexico, which has relatively
little land per capita and a rapidly growing population, will invariably
run deficits in basic grains and be forced to increase import levels.
There is great potential to offset these imports via export of higher
value-added agro-industrial products.
2.33     The policy issues that would have to be addressed in a
restructuring program are largely generic to the agricultural sector as a
whole and are being addressed under the Agricultural Sector Loan (approved
March 15, 1988). They include: (i) the phasing ont of price controls and
subsidies; (ii) efficiency improvements in CONASUPO's storage, processing,
distribution and marketing operations and where appropriate privatization;
(iii) trade liberalization of agricultural inputs and products; and (iv)
removal of credit subsidies. In addition, to promote commercial
agricu'Leure for exports, the Government would have to address in the long
run issues such as land tenure to suitable land by commercial growers as
well as the restriction of certain commercial activities to cooperatives,
both of which have hindered private initiative and investment.
2.34     In the context of the proposed Induatrial Restructuring Project,
the Government has studied, with financial assistance of the Bank, selected



- 18 -
agro-industrial product groups to develop restructuring and development
strategies. On this basis, a program for cut flowers has been developed
and would be included in the project as spelled out in paras. 2.38 to 2.39.
Shrimp aquaculture would also offer promising possibilities but private
sector participation is being hampered by regulatory restrictions that
would have to be removed before investments could become eligible under the
loan (para 2.44). Programs for additional agro-industrial product groups
(such as processed fruits and vegetables) are being discussed within the
Government and would become eligible for financing under the loan once the
respective program has been discussed and agreed to by the Government and
the Bank under the procedure referred to in para. 3.05.
2.35     Flowers.  Mexico's flower industry is still at an infancy stage,
but has a strong development potential. Mexico's production of flowers
covers an estimated 6000 ha with flowers mostly grown by farmers in open
fields as a complementary crop and sold on the local market. During the
last 10 years, responding to the huge demand of the U.S. mA~rket for fresh
cut flowers, a number of Mexican entrepreneurs have started to develop the
nucleus of an export oriented flower industry. The total area of
greenhouses is estimated to have reached 200 ha in 1987 and flower exports
to the U.S. US$10 million, largely from greenhouses. About 15 producers
represent the bulk of Mexico's present exports, including one major rose
exporter operating on an international scale. The main varieties exported
are roses, carnations, chrysanthemums and gypsophila. About 80? of
producers are located within a 200 km radius of Mexico City, and 20? are
located in Northern Baja California.
2.36     The industry is relatively capital intensive, requiring
investments in fixed assets and vegetative material of above US$300,000 per
hectare of greenhouse, yet employs about 25 persons per hectare.  The U.S.
market for cut flowers was about US$600 million in 1985 out of which about
502 was covered by imports, mostly from Colomtbia and Holland. The total
market has grown by about 2.5S p.a. during the last 10 years, but imports
have grown mucb faster at 14? p.a. as U.S. production has been slowly
declining in absolute terms. Approximately 532 of Mexican flower exports
go into the Dallas/Houston area, the closest market geographically.
2.37     Mexico has several comparative advantages allowing it to compete
especially in the U.S. flower markets (i) an appropriate climate similar to
that of Colombia (and superior for some types of flowers); (ii) close
proximity to the US, making truck transport possible; (iii) low cost labor;
and (iv) a domestic market sufficient to absorb non-export quality
production. In addition, coming late on the market, Mexico benefits from a
technology already well developed. Despite existing achievements, the
Mexican flower industry needs improvement in production technology and
efficiency, but more importantly in packaging, handling and organization of
transportation, which are the keys to success in this industry. Mexican
producers need to improve product quality and reliability of supply, as
well as to achieve a better knowledge of the U.S. market and a clear
understanding of how to operate with the complex wholesale and retail
distribution system.
2.38     Financial assistance under the proposed restructuring program
would focus on investments by existing or new producers to increase
production and achieve economies of scale, improve product quality,



- 19 -
prescntation, packing, transport, and marketing. According to ma,or
producers, this would involve the construction of about 200 ha of
greenhouses over the next four years, as well as on-site refrigerated
storage and offices. In addition, the industry foresees further investment
in transport facilities, and flower collection centers.  Total investment
during this period is estimated at US$60 million.
2.39     Technical assistance would comprise training of greenhiouse
managers and technicians in growing, processing, quality control, packing,
and transportation. The curriculum for the training course would be set up
with the assistance of reputable organizations in the US, Holland, or
Israel, which would also provide key instructors. The course, expected to
last six months, would be set up in conjunction with ANAPROMEX, the flower
industry association. ANAPROMEX proposes to form an Institute of
Floriculture as the vehicle to carry out the training program. A core
group of Instituto Mexicano de Industria y Tecnologia (IMIT) engineers
would receive intensive training in Mexico from foreign technical experts,
and would occasionally undertake short visits to operating sites overseas.
Thereafter, these IMIT engineers would be available to carry out, on their
own or in joint venture with foreign experts, various services on contract
with flowBer producers, through ANAPROMEX, includings periodic inspection of
greenhouses, dissemination of information on technology changes, genetic
material, quality control aspects, market preferences and requirements, and
management practices.
2.40     Shrimp Aguaculture.  Until recently, Mexico has been the world's
largest exporter of shrimp, all natural catch from the ocean and inlets.
Mexico exports about 80 million pounds of shrimp, or less than half of the
marine catch. About 95Z of exportable catch is sold to the U.S., and 5Z is
marketed in Japan.  By law, the marine shrimp fishing industry is reserved
for cooperatives employing about 65,000 workers and utilizing about 2,500
fishing boats. In 1985, about 66Z of ocean capture came from the Pacific
coastal zones. About 80 of exports are channeled through Ocean Garden
Products, Inc., located in San Diego, California for the U.S. market, and
Exportadores Asociados, Mexico City for the Japan market. Both companies
are subsidiaries of Productos Pesqueros Mexicanos (PPM), a parastatal
enterprise.
2.41     Mexico's almost exclusive reliance on natural catch, however, has
allowed Ecuador and other Western Hemisphere countries to make strong
inroads in the U.S. market through successful shrimp aquaculture programs
and investment projects. In fact, in October 1987, Ecuador overtook Mexico
as the largest supplier of shrimp, to the U.S. The U.S. market was
estimated at 640 million pounds p.a., of which 400 million pounds are
imported, including 80 million pounds of pond-raised shrimp from Ecuador.
2.42     Currently, production of cultured shrimp in Mexico is
insignificant. It is estimated that a total of 2100 ha are in actual
production, of which 55Z are in the principal producing states of Sinaloa
and Sonora. The largest shrimp farm in the country, Las Grullas, owned by
a cooperative and located in Sinaloa, consists of 240 ha of grow-out ponds,
but its commercial success is not known. In 1987, six projects totalling
535 ha were approved for financing under the Fondo Institucional de
Recursos Agropecuarios (FIRA) fisheries program. The state of technology
in the country remains low. Las Grullas employs 25 marine biologists, but



- 20 -
none had prior experience in shrimp farming. As there is only one hatchery
operation in the country, with limited results, post-larvae are currently
caught in the ocean, but aquaculture farmers are already facing resistance
from fishermen.
2.43     Mexico has the potential to develop a successful shrimp
aquaculture program as it enjoys strong comparative advantagess (i)
abundant ocean supply of post-larval wild seedstock and broodstock for
hatchery reproduction or pond grow-out; (ii) thousands of hectares of
suitable sites for grow-out ponds along Mexico's Pacific coast line,
including promising possibilities in Oaxaca and Chiapas; (iii) low-cost
labor; (iv) availability of domestically manufactured feed; (v) good
infrastructure and transportation facilities; and (vi) close proximity to
the U.S. where Mexican shrimp already has an established market presence.
A moderately sized investment program could involve the construction of 16
semi-intensive 1000-acre farms over a period of four years, and two
hatcheries for a total cost of about US$85 million.
2.44     The development of a viable aquaculture industry in Mexico is
currently thwarted by four principal factors: (i) coastal land is largely
owned by the government or has been assigned to ejidos, although much of it
is unsuitable for agriculture, and remains undeveloped; (ii) the Government
approval procedures required to start a shrimp farm are highly complex; and
(iii) the law effectively excludes direct private sector investment in the
production end of shrimp aquaculture activities. As a result of the above,
there is an absence of foreign technology, risk capital, and management
expertise in present day operations. Foreign technical assistance in
hatchery and semi-intensive pond culture operations are considered
indispensable to a dynamic shrimp aquaculture industry. Strong interest in
investment has already been expressed by both Mexican and foreign companies
provided suitable policies and incentives are put in place. However,
resolution of the issues mentioned above, in particular a clarification of
the rules for private investment in shrimp production activities, would be
required before shrimp agriculture investments could become eligible under
the proposed loan. In order to avoid the environmental degradation that
has accompanied the establishment of the industry elsewhere, environmental
consequences of all shrimp aquaculture subloan proposals, including
possible destruction of mangrove swamps to build shrimp ponds, would need
to be evaluated to the Bank's satisfaction.
D. Other Subsectors
2.45     The Government has continued its assessment of subsectors
requiring restructuring assistance, in collaboration with private sector
representatives of the concerned industries, consultants selected for their
expertise in these industries and Bank financial support. Studies have
been completed for the shoe industry and the wood furniture industry and
were published in fall 1988. Other subsector studies will follow. The
policies and restructuring strategies for these two subsectors are expected
to be discussed during the first supervision mission for the project.
These subsectors could become eligible for financing under the loan
pursuant to the procedure outlined in para. 3.05.



- 21 -
III. TIE PROPOSED LOAN
A. Project History
3.01     Since the onset of Mexico's economic and financial crisis in 1982,
the Bank and the Government have engaged in an active dialogue on ways to
improve the structure and the competitiveness of the industrial sector. In
this context, the Bank indicated '.ts willingness to support industrial
restructuring through a series of operations that would combine policy
adjustments in selected subsectors with financial and technical assistance
to individual companies. The proposed project is part of this series;
others include the Steel Sector Restructuring and the Fertilizer Sector
Adjustment Projects. The project was appraised during January 18-27, 1988.
Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. on July 14-15 and October 14-20,
1988. The Mexican delegation was led by Mr. Arturo Ortiz Hidalgo in July
and Mr. Jorge Delgado in October; both are of Nacional Financiera (NAPIN).
S. Prolect Objectives
3.02     The project would complement the Governments's trade
liberalization and export development policies by helping the industrial
sector adjust to a changed economic environment, increased competitive
pressures and high indebtedness. The project would focus on private sector
activities in industry, providing physical and financial restructuring and
technical assistance as required to companies that are affected by trade
liberalization but have the potential to compete and export effectively.
C. Proiect Description
3.03     The project would initiate and support a process under which
restructuring strategies, combining subsector-specific policy adjustments
with financial and technical assistance to individual companies, would be
developed and implemented for important industrial subsectors within the
context of the Government's overall trade liberalization and industrial
deregulation strategy. In addition, the project would establish an
industry-wide financial and institutional framework within which viable,
company-specific restructuring plans could be developed and implemented.
The initial subsectors for which restructuring programs have been defined
are textiles, autoparts, and cut flowers. In each of these subsectors, the
restructuring process will require a period of 3-5 years for significant
changes to take effect; thus long-term support for the project by the
Government and the affected industry is critical for success. The specific
components of the project are described in the following paragraphs.
3.04     Subsector-Specific Restructuring Investments.  This component
would provide financing for subsectors for which restructuring strategies
have been defined or are to be defined and agreed upon with the Bank.
Initially, US$150 million, equivalent to 601 of the loan amount, would be
reserved for investments in these subsectors. The component would comprise
the financing of investments in plant improvement or construction as well
as the acquisition of new machinery and equipment. Financial assistance
would also be provided for increases in working capital, which may or may



- 22 -
not be associated with equipment investments, and for consulting services
which companies may require for the preparation and implementation of
restructuring and development plans. Financial instruments to be offered
undojr the project would include loans, equity investments and quasi-equity
instruments; a detailed description of these instruments as well as
eligible expenditures is contained in Annex 3. Assurances were received at
negotiations that within 18 months of loan effectiveness, the Bank and the
Government would assesss (i) the experience with and efforts made
concerning the implementation of existing and the development of additional
subsectors restructuring programs and (ii) the need for a possible
reallocation of Bank funds.
3.05     Initially, only investments in textiles, autoparts and flowers
would be eligible for financing under this component, as restructuring and
development strategies have been defined And were agreed to at negotiations
only for these subsectors. Additional product groups and subsectors that
may become eligible for financing under this component include shrimps and
other agri-industrial products, shoes, furniture and selected product
groups of the capital goods subsector. During negotiations, agreement was
reached on the following procedure under whnich additional subsectors would
become eligible for financing under this loan component.
- If a study for the respective subsector is required (which is
anticipated for all new subsectors), the Government would, through
NAFIN, the Borrower and coordinating executing agency, submit to the
Bank terms of reference for the study, and a proposal for the
selection of consultants. Once the terms of reference and the
consultant selection procedure have been agreed by the Bank and the
Government, the study would become eligible for financing under the
technical assistance component of the loan.
- Once a subsector study has been completed, the Government would,
through the coordinating executing agency, submit to the Bank a draft
restructuring and development plan for the subsector to be included
in the project component. The restructuring and development plan
would include: (i) an analysis of the subsector (structure and
competitive situation of the domestic industry by main product
groups; identification of main competitors and their strengths and
weaknesses; and markets trends and potential, especially for
exports); (ii) policy changes and regulatory adjustments that the
Government intends to undertake; (iii) a financial assistance program
(expected loan demand by type of investment; eligibility criteria);
(iv) a technical assistance program (investments at sector level,
training and technical assistance at the company level); and (v)
responsibilities and timing for implementation.
- The Government and the Bank would discuss the draft restructuring and
development program during the Bank's regular supervision activities
(or during a special mission if so required) and agree on a final
plan and the timing for implementation.
- Once agreement on a final subsector restructuring program (including
possible industry-level investments of the type described in para.
3.07) has been reached, the Bank would confirm, in writing, the
eligibility of the respective subsector for financing under the



- 23 -
subsector specific restructuring loan component.
3.06     Other Investments.  A non-subsector specific loan component would
provide financing for investment and working capital projects in all other
industrial subsectors that have been liberalized by the trade policy
reforms of the Government. These are subsectors for which QRs, ORPs and
export prohibitions have been eliminated. Initially, US$85 million,
equivalent to 342 of the loan amount, would be allocated to this component.
As restructuring plans have been principally developed for the subsectors
covered under the subsector specific component of the loan described above,
and they are the principal focus of the project, funds allocated to the
non-subsector specific component are smaller. Nevertheless, significant
restructuring credit demand exists for subsectors covered by this
component.
3.07     Industry-Level Investments.  A component for the financing of
irdustry level investments would amount to US$10 million, representing 4Z
of the loan amount. The funds under this component would be onlent to
individual companies or entities with juridical ability to contract that
provide services to industry associations under the terms and conditions
spelled out in para. 3.21-3.23. Industry level investments would comprise
the following elements:
- For textiles, the component would include: (i) financial support for
the design and implementation of an action program to improve textile
manufacturing, including improvement of quality standards, quality
analysis, design and fashion improvements and information
dissemination on new technology; (ii) a commercial promotion program;
and (iii) consultant assistance for management and worker training
programs in areas such as quality and productivity improvements
(paras. 2.12-2.15).
- For autoparts, the component would include: (i) financing of
technical centers and communications systems (exclusive of land
acquisition) with major autoparts centers: (ii) the establishment of
warehouses for export purposes; (iii) a commercial promotion program;
and (iv) consultant assistance for management and worker training
programs in areas such as quality and productivity improvements
(para. 2.28).
- For flowers, the component would include: (i) the establishment of an
industry-level action program to provide training to greenhouse
managers and technicians; and (ii) a co,mmercial training program
(para. 2.38).
3.08     Technical Assistance.  A technical assistance component of US$5
million to be administered by NAFIN, representing 2Z of the loan, would
provide financing for: (i) additional subsectoral restructuring studies;
(ii) consultant assistance in the implementation of the project; (iii)
computer equipment and softward for SECOFI and the executing agencies; (iv)
training activities by the executing agencies for their own staff and that
of commercial banks in project analysis and supervision as well as in the
implementation procedures of Bank supported industrial projects; and (v)
activities by the executing agencies for the promotion of subsector
restructuring programs. Details on the proposed technical assistance
component are contained in Annex 4.



- 24 -
D. Loan Amount
3.09     The amount of the Bank loan be US$250 million.  The loan would
have a maturity of 17 years, including 5 years of grace, and it would be
made at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
B. Financing Plan
3.10     The project would finance investments in industrial companies in
an estimated amount of US$500 million equivalent. The proposed loan would
finance the foreign exchange cost of the project which is estimated to be
50Z of the total project cost. The remaining half of project costs would
be covered by subborrowers and financial intermediaries (20Z), and
executing agencies (302).
3.11     To provide for sufficient flexibility in the application of
project funds and in the financing of subprojects, the financing percentage
could be applied on an average basis for subprojects as a whole rather than
for each individual subproject.  Thus, the Bank could finance more than the
average percentage of eligible expenditures in some subprojects ('over-
financing') and less in others (*under-financing").  The maximum financing
percentage of the Bank for any individual subproject would be 802; the
minimum, 20X. To ensure that the average financing percentage is being
met, the Bank would over-finance subprojects only to the extent that it has
under-financed previous subprojects.
F. Institutional Arrangements
3.12     Project implementation would be supervised by a policy coordina-
ting committee (an expansion of the committee formed under the Capital
Goods Project-Loan 2142-ME). The policy coordinating committee will be
composed of senior officials of the Ministry of Finance, SECOPI, the
executing agencies, and representatives of the Mexican banking association.
Agreement was reached during negotiations that the policy coordinating
committee would be responsible for monitoring project implementation
progress and problems. Specific implementation responsibilities are
outlined in the following paragraphs.
3.13     Borrower and Guarantor.  The Government has designated NAFIN as
the borrower of the Bank loan, in line with NAFIN's function as Mexico's
official industrial development bank and the financial agent of the
Government. The loan would be guaranteed by the Mexican Government. lAFIN
would be responsible for the management of the funds of the restructuring
program; it would establish a separ.te project account which would be used
to channel project funds to the executing agencies and to accumulate
subloan repayments until further use. In addition, NAFIN would be
responsible for the management of the Special Account to be established for
the project. Under contractual arrangements satisfactory to the Bank,
lAFIN would pass on the proceeds of the loan to the executing agencies as
appropriate.
3.14     Ezecuting Agencies.  Executing agencies for the loan would be
NlFIN, BANCONEXT, and Banco de Mexico as trustee for FONEI. All are



- 25 -
experienced and capable institutions that can be expected to perform well
their respective functions under the proposed project. Annex 5 contains a
summary of previous Bank experience with these agencies. NAFIN would be
the coordinating agency and, in that function, would be the main
institutional interlocutor with the Bank. In particular, NAFIN would be
responsible for the coordination of the industry level investments and the
loans's technical assistance program. The executing agencies would onlend
the proceeds of the loan to the financial intermediaries participating in
the project under onlending terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
In addition, the executing agencies could also lend directly to eligible
enterprises in order to provide maximum client coverage under the proposed
loan. To ensure smooth project implementation, NAFIN, as the coordinating
agency, has appointed a Project Manager to be entrusted with the day-to-day
oversight of project implementation. The Project Manager serves as the
main liaison between NAFIN, the other executing agencies, and the
coordinating committee mentioned above, and is the main communication
channel with the Bank. Assurances were given during negotiations that the
Project Manager in NAFIN would be supported by consultants as required, who
would have relevant industry experience.
3.15     Financial Intermediaries.  The financial intermediaries under the
project would include commercial banks, casas de bolsa and the investment/
venture capital funds that have been formed under the financial sector
legislation enacted in 1985. Participating financial intermediaries would
have to be acceptable to the Bank. The financial intermediaries would
onlend project funds to final beneficiaries, or they would be eligible to
receive financing for direct equity or quasi-equity investments in eligible
companies.
3.16     Over the last several years the major commercial banks have
developed capable departments for corporate finance and equity investments.
Moreover, the commercial banks have a well established client base in the
industrial sector and have accumulated substantial restructuring know-how
since the beginning of the financial crisis in 1982. As a consequence, the
commercial banks -- and to a more limited extent the casas de bolsa and the
sociedades de inversion -- would be the primary channel for the financial
resources of the project.
3.17     Promotion Programs.   In order to familiarize potential
intermediaries and beneficiaries with the scope and precise nature of the
restructuring program, the executing agencies will develop a promotion
program which will promote industrial restructuring and support the
regional implementation of the project. The content of such a program was
reviewed during negotiations and it was agreed that completion of a
promotion program acceptable to the Bank would be a condition of loan
effectiveness.
G. Relending Terms and Conditions
3.18     The project would finance technically (including environmentally),
financially, and economically sound restructuring projects of industrial
enterprises affected by trade policy changes. If so required by the
condition of a beneficiary company, a comprehensive restructuring plan
would be prepared, comprising the required operational and financial



- 26 -
adjustments. Subprojects financed through subloans would have to yield
financial and economic rates of return of not less than lOZ. Equity and
quasi-equity investments would be expected to yield an after-tax return of
at least 12x.
3.19     Agreement was reached during negotiations on the interest rates
and relending terms that the Government intends to apply to subloans made
under the project. The General Interest Rate Agreement (GIRA) has been
amended to include a new lending category and interest rate for peso
subloans included in the project. The proposed interest rates are given in
the following paragraphs; they are based on the understanding that the
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk on peso subloans against a
risk premium and the cross currency risk on U.S. dollar denominated
subloans.
3.20     Onlending Rates.  As financial agent of the Government, NAFIN
would channel the proceeds of the loan indirectly through executing
agencies and financial intermediaries, or directly to subborrowers.  The
proceeds of the loan would be onlent to final beneficiaries at the
following interest rates: (i) for peso-denominated subloans at not less
than ACF (the average cost of funds to the commercial banks) +51 p.a. This
rate includes a charge of 1 percentage point to finance technical
assistance expenditures (to be accumulated in a separate technical
assistance account in NAFIN); and (ii) for dollar denominated subloans,
executing agencies would charge not less than 2 percentage points above the
six month LIBOR rate, including 0.25 percentage point for technical
assistance expenditures. The eligibility of technical assistance
expen.ditures of each executing agency to be financed by the technical
assistance funds thus accumulated would be determined by the policy
coordinating committee. It was agreed during negotiations that modest
amounts of pollution control equipment could form part of the investment to
be financed. Subloans exclusively for financing such equipment would bear
the interest rate specified in GIRA for such investments (currently 941 of
ACF).
3.21     The executing agencies would onlend the funds to participating
financial intermediaries at the rates for peso denominated subloans, and
for dollar denominated subloans plus a spread considered to be sufficient
to cover the administrative costs and risks associated with the project and
obtain a reasonable profit. To ensure that the sublending rates reflect
the cost of funds and are in line with market conditions, the Bank and the
Government will review periodically the adequacy of onlending rates and
need for possible adjustments. Assurances to this affect were obtained
during negotiations.
3.22     Repayment Mechanism. Maturities and Grace Periods.  To diminish
the cash flow implication of high nominal interest rates, subborrowers
would, with the agreement of their respective participating financial
intermediaries, have the option of choosing the "traditional" repayment
schedule or one that is based on the Sistema de Pagos Variables al Valor
Presente (PVP) scheme.  The PVP repayment scheme has been widely accepted
by industrial borrowers.  By capitalizing interest payments, this scheme
greatly reduces the cash drain on borrowers during the early part of the
maturities without providing any subsidy, and thus may induce borrowers to
undertake investment projects in the prevailing unfavorable climate of high
real interest rates.



- 27 -
3.23     Sublcans to finance plant expansions, modernizations, machinery
and equipmenat acquisitions and related permanent working capital and
industry level investments would have a maximum maturity of 13 years with
up to three years grace. Working capital subloans and subloans to finance
consultant's services would have maturities of from one to seven years with
up to three years grace. Subloans to finance equity and quasi-equity
investments would have maturities from three to ten years with up to five
years grace.
3.24     Other Financial Instruments.  To meet the financing requirements
of companies that are being restructured, the supply of a wide range of
financial instruments is essential. Individually tailored financial
packages would have to be developed for many companies to ensure successful
implementation of the respective restructuring plan. Therefore, the
proposed project would support, in addition to loans, the following
financial instruments:
- Equity and Quasi-Equity Investments. In view of the difficult
financial situation of many eligible companies, the supply of equity
is critical. Therefore, the project would assist in the financing of
equity and quasi-equity investments in companies by: (i) the
executing agencies; (ii) financial intermediaries such as commercial
banks, casas de bolsa and sociedades de inversion; and (iii) other
investors (individuals and corporations) who would borrow funds from
intermediaries against collateral for eligible investments for
restructuring purposes.
b Quasi-EQuity Investments and Risk Sharing Instruments. Quasi-equity
investments are attractive because they offer both investors and
recipients a high level of flexibility with respect to the liquidity
of the investment, risk distribution, and profit sharing. Quasi-
equity investments and other risk sharing instruments could include
conditional loans, convertible loans, and subordinated debt.
3.25     To be eligible for financing, equity and quasi-equity investments
would have to be used for the same purposes as term credit, including plant
improvement or construction, acquisition of equipment, and permanent
working capital requirements. Loan proceeds, however, could not be used
for the repayment of existing debt. Current legal restrictions limit
equity investments by executing agencies and commercial banks to a Maximum
of 25Z of the share capital of any company, and investments exceeding 101
of a company's capital cannot be held for more than Ltve years, after which
the investing commercial banks have to reduce their equity holding to below
10? of the company's total equity. During negotiations, agreement was
reached that the period for which an executing agency or financial
intermediary would hold an equity or quasi-equity investment would be
acceptable to the Bank for each investment subproject financed by such
equity or quasi-equity investment.
3.26     Free Limit and Subproiect Documentation Requirements.  Subprojects
under a free limit of US$7 million would not require prior Bank approval,
except for the first three subloans made under each of the following
categoriess investments with borrowed fiads; equity investments and quasi-
equity investments. The proposed free limit is based on the extensive
experience that the executing agencies have had in the evaluation and



- 28 -
implementation of subloans under Bank-supported projects. In addition, the
proposed free limit would allow executing agencies to focus subloan
evaluation efforts on the larger and more complex restructuring projects
that are expected to be financed under the Bank loan. If the subloan made
by the financial intermediary is below the free limit, the Bank would not
carry out an individual subproject review. The executing agency would
submit to the Bank the original subloan application (submitted by the
subborrower to the commercial bank), the participating financial
intermediary's full credit evaluation (including information on the
financial and operating situation of the company and improvements supported
under the subloan, and financial and economic rates of return expected on
the investment) and the subloan agreement between the final borrower and
the commercial bank. If a subloan is above the US$7 million free limit,
the Bank would carry out an individual subproject review. The subproject
documentation to be submitted to the Bank would include, in addition to the
items mentioned above, an extensive analysis of the investment project and
the company, focusing on marketing issues, processing improvements and the
financial situation of the company and the economic justification of the
project. The maximum subloan amount(s) to be lent to any individual
company would not exceed US$15 million equivalent.
B. Disbursements
3.27     To simplify management of the loan, the Bank would disburse
against 1001 of amounts disbursed under subloans and direct investments.
For the technical assistance component, the Bank would disburse 801 of
total expenditures for goods and 10OZ of total expenditures for consulting
services. A special account would be established in NAFIN to finance
subloans and technical assistance expenditures, thus helping to facilitate
project execution. The initial disbursement into this account would be
US$25 million. Withdrawals from the loan account would be made on the
basis of statements of expenditures, and NAFIN would ensure that all
supporting documentation is being adequately maintained and that it would
be available for review upon the Bank's request. NAFIN would submit to the
Bank a monthly statement of the transactions of the special account.  All
disbursements would be made against statements of expenditures which would
be subject to external audit. The project is expected to be completed by
June 30, 1994.
I. Procurement
3.28     NAFIN, BANCOMEXT and FONEI have all had extensive experience with
Bank procurement procedures and with those of their medium and larger sized
customers who will be beneficiaries under the loan. In projects they
finance directly or through financial intermediaries, NAFIN, BANCOMEXT and
FONEI review the procurement procedures and decisions to assure themselves
that goods a..d services are acquired which are suitable for the purpose
intended and are of adequate quality and reasonable price. Agreement was
reached during negotiations on the following procurement practice to be
followed under the proposal project. Contracts for goods (except for
computers and office equipment) and works estimated to cost more than US$ 7
million equivalent will be procured under international competitive bidding
procedures _z accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. Contracts for goods
(except for computers and office equipment) and works estimated to cost
less than US$ 7 million equivalent and more than US$ 3 million equivalent,



- 29 -
will be procured under international shopping procedures, with contracts
awarded on the basis of comparisons of price quotations solicited from at
least three suppliers or contractors eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. Contracts for goods
(except for computers and office equipment) and works estimated to cost
less than US$ 3 million equivalent will be awarded on the basis of
established commercial procurement practices acceptable to the Bank. With
regard to computers and office equipment, contracts above USS 300,000 will
be procured under international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines. Contracts below US$ 300,000 will be procured on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank. These arrangements are simmarized below.
Item              Size of                      Type of
Financed          Contract                     Procurement
Goods and Works         Up to US$3,000,000           Established
Commercial Practice
Goods and Works          $US3.000,000-7,000,000      International Shopping
Goods and Works         Over US$7,000,000            International
Competitive Bidding
Computing and Office    Up to US$300,000             Local Competitive
Equipment                                            Bidding
Computing and Office    Over US$300,000              International
Equipment               Competitive Bidding          Competitive
Bidding
3.29.    Procurement documentations for the first throe contracts from each
Financial Intermediary or Executing Agency to be procured under ICB, would
be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement documents. The
Financial Intermediaries would maintain records of the methods of
procurement followed by all subborrowers, summarizing offers and awards for
each subproject. The Bank would periodically review these records on a
sample basis in the course of regular project supervision. Established
commercial procurement practices mean that subborrowers will normally
obtain at least three quotations from qualified local suppliers.
3.30     Consultants financed out of loan proceeds would have
qualifications and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the
Bank and would be selected at-cording to the Bank's Guidelines.
J. Retroactive FinancinR
3.31     Since project preparation began well over a year ago, credit
applications have increased as knowledge of the proposed restructuring
project spread. NAFIN particularly has accumulated a relatively large
pipeline of subprojects eligible for financing under the proposed loan. It
was therefore agreed during negotiations to permit retroactive financing of
up to US$25 million (10 of the loan) of expenditures incurred after
Januait 1, 1988, (which is approximately the date of project appraisal)."



- 30 -
K.  Konitoring. Regortint and Auditing
3.32     NAFIN, as the coordinating executing agency, would prepare semi-
annual reports on the implementation of the loan. These reports would
include an assessment of progress in the implementation of the subsectoral
policy adjustments and restructuring strategies, application of the new
financial instruments used under the loan, and implementation of the
institutional development programs included in the sector level investment
component and the technical assistance component. The Bank w- ld monitor
progress of project implementation ti.zough normal project supervision, and
it would regularly exchenge views witk the Government, the borrower, and
the executing agencies on project implementation.
3.33     The accounts of NAFIN, BANCOMEXT, and FONEI, including those kept
for the purpose of the project, the Special Account, and statements of
expenditures, would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank. The audit reports, including an opinion regarding the
supporting documentation for disbursements based on statements of
expenditure, would be submitted within six months after the end of KAFIN's,
BANCOMEXT's, and FONEI's fiscal year, respectively.
L. Justification and Rick
3.34     The project would help improve industrial sector efficiency and
increase its international competitiveness, thereby supporting Government
efforts to revive industrial growth and increase manufactured exports.
Potential risks arise fromt (i) possible adverse international economic
developments which could make Mexico's export efforts more difficult and
have a dampening effect on the domestic investment climate; (ii) possible
difficulties involving the completion of the domestic price stabilization
program now underway; (iii) possible back-tracking on trade policy and
industrial sector related regulatory reforms (to be supported under the
proposed Industrial Sector Policy Loan) which could delay the
implementation of the project. To address these risks, the loan has been
designed to form part of the Governments's trade policy reform prograu
supported by the Bank, the proposed loan amount has been based on a
conservative demand estimate for financial resources, and care has been
taken to involve participating Government agencies and the private sector
in the design of the subsector studies and project preparation.
IV. RECOMMENDATIONS
4.01     During negotiations, the following agreements were reached:
1. With the Government (the guarantor):
(a) on the policy statements for the textile subsector (Annex 1) and
the automobile and autoparts subsector (Annex 2) and programs for
both sectors (para. 2.06 and 2.27).
(b) on interest rates and relending terms (para. 3.20).
(c) to exchange views with the Bank within eighteen months of loan
effectiveness on progress in carrying out each restructuring
program and on the possible need for reallocation of Bank funds
(para. 3.04).



- 31 -
(d)  to maintain a coordinating committee through project completion to
assist the borrower in overall project coordination and the
executing agencies in the implementation of the project (pa.a.
3.12).
(e) to amend GIRA to reflect a new lending category and to cover the
foreign exchange risk on peso subloans and the cross-currency risk
on dollar subloans (para. 3.19).
2. With NAFIN (the Borrower)s
(a) NAFIN has appointed and will retain, through completion of the
project, a qualified project manager and employ as may be
appropriate qualified consultants to assist him (para. 3.14).
(b) On the contents of a program to promote industriai restructuring
and regional implementation of the project Cpara. 3.17).
3. With NAFIN, BANCOMEXT and FONEI (the Executing Agencies) on:
(a) The project's objectives, description, loan amount and financing
plan (paras. 3.02 - 3.11).
(b)  Relending terms and conditions for the project, onlending
arrangements including interest rates, spreads, maturities and
grace periods (paras. 3.18-3.25).
(c) The participation of eligible financial intermediaries, subproject
approval procedures, free limits and maximum size of subloans
(paras. 3.15 and 3.26).
(d)  Disbursement and procurement arrangements (paras. 3.27 and 3.28).
(e)  Retroactive financing (para. 3.30).
(f) Accounting and Auditing arrangements (paras. 3.31 and 3.32).
4. Conditions of effectiveness would be that:
(a) the subsidir .y loan agreements between NAFIN and BANCOMEXT and
between NAFIN and FONEI have been executed.
(b) that the BANCONEXT and FONEI Project Agreements be executed and
legally binding; and
(c) that NAFIN has provided to the Bank the promotion program referred
to in para 2(b) above (para. 3.17).
4.02     On the basis of the foregoing agreements, the project is suitable
for a Bank loan of US$250 million for 17 years including 5 years of grace
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



-32 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 4
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
LONG TERM GOVERNMENT STRATEGY
FOR THE TEXTILE INDUSTRY
The Government's policy for the development of the Textile
Industry is to achieve, as its fundamental objective, levels of
international competltiveness for the industry taken as a whole. For this,
it is necessary to make important medium and long terms efforts in order
to:
1. Increase the productivity of the principal segments of the textile
industry.
2. Increase significantly exports of textile products.
The restructuring program for the Textile Industry, represents the
efforts that the Government, the industry and the labor sector are disposed
to carry out in order to achieve levels of international competitiveness
taking into account the results of the studies carried out by national and
international consultants.
RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
The restructuring program for the textile and clothing industry is
an attempt to reinforce the comparative advantages and eliminate the
weaknesses occurring in the various segments of the industry. The
restructuring actions will permit an improvement in supply for the internal
market through products which are more crmpetitive in quality and price,
and will contribute to an increase in exports and value added of such
products particularly to the United States market.
The restructuring program includes the following three programs:
1. Market Adjustment
2. Increase in Productivity
3. Export Promotion
1.       MARIET ADJUSTMENT SUBPROGRAM - Dus to the high level of protection
which the textile industry enjoyed in the past, a process of adjustment to
the conditions of the market throughout the textile production chain,
constitutes a necessary precondition for an effective process of structural
change in the industry. This subprogram includes the following actions:
A.       Measures to liberalize the market.  During 1987 and 1988, the
Federal Government, has put into effect the following market liberalization
measuress
- all the quantitative restrictions and official reference prices
for textiles and clothing have been eliminated.
- in October 1987, large reductions in the tariffs of the
principal textile products were made. 'iithin the context of
the economic stabilization program in December 1987, the



- 33 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 4
Government reduced tariffs on textile products further, leaving
the following tariff levels: synthetic fibers and thread 1OZ,
woven fabrics 10X; and clothing 20X.
B.       Elimination of plant and sanitary barriers to the importation of
cotton. The Government has demonstrated its decision to free imports of
cotton from the restrictive application of sanitary regulations. The
existence of sanitary regulations, do not constitute as such, a problem,
and the Government will assure that the applicable regulations will be used
exclusively for health reasons and not as a barrier to import. The
Government through the Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos Hidraulicos
(SARH), will define, in the course of this year, a list of countries and
regions from which cotton imports will be prohibited for sanitary reasons.
Imports from other countries and regions will not be subject to sanitary
restrictions on imports and textile producers ard' marketers will have free
access to imports of this product.
C.       Privatization of Algodonera Comercial Mexicana.  As a result of
the elimination of the plant and sanitary barriers to the import of cotton,
the role of Algodonera Comercial Mexicana as a state enterprise will lose
its justification, and the Government, in its program of disincorporating
public enterprises, has promoted the privatization of the company, and has
authori.ed its sale to the private sector.
2.       SUBPROGRAM TO INCREASE PRODUCT m  TY - This subprogram is aimed at
promoting the modernization of industrial plants, reducing the costs of
production, increase productivity of machinery and labor, improve the
quality of the products as well as their design, in the different segments
of the industry, but with special emphasis in the process of finishing.
With this purpose in mind, the following actions will be carried outs
A.       Financial support to modernize industrial plant.  Financing will
be granted to modernize machinery, equipment and processes, when these
constitute true technological improvements, which are especially needed in
the areas of dyeing and finishing and to a smaller degree in the processes
of spinning of synthetic and cotton fibers and weaving of cotton.   Of
course, expansion of installed capacity is desirable, but would only
receive financial support under this program if it forms an integral part
of a process to improve the productivity of the enterprise.
B.       Technical Assistance.  This is of fundamental importance for
increasing the productivity of enterprises by improving the quality of the
existing technical and administrative levels. For this reason, special
importance is given in this program to carrying out technical as3istance
for technicians and mlddle management for which financial support will be
granted for the contracting or execution of technical assistance programs
to develop technical capacity, training programs for technicians and middle
management which will increase productivity of labor and machinery,
programs of investigation and development, improvements in quality and
quality control, incorporation of adequate administrative systems for the
development of products, market research, and development of programs of
marketing and distribution for exports.



- 34-
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 4
C.       Textile Institute.  The creation of organizations which promote
the assimilation, innovation and technological development of the textile
industry will be supported, giving special emphasis to standards,
measurement and quality control. At the same time, the creation of
technology data banks for the sector will be promoted, in order that such
information can be distributed within the industry. These actions, in the
future will constitute the base for the establishment of a textile
institute administered by the industry together and by associations of
industrial enterprises, constituting themselves into an instrument for the
development of the technical assistance programs which the industry will
require. This institute additionally, will be able to carry out training
programs, establish quality control standards and distribute information on
studies on productivity, machinery and various technical developments.
Complementarily, it will have to supply to the industry periodic
information on changes in styles and trends in the international markets,
promotion of Mexican products abroad, and technical and financial support
for foreign studies and training for textile designers.
D.       Anti-pollution Actions.  The majority of the finishing plants are
concentrated in Mexico City and in other urban centers and constitute a
serious pollution problem not only because of the processes they use but
also because of their obsolete plants. It is this segment of the industry
in which the principal investments in new equipment and processes should be
carried out. The new investments in this segment will have to be subjected
to the pollution control regulations and will only be supported under this
program if investments are carried out outside of urban areas, in
industrial zones fulfilling the requirements spelled out in the pollution
control regulations. Complementarily, the Government, in concert with
industry, will develop relocation and modernization programs for companies
located in urban areas. For the execution of this plan, the Government
will carry out a study, which may be financed with resources from the
project, in order to determine the extent of the pollution problem, as well
as to develop appropriate strategies for the relocation of these companies.
In this context, an evaluation of industrial parks in specific regions is
contemplated for finishing companies which offer a more rational and
economic alternative to resolve the pollution problems characteristic of
this industry. The terw, of reference for the study will be discussed with
the World Bank with the expectation that the results of the study will be
available within 18 months of signing the credit agreement.
3.       SUBPROGRAM TO PROMOTE EXPORTS.  The objective is to achieve a
significant increase in textile exports which will be achieved from the
benefits which are obtained from actions to increase productivity, quality
and design standards in the industry, as well as through the results of
specific actions to promote exports. Specifically, the actions proposed
ares
a) Development of organizing agents. These agents will have to
be constituted and developed by medium and large enterprises,
corporations, preferably suppliers and exporters of inputs or
by groups of companies of one or more segments of the
industry, and they will have the function of directing and
coordinating the acquisition of inputs, the processing in
various stages of the production';chain, the design of products



- 35 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 4
and their mixture, quality control and marketing for export,
for a group of companies, which individually would be too
small or financially weak to carry out these functions
efficiently from the cost point of view.
b) New criteria for the assignment of textile quotas. With the
objective of attending better to the needs of the markets and
to promote transparency and administrative simplification, and
using the experiences of the principal southeast asia textile
exporting countries the Government has developed new criteria
for the allocation of export quotas which have been assigned
to Mexico. These criteria are based basically on the past
export performance of the companies, the national value added
in the products and the degree of compliance with export
programs, and they will be applied by assigning quotas
corresponding to 1989. The national textile industry and the
maquiladora producers have been c asulted regarding the new
criteria and were published in October 1988. In addition to
these changes in the criteria, the Government proposes to
Incorporate certain preferences in the assignment of quotas to
regions with lower relative industrial development, in such a
manner that exports of textile products will contribute to the
creation of employment and the economic development of these
regions.
c) Development of efficient information systems. Due to the high
degree   of fragmentation in the textile industry, especially
in clothing, there is a need to disseminate information about
different technological aspects, quality standards,
administrative and marketing practices and procedures, about
style changes, etc. Periodical information concerning the
behavior of markets, industrial statistics and technological
aspects will constitute an important assistance for companies
to move in the desired direction. For this purpose, and
within the technical assistance program, resources may be used
to finance investments in these activities, whether through
the public sector or preferably through industrial
associatior.s.
The Federal Government, through the Secretaria de Comercio y
Fomento Industrial, will convey to the industrial sector and its
representatives, the principal lines of action for the development of the
textile and clothing industry, within the program of industrial
modernization. The actions in such program are fundamentally of medium and
long term, and the Government confirms its intention and commitment to
carry them out in order to achieve the objectives of the program, reserving
itself the right to take necessary actions, within the context of the
agreements negotiated with the GATT and the principles and norms applicable
under the multifiber agreement.
In conclusion, the Mexican Government reiterates its firm
intention to maintain its policy of trade liberalization which it has
carried out in the last three years and to give assurances that the
policies which are applied in the textile and clothing industry will be
consistent with the efforts made in foreign trade and with the tendencies
and practices of the principal producer countries.



- 36 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 4
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
LONG TERM GOVERNMENT STRATEGY FOR THE
AUTOMOBILE AND AUTOPARTS INDUSTRY
In its policy toward the automobile and autoparts industry, the
Government of Mexico is aiming to: (i) improve the international
competitiveness of the companies in the industry; (ii) increase exports of
assembled vehicles and automobile components; and (iii) increase the
integration of the productive process in the industry. These policies are
contained in the decree for the rationalization of the automotive industry,
and in its operatirg regulations, both of which -ere published in the
Diario Oficial (Se.tember 15, 1983 and August 2    984).
The restructuring program that the Government is formulating,
represents a further step in this direction. The program, which pursues
the integration of Mexican producers within the international strategies of
the automotive industry and is supported by studies carried out by
recognized specialists, combines changes in trade policy and adjustments in
the international standards of the industry.
I. TRADE POLICY
With respect to trade policy, the Government announced major
liberalization measures in October, 1987, which have been taken and
surpassed, as part of the economic stabilization program of the Government
implemented in December 1987. These measures include:
- Elimination of quantitative restrictions on all autoparts
(except some motors).
- The maximum tariff has been reduced to 20Z.
- The Government has eliminated 'de facto the mandatory parts
list for automobile producers. Autoparts which had been
supplied exclusively by national parts producers in the past now
may be imported freely, paying the corresponding import duty
(the majority have a duty of 1OZ to 15Z).
- Tariff exemptions have remained in force for CKDs without regard
to country of origin.
- New tariff exemptions have been granted on imported raw
material steel when national production is insufficient
or not competitive.
- The Government has also taken a first step toward the
liberalization of imports of assembled vehicles. Quantitative
restrictions for certain types of trailers have been eliminated
and farmers are being permitted to import light trucks and used
"pick up" trucks.



- 37 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 4
II. REGULATORY CHANGES
On the other hand, the Mexican Government has also take important
steps to establish a more flexible and simplified regulatory framework.
Of particular relevance is the proposal, now in effect, to reduce
the domestic content requirements for national autoparts. Until recently,
the content had to be 60Z of the direct cost of production. With the
changes recently introduced, the domestic content can be 30? if the
component is used for export and if the net generation of foreign exchange
compensated for the reduction of the domestic content.
Other important measures in the instrumentation of the decree,
which incorporate greater flexibility for terminal producers are the
following:
1)  Greater flexibility in the definition of "lines" and models
which permit vehicles with variations in basic body styles and
even in power train to be considered as belonging to the
same line, giving greater flexibility to the models which can
be produced.
2)  The compensation for imports with exports in the same line of
vehicles no longer needs to be be carried out with automotive
components beLonging to the same line. This will promote
greater scope for alternatives for autopart exports
manufactured in Mexico.
3)  Failure to fulfill required levels of automobile integration
may now be compensated for, as an alternative, with exports
of components manufactured by national autoparts companies,
rather than paying the penalties established in the decree.
4)  Information which must be supplied by finished goods and
autoparts producers has been revised with the object of
simplifying it and facilitating compliance with legislative
requirements.
The changes already made in the regulations, as well as those that
are in process, represent serious examples of a policy which is oriented
more towards incentives for the restructuring of the industry, than to
protectionist or restrictive measures.
In the medium and longer term, as the results of the more flexible
and inductive automotive policy develop, a greater number of new lines will
be produced than lines for the domestic market and the weighted domestic
content of the vehicles manufactured in Mexico will effectively diminish as
is already being observed. This and the practical elimination of the
mandatory parts list of automotive components have reduced protection (and
the degree of regulation) for the autoparts companies.



- 38 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 4
III. ADDITIONAL MEASURES AND FINAL OBSERVATIONS
While the process of reducing protection for the autoparts
industry has for the most part been completed, the modification of the
legal framework for promoting a complete restructuring of the automotive
industry has not. The Government of Mexico recognizes this fact and is
prepared to take -he necessary measures to reach the objectives originally
proposed.
In order to attract technology and capital through direct foreign
investment, the Government is seriously evaluating the introduction of more
flexible rules for participation in the equity of autoparts companies.
In accordance with legislation in effect, foreign participation in
the equity of an autoparts company is limited to 40X. The Government is
studying the possibility of granting the status of investment in high
technology, which is not restricted to the aforementioned limitation, for
new investments in the autoparts industry which are technology intensive,
of adequate international scale and are predominantly oriented toward
exports.
On the other hand, unleas significant changes occur in the
external debt situation of the country, Mexico will not be able to
liberalize its foreign trade further as this would result in a
deterioration in the balance of its foreign trade. A relevant fact which
is worth mentioning and should not be lost sight of is that one of the
achievements of our automotive policy has been precisely a greater
contribution by the sector in the net generation of for 'gn exchange in the
trade balance.
In spite of the above, the Government of Mexico has initiated
talks and is at present exploring the possibility of arranging agreements
with other countries which produce automobiles in order that the production
and trade of Mexico is carried out on terms comparable to those accepted in
international practice, with respect to quotas, quantitative restrictions,
local content requirements, voluntary restrictions, foreign exchange
compensation requirements, etc.
In this respect, the achievement of the stated objectives will not
depend exclusively upon internal efforts to carry them out, but rather upon
the response which is received from other countries in the bilateral or
multilateral negotiations on the matter. For this reason, the Government,
without indicating any change in strategy, reserves the right to take
necessary corrective actions within the framework of the agreements
negotiated within the GATT, in case positive results are not obtained in
the negotiations with other countries, or distortions are observed in the
internal market, as a consequence of measures taken to open the economy
which are not reciprocated.



- 39 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 4
In conclusion, the Mexican Government reiterates its firm
intention to maintain the policy of trade opening which it has instrumented
in the last three years and assures that the policies which are applied in
the automotive industry, both for autoparts and automobile producers, are
consistent with the efforts being made with respect to foreign trade and
with the international trends and practices of the countries which are the
principal producers of vehicles.



- 40 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 4
MEXCO
INDUSTRAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Proposed Financial Instruments
1.       Until now, the  Bank  has  offered,  under the existing industriai
credit lines in Mexico, long-term loans for investment in equipment and
permanent working capital through established institutional channels, in
wbich second-tier Government agencies discount loans made by commercial
banks or make loans directly to eligible companies. Uhile the financial
and Institutional arrangements of these credit lines have been adequate for
past investment projects and working capital increases, they vill not be
sufficient for the expected requirements of industrial restructuring
exercises. Therefore, under the proposed Industrial Restructuring Project,
the range of eligible expenditure sand financial instruments offered would
be broadened:
- The definition of eligible expenses would be expanded;
- The project would offer a wide range of financial instruments,
including equity and quasi-equity investments;
-  The  project would  also   provide   assistance  to  the  financial
restructuring of eligible enterprises.
Iroader Definition of Blizible RzDenditures
2.       Investments in plan and equipment have traditionally accounted for
the bulk of  financing  under  the  Bank's  credit  lines.   More recently,
investments in working  capital have  gained  increasing   importance in a
number of projects, initially as associated working capital', accompanying
investments in fixed assets, but recently also as 'free standing working
capital', unrelated to  any  equipment  investment.    The increased use of
working capital financing has been a respoAse to the overcapacity problems
in many industries and the corresponding need to improve production output
and  efficiency within  the  existing  capacity.    While  the  traditional
equipment and working capital investment will remain the most important
component of the proposed loan, other expenditures as outlined below are
also likely to require financing.
3,       Workint Caulital    Under  t%o  project,  eligible working capital
items against which the Bank would disburse vould include all physical
production inputs including  rav  materials  and  spare  parts. Bank funds
could be used to finance a tim-slice of these expenditures.
4.       Marketing and Distribution.    based  on  early indications of the
three subsectoral studies, marketing and distribution are likely to emerge
as key eloemnts of the restructuring program, especially to increase
exports. Since mrketing expenses represent a necessary investment like
any other investmnt, they would be eligible for fia ncing under the loan,
Including, for example, (1) organization of trade fairs and exhibitions in
prospective markets, particularly the US; (ii) start-up and initial finance
of a sales force in new export markets; (iii) financing of advertising and



- 41 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 4
promotion  campaigns  in  foreign   markets,   including  expenses  for  TV
advertising; and (iv) investments in the domestic distribution system. A
restriction, however, would applys to be eligible, marketing expenses would
have to be incremental; i.e. they vould have to go beyond the current
annual marketing expenses of a company.
5.       Worker Retrainint and Relocation.    A  shift  in market focus or
changes in the organization of the production process are likely to affect
the size and composition of the work force. Retraining and relocation vill
be important not only to protect jobs but also to employ new machinery or
take advantaae of new  technolosies.   Therefore. retrainina and relocation
expenditure other than land acquisition would be eligible expenditures and
could be included in the subloan to a company.
Comrehensive Packate of Financial Instrmunts
6.       To meet the above  financing  requirements.  the  supply of a wide
range of financial instruments is  essential.    While many cases show some
similarities, individually tailored financial packages would have to be
developed for each company to ensure successful implementation of the
respective  restructuring  plan.    The  proposed  project  would  include.
therefore, in addition to loans, direct equity investments and various
forms of quasi-equity.
7.       Flexible Maturities.  Under previous  Bank loans, Bank funds could
only be used for the financing of  permanent  working capital requirements,
corresponding to the long-term nature of the Bank funds themselves. Skort-
term working capital requirements, or seasonally fluctuating requiremesits,
were not eligible for Bank financing, because the Bank did not want to
substitute for available short-term financing by commercial banks. To
ensure that the Bank's working capital financing was really permanent,
loan agreements typically imposed a minimum maturity (e.g., three years on
vorking capital subloans financed vith Bank funds.
S.       However, it is difficult  to  draw  a sharp line between long-term
and short-term working capital requirements. Vhile the typical maturity of
commercial working capital loans is short, in many companias, the loans are
being rolled over to finance permanent requirements. Also, in many cases
financing requirements are seasonal and thus being financed through shor-
term loans; however, since they occur with regular periodicity, they also
could be financed through a long-tetm credit line with variable usage.
9.       Under  the  proposed  restructuring  loan,  the  minimum maturity
requirement would be modified. Vhile the Bank should ensure that the final
borrower has the option to chose longer maturities if he so desires, it
would also allow shorter maturities in the subloans that are being
financed. Under the proposed project, the Bank would continue to lnsist on
a mlnium maturity of one year In subloans but lt would explicitly allows
(i) penalty free prepayments, enabling borrowers to repay the loan at a
time of their choice; cad (ii) credit lines for working capital, on which
the borrower could draw as required.
i0.      zouitv  IwMeM uts.    Zquity   investments  would  be  of vital
Importance given th high leverage of Mexican companies and the risky



- 42 -                   Annex 3
Page 3 of 4
nature of many restructuring investments.   An increased supply of domestic
and foreign equity  is  already  expected  as  a  result  of the changes of
Mexico's tax  law  and  in  the  legislation  governing  the 'Sociedades de
Inversion.*
II.      To be eligible for  financing, equity and quasi-equity investments
vould have to be used for the same purposes as term credit, including plant
Improvement or construction, acquisition of equipment, and permanent
working capital requirements.   Loan  proceeds,  however, could not be used
for  the  repayment  of  existing  debt.       In  line  with  current  legal
restrictions, equity investments by executing agencies and comercial banks
to be financed vith loan funds vould be restricted to a maximum of 252 of
the share capital of any company, and investments exceeding 102 of a
company's capital would not be held for more than five years, after which
the investing commercial banks would have to reduce its equity holding to
below 10? of the company's total  equity.   The risks of equity investments
would be borne by the respective financial intermediary. Relending terms
and conditions for equity and quasi-equity financing would be as follows:
- Interest rates that investors would pay for funds to be used for
J         equity or quasi-equity investments would  be the same as those charged
to subborrowers for equipment and working capital lending. Thus. if
financial intermediaries invest in equity or quasi-equity instruments,
they vould pay to executing agencies the same interest rate as in the
case of other subloans.
-  Investment  terms   and   conditions   for   equity  and  quasi-equity
instruments would be negotiated on a case-by case basis between the
investor and the investee.    In  the  case of equity investments, the
yield that the investor eventually receives vill depend on the initial
share price, the   appreciation  of  the  book  value of the company's
shares, the company's accumulated profits and its dividend policy. In
the case of quasi-equity instruments, the agreement between the
investor and the investee could include a broad variety of terms and
conditions, including a participation in sales or profits, the issue
of warrants, or interest rates above those specified for subloans to
allow for the increased risk that investors would face.
12.      Quasi-Eguity Investments.  Quasi-equity investments are attractive
because they offer to both   investors  and recipients a high level of
flezibility  with  respect  to   liquidity  of  the  investment,  risk
distribution, and profit sharing.    Some of the possible quasi-equity
investmnts are discussed below.
- Conditional loans have only recently been introduced in a Bank
supported operation in Mexico (Industrial Technology Development Project).
Nowever, conditional loans could be a useful instrument for ris';
sharing between the final borrower, the participating intermediaries,
and the  respective  ezecuting  agency.   Moreover, conditional loans
offer a high degree of flexibility in their design: conditional
payments of the borrower could refer to the interest payments, the
principal or both; and the  yield  of  the  loan  could be based on an
interest rate, a revenue  sharing  scheme  or a profit sharing scheme.
The pricing of conditional loans should, of course, be comensurate
with the Increased risk associated with them.



Annex 3
Page 4 of 4
-  Convertible loans have not yet been used in Bank operations in Mexico.
Yet, as conditional loans, they are likely to play an important role
in the context of a restructuring program, because they offer,
commensurate with the incrrased level of risk, flexibility and the
prospect of better returns than traditional loans or equity
investments.
- subordinated debt, compensated through a higher interest rate, could
be of interest if the borrowing company does not have sufficient
collateral to back up its overall funding requirements.
Assistance to Financial Restructuring
13.      The financing of physical investments in equipment and working
capital will, in many cases, have to be accompanied by the financial
restructuring of the respective company, In fact, in many cases, the
financial restructuring will be the most important element of the work-out
plan, considering the poor financial structure of many Mexican companies
after the massive devaluation of 1982/83 and four years of poor to modest
economic growth. The restructuring of a company's liabilities comprises
the following three main elements; maturity extensions, debt consolidation
and debt-equity conversions. The Bank could assist in such restructuring
operations through a flexible application of the cost sharing percentage
for subprojects: the Bank normally finances only a percentage of eligible
expenditures, which, in most cases, corresponds to the foreign exchange
percentage of the project. Traditionally, the Bank has applied this
percentage for each project individually. For the industrial Restructuring
Project, this percentage would be applied on an average basis for the
project as a whole. As a result, the Bank could finance more than the
average percentage of eligible expenditures in some subprojects (lover-
,financing') and less in other (lunder-financing'). However the Bank would
over-finance subprojects only to the extent that it has under-financed
previous subprojects.



- 44 -
AMNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Outline for a Technical Assistance Program
1.       A technical assistance component of US$5 million, representing 2Z
of the loan, would provide financing for: (i) additional subsectoral
restructuring studies; (ii) consultant assistance In the implementation of
the project; (iii) computer equipment and software for SECOFI, the
executing agencies and selected intermediaries participating in the loan;
and (iv) training activities, including consultant assistance, by the
executing agencies for their own staff and that of commercial banks in
project analysis and supervision as well as in the implementation
procedures of Bank supported industrial projects. Additional technical
assistance would be provided in the form of subloans to individual
companies for the preparation of restructuring plans and investment
proposals.
Additional Restructuring Studies
2.       In view of the successful development of restructuring programs
for the textiles, autoparts, and flowers subsectors, the Government had
asked the Bank to include funds for additional subsectoral studies in the
proposed project. The Government has already completed the analysis of the
shoes and furniture subsectors; the studies were financed under the Export
Development Project (Loan 2331-ME). The Government has expressed interest
in studying selected product groups in the capital goods subsector, given
that subsector's importance for industry as a whole and the extensive
investments that have taken place in the early 19808. Moreover, the
Government intends to carry out additional work for selected agro-
ind4strial products. The following procedure would be used for studying
additional subsectors and including them in the reserved loan component:
- If a study for the respective subsector is required, the
Government would, through the coordinating executing agency,
submit terms of reference for the study, and a proposal for the
selection of consultants, to the Bank. Once the terms of
reference and the consultant selection procedure have been
agreed to by the Bank and the Government, the study would
become eligible for financing under the technical assistance
component of the loan.
- Once the study has been completed, the Government would,
through the coordinating executing agency, submit to the Bank a
draft restructuring and development plant for the subsector to



- 45 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
be included in the project component. The restructuring and development
plan would include: (i) an analysis of the subsector (structure and
competitive situation of the domestic industry by main product groups;
identification of main competitors and their strengths and weaknesses; and
market trends and potential, especially for exports); (ii) policy changes
and regulatory adjustments that the Government intends to undertake; (iii)
a financial assistance program (expected loan demand by type of investment;
eligibility criteria); (iv) a technical assistance program (investments at
sector level); training and technical assistance on company level; and (v)
responsibilities and timing for tbA implementation.
- The Government and the Bank would discuss the draft
restructuring and development program during the Bank's regular
supervision activities (or during a special mission if so
required) and agree on a final plan and the timing for
implementation.
-  Once agreement on a final restructuring and development plan
has been reached, the Bank would confirm, in writing, the
eligibility of the respective subsector for financing under the
first loan component.
Consultant Assistance in Project Implementation
3.       To assist the coordinating agency in the implementation of the
project, the technical assistance component would include funds for the
financing of consultant services. In particular, the coordinating
executing agency would hire a full-time consultant that would assist in the
implementation of the industrJ-level investments and the tecLnical
assistance program included in the loan. The consultant should have ample
industry experience and should preferably come from industry or an industry
association. The consultant could be supported by two to three assistants.
Consultant Assistance to Executing Agencies and Intermediaries
4.       The key to the success of a restructuring program - and one of the
main differences to a traditional DFC operation - is the establishment of
investment banking capabilities and financial skills within the financial
services sector. While casas de bolsa and some of the more sophisticated
commercial banks have gained valuable experience in this area, additional
efforts are required to establish a broader knowledge and experience base
in the executing agencies and financial intermediaries participating in the
project. The technical assistance component would, therefore, include
funds which could be used for consulting assistance to, and training
material of, executing agencies and financial intermediaries. The training
program would comprise project analysis and supervision, corporate strategy
and restructuring, corporate finance, financial engineering and the
application of advanced financial instruments.



- 46 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
Financing of Computer Equipment and Software
5.       The lack of adequate computing equipment for the tasks of several
of the participating Government agencies in the project has surfaced during
the preparation of the subsectoral restructuring studies. To help these
institutions improve their servicer, the project would finance computing
equipment and software purchases and development. In particular, the
project would finance the establishment of an industry data base in SECOFI
to maintain industry wide statistics and trend data on the industry,
products, firms, financial performance, and exports. The data base would
build on a manual system already in place.
Consultant Assistance to Industrial Companies
6.       Under the project, individual companies, interested in financial
and technical assistance, would have to prepare a comprehensive
restructuring plan if so required by their financial and operational
situation. Many companies, however, especially those of medium size, are
not likely to have the skills for the preparation of such a plan and will
therefore, need assistance. The project would offer funds to finance
consultant assistance to these companies. The financing would be given to
companies as a short-term technical assistance subloan, essentially
covering the period of the study. The interest rate of these technical
assistance subloan could be refinanced through a subsequent investment
subioan; however, the granting of a technical assistance subloan would not
imply any commitment on part of the project to grant a regular subloan.



- 47 -                     Annex 5
PaRe I of 6
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
BORROWER AND EXECUTING AGENCIES
NACIONAL FINANCIERA
1.       NAFIN is the Government's most important development bank
supporting the industrial sector. NAFIN also acts as a commercial bank,
accepting deposits and offering a wide range of services, mostly to the
industrial sector. It also functions as a large holding company, through
which it holds equity participations in industrial companies of public and
mixed ownership. NAFIN also acts as the Government's official agent in a
variety of financial transactions, the most important of which involve
raising external resources in capital markets and through bilateral and
multilateral agencies. As of December 31, 1986, NAFIN's total assets stood
at about Mex$ 15 billion (close to US$16 billion equivalent), making it one
of the world's largest development banks. NAFIN has been the Forrower for
the majority of Bank loans to Mexico, including all previous Bank loans for
the Mexican industrial sector, with the exception of the two export
development loans for which Bancomext has been the borrower.
Financial Performance
2.       In the last few years, NAFIN has managed to achieve a return on
equity of some 161 p.a., which is acceptable given the fact that much of
NAFIN's business is conducted in dollars. This acceptable return on equity
was to a substantial degree a result of the high leverage of the
institution, which exceeds that of international commercial banks: equity
as a p?rcentage of total assets amounts to only slightly more than 12.
competed to about 5? in the case of international banks. The high leverage
is T,artly justified by the fact that more than 90% of NAFIN's portfolio is
lent to the Government or to parastatal institutions whose loans are
guaranteed by the Government. During the last three years, NAFIN has
maintained a steady interest margin of 0.3Z over total assets.
3.       While the overall amount of credit granted by NAFIN grew rapidly
in real terms in the late 1970s and early 1980s, asset growth came to a
halt during the years of the financial crisis starting in 1982 and has only
slowly recuperated more recently.  A substantial part of NAFIN's portfolio
consists of loans to the Government or Government institutions; loans to
the private industrial sector represent only about 8? of the portfolio.
Some 86? of total assets -- as well as a corresponding percentage of the
liabilities -- are denominated in foreign currency. Arrears affect about
0.52 of the total loan portfolio. Given the fact, however, that more than
902 of the portfolio carries an implicit or explicit Government guarantee,
some 6.72 of the non-guaranteed portfolio is being affected by arrears.



- 48 -               Annex 5
Page 2 of 6
Institutional Structure and Olerat ions
4.          NAFN8's board of directors (Administrative Council) is com.
posed of top level government officials.  Its ehairman is the Minister of
Finance and other members include the Ministers of Programming and Budget-
ing, of Industrial Development, and of Commerce, the Director General of
Banco de Mexico, the Chairman of the Confederation of Industrial Chambers
(CONCAMIN), and two other representatives of the private sector. NAFIN's
administrative head is its Director General. under whom there are three
general sub-directorates, one for Industrial promotion. one for finance
and one for trust funds and affiliate industrial companies. The main de-
partments of WAFIN which would be directly involved in the implementatior
of the proposed r*structuring project are the recently established Depart-
ment for Industrial Restructuring and Special Projects, the Project Promo-
tion Department of the Industrial Promotion wing and the Credit Department
of the Finance wing.
5.          Industrial Restructuring  Denartient. In 1987, NAFIN estab-
lished a Department for Special Operations which is focusing on industrial
restructuring operations and projects of a high degree of complexity. The
department includes staff from the credit and equity investment areas, in
recognition of the need to combine credit analysis and investment decision
making in one integrated organizational unit. The department has the fol-
lowing areas/sub-departments:
6.          Credit Dan2rtAent. NA2IN's Credit Department is organization-
ally divided into the Credit Analysis division, which is responsible for
evaluation of credit requests received, and the Credit Operations Divi-
sion, which carries out formalization, administration and supervision of
approved credit operations.  The Credit Department can also process en-
dorsements (^avalesM) to foreign banks or suppliers. AFIN's evaluation of
its credit applications covers the financial, economic, technical and mar-
keting aspects of the firms, the financial viability of the firm being the
single most important consideration. In line vith the Government's prior-
ities, special attention is paid in credit evaluations to socio-economic
aspects such as de,entralization, employment generation and environmental
impact.   AFIN's analysis of the above aspects, while generally of good
quality, is typically focused on the firm as a whole, with little analysis
of the incremental impact of the investaent project.
7.          Under the proposed Program  NAFIN would be required to include
in all its flnancing requests for credits an incremental analysis and an
ERR calculation following guidelines acceptable to the Bank (standard
guidelines for DFCs involvLng use of border prices and similar to the
guidelines being used by FONEI). All subproject appraisals under the Pro-
gram would also have to include an adequate consideration of sub-
contracting possibilities, training needs and procurement Issues. Credit
supervision and portfolio control procedures employed by NAFIN include pe-
riodic analysis of financial statements, routine plant visits and special
control steps in case of arrears or other financial difficulties; the pro-
cedures appear satisfactory and the arrears in loan portfolio are within
acceptable limits. The final authority for deciding on credit proposals
rests vith NAPIN's Credit Comittee which is appointed by its Board; but



- 49 -                 Annex 5
Page 3 of 6
the Committee has delegated approval authority for the smaller operations
to the Director General or his appointees.
8.          Project Promotion Degartment. The Project Promotion Department
undertakes subsectoral studies, identifies project ileas, prepares feasi-
bility studies, and, in the case of promising industrial projects. carries
out the necessary promotion work to obtain the collaboration of domestic
private sector partners and/or foreign investors. The department is func-
tionally divided into four divisions which are specializing in important
industrial subsectors.
BANCO NACIONAL DE CONECO Er = IOR
9.          Over the last several years. BANCOMEXT has grown in pre-ship-
ment, post-shipment, and import financing, its traditional operations, and
has assumed new responsibilities in export promotion. In the future, BAN-
COMEXT will take on additional responsibilities in providing financial
services to exporting companies, improving export insurance and credit
guarantee schemes, integrating indirect exports into the financial and
non-financial incentive systems, and promoting trading companies.
10.         Profitabilit.  Although more than 90% of its assets and li-
abilities are dollar-based, BANCOMEXT publishes its balance sheet and in-
come statements in pesos, converting stock and flow figures at the re-
spective monthly average exchange rates.  According to these data, BAN-
COMEXT has, over the past five years, achieved a return on equity (ROE)
between 20% and 30%.  Since Mexican inflation rates exceeded Bancomext's
ROE by a substantial margin, the ROE has been negative in real terms dur-
ing most of the five-year period. However, Bancomext's capital has grown
by about 7% per annum in real terms between 1982 and 1985. Moreover, if
subordinated liabilities (loans from the Government) are included in the
capital, total capital growth, in real terms, has been 30% per annum over
the same period.
11.         Bancomext's gross interest margin has fluctuated around 1l  of
total  assets,   reflecting  its  business  six  --  large  size  cus-
tomers/operations and low spread on individual loans. Bancomext's net fee
income has risen from 0.06% of total assets in 1983 to 0.17% in 1985, in-
dicating Bancomext's attempt to attract more fee-earning business that
does not involve commitments of financial resourc-s. Bancomext's adminis-
trative costs have been low, representing about 35% of the gross margin or
0.4% of total assets.
12.         De'bt-Ioau StL e .  At year-end 1985, Sancomext's capital,
as shown in the balance sheet, represented 1.3% of total assets. If other
reserves and quasi-equities were included, total capital would represent
3% of total assets, equivalent to a debt/equity ratio of 34:1. This gear-
ing ratio, while high, does not appear excessive, given Bancomext's role
as the nationsl bank for external trade financing and the fact that a vast
majority of funds it administers are guaranteed by the Government and thus
do not represent any credit risk for LANCOMEXT. If only "ssets vhich are
not guaranteed in any way by the Government are taken into account, Ban-



- 50-               Annex 5
Pape 4 of 6
comext's debt/equity ratio at year-end 1985 stood at approximately ,:
In any case, the Government and the BANCOMEXT recognize that the f.rar-_a:
structure of the latter should be reviewed.  Both have the interti-r -,
address this issue mainly by capitalization of loan funds allccatet t
PROFIDE (vorking capital) and the portion of FIFE (fixed investment, s.
lent directly by BANCOMEXT.
13.         Asset and Liability Structure.   Bancomext's assets cs.sis:
mainlv of long-term, dollar-denominated loans, representing some A'% of
total assets.  The remaining 10% of total assets are made up of 1 _ -
funds, investments in bonds, interest receivables, and other loans :t
other banks. A small proportion of liabilities (7%) is made up of de=a--
and time deposits.  On average, Bancomext's balance sheet has growr s_:<
stantially in real terms over the last several years: in 1982, the rea:
growth was 37%, in 1983, 9%, and -9% in 1984.  In 1985, the real grow-:^
rate was once again above 30%.
FON0 DE EOUIPAMIKNTO MNUSTRIL
14.         Founded in 1971 as a semi-autonomous department of the Banco
de Mexico, FONEI has become an important source of industrial term lending
in Mexico, highly regarded by the commercial banks and the pri-vate sector.
Today, FONEI is administering a wide variety of industrial financing pro-
grams, and it has become an important source of technical assistance
through external training programs covering project analysis and supervi-
sion. In addition, FONEI has developed detailed guidelines for project de-
sign, evaluation and supervision for its own use as well as that of par-
ticipating financial intermediaries and benefiting companies, thus ensur-
ing adequate preparation, selection and implementation of financed subpro-
jects.
Portfolio Grovth and Cog=osition
15.         Traditionally, FONEI has focused on the supply of long-term
financing to medium to large companies, leaving the financing of smaller.
companies to other Fideicomisos such as FOGAIN. In addition, FONEI views
Itself as a private sector-oriented institution that finances primarily
companies that are privately owned or have a majority private ownership.
In all of Its operations, FONEI acts as a second-tier institution, re-
discounting loans of coeorcial banks, to take advantage of the banks' ex-
isting customer portfolio and lending experience while avoiding unnec-
essary duplication of efforts. Vhile FONEI has achieved a high degree of
operating efficiency, It has remained a passive rediscounting window for
long-term project financing. To play a more active role in industrial sec-
tor development, FONEI has, with support of the Industrial Recovery Pro-
ject, begun to broaden the scope of its financial assistance and the vari-
ety of the financial instruments it offers. In addition, it has started a
more aggressive promotion program, focusing on the important commercial
banks and industry associations in its efforts.



- 51 -              Annex 5
Page 5 of 6
16.         In the past, FONEI has concentrated on equipment financrng
through long-term loans, vhich, together with lending for capacity opt.-
mization, accounted for more than 75% of commitments. Other assistance
programs such as technology development and vorking capital financing have
begun only recently and represent only a small, yet growing proportion of
FOtEI's overall operations. Since the implementation of the Industrial Re-
covery Loan began in 1986, POWEI is placing more emphasis on the design of
integrated financial packages for a company as a whole rather than on the
financing of discrete equipment investments. Consequently, FONEI has
broadened Its product line with respect to both the expenditures eligible
for financing and the financial instruments used.
17.         The economic and financial crisis also impacted the level of
FONEI's operations. After strong grovth in the late 1970s and early 1980s.
FONEI's expansion came to a halt; in real ters, the balance sheet size
even decreased in the last two years. While total assets grew by 34% in
real terms from 1979 to 1980, real grovth was limited to merely 6t in the
folloving two years. In 1983 and 1984, total assets declined by about 25*
per year in real terms. while the level of new commitments, measured in
constant prices, declined in 1984 to only 25% of the per.k in 1981. For the
future, however, FONEI is expecting an increase of its comitments in line
with the ongoing industrial recovery.
Financial Performance
8.          Profitability. Until now. FONEI has demonstrated a good fi-
nancial performance and maintained a sound financial structure. Even after
allowing for inflation, operating profits increased steadily over the last
six years. In real teras, FONEI's return on equity increased from 41% in
1979 to 138% in 1981; then, however, it fell to only 8  in 1983 as a re-
sult of the high inflation rates during this period, and recovered to 28%
in 1984. The main reason for the good performance is the favorable inter-
est rate structure of FONEI's balance sheet. While succeeding in replacing
low-yielding fixed rate assets through variable rate assets whose interest
rate is tied to the ACF, PONEIIS liabilities have been, until now, domi-
nated by low-cost, fixed rate refinancing instruments such as the Banco de
Mexico bonds and previous Bank loans.
19.         In the future  FONEls profits are expoeted to decrease some-
what because favorable flxed rate liabilities, maturing over the next
year, will have to be replaced by more expensive variable rate refinancing
instruments. In addition, the sharp cumulative exchange rate devaluations
since 1982 have also increased the costs of external borrowing and will
continue to have a negative profitability effect in the future. To
maintain its favorable financial  performance,  FONEI   has increased, with
the Implementation of the Industrial Recovery Project (approved in 1986)
its lending rate to the commercial banks from ACF to 1022 of AC? to cover
its own opportunity costs of funding and its administrative expenses.
20.         &=am. The participating commercial banks are responsible
for making princlpal and Interest payments to FONEI on time, whether or
not they receive payment from their Industrial clients. FONE, therefore,
does not show any subloans in arrears and makes no provision for possible



- 52 -             Annex 5
Page 6 of 6
losses in its limdtng operations. However, as part of Its supervision re-
quirements, FONEI asks the financial intermediaries to submit periodic re-
ports on the status of subloan payments in arrears. These reports show
that subloans in arrears as a percentage of FONEI's total loan portfolio
have been maintained at a rather reasonable level, notwithstanding the in-
crease from 0.7% in 1982 to 1.8% in 1983 and 2.7* in 1984.
Institut lanai 3 &utur  &ad ftneat ios
21.         *Or LtlonaL_ ItcRre. FONE's highest ranking decision-
making body is Its technical committee,composed of high level Government
officials from the Ministry of Finance, Banco do Mexico, the Ministry of
Planning, WAIN, the MinistTy of Commerce and Industrial Development, and
industrial chambers. The technical committee seets once a month; its
responsibilities include the approval of its operating rules and regula-
tions, the appointment of FONEI's general director, and the approval of
individual loans. For technology subprojects, the technical committee has
delegated most of its authority to a special subcommittee, that includes
officials from a number of research institutes, private sector represen-
tatives and Government ministries. FONEI is managed by a director; it is
organized into four departments, covering promotion, project evaluation
and supervision, external training, and administration.
22.         Submoieet AnMcisal and Sunervision. By now, FONEI has become
an experienced lnstitution in project finance And is training financial
intermediaries ns well as cou)anies in preparing, evaluating and supervis-
in8 investment projects. As a result, its process of preparing and ap-
praising subprojocts is well developed and meets Bank standards for sub-
project evaluation. The criteria being applied for the evaluation of sub-
Vrojact applications include all standard Bank requirements and are con-
sidered sound. Over the years, FONEI has, in its daily practice with the
Bank, also developed adequate reporting formats to be submitted to the
Bank for subproject evaluation.
23.         Originally, FOKEI ws alsost exclusively responsible for eval-
usting subproject applications, receiving little help from the respective
fitnncial intermediary. In recent years, hovever, the distribution of re-
sponsibilities between FOm1 and the banks has changed. At FONEI's insis-
tence, the banks are mow assuming an increasing role in the preparation
and appraisal of subprojects. To stimulate their participation, FONEI is
offering the intermediaries an additional spread of 0.25% for a project
appraisal.



- 53 -              Annex 6
Page 1 of 1
-xRiO
XNDMUBRIRL RPISRUCTURUtb  PROJZCT
Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1.          During project Implementation, the executing agencies (NAFIN,
Bancomext, and FONEI) would prepare the following Information:
- LAnding operations (annually): Commitments and Disbursements by
I Type of financial instrument
* Size of Operation
* Summary of restructuring plans
* Industrial Subsector
* Region
t Financial Intermediary
* Current project pipeline (quarterly)
- Subproject performance (annually)
* Financing composition of subprojects
* Subproject costs and items financed through the loan
* Employment impact
. Sales
* Foreign exchange generation
* Company profits
* Implementation delays
- Technical Assistance Program (semi-annually)
* Progress report on subsectoral studies
* Progress report corsultant assistance to commercial banks
* Progress report system development and implementation in exe-
cuting agencies and SECOFI



-54-                Annex 7
Page 1 of 1
InDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECl
Selected Data and Documents Available in the Project File
The following data ane documents are available in the project
file:
Restructuring Studies
- Boston Consulting Group: Analysis and prospects of the Mexican
textile sector (Executive Summary and individual report volumes)
- Booze Allen and Hamilton, Inc.: Analysis and prospects of the
Mexican autoparts sector (executive summary and individual report
volumes)
- Booze Allcn and Hamilton, Inc.: Analysis and prospects of the
Mexican agro-industries sector (executive summary and individual
report volumes)
Executing Agencies
- NAFIN: annual reports, Including flnancial statements, for the years
1980-85
- Bancomext: annual reports, including financial statements, for the
years 1980-85
- FONE: annual reports. Including financial statements, for the years
1980-85



- 55 -             Asnex a
Page 1 of 1
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECr
Estimated Schedule of Bank Loan Disbuwscmunts
IBRD Fiscal Year           Disbursements in                   Cumulative
and Quarter                   Quarter                      Disbursements
1989
2. Quarter 1989                    22.5                         22.5
1990
3. Quarter 1989                    11.7                         34.2
4. Quarter 1989                    10.8                         45.0
1. Quarter 1990                    13.3                         58.3
2. Quarter 1990                    16.7                         75.0
1991
3. Quarter 1990                    16.7                         91.7
4. Quarter 1990                    15.8                        107.5
1. Quarter 1991                    16.7                        124.2
2. Quarter 1991                    15.8                        140.0
1992
3. Quarter 1991                    16.7                        156.7
4. Quarter 1991                    15.8                        172.5
1. Quarter 1992                    16.7                       189.2
2. Quarter 1992                     9.1                        198.3
1993
3. Quarter 1992                    10.1                       208.4
4. Quarter 1992                     8.3                        216.7
1. Quarter 1993                     6.7                       223.4
2. Quarter 1993                     8.3                       231.7
1994
3. Quarter 1993                     3.3                       235.0
4. Quarter 1993                     6.7                        241.7
1. Quarter 1994                     3.3                       245.0
2. Quarter 1994                     4.2                        249.2
1995
a  fli- 'p  l CIA'                 0.8                        250.0



lnhtrIil sestructuring Project
MP by Sector. 1960-86
(Sillion  of peso; I g h)
Setor                          19 i         1961X         1621           191           19" 6          1965X          1966"
agrilatw, frcitry S Fiter  357.1  271  477.5  342    693.3  4*s   1,358.9  9SX  2,475.6  O2   4,013.2  a2t    713S.1  751
liningl (lo. *11              291.4 121X  39.S  27X    934.3 1S32  2,017.4  119X  2,611.S  41X  4,33S.6  SX    SS71.3  24X
afecturlW                     965.6  331 1,311.5  332  2,000.8  S3   3,670.6  931  6.857.2  m   111.S  621   196Z.4  M92
Constructlin                  276.2  421  409.3  482   S9.6 *4X    878.3  491  1,433.3  631  2,267.6  60          3692.1  61X
Electricity                    42.0  3S5    S2.4  251     77.3  46x    15.S  1011    276.6  7        413.6  S0        912 1201
Ctm_r                         999.6  341 1,361.2  362  2,14.4  5U   3,821.6  7M1  6,S4.6  71J  10,517.l  611   1699.6  761
tranp  ort nd Comlication     279.1  40   38.6  391    604.4  S51  1,138.6  U8   2,003.S  Y6U  3,053.3  521    Sf6T.6  X51
finnmst Srics                 36.9  302  470.3  401    710.5  S1X  1,195.7  66   1,891.7  S6   3,004.1  591    S39S.3  601
Other Swrie                   769.2  39M 1,033.9  461  1,660.3  611  2,675.1  61t  4,370.S  63   6,868.1  S7X   11162.4  631
GCeos ImstIe Promst        4,2.5  392 5,874.4  31x  9,417.1  601 17,141.6 2 U   28,748.7  661 45,5661.3  m    7,776.6  711
................. .........................................................................................................................
UW by Sector, 1960-06
(Slilian of 1970 peos; X robth)
Setor                          1960        1961  2        1962           1 19113  S    19641          19651X         196  X 
plailtue. Foetry a fishr   IS.?   7    80.3   6X          79.6  -1X      62.1   31      64.1   21     67.4   41      65.6  -21
Miing (fnel. oll)              27.4  22X   31.6  151      34.5   91      33.6  -31     34.2   21      34.0  -1*      32.0  -6a
NEWaturing                    269.7  71  224.3  71    217.9  -31    202.0  *rx    211.r   S          223.9   61     211.S  -61
Catruetln                      46.4  121   51.8  12X      49.3  -S%      40.4 -161     41.8   31      43.0   32      39.1  -9X
Electricity                    12.6   a    13.6   a       14.6   6       14.7  It      1s.7  7X       17.1   91      1r.9   SX
ctrw                          216.2  61  234.S   61    230.0  -21    207.0  -101    213.2   32    216.9   21        205.0  -S5
trort ad Comncatlmn            63.0  141   69.7  111      67.1  -41      63.9  -S     6T.9   61      ".S   21       66.1  -2X
Flnwenisl serves               62.2   41   $6.1   S%    86.6   31        90.S   21     93.1   31      95.4  2       96.S  1t
Other Sewrvics                196.6 7l  116.7   71    122.0  S    122.0   01    12S.9   31    12S.1  -1X            122.6  -21
PoAic *hnlstrstfon ard 0   27.6  86   30.4   92        31.7   41      32.6   32      34.4   S%     33.t  -1X       33.7   1x          k. 
Gross Domstlc Pro t           842.2   61  90S.6   81    903.8  -tS    856.2  -S5    68?.6   41    912.3              878.3  -43    2 
Source: Netiondt Institute of Statistics.



MNICO
tnitrl*l leatnicturifn Prolect
indix of Ndufecturine Proi:tiun by Sector
(1970.100; X growth)
sector                                1960         191 X        192 X         1963 X       19U   1      196 5        196  X        1967 1l
totat                                196.6   SZ  213.s   1X  204.5  -31    190  -81  19.4   SX  212.0   6   202.2  -St  202.6
1960.1                               100.0        107.4        103.9         95.6         100.3        106.6        101.7
rood I so'-so 1a6." n6    1   M.1   SX  182.3   41  161.7   01  134.3   11  192.?   SX  191.6   01  11S.6
Teetite a Textile Proewta           1".6   31  179.9   71  169.6  -62  1S6.8  -81  159.0   11  16?.6   6   161.1  -41  16t.6
Wosd 6 Ud Po _   to                  160.0   6   167.O    4   193.6   41  166.3  *41  193.4   41  202.4 St  191.9  -5X  194.4
rep  & Printing                      192.2  1In   199.2   41  203.r   21  192.5  -51  208.6   61  226.4   92  219.9  *31  210.7
aCmcals                              242.?  101  262.3   ax  267.S   21  26.6   OI1  232.2   61  293.4   41  28.4  -21  312.4
ninwrei A   tula                      M3     61  206.8   ax  194.7  -71  158.2  -191  170.2   3x  1S.5   91  15.s  -151  1*6.9
huic Netals                          202.1   31   )99.2   41   190.8  -91   17.S  -71  201.5  141  16.S  -21   10.9  -9n  207.6
Natal Pe. ts, Iblehly a Equip.    242.8  121  270.6  llX   232.9  -14X   17S.0  -25X   186.3   3x  215.7  1S1  191.5  -ll   173.6
lotel                             164.5   71  17.0   71  193.9  -2n  130.6  -?X  16S.2   21  195.0   S   169.2  -31  106.9
0wreMa 216.6   91  239.   101  212.6  -11t  166.6  -21X  174.9   41  193.9  11  172.4  -11   170.2
_arOurlo                          17.6   61  188.3   6X   190.1   11  133.2  -41  18T.3   21  195.2   41  192.6  -1X  190.3
Intimdlat, lomb                     205.3   61  220.0   rx  213.5  -31  196.9  -71  211.9  7?  224.9   6   213.9  -St  217.S
capital Coom                          26.S  11   27?.?  13X  237.9  -141  17.6  -25  194.0   91  222.4  15   193.9  -13m  16?.?
................................................ .........................................................................................................,__................................................___.. 
1/ Septbenr 16.
Soce:  wenco de fslieo, "lrerin de Investigelmn EconhmicsO.
Ie 



- 58_
'M *£Xp!                              Anxex  9
trO8tri'il R*#STJCtUring Project                       TWbOe 3
POO* I Of 2
Gross OsMatiC PPo tct qf %dIufOcturiM9g IVdLAt
(Millions of 19?D pesos)
Industrial Category                          1960        1981        1962       1963        1964        1985
Food Products                           34,716.0   36,672.0   36,469.1   38,674A0   39,336.3   40,652.0
.............
ftet & Nilk Products                      6,307.4    6,639.6    6,856.9    6,723.9    6,698.7    6,697.7
Procossed fruits, Ve.                     1,41.3    1,355.9    1,574.5    1,566.8    1,474.4    1,723.6
Nitting Products                          6,386.4    6,730.1    7,04.9    7,o09.5    7,223.?    7,365.6
Nixtol Prfcets                            5,3505.   5,61S.3    5,9M.3    6,345.1    6,658.0    6,759.2
Coffee Prodects                           1,737.4    2,054.5    2,107.4    2,157.1    2,250.1    2,199.0
tRfined supr                             2,155.4    2,149.3    2,189.6    2,599.4    2,612.3    2,763.8
Animl Vegetable Olta                      2,358.3    3,052.2    3,24.3    3,256.8    3,481.3    3,745.9
Aniftl Foods                              2,622.0    2,887.4    2,965.3    2,05S.0    2,724.3    2,830.5
misc. foods                               S,A09.3    6,187.7    6,531.1    6,070.4    6,013.5    6,566.?
Severege Products                        12,332.5   12,885.3   13,254.4   12,731.7   12,M83.4   13,664.6
.................
Alcoholic Severages                       3,486.0    3,512.1    3,779.1    4,254.2    4,198.9    4,173.7
telt leverages                            S,172.6    5,522.2    5,369.5    4,660.5    4,940.9    5,305.6
hon-secoholic levecrged                  3,673.9    3,851.0    4,105.8    3,667.0    3,743.6    4,185.3
Tobacco Products                         2,393.S    2,330.9    2,348.9    2,114.7    2,250.3    2,366.6
Text., Cloth.& Leather Products         26,06S.4   27,601.7   26,013.5   24,S69.4   24,793.4   26,027.5
........................... ................................. .
Soft Fiber Products (exc. pper)              ..      S,709.0    7,950.0    8,076.4    8,189.5    8,607.2
Nerd Fiber Products (Exc. apper)             ..        692.8       704.7       64S.3       590.3      535.4
Other Textiles                               .-      3,447.9    3,119.8    2,905.9    2,990.2    3,268.3
Apparel                                      *-      0,949.8    8,427.3    6,168.2    8,002.9    8,315.0
Leather and Shoes                            ..      5,602.2    5,811.7    4,7M7.6    5,020.5    5,301.6
Wood Products                             6,968.8    7,167.6    7,128.9    5,948.5    6,035.7    6.277.9
.............
SUWitLl Products                         2,557.4    2,656.1    2,751.0    2,546.'    2,671.0    2,751.7
Other Wood Products, Cork                 4,411.4    4,511.5    4,377.9    3,402.1    3,364.7    3,526.2
Poper, Paper Products, Printing          10,818.1   11,292.7   11,439.8   10,706.7   11,389.9   11,877.3
...............................
Paper and Cardboard                      6,470.8    6,637.9    6,752.8    6,647.6    6,999.9    7,223.9
Printing                                 4,347.3    4,654.8    4,687.0    4,059.1    4,390.0    4,653.4
......................................................................................................



-   59 -                                        Annex 9
Imatriotl Betructurine Project                       Toot* 3
Page 2 ot 2
rosos DIteC PrCut of MNWufacturPing liAtry
l l liom  of 1970 peos)
lriatriet Cateory                          t9         1961        ¶962       1963       196        19S
cOs., Petrol., ". A Platic Prod. 45,319.3   49,303.?  49,95.7  S0,13S.9  53,326.6  55,340.4
....................................
Petrols  Ord Petrolsa Praets            6,561.2    9,605.6   9,216.2    9,3N.3    9,94.?   9,914.?
Basic Petrochmicetc                     2,1S1.5    2.508.7    2,22.3   35S41.6    3,S93.       3,543.4
Basic Chi cats                          2,673.0    2,351.5  2L65.?    2,353.0   3.025.1    3,160.S
1nue and Ferit¶r                        1,195.0    1,477.3    1,693.6    1,625-4    1,962.3    2,240.0
Sythetic  asims, Artificiatl Flrs    6,203.4    6,39.1    6,1W.3   6,919.3   7,615.1    6,127.5
Pharmectiects                           6,94.1    7,658.6    7,406.0    7,.634s    7,709.7    7,671.6
Soap, Detergnts, Cosmetics              4,111.0    4,697.2    5,062.4   4,919.3    5.196.?   S,165.6
Other Chinicals                         4,178.3   4,55S.0    4,496.4    4,150.3   4,619.3    4,891.6
Eubb r Products                         5,384.1   S,317.1    5,09.S    S,273.9    5,S26.2   6,422.7
Plastic Proceats                        3,367.7    4,243.4    4,337.3    3,S99.3    3,761.8   4,002.6
hon-metaltic Minrales                  11,846.7   12,407.6   11,939.1   10,634.3   11,574.5   12,534.0
.....................
tlss, Gtlss Produts                     2,973.4    2,631.8    2,544.0    2,473.6   2,5M.4    2,777.2
Cemnt                                   2,191.9    2.422.3    2,592.3      2291.6   2,461.9    2,784.7
Other Products based on Non-mat         6,661.4    7,153.5    *.602.6   S,86.7   6,526.2    6,972.1
Basic  etatls                          11,21.8   12,240.0   11,165.3   10,437.5   11,l30.5   11,513.7
,............
Basic Ferrous Netale                    9,722.5   10,040.3   9,264.7    6,776.6   10,006.2    9,S78.4
Basic Non-Ferrous Mtels                 2,099.0    2,199.7   1,0O.6    1,460.9    1,622.3    1,915.3
Netsl Products. Machinery A Equip.    44,455.7   49.,161.6  42,970.1   33,166.3   3S,246.6   40,279.4
Mttal Furniture                               1,592.9    1,667.6    1,486.1  963.6     912.2    1,03S.3
Structurat Shapes                       1,436.6    1,559.7    1,536.4    1,212.3    1,209.6    1,257.3
Other (Exe. Machinery)                  5,514.4    5,622.3    S,400.5    4,592.0    4,573.6    4,765.7
Non-Eletricsl Machinery                7,206.2    7,967.6    6,579.5    S,034.9    5,115.5    5,898.2
Eletrical Mahinery                     2,747.0    2,987.2    2,792.9    2,1L4.5    2,324.2    2,690.0
No  Eloctrical Applianees               3,263.6    3,552.7    3,374.7   2,733.6    2,165.3    2,364.S
Electronic Equipumnt                    5,732.9    S,JS.7    S,111.4    4,576.2    4,776.S    4,949.1
Eletrical Equipment                    2,346.0    2,593.0    2,548.7    2,012.3    2,239.9    2,S07.4
Automobiles                             7,677.2    9,658.3    7,079.7    4,176.0   5,277.?    7,140.?
Fraes, Engines, Vehice Parts            5,600.7    6,305.6    5,657.3    4,521.0   5,44S.3    6,566.1
Trnsport, Equipnt oad Materials         1,131.0    1,358.7    1,400.9    1,179.9    1,154.8    1,105.1
Other MN#ufactured ProSets              2,960.Z    3,212.9    3,127.4    2,350.3    3,016.1    3,164.0
Total                                 209,700.0  224,346.2  21V,352.2  202,021.3  211,683.S  223,717.4
......................................................................................................
wree:  Inrtitu o eSwt de got dstieo, Grof to * In orztleo.



I_nItriol Eestructwlur   Ploect
ENiERS  TIM  1J
(UI t iln of USS
fawrut (ad I grslalO
1                             1960  X       1961   X      1962  X       I1    1       1961  It    196S  1         1906   1   196 2/  X
ircultre                     1,.46  -231   1.376  -2X   1.097  -2        96r  -121   1.36   3s5   1.106  -*1   1,470   241   1,06  -271
Cotnan                      317  2        399  -21      11 -401       116 -371      20660          90. 571      S   -411       35 -34
Coffe                     4*22 -2         334 -211    34S   31    366   121    424   11    491   161    676 36                "ll -31
i.tm                        *16? -201     250  501    154  -36        112  -271    221  971      214  -3X1    369   tX        1    -s52
OfIr                        496   -SX     485  -31      414  -151    353  -151      43   261    391  -141       370  -51      406   101
Livestock  d Fish              124  -24X     104  -161    136  311    222   631    1SS  -301    224  4S1           163  -27X     15?  -41
bto  ad Niosrwl                S12  62X      696   361    S02  -21    S24   41         S39   31    S9  -6          36S  -281    422   161
fttrol.. rd on              9,6916  1611  13,60   401  16,101   311  15,143  -16   15.196    1  13,309  -121   4,015  -70    6.032  S5
Numfectured GOo              3.Sr1   221   4.099  151  3.386  -171   5.448   61%   6.966   261  6.426  -61   S.361  -11 X       .62t    421
Food                       m      -731    679 -1ZX      7074         m 7     2      622  131      751  -91    604  -20S    613 46
Toeltn                     165  -121     le6  -21      15  -171      191   271    27S  41        95  -21      217   II      422  941
Od.als                     363   141      4S7   191    442  -31    626  421         756   201    6?4  -11t     612  -91       t0   29
NaclInary                   796  27X      64   121    M       -*n   l,663  6x  2.217   33   2.129  -41   2.262    7   3,350   471
stnt                         le  -471      64211        112 341       319181        376161        240 -31      302   22    441  46
Oter                      1,136    641   1,623   33X  1,006  -401   1.923   71  2,536   321  2,439  -41   1.34  -"4    1,742  26
Tol Utnchdls Imports  1,5132   721  19.420  21 21.230   91  22,312    s% 24.196   61  21.44  -101  11,443  -471   S.373   341
lfactor Srvicrs              t,390   231   6.945   211  4,937  -451  4.667   -lx   5,nr   m     5,945    01  S,9s    OX              -1001
Total  pworts               22,522   S21  26,36s  261  26,167  -6  27.179    41  30.133   111 2t,409   -61  17,406  -371             -1001
............................................................................................................................................
1/ PrdS gnwr flown  for 196.
2 A ~a-i 1ept 7
source: 6ce de fkxhlco.
03



Irnutritl UstructuriWn ProJect
EJII4  thME I/
(NiIlions of USO)
lowrt (ud I 1110h)
"SO    X     1961          1 X62        1963         1 9 6         1964  5      1966          I? 21 1
*pIaaStur.                 §^161   1331  2,204 115    927  -8S  1,621   751  169   63   1.296  -241    54  -sS            19   411
corn                     59S  4832    453 -24X        38 -92X    4341 s6        31 5 n       2SS  -321    105  .591    21S 10S
SW  b_s                   132 -111    35S  1691    156 .S62    216  401    403  1561    21S  -32          152  -4S      205  Ss
hV*12                    313f 9        432 36        1 -Ss        4341231      36386         2"  -27l   -J 7X            53 -131
Othl                     864  1111    961  1411    S36 -441    335  -361    SSS   31    sCe  -10X    222  S62    322  451
tlveutoek  d Fih            U11  -13      21   S31    1nl -201        30  -531    164   7X    311  691    127 .591         66  -31X
etals wd lrmel.             257   15    219   9X    221  -211        1 t   -351    194  -12X    213  163    t16  46        160  m3
m1e_s_tudb0               16.353  551 21.018  291 12.9n  -386   6,64  -491  9.122  -301 11,261  23n  7,32  -30X   7.S93  -3X
Fad iel.trv             1.171  2421   1,060  -ax    691  -31    527  -24    S00  -281    50    2X    3e  -261    312 -11Z
textiles                 266  66       404  s5x    210  -331       47  -831     99  -631    136  31    104 -241    119  Itis
cmleo                   2,141   411  2,353SOX 1    1,704  -281   1,261  -261  1,661  -31  2,053  241    9S5  -531   1,021   n1
pm*Itny                  ,94    44X  12,414   391  7,610  -391  3.ss6  -53Z  4,702 -381  S,921   261  4,354  -261  4,006  -II
steel                   1,81S  67X  2,200   1    1,871  -lSX    431  -M7    156  -601    740  -21    464  -351    454  6-
Othr                    1.942  S21  2,so5  291   O62  -611    822   01   1.404  701  1,903  36X  1,5T -161  1.661   OX
_S llniflued Coo           210   -1X    213   31    14  -311         62  -S56      S8  -601    131 1261    1o0  -16x    100  -?
Tot104Ne d11   me 1 rts  16,32  '515  23,1      2   14,43? -40X  6.SS  -41X  11.254  -221  13.212  115  a2m  -341  80,7    02
........................................................... ........................................................................................................... , .... ...... ..... . ....... .. .. .... .._.... . . .....
11 Prellk.r  f1  *er f      in.
21/    - SWUS
Soam:  m* of bxlos, Indllorb m            Cmrclo Exter ior
ed s1niicshe. de Sector Exteo
0kr 



- 62 -
OLExl                                              Annex  9
I!fttriel Restructuring Project                                  T*le 5
Aets VW  Liabilities of the gn*irn  System
(Dce_r 196)
O. BNCO Of MEXICO
TOTAL ASSETS                  1SO368                              TOTAL LIASILITIES            ¶S
............                  ......                              .................            ......
Ceh Assets                     6.216                               onetary Li bilities          3.385
eposits of Firnancial  ist.                2                       Credit I"titutios                     U26
foreisn Asts                         6*214                        NWorbUn  *ectot                      3.059
Scurities                      6 429                             uon*Mtarv Liabilities         11,93
financial Institutions                   2                         Financial Intitutions               ? 092
on-finnciel Public                    6.179                        Mon-bank public                       373
Ion-Financial Private                   223                        Mor-bank private                         I
foreign sector                      3,630
Other                                 897
Loanom66
To Financial Institutions               595                    Other Liabilities              2.952
To Won-Finaveil Pubtic                4,056
To Non-Financial Private                 16                    Capital                           '8
Other Assets                   1.055
Source: Saco de eiico.



- 63 -
NxIc                                              Annex 9
Irtr~riol *     t ring Project                                 Ao1" x
ASSts  nd Lisbi(itlff   of the Banking system
( c_r lU)
A.   SEIRCIAL MANS
TOTAL ASSETS                  33.63                              TOTAL LIABILITIES            33,637
...........                                               .                             .      .....
Cash "Ssets                    4.303                             ww*tery Liabilities           2.53k
In hbl                                  31?
At other fin. Irmtitutim              5M2BS                    Uon.Nongtry LIbititie        15,605
foreign Asts                            5"                    Savings Irstflnts
Other                                   137                       eosits                             1t513
Tero Deposits                      13.792
Sewities                       4,23                                    tees then 1                     13634
fPirncil  Institutios                    39                          1 to 1.5 vre                         I
Won-FinncisL Institution              3,776                          Nor. then 1.5 ynI                  157
Other                                   419
Other Liabilities            13.S42
inanceit Institutio@s
L                             21.172                                Credit In titutiorn                   539
fineciet Institution                                              Other Intenmdisries
Credit IrutitutioA                  1,043                          Pulic                            1,861
Other Intermediaries                                              Private                              1S
Piulic                               67                   lon-Finncil
Private                             199                           l ic                                2
Wofirnciel Institutios                                               Eaternal                         7.459
Pl6hic                             10.2W0                   Other                                   3,"5
Private                             ,4.6
foreign                             1,109                   Other Liabilties               1,324
Other                                    27
Capital & Reserves              632
Other Assets                   1.927
Source: lanco de Wexico.



- 64 -
"EXIco                                              Annex 9
Industrial EeStrttuPinG Projest                                   Table 7
Assets NW Liabilities of the Blanking SYsto
j                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~(Oaae_r 198)
C. DEWVLOMENT ANKS
....................
TOTAL ASSTS                   33,883                              TOTAL LIABILITIES              33883
............                  ......                              .................              ......
Cash Assets                      '.76                             Monetary LiabilitieS               92
In MMvd                                    9
other  fin. Institutions                 36                     ton-Monetary Liabilities      32.414
Private Sector                             1
Foreign Assets                           119                    Savings InstruW ntS
Othor                                     11                       Deposits                               *.ff
Tara Deposits                        1 869
Securities                       S86                                    less then I yr                     1.333
Finacial Irstitutions                                                 1 to 1.5 vrs                           I
Credit Institutions                     9'                          hore than 1.5 yrs                    53'
Other                                    2
Other LiabilitieS                      30,050
Mon-Financial Institutions                                      Financial Institutions
Public                                 "O                        Credit Institutions                  2,399
Private                                  *                       Other Intermsdiaries                    1¶3
foreign                                 14
Non-Financial
Other                                       32                          Public                               L28
st*ernal                         24.9L5
Loans                         25.833                              Other                                      568
Fineanial Institutions
Credit Institutions                  1.522                    Other Liabilities                835
Other Intermedieries                   r 5
Capital & Reserves               541
hon-financial Institutions
Public                              20,278
Private                              2n932
Foreign                                311
Other                                     46
Other Assets                   6.988
Source: Sanco de Mexico.



- 65 -
S trlt                                            Aztnex 9
ominal s' **Rel Ct Sates, 1978.8? If
(8)
1973  1979  19t0    19 1 2 92   193   194   195   1986  196? j
Ibamtng CPP rote  (At Aver"ge)
.................
PIlshed Set*              1S.4  164  20.7    .6   40.4  56.?  31.2  S6.1  60.9  9.3
Artwly Cop. late          15.9  11.1  21.2  30.I  44.0  67.3  64.0  65.1  100.? 134.6
Monthty Co. late          16.1  17.3  21.6  45.7  45.?  71.1  67.4   6.?  109.2  149.5
lmthlsy Perpid tat.       16.6  17.6  22.3  32.4  49.0   78.6  74.4  75.9  12$.2  177.1
Inflation                 15.2  19.2  29.2  28.7  89.S  91.?  61.3  61.4  103.S  141.?
toot CW   ate  (Amal  Averages)
..............
Publishad ltate            0.1  '2.3  -6.2   0.2  .24.6  .14.7  -5.'  -2.2  *10.5 -19.6
amefty cow. *ate           0.7  -1.7  -5.8    1.4  -22.?  -8.5   2.5   3.4  -1.0  .2.9
Monthly Co. Rate          .0.?  .1.5  *s.5   1.4  -21.8  -6.3   4.6   5.6   3.2   3.3
loltty Praaid Rate         1.2  -1.1  -4.9   3.2  -20.1  -2.0   0.9  10.2  12.5   u.?
Monthly CO      d Re*l CPP RtateS CAMalIZid)
i................................
J~ry                       ..    5.4  *13.2  .7.3  .6.1  .43.4  -6.3  *10.?   0.7  -40.2
Pebruary                   ..   -6.8  -16.5  -8.4  -13.2  -43.5  -6.6  -13.8  -6.8  39.6
March                      ..   -8.5  -16.9  -5.S  -15.9  -2.3  .7.0  -12.9  .6.0  *20.S
wil                      -13.3   0.9  -5.7  -1.2  .16.S  -10.7  -0.3   2.8  .17.2  -11.5
"Sy                        2.1   1.S  '2.3   3.1  -21.5  -5.4   S.4  12.3  -22.6  -6.6
Jue                        0.3   2.r  .1.s   6.s  24.4  -0.s   6.0  21.4  -26.4  -3.1
JuLy                      -1.2   1.S  .5.0   8.7  22.2   5.8  10.4  21.7  423.3   4.2
Augut                     .0.9   1.0  -6.8   6.8  -34.6   3.2  11.6  13.9  -35.3   7.1
Satewr                    -0.3   0.2  -3.3   5.7  -35.6  11.2  14.8   9.7  -33.?  11.0
Octer                      2.0  '1.5   2.1   5.0  -31.6  17.9  14.1  10.5  -30.6  19.?
NoveaSer                   1.8  -0.6   4.2   6.7  -12.6   8.8  11.2  11.5  *12.3   9.4
Dc r                      3.2  -2.7  '0.9   3.9  -29.6   3.3   4.6   1.4  -2V.9   6.1
I/ Calcutlted for an averap eturity of 90 das.
2/ Octobr 1987.
Source: Oang'j de Nesico i 5350 staff estflmtes.



