Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14679
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HEXICO
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(LOAN 3047-ME)
JUNE 26, 1995
Public Sector Modernization and Private Sector Dev. Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Mexican Pesos (MlexS) = 100 cents
Average Exchange Rates
-1978              -IS1=                                                                          12.8-   '
1919:f-  U- ;S$1 =                                                                               Z -
i.l-~~~~~~~~~ ~                         ..;-.;...:.--::-..   U l .  : . ...  .. . ...i .:----, t-::|..  . ... .. -- ..  f......
198$                     i                         -                                          --     -:..: "t-tS:.   :.t ?.USSi:  -.:....:.- -... ....
:: T.19-8-.:- 6  n.:.;    \   fi.f. -fs,6                    .. ... t. ... ....
. . t.-.- . ..,..,..,,,--, , . .-... .... .. ..-.........
1-81                                  U    $1  Q- -rBI:= ...............- :
ff ,,,,,,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,f,,,~~~~~~~~~~....... .,                                  m, .   ,...    ,, ... .
19.             .. .. ... TSS1=                                                     4L
-...-wl-:- .C:. ...' ..-: .- .- ''':;:::.:El.=i:-S:? :..  ...-.. :-.'.': -...:..
..      .   .... . .. .. .. .. .  .   ..  . .   ...  .   ..  .. .  ..  . .    .  . .   .   .. ..  .. .    .. ..
FI1SCAL I'EAR
Januarv 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ACF                   - Index of Average Cost of Funds
ANAPROM1EX            - Asociacion Nacional de Productores de Horticultura
- National Flower Industry Association
ANlQ                  - Asociacion Nacional de la Industria Quimica
- (National Association of Chemical Industries)
BANCOMEXT             - Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior
- (National Bank of Foreign Commerce)
CEPROFI               - Certif7cado de Promocion Fiscal
- (Tax Promotion Certificate)
CONASLTPO             - Compania Nacional de Subsistencias Populares
- (National Basic Foods Company)
DCR                   - Domestic Content Requirement
DRC                   - Domestic Resource Cost
ERR                   - Economic Rate of Return
FERTIMEX              - Fertilizantes Mexicanos S.A.
- (Mexican Fertilizer Company)
FICORCA               - Fideicomiso para la Cobertura de Riesgos Cambiarios
- (Trust Fund to Cover Foreign Exchange Risk)
FERA                  - Fondo Institutional de Recursos Agropecuarios
- (Institutional Fund for Agricultural Resources)
FONEI                 - Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial
- (Industrial Equipment Fund)
FRR                  - Financial Rate of Return
GATT                 - General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
GIRA                  - General Interest Rate Agreement
[IIT                  - Instituto Mexicano de Investigaciones Tecnologicas
- (Mexican Industrial Technology Institute)
INA                   - Instituto Nacional de A utaoparfes
- (National Autoparts Institute)
INFOTE C              - lirstituxo de Inforntacion Tecnologica
- (Institute for Information and Technological Development)
ERP                   - Industrial Restructuring Project
NAFIN                 - Nacional Financiera S.A.
- (Government's National Industrial Development Bank)
LIBOR                 - London Interbank Offered Rate
MFA                   - Nultifiber Agreement
PFI                   - Participating Financial Intermediarv
PCR                   - Project Completion Report
SAR                   - Staff Appraisal Report
SECOFI                - Secretaria de Comercio y Fomento Industrial
- (Ministry of Trade and Industrial Development)
SIMI                  - Small and .Mledium Scale Industry
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICLL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation                                                              June 26, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:         Project Completion Report on Mexico -
Industrial Restructurine Proiect (Loan 3047-ME)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Mexico - Industrial Restructuring Project (Ln. 3047-
ME), prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office, with Part II contributed by the
Borrower.
The main objective of the project, approved in 1989, was to complement the Government's trade
liberalization and export development policies by helping the industrial sector adjust to the changed economic
environment, increased competition and high indebtedness. The project aimed to support restructuring of
medium-sized companies through financial and technical assistance, as well as to establish a financial and
institutional framework within which viable company-specific restructuring plans could be implemented, with
emphasis on liberalization and financing of the textiles, auto parts, and cut-flowers sub-sectors. Financial
instruments offered under the project included loans and equity participation. Funding was allocated for
industry-level training, services and promotional programs, as well as for technical assistance to improve the
delivery capacity of participating intermediaries.
Both the policy environment and the institutional set up changed substantially after Board approval,
and the original objectives became less relevant. Trade liberalization proceeded more rapidly than expected,
and as a result, the project became essentially a line of credit for the industrial sector. The innovative features
of the loan were hardly used, since the Bank had overestimated both the willingness of banks to engage in
equity-type financing and the demand for this type of finance by enterprises. The loan resulted in the financing
of 354 subprojects for an estimated total investment cost of US$760 million. Although information on the
performance of the subloan portfolio is limited, the liberalized economic environment makes it likely that the
resources were allocated efficiently and contributed to restructuring of the industrial sector.
The project outcome is rated as marginally satisfactory, and institutional development as negligible.
The expected evolution of the financial sector did not take place, but sustainability of the subprojects and of
the industrial restructuring is likely. Major lessons are that a thorough sector analysis is critical before
introducing innovative features into a project, and that the Bank should carefully assess the links between a
proposed operation and its institutional environment.
The PCR is of satisfactory quality. It provides a candid assessment of the project's performance and
draws important lessons of experience. No audit is planned.
Attachment
This documnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROTECT
(Loan 3047-ME)
Preface   .........................................................                                                      i
Evaluation Sununary . ...............................................  ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ...................   1
I. Project Identity ...........................................                                             1
II. Background  .               ............................................                                 1
III. Project Objectives and Description  ..............................    3
IV. Project Design and Organization   ...............................    4
V. Project Implementation   .....................................    7
VI. Project Results .               ..........................................  10
VII. Project Sustainability  .......................................   12
VIII. Bank Performance  .........................................   13
IX. Borrower Performnance ......................................   14
X. Project Relationships  .......................................   15
Xl. Consulting Services  ........................................   15
XII. Project Documentation and Data  ...............................   16
XIII. Lessons Learned  ..........................................   16
Part II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  .......18...... I
I. Objectives .           ..............................................  8
II. Project Implementation   .....................................   19
III. Project Results  ...........................................   20
IV.  Bank   Perform ance        ......................................................                     . 21
V. Borrower Performance  ......................................   21
VI. Technical Assistance   .......................................   22
VII. Lessons Learned  ..........................................   24
Part III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Annex       I.  Related Bank Loans
Annex    II.  Project Timetable
Annex   III.  Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
Annex   IV.  Project Estirnate Financing and Content of Financing
Annex    V.  Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex   V1.  Distribution of Bank Funds
Annex VII. Use of Bank Resources
AnnexVIII.  Status of Covenants
Annex   IX.  Project Benefits
Annex    X. Documento de Terrninacion de Proyecto (Original Part II in Spanish)



I



MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(Loan 3047-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Industrial Restructuring Project, for
which Loan 3047-ME in the amount of US$250.0 million was approved by the Bank on April 27,
1989 and made effective on February 6, 1990. No cofinancing was provided.
The closing date of the Loan was extended from June 30, 1994 to June 30, 1995, to provide
technical assistance to GOM, not anticipated in the original SAR.
The PCR was prepared by Enrique Vanegas, Task Manager, LA2EU of the Latin American
and the Caribbean Regional Office and reviewed by Robert Lacey, Division Chief, LA2PS and
Carmen Hamann, Project Advisor. The Borrower provided comments that are included as appendixes
to the PCR.
Preparation of this PCR was begun during the Bank's final completion mission in June 1994.
It is based on material in the project file. The Borrower contributed to preparation of the PCR by
submitting Part II (Project from Borrower's Perspective).






ii
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(Loan 3047-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives and Design
i.   The general goal of the project was to continue the Bank's support of Mexico's trade
liberalization and export development policies by helping the industrial sector adjust to a changed
economic environment. It was one of a series of Bank Loans to Mexico combining policy advice
with financial and technical assistance to manufacturing companies affected by trade policy
changes. The project's specific objective was to aid the industrial sector in developing adequate
restructuring policies and instruments. It consisted of provision of credit, equity and quasi-equity
investments through participating financial intermediaries (PFIs), with three executing aaencies
Nacional Financiera S.A. (NAFIN), Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial (FONEI), and Banco
Nacional de Comercio Exterior (BANCOMEXT) acting as first/second-tier lending institutions.
ii.   Regarding the design of the project, it was targeted to textiles, autoparts and cut-flowers.
These industries were selected for initial Loan concentration because they were to be in the
forefront of restructuring. The project was later redesigned in response to the opening up of the
economy. It was comprised of four components, two of which provided financing for
investnents in equipment and working capital to: (i) above industries for which restructuring
strategies had been designed; (ii) other industrial subsectors that have been liberalized by the
trade policy reforms or subsectors for which QRs, ORPs and import prohibitions have been
eliminated. The third component consisted of financing for industry-level investments such as
training facilities, services provided by industry associations and subsector-wide promotional
programs. The fourth component consisted of technical assistance financing for goods and
services needed for improvement of the delivery capacity of PFIs and for project implementation
(para. V.5.9).
Implementation Experience
iii.  The Loan was approved on April 27, 1989, signed on September 25, 1989 and became
effective on February 26, 1990. By the effective date. however, several factors began to blur
the objectives of the project and affected its implementation. First, the GOM had started a swift
process of trade liberalization that changed the purposes for which the Loan could be used.
Second. NAFIN was being reorganized into a second tier institution aimed at micro and small
enterprises, whereas the project was targeted to medium and large firms as main beneficiaries



iii
(para. V.5.8). Third, the merger FONEI-NAFIN resulted in the dissolution of the former
executing agencv and the latter managing the largest share (80%) of Loan proceeds, a role not
anticipated in the implementation of the project (para. V.5.2). Also, BANCOMEXT which was
expected to use a major portion of Loan resources, ended up having a reduced participation
(20%). due to weaknesses in operational arrangements.
iv.  The absence of a thorough analysis of sectoral issues caused the project implementation
to be unsatisfactory. For instance, the lack of demand for some of the innovative aspects
(financial engineering and quasi-equity financing) of the Loan changed the project's focus from
a physical and financial restructuring operation to general financing (subloans and equity
participations) of any viable industrial project. The development of corporate financing
capabilities among PFIs provided rare cases of assistance to over-leveraged companies. The third
component (industry level investment) had zero lending because none of the users anticipated
under the Loan qualified as acceptable credit risk. Loan Agreement was amended three times:
(i) the extinction of FONEI as executing agency; (ii) replacement of CETES rates for on-lending
by "prevailing interest rates" (ACF); and (iii) the financing of technical assistance for the
development and supervision of Mexico's voluntary and compulsory pension regimes,
improvement in supervision of financial conglomerates, and the evaluation of public investment
projects - resulting in the closing date being extended from June 30, 1994 to June 30, 1995.
v.   The performance of the Bank (paras. VIII.8.1 - 8.5) was spotty at some stages of the
project cycle. Although the project had a lengthy preparation, key operational details were not
fully worked out for Board presentation nor resolved during appraisal. Project supervision
concentrated on forrnal matters, resource transfer etc., and not enough on institutional flaws.
Institutional and legal ramifications of the NAFIN-FONEI merger were not fully explored.
vi.  The performance of the borrower (NAFIN) was similarly mixed (paras. IX.9. 1 - 9.3); it
shared the responsibility for the actions taken - and those not taken - throughout the project
cvcle. which affected the results of the operation. There was a lack of clear lines of
responsibility and the policy coordinating committee (expanded COCOFIN) failed to play its role
of project coordinator and facilitator. NAFIN's response to Bank's suggestions for improving
subproject approval, supervision and reporting capabilities was weak. Following NAFIN's
complaints about the Bank's long and cumbersome review procedures, the Bank agreed to waive
NAFIN's obligation to submit subprojects for Bank review, for one year, (June 1991 to July
1992). The Bank. however, decided not to continue with the waiver after this period, when a
supervision mission discovered that more than 100 subprojects were not eligible for financing.
NAFIN, subsequently, took a number of measures to redress subproject screening and
supervision deficiencies, including cancellation of the ineligible subprojects.
Project Results
vii. From the resource transfer point of view, the IRP achieved its objective of providing
financial support to industrial enterprises. A total of 354 subprojects was financed under the
Loan with an estimated aggregate cost of US$760 million, of which IBRD funding amounted to



iv
USS248.6 million (33 % of the total). The IRP was the main source of scarce long term financing
to NMexican industrialists during the first years of the project. Interviews with subborrowers
carried out by the PCR mission indicated positive results in terms of growth in employment,
production, sales and profits.
viii. From the point of view of contributing to financial market transformation and innovations,
the result is clearly negative. Expected demand for such innovations by enterprises and their
banks never materialized. Only nine equity investments were made amounting to US$19.5
million (8% of Loan amount). No quasi-equity loans were made. Regarding the technical
assistance component, as defined under the original Loan agreement, it was modified to assist
the GOM on financial sector reform and to evaluate public investment projects.
Sustainability
ix.  The sustainability of the project is difficult to determine because very little information
on the performance of the subloan portfolio is available. The reorientation of NAFIN's lending
aimed at the micro and small enterprises not only affected the investment objective of the
project, but also the quality of recording and reporting procedures required under the Loan.
NAFIN's new role is of a discounting window, passing on the credit risk to PFIs, rather than
a development agency with the capabilities of tracking the development impact of its operations.
This resulted in only a very small part of the required data for the preparation of the PCR being
readilv available when the PCR mission arrived in Mexico City in March 1994. A subsequent
PCR mission was required to complete PART III of the report. Considering that the Loan is
not yet fully disbursed and that most of the disbursements were made in the previous 12 - 18
months, it is too soon to determine the full development impact of the subprojects. Many of
them are still in their start-up period with limited repayment history. However, there are reasons
to believe that Loan resources were efficiently allocated because of the steps taken by NAFIN
to cancel subprojects that did not meet Bank eligibility criteria and financial appraisals of
subprojects being transferred to the reprivatized banking system. Furthermore, the subloans were
granted within the framework of a liberal trade regime, free of market distortions.
Lessons Learned
x.   Original Project Design (para.13.1). Two key lessons about project design can be
ascertained from the IRP. First, the Bank should closely assess and monitor the links between
a proposed operation and the institutional setup within which the project is to take place and
develop. especially in an ever evolving policy environment. The project was designed to nurture
an investment banking culture in a state-owned commercial banking setting with three
government finance development agencies as the main promoters. Commercial banks by their
nature are risk - averse and do not generally engage in merchant banking activities. Similar Bank
operations in Mexico had already shown disappointing results. Second. project design should be
simplified when too many tools are being used to accomplish the same objective. The IRP was
too complex with too many innovative features combining policy, an excessive number of overly
sophisticated financial engineering and products. and the involvement of a multitude of



v
institutions. The Loan was in fact a standard Apex line being disguised with policy and
financially sophisticated features.
xi.  Project Restructuring (para. 13.2). The Bank should be more assertive on new conditions
of effectiveness when legal clauses are modified. The FONEI-NAFIN merger changed many of
the assumptions underlying the project design and this should have been reflected when
amendmencs to the Loan agreement were made. The Bank should have been more forcible to
ensure that FONEI's strong technical capabilities, under NAFIN, would remain intact for
purposes of Bank Loan administration. Alternatively, the Bank should have insisted that NAFIN
establish a technical advisory unit composed of qualified fnancial specialists including outside
consultants that would be in charge of approving investment proposals. The Bank should not
hesitate to reappraise and restructure project focus when necessary.
xii. Underpinning Sector Analysis (para. 13.3). The Bank should do a thorough sector
analysis before introducing non-conventional features into a project. The innovative components
in equity-like financing were put into place without a good understanding of the institutional,
regulatory and policy constraints hampering their growth.



I
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(Loan 3047-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
I. Project Identity
Name:           Industrial Restructuring Project
Borrower:       Nacional Financiera S.A. (NAFIN)
Loan No:        3047-ME
RVP Unit:       Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Country:        Mexico
Sector:         Industry
II. Background
2.1  Between 1950 and 1974, Mexico enjoyed a remarkable period of high growth, low
inflation and moderate external debt. Real growth averaged 6.4%, and inflation was in single
digits throughout this period. But this era came to an abrupt end in the early seventies.
Governrment involvement in the economy expanded rapidly, and increased public expenditure
pushed up aggregate demand and the rate of economic growth. Higher government expenditure,
however, was not matched by rising public sector revenues. As a result, the inflation tax and
external debt became increasingly important sources of public finance. At the same time, a
sharp downtum in real interest rates prevented a matching increase in private savings; external
debt thus increased, increased oil revenues notwithstanding. Single digit inflation ended in 1973,
the real exchange rate started to appreciate and external debt rose above the GNP growth rate.
Then a comparatively brief crisis happened in 1976, but ended after major oil discoveries in
1977. The ensuing prosperity lasted until 1982, when falling international oil prices, rising world
interest rates, and massive capital flight led to a refusal by external creditors to roll over
Mexico's short-term debt and a subsequent suspension of Mexican payments of interest on its
external debt.



2
2.2  The financial and economic crisis of 1982 brought explosive inflation and balance of
payments difficulties. The Governrment responded by a fiscal adjustment effort of astounding
depth and duration. A primary deficit of over 7% of GDP in 1982 was turned into a surplus of
5% of GDP within two years and was increased further to over 8% in 1989 and 1990. These
efforts were hampered by external shocks, such as the collapse in international oil prices in
1986. however. Inflation, rather than slowing down, accelerated, partially in response to the
sharp real devaluation of the exchange rate needed because of the 1986 downturn in the terms
of trade. The subsequent de facto targeting of the real exchanae rate and an increase in the wage
and cost adjustments, introduced instability into the system, culminating in a run on the peso in
the last quarter of 1987 and triple digit inflation.
2.3  The Governrnent responded with the "Economic Solidarity Pact" (Pacto), an agreement
between business, labor, and government. This agreement called for accelerated structural
reform, further tightening of fiscal and monetary policy, a freeze of minimum wages and of
basic public and private sector prices and the cornerstone of the "Pact.'" a freeze of the nominal
exchange rate against the U.S. dollar. This partial freeze was extended at three-month intervals
through the end of 1988, and renewed, with some modifications, by the Salinas Administration
under the name of "PECE." The main change under the PECE was a daily adjustment of the
exchange rate of about one peso against the U.S. dollar, in the first years. The overall effect of
these reforms was a dramatic success in reducing the rate of inflation, from 159% in 1987 to
20% in 1989. While some slippage occurred in 1990 (inflation reached 30%), inflation fell to
19% in 1991. 12% in 1992 and 8% in 1993.
2.4  Trade liberalization since 1985 - subsequent to the payment crisis in 1982, practically all
merchandise imports were under quantitative controls. After some initial modest liberalization
efforts in 1983 and 1984, from July 1985 Mexico undertook a fast and far-reaching liberalization
of the merchandise trading regime as part of the stabilization and adjustment program. The aim
was to expand the tradables sector, and open the economy up to interniational competition to
encourage efficiency in both export and import-substitution activities. Mexico moved from being
a largely closed economy to being one of the more open economies in Latin America. The
maximum tariff is now 20% and the average tariff is 12.4% which are respectively about one-
fifth and one-half of what they were in June 1985; almost all tariffs are now in the range of 10%
- 20%. Prior to the import liberalization, various programs were introduced to promote exports.
The most substantial of these was the in-bond export manufacturing industry known as
maquiladoras which were established in 1965 and have grown rapidly. In 1991 they accounted
for about 16% of manufacturing employment and generated net exports of over US$4 billion.
In the first quarter of 1994 these exports amounted to US$5.7 billion, an increase of 24.5% over
the same period in 1993. Mexico acceded to the GATT in 1986 to establish the credibility of the
reform program. On August 12, 1992. the United States, Canada and Mexico initialed a historic
North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), which came into force on January 1, 1994,
after ratification by the three legislatures.
2.5 The Bank's role - the role the Bank played (1985 onwards) in helping Mfexico in its
structural adjustment period was as important as the IMF's role in the debt crisis. Following the



3
change in administration at the end of 1982, the Bank and Mexican policy makers initiated a
series of policy dialogues in connection with the Export Development Policy Loan (EDP 1)
approved in June 1983 as the Bank sought to provide urgently needed foreign exchange resources
and to help design the subsequent trade reforn process. Mexico's stabilization efforts, however
proved to be short lived. The GOM recognized the need to embark on a more comprehensive
adjustment measure and to change the basic economic structure and to improve resource
allocation. As a consequence, renewed measures for stabilization were accompanied this time
by a major external trade liberalization program and by a series of peso devaluations. The
program was supported by two Trade Policy Loans (TPL) of US$500 million each from the
Bank in July 1986 and November 1987. Between late 1986 and early 1988 the Bank approved
six loans amounting to over US$3.3 billion, all of which supported, in varying degrees, changes
in the trade regime. With rapid progress on trade liberalization beginning in mid-1985, the Bank
decided to orient its economic and sector work (ESW) to examine domestic policies, particularly
of a regulatory nature, which were also constraining efficient resource allocation. It was
recognized that in order to generate the required supply response, trade liberalization would need
to be matched by similar reforms in other key areas of domestic policies and the legal and
regulatory framework.
2.6  In December 1988, the incoming administration faced a seriously deteriorating economic
situation. There had been no growth in economic activity in more than six years, with a
consequent sharp decline in per capita income, and expressions of "austerity fatigue" were
widely heard. Against this background the Industrial Restructuring Project emerged as one of
a series of Bank loans linked to trade reform. The IRP was designed to support the physical and
financial restructuring of firms that were being affected by the trade liberalization, yet had the
potential to compete effectively in a changed economic environment. It was anticipated that PFIs
would have the capabilities to identify and evaluate these enterprises. The project was to
strengthen the supply response to the new policy signals, enabling firms to increase their
competitiveness and efficiency, and to provide a source of term financing which was essential
to the long term nature of the restructuring process.
III. Project Objectives and Description
3.1  The project's general goal was to support the Government's trade liberalization and export
development policies by helping key industrial subsectors adjust to a changed economic
environment. The project was to complement policy adjustments designed to facilitate further
trade liberalization and simplification of the regulatory environment by focusing on private sector
activities in industrv. Textiles and apparel, automotive and horticultural products were the main
subsectors for which restructuring studies were targeted. These industries were selected for
initial Loan concentration because they were to be in the forefront of restructuring. Also,
Mexico had prepared programs for trade development for these sectors. A limited amount was
made available to other subsectors as they became liberalized by the Government's trade policy
reform.



4
3.2  The project's specific objective was to establish an industry-wide financial and institutional
framework within which viable, company-specific restructuring plans could be developed and
implemented. The restructuring process would require a period of 3 - 5 years since significant
changes wvere to take place. NAFIN, as the Borrower, would onlend the proceeds to industrial
enterprises directly or through the commercial banking system: or pass on Loan funds to
BANCOMEXT or FONEI for onlending directly to enterprises or onlending through the
commercial banking system. Financial instruments offered under the project were loans, equity
and quasi-equity participation, including conditional and convertible loans and subordinated debt.
Financing was provided in Mexican pesos or U.S. dollars at the option of the beneficiary
company.
3.3 The Loan included four components:
(a) Subsector-Specific Restructuring Investments: US$150 million (60% of the Loan)
was reserved for investment in subsectors for which restructuring strategies had been defined
(e.g., textiles. autoparts and flowers). This component comprised the financing of fixed assets,
working capital and consulting services which companies required to prepare and implement
restructuring and development plans.
(b) Other Investments: US$85 million (34% of the Loan) was to provide financing for
investment and working capital projects in all other industrial subsectors that had been liberalized
by the trade policy reforms or subsectors for which quantitative import restrictions (QRs),
official reference prices (ORPs) and import prohibitions had been eliminated.
(c) Industry-Level Investments: US$10 million (4% of the Loan) was to provide
financing through the banking system for training facilities, expanded services offered by
industry associations and subsector-wide promotional programs.
(d) Technical Assistance: US$5 million (2% of the Loan) was to provide financing for
goods and services needed to improve the delivery capacity of participating intermediaries and
for project implementation.
3.4  The project financing plan anticipated investments in industrial companies in an estimated
amount of US$500 million equivalent. The Loan was to finance the foreign exchange cost of the
project. estimated to be 50% of total project cost. The remaining half of project costs was to be
covered by subborrowers, financial intermediaries (20%), and executing agencies (30%).
IV. Project Design and Organization
4. 1  The project had a long gestation period. In the context of the fast-moving changes in
hmexico's policy refor-ms, events soon eclipsed the original purpose and concept of the project.
The conceptual foundation of the project -restructuring- was misinterpreted by Mexican banks.



5
Project design was unsuited to BANCOMEXT, one of the leading executing agencies, and even
the introduction of novel features such as the ICB method of procurement proved unworkable.
The project eventually was redesigned in order to be of relevance to the Mexican economy.
4.2  By the time it was signed in September 1989 and made effective in February 1990, the
industrial policy content of the Loan was only of limited value to Mexico's new liberalized
economv. Also, investment objectives were out of focus considering that NAFIN" at the time
was being transformed into a DFI aimed at micro and small enterprises (para. V.5.8) whereas
the Loan was targeted to medium and large firms as the main beneficiaries.
4.3 The project was first identified in July 1986 and appraised in January 1988. Negotiations
started in July 1988 but were not completed until March 1989. They were protracted for the
following reasons:
- First round of negotiations: discussion of the long term strategy papers for the autoparts and
textile subsectors and agreement was reached with respect to the procurement procedures
required by the Bank.
- Second round of negotiations: policy statements were revised and agreed upon but outstanding
issues still remained such as the amount of the Loan, interest rates and the need for the
Guarantee Agreement to specify that the GOM would compensate the Borrower for any foreign
exchange losses on the Loan.
- Third round of discussions: agreements were reached on above issues but in December 1988
the Bank renegotiated procurement conditions and agreement was not reached with GONI till
March 1989.
4.4 After negotiations other issues continued delaying Loan commitment and effectiveness:
following Board presentation legal agreements could not be signed because FONEI, a trust fund
and executing agency under Banco de Mexico as a trustee, was being transferred to NAFIN, the
Borrower. This was the first time the legal documents were amended i.e., to reflect FONEI's
extinction. The second time occurred when CETES were replaced by ACF rates. Another event
arose also delaying the signing date. BANCOMEXT wished to bear the foreign exchange risk,
although in the legal agreement the foreign exchange risk was to be absorbed by NAFIN. This
issue was resolved bv a supplemental letter to the Guarantee Agreement. rather than a covenant,
specifying that the GOM would compensate the Borrower for any foreign exchange losses. The
GOM also had to present a promotional program satisfactory to the Bank, and other pending
actions to comply with Loan effectiveness such as to liberalize cotton imports; to privatize
Algodonera Nacional; to remove QRs and to reduce protection on terminal products for
automobiles and autoparts. All these conditions were evenrually fulfilled.
iLNacional Financiera 1989-1992: Hechos y Retos



6
4.5   Project concept was flawed because the term "restructuring" was understood differently
by Mexican banks and the Bank. For the Bank the term meant to develop company - specific
work out plans and the application of complex financial instruments. A typical example would
be of a hiahly leveraged company with a financial strategy consisting of new money, assets sale,
debt swaps and a re-orientation of its business activities including in some instances factory-
retooling. In all cases requiring a combination of a cash infusion from existing or new
shareholders, a partial loss to be absorbed by the banks and to convert part of the company's
debt into equity (quasi-equity). A turn-around of the company's fortunes was expected in the
near term, at which time the banks (or investors) would divest of their shares at a profit. This
type of operation was inconsistent with Mexican commercial banking practices.
4.6   For Mexican financial institutions the term "restructuring" meant refinancing short term
debt for existing borrowers in default. Commercial banks do not make new loans to restructuring
enterprises in financial distress. The communication problem  proved to be real as bankers
interviewed by the PCR mission did not understand the purpose of the Loan4'. The core
activities of a bank are to assess the creditworthiness of an enterprise and the financial viability
of a discreet asset or working capital investment. Banking institutions are not designed to handle
integrated financial packages. An attempt by the IRP to build up investment banking skills was
incompatible with a commercial banking culture.
4.7   The project design proved to be too narrow and rigid for BANCOMEXT, one of the
leadina executive agents, for the following reasons:
- First, the targeting of the subsectors qualifying for Loan proceeds. The project was designed
to support a small group of industrial subsectors adversely affected by the liberalization measures
i.e., textiles, autoparts and cut-flowers. Financing by the project was supposed to be gradually
opened up to other industrial subsectors, based on the findings of studies to be carried out by
SECOFI. BANCOMEXT had decided to act as one of the executing agencies based on its large
pipeline of industrial subprojects. BANCOMEXT, however, later discovered that few of its
subprojects met Bank eligibility criteria of restructuring, under targeted subsectors. As discussed
in the previous paragraph, there was a conmmunication problem among Mexican financial
institutions as to the definition of the term "restructuring." BANCOMEXT's interpretation was
"modernization." and most of its subloans fell under this category.
- Second. the unspecified mechanism to channel Loan resources. The sharing basis of the Loan
among executing agencies was left vague. NAFIN would onlend Bank funds on a "first come,
first served basis" to FONEI and BANCOMEXT. Comnmitment fee payments became substantial
for BANCOMEXT because there was no precise amount allocated on which to base the
calculation for fee sharing. Since BANCOMEXT was supposed to be the largest user of the
Loan. fee payments were also large "on an indicative basis,'" for funds that were unavailable to
BANCOMIEXT because of the complications in Loan effectiveness previously mentioned.
2/Some banks know NAFIN's restructuring program (PROFIRI) by the name of modernization
(PROMIRI).



7
- Third. operational difficulties emerged because BANCOMIEXT's subprojects were subject to
two layers of approvals, the Bank and NAFIN, resulting in backlogs as long as nine months.
Also. B,A.NCOMEXT found procurement requirements cumbersome and difficult to comply with,
especially with what the Bank considered "international shoppine procedures." BANCOMEXT,
in view of all these factors, informally agreed to the use of only 1/5 of the Loan, without
amending the legal documents.
4.8  Besides its institutional and financial complexity that contemplated a range of borrowers,
lending institutions, financial instruments, and policy objectives, the project introduced four
novel elements.
4.9 First novel feature was the Bank inaugurating the ICB method of procurement into a DFI
type operation in Mexico (the US$3 million proposed in the SAR was later increased to US$7
million). GOM accepted this requirement on the understanding that it would not create a
precedent for future Bank operations, since previous credit programs negotiated with the Bank
(2142-ME, 2746-ME) did not include the ICB procurement procedures requirement. In
retrospect, the ICB method of procurement in a DFI type operation was unnecessary.
Commercial banks bore the credit risk when using NAFIN's rediscounting window and would
therefore make sure on-lent resources were used efficiently. On the other hand, subborrowers
who had to repay the banks or risk legal action would employ the most cost effective
technology/equipment in using subloan proceeds. Enforcement of efficient and economic methods
of purchase is more appropriate in public sector works not in a private sector environment where
best procurement practices are dictated by attention to the "bottom line" and market forces. A
second novel feature of the IRP was the inclusion of pollution control equipment qualifying as
stand alone, and not necessarily a component, investment subprojects. A third novel feature was
interest rates based on ACF plus a spread, rather than on the traditional CETES percentage
formula. LIBOR would be used as the base for US dollar subloans. The fourth novel feature was
the large size of subprojects contemplated under the Loan. Executing agencies had a free limit
of USS7 million to approve subprojects, with the maximum amount of investment for any
subproject being USS15 million.
4. 10 Following Loan effectiveness, the project was redesigned in response to the GOM's new
trade policies. In late 1989, the Salinas administration speeded the process to remove trade
barriers, decontrol prices and simplify market regulation, reflecting its commitment to policy
reform for the industrial sector. The IRP was therefore turned into a general purpose industrial
credit line co accommodate the rapid pace of trade liberalization.
V. Project Implementation
5.1  Project implementation was unsatisfactory. It had little impact from an institutional
standpoint and there was no demand for its innovative components. Slow disbursements towards



8
the end of the project may have been due to an inadequate interest rate policy adopted by
NAFIN.
5.2  The project had no instirution building component because the major executing agencies,
BANCOMEXT and FONEI, were experienced and capable and expected to perform well their
respective functions. The Borrower was NAFIN., which would relend the proceeds to industrial
enterprises through the commercial banking system or channel the funds to BANCOMEXT or
FONEI. institutions with strong technical capabilities. It was expected that FONEI and
particularly BANCOMEXT would efficiently allocate Bank funds among project beneficiaries.
FONEI was merged into NAFIN in June 1989 and legallv dissolved in December 1989. As a
result, NAFIN became the major user of the Bank Loan. This sharply altered the institutional
quality of project arrangements as NAFIN's institutional performance under previous Bank
operations, namely the Capital Goods project, had been less than fully satisfactory. Although the
Bank supported the rationing of trust funds and streamlining of DFIs activities, the financial
sector reforms that took place did not differentiate the various levels of professionalism
embedded in some of these institutions. FONEI had been a first rate second tier intermediary
and with the merger FONEI senior staff disappeared and technical capabilities were scattered
and rendered impotent.
5.3  Institutional implementation was weak. NAFIN was the Borrower, but also acted as
executing agency, together with BANCOMEXT and FONEI. A potential conflict of interest
arose by NAFIN also competing for Bank funds for its own subprojects. SECOFI was in charge
of preparing the studies on which subsector restructuring strategies would be based, but once the
economy opened up no further studies were necessary and SECOFI ceased to play a role in
project implementation. Coordination of Loan implementation was given to a high level
committee, expanded COCOFIN, but it never functioned. With the merger of FONEI, NAFIN
replaced Banco de Mexico as new trustee and leaal amendments to the Loan agreement were
made to reflect these changes. but FONEI's technical skills were not incorporated in the new
institutional arrangements.
5.4  Promotional programs were developed by the executing agencies to comply with conditions
of effectiveness and to advertise the industrial restructuring features of the Loan. During the
January-August 1989 period five hundred and ninety industrialists had participated in workshops
and seminars to learn about the IRP. In October-December 1989 ten more conventions took
place as follow up in the marketing campaign. In spite of this massive diffusion of the IRP. there
proved to be little demand for some of the innovative IRP aspects and components which were
an important reason for the Bank's involvement.
5.5 This lack of demand is explained by the following factors. In Mexico, commercial banks
rarely engage in investment or merchant banking activities. Consequently, there was no quasi-
equity financing under the Loan. The development of corporate financing capabilities among
PFIs provided rare cases of assistance to over-leveraged companies. Medium-scale industry in
Mexico, as indeed in much of Latin America, tends to be family-owned and known for their
conservative attitude especially concerning minority equity holdings in their enterprises. Overall,



9
the environment was not conducive to staging equity financing for these industries. NAFIN only
reported nine equity investments amounting to USS19.5 million (8% of Loan amount). One
component (Category C: industry-level infrastructure projects) had zero lending because none
of the institutions (industry associations, promotional instirutes, research centers) anticipated as
users qualified as acceptable credit risk. Consequently, the project now consisted in essence of
two components: a) an investment component (loan and equity participation) open to the whole
industrial sector - US$245 million and b) a technical assistance component for improving the
delivery capacity of PFIs and for project implementation - US$5 million.
5.6  NAFIN was in breach of due diligence covenants, but later took corrective measures.
Following NAFIN's complaints about the Bank's long and cumbersome review procedures, the
Bank agreed to waive for one year, from June 1991 to July 1992, the obligation for NAFIN to
submit all subprojects to be financed under the Loan for Bank prior review. After a slow start,
disbursements moved faster and by June 1992, US$182.7 (73% of project amount) had been
disbursed. US$15 million of which for BANCOMEXT i.e.. 8% of disbursements. Supervision
missions would review at random a sample of subprojects in the field and if NAFIN complied
with appraisal standards the waiver would be extended. A July 1992 supervision mission
screened 8 subprojects and found that 4 did not meet the Bank's conditions and requirements.
This finding triggered a comprehensive review by NAFIN of all the 442 Bank-financed
subprojects and detected that 106 of them, representing 24% of the total were ineligible for Bank
financing21. These subprojects were canceled. In October 1992, a special Bank mission took
place to review the situation and found that by and large NAFIN's subloans under the IRP met
Loan eligibility criteria.
5.7  After mid-1992, the pace of disbursements slowed considerably. NAFIN explained that
this was due to: a) delays caused by the new regional decentralization in credit approvals and
b) debugging problems in the computer/software used in rediscounting operations. However the
PCR mission believed that the main reason was NAFIN's costly subloan pricing policv, which
was in line with its new orientation to serve the micro and small industries but not competitive
for targeted subborrowers (medium and large enterprises). Commercial banks were finding
cheaper to fund their lending program for corporate customers out of their own resources.
5.8  Bank funds channelled through NAFIN may have been too expensive for PFIs at that stage
of the project. Under NAFIN's new interest rate policy, applicable to all of its lending
programs. the average lending rate to project beneficiaries was ACF + 6 % in pesos, and LIBOR
+ 6% in US dollars, including a 4% spread for the PFIs. Premiums were high to cover riskier
transactions and high unit processing cost incurred by lending to the retailing sector (micro and
small industries). But, medium-size corporate clients could negotiate lower spreads than those
applied to small enterprises, and therefore lower lending rates. because the additional businesses
e.g., letters of credit, compensatory balances, cash management etc. they bring to their bankers
3LThe ineligible subprojects consisted of 95 subloans and 11 equity investments which represented
for NAFIN commitments of US$33.6 million out of which US$22.2 million had already been
disbursed.



10
compensate for lower loan interest revenues i.e.. a fee-driven operation. In addition these
companies tend to have a strong and loyal bank-client relationship which the banks reciprocate
by providing better services and forfeiting immediate gains for lona term benefits. Commercial
banks interviewed agreed that NAFIN's resources are still attractive because of its term lending
characteristics (up to 13 years), irrespective of company size. However, corporate financial
managers do not base their investment decision on subloan repayment periods alone but also on
the level of lending rates. This trade-off may have resulted in medium-size companies preferring
lower borrowing rates but a short term repayment period, rather than NAFIN's generous term
lending under the Loan. A major Mexican bank indicated that unless NAFIN lowered its lending
rate demand for NAFIN's resources would continue to fall in 19940'.
5.9  There was a variance between planned and actual project implementation concerning the
US$5.0 million technical assistance component. The measures supported by the ISPL contributed
to modernize the industrial sector by removing market distortions and to a positive change in the
business climate. Therefore, the studies and sector work by SECOFI to be financed under the
project were no longer necessary. In late 1993, GOM had new priorities regarding the financial
system and a program for using the remainder of these funds (approximately US$3 million) was
proposed and agreed by the Bank. The Loan agreement was amended for the third time to allow
the financing of this technical assistance. Consequently closing of the project was extended from
June 30, 1994 to June 30, 1995.
VI. Project Results
6.1  From a resource transfer point of view, the IRP achieved its goal of providing financial
support to industrial enterprises through PFIs with sound credit analysis capabilities. Term
financing to Mexican industrialists to modernize their factories, including working capital, was
made available at the right time contributing to the industrial recovery. The changed trade
environment required and justified modifications of the project that had been designed when
Mexico started its process of opening up the economy. IRP was one of a series of Bank Loans
to Mexico combining sector policy with financial and technical assistance to manufacturing
companies and subsectors. These included: two trade policy loans in June 1983 (US$350 million)
and January 1987 (US$250 million); two export development loans in June 1983 (US$350
million) and Januarv 1987 (US$250 million); a steel - sector restructuring in March 1988
(US$400 million), and a fertilizer sector adjustment loan also in March 1988 (US$265 million).
6.2 From the point of view of achieving its specific objective of establishing an industrv-wide
financial and institutional framework within which viable, company-specific restructuring plans
4L A recent trend being observed is of commercial banks reducing their use of NAFIN's funds, from
94.4% in 1990 to 68% in 1993, non-banking institutions, on the other hand taking up the slack,
from 6% to 32% during the same period - Credit Unions' share has increased from 4.5% to 15.3%
(NAFIN - Informe de Actividades 1993)



11
could be developed and implemented, the balance is clearly negative. Mainly because major
enterprises prepare their own financial plans and business strategy, small businesses are engaged
in long term multiple stage activities design to resolve their problems. i.e., most planning is ad-
hoc. Also because the Loan supported restructuring investments in a commercial banking
environment where "plain vanilla" lending was the rule and little or no merchant banking
capabilities were of interest to the banking community. Few banks have an appetite for using
borrowed funds for high risk equity investments. Normally banking supervision prefers that
equity investments are sourced from capital. The Loan eventually operated as a standard
industrial credit line through established governmental and comunercial bank channels.
6.3  As a result of NAFIN's new role of being a second-tier institution with an MIS geared to
discounting operations that does not track development impact of subloans, limited information
conformning to Bank's standards for PCR preparation was available. NAFIN was only able to
obtain data from its regional offices on 273 subprojects (79% of NAFIN's total) amounting to
US$166.7 million (84% of NAFIN's use of Bank funds). Based on this sample, the Bank was
able to estimate project costs and content of financing. Only 153 subloans provided data on
repayment terms. No data could be provided regarding the condition of NAFIN's loan portfolio
and its development impact, not even ex-ante economic and financial rates of return.
6.4  The reprivatization of the banking sector which started in October 1991 was a major event
in Mexico and affected project implementation with mixed results. On the positive side, one
immediate effect for the economy was a more efficient and competitive financial intermediation
system, in terms of reduced intermediation costs which were passed on to borrowers. With the
aim of boosting profits and allocating resources the privately=owned banks spent the whole of
1992 in assessing the quality of their newly acquired loan portfolio and developing business
plans.
6.5  As a result of this review banks started to reduce lending to the public sector and to what
they considered high risk industrial subsectors eg., textiles, shoes and leather, computers. At the
same time this measure by the banks resulted in a small share (15%) of financing to the textile
industry, whereas the project relied on a much higher share. This meant that the Loan's focus
on this industry was misplaced because it proved to be that after the trade liberalization Mexico's
competitive advantage was not in the textile sector.
6.6  Loan utilization and the characteristics of the subprojects financed are shown on Tables
IV - VI. The Loan was used to finance 354 subloans/equity investments and technical assistance
subprojects. 280 industrial enterprises benefitted for a total of US$248.6 million. Of the total
Loan. NAFIN used US$197.4 million for 346 operations with an estimated subproject cost of
about USS460 million -based on above sample- of which the Bank is assumed to fund 33% of
the total. the balance financed by enterprises and financial intermnediaries - NAFIN's own
resources were not used. Of the 346 subprojects financed by NAFIN, only 11 were relatively
large (in excess of US$2 million, the largest being USS8.2 million). The majority of the
subloans. based on above sample, carried a relatively short maturity (3 to 5 years) only 2%
carried a maturity in excess of 7 years. In terms of sectoral distribution 22% and 15% of the



12
subprojects by number were in the agroindustries and textiles, respectively. Of the remaining
sectors. metal-mechanic and chemical/petrochemicals represented about 16% and 6%
respectively, the other sectors (autoparts, paper, capital goods. wood, construction, leather and
shoes) each represented less than 6% of the total. In terms of amount disbursed, the average
subloan was US$570,000, large enterprises represented about 46% of the total number of
subprojects with medium and small ones each absorbing 38% and 16%, respectively. In dollar
terns. working capital and fixed assets financing were 43%  and 48%, respectively.
6.7   The majority of the subprojects were concentrated in the most industrialized regions
(Center, D.F., North-East and West) utilizing about half of the Loan. Most commercial banks
participated in the Loan, but about 70% of the number of projects financed was channeled
through six commercial banks: Banamex, Banca Serfin, Bancomer, Multibanco Comnmermex,
BITAL and Banco Mexicano.
6.8   BANCOMEXT, in contrast, utilized Loan proceeds more in harmony with the objective
of the IRP and maintaining subloan statistics i.e., financing large subprojects and meeting Bank's
reporting requirements. Of the total Loan, BANCOMEXT used US$49. 1 million for 8 operations
with an aggregate subproject cost of US$302.6 million, of which the Bank funding amounted to
16% of total - indicating the high rate of resource mobilization, including use of
BANCOMEXT's own funds (12%). Only one enterprise received two subloans, therefore the
total number of companies financed was only 7, all of them large and medium-sized and in the
export business. The average subloan was US$6.1 million and the largest US$15 million. In
terrns of sectoral distribution, 4 companies representing 56%, in dollar terms, were in the textile
industry, 2 in agroindustry (14%) and 1 in the steel industry (30%). All subloans, except one
for workina capital, were for equipment and fixed assets financing. In terms of geographic
distribution, similar pattern as in NAFIN's case, was observed of the subprojects e.g., North-
East and West, and D.F. All subloans were denominated in US dollars with shortest maturity,
with the exception of working capital subloan for 180 days, being 5 years and longest 13 years.
BANCOMEXT acted as first-tier institution in the majority of operations (5), participating the
followin2 commercial banks in each of the remaining 3 operations: Banamex, Banco Mexicano
and Multibanco Mercantil. Four of the subprojects had ex-ante economic and financial rates of
return estimated to lie between 10% and 20%. Most of the subloans are in the grace start-up
period, therefore it is too early to draw any conclusions concerning subproject viability or to
show their full impact.
VII. Project Sustainabilitv
7.1  As mentioned in the previous paragraph, it is too soon to determine the full development
impact of the subprojects because many of them are still in their infancv and the Loan is not
vet fully disbursed. However, field interviews conducted by the project completion mission with
beneficiaries and PFIs provided overall positive feedback on subproject sustainability, in aspects
such as employment creation, product sales increases, and improvement in operating efficiency.



13
7.2  In addition, there are reasons to believe that the resources mobilized through the IRP were
efficiently allocated. at least in terms of quality of the subprojects. because of the following
reasons. First. after the July 1992 Bank supervision mission. NAFIN took corrective steps to
eliminate all subprojects from the pipeline that did not meet Bank criteria and strengthen
approval procedures to avoid future occurrence. Second, followina the events of June 1992,
NAFIN submitted all subprojects to be financed under the IRP for Bank's approval. Third,
NAFIN was reorganized into a second tier institution, except for equity investments, and the
evaluation of subprojects was transferred to the reprivatized banking system. Furthermore, the
subloans were granted within the framework of a liberal trade regime, free of market distortions.
VIII. Bank Performance
8.1  The Bank's performance was spotty. Although the project had a lengthy preparation, key
operational details were not fully worked out. Project supervision concentrated on formal
matters, resource transfer, audits etc., and not enough on institutional flaws. There was no
justification to include financial engineering and quasi-equitv financing in the IRP.
8.2   During project preparation, the Bank did not thoroughly investigate Mexico's financial and
capital markets and the main factors constraining the use of these equity-type financial
instruments by medium-size enterprises. The Bank therefore sharply overestimated the ability
or interest of comrnercial banks to engage in complex or high risk merchant banking activities
and did not understand well the operations of commercial banks. Indeed, there was evidence
from previous Bank operations in Mexico (e.g., Industrial Recovery project, Industrial
Technology Development project, Capital goods project, Small and Medium industry projects)
that there would be little or no demand for the more sophisticated forms of term financing. The
overly complex project design resulted in unrealistic expectations reearding interest of
commercial banks in developing "an investor mentality" and skills for using these sophisticated
instruments. Had FONEI not been dissolved and a larger BACOMEXT participation in the ILoan
materialized it would have been likely that significantly more progress could have been made
in this area.
8.3   Many of the important issues normally resolved during appraisal or before condition of
effectiveness were never ironed out during the life of the project. The major ones were: the
Bank to request from NAFIN to establish a financial working group to approve the economic
and technical viability of investment proposals; to create a forum with the PFIs to resolve project
management problems; to determine the precise mechanism for the executing agencies to
channeling and accessing Bank resources: to resolve the ambiguous, and at times coniflicting,
nature of NAFIN as both the Borrower and executing agency; and to address, from project
inception. NAFIN's inadequate subproject evaluation. The institutional and legal ramificaUions
of the NAFIN-FONEI merger were not fully explored.



14
8.4  The Loan was intended to support trade policy but had no conditionality either in the
financial or industrial sector. But. the hybrid nature of the Loan, combining policy advice with
investment may have been justified if it is viewed as an integral part of a broader strategy of
structural reform supported by the Bank which began in 1985 when the initial steps were taken
to liberalize trade and open up the economy. The achievements under the Loan (investment
components) were to reinforce the ISPL by providing incentives to industrial subsectors to speed
up the adjustment process.
8.5  The Bank performance of its Loan supervision responsibilities for the first 24 months of
operation was not effective. In March 1990 shortly after the Loan became effective, a
supervision mission detected and reported on the absence of project coordination, NAFIN's
limited implementation capacity, and BANCOMEXT's reduced involvement in using Loan
proceeds. These assessments were not followed up with specific actions. NAFIN agreed to
submit periodic status reports on the implementation of the Loan, including a qualitative
assessment, but never delivered on its promise and the Bank never reacted to this failure of
compliance. In fact, the only project progress report ever submitted to the Bank by NAFIN was
in March 1993, following Bank decision to discontinue with the waiver. On the other hand, after
the July 1992 Bank supervision mission, NAFIN took a number of measures to redress
subproject screening and supervision deficiencies but was not responsive to other firm and
specific Bank recommnendations e.g., lending rate policy, monitoring subloan repayment
experience, exit formula on equity investments etc.
IX. Borrower Performance.
9.1  The performance of the Borrower was mixed. NAFIN  shared with the Bank the
responsibility for the actions taken throughout the project cycle that affected the execution and
results of the operation. NAFIN did not perform adequately, under the waiver, in accordance
with sound financial and administrative practices nor maintained an adequate reporting system
on the Loan financed portfolio.
9.2  As mentioned earlier, a steering committee responsible for overseeing project execution
never functioned. There was no authority to redress operational difficulties that emerged between
NAFIN and BANCOMEXT. This triggered BANCOMEXT's withdrawal from playing a larger
role in the Loan.
9.3  Earlier in the project implementation the Bank staff found that there was little informnation
on the repayment experience of subprojects and advised NAFIN to require PFIs to provide data
on arrears, prepayments, non-performing subloans and subsectors affected. NAFIN did not act
on the Bank's recommendation and consequently made it difficult to assess the quality and
outcome of the Loan financed portfolio.



15
9.4  Although NAFIN did strengthen information system flaws. subsequently to the July 1992
Bank mission. at both the credit review and supervision phases, the quality of NAFIN's project
appraisal and supervision work remained weak. In too many cases the Bank had to ask for
additional information during subproject review and this. as well as the cancellation of many
approved subprojects. requiring the appraisal by NAFIN and approval by the Bank of
replacement subprojects, continued to delay Loan utilization.
X. Project Relationships
10.1 Bank-Borrower relationships have matured over almost a decade of Bank's operations with
Mexico's DFIs. In some instances NAFIN being in agreement concerning identification of a
problem and the mechanism to be used for solution or improvement. As discussed in para. V.5.2
the Loan had no provision for institution building and NAFIN, a development bank with about
US$30 billion in assets5' and sixty years in existence, has not always been receptive to Bank
advise. The Bank did not express its concerns at an early stage about NAFIN's quality and
efficiency of project cycle activities and NAFIN did not respond assertively to the signals
received from the Bank, until the supervision mission of July 1992.
10.2 The Bank-BANCOMEXT relationships have also grown over a number of operations, an
institution familiar with Bank requirements for both data and legal compliance. In fact
BANCOMEXT was the only executing agency that could provide complete data at the subproject
level for the PCR. However, a weakness in operational arrangements resulted in
BANCOMEXT's utilization of Loan funds to only 20%.
XI. Consulting Services
11.1 As mentioned in para. V.5.9 more than half of the technical assistance component was
used to finance the development and supervision of Mexico's voluntary and compulsory pension
regimes. improvements in supervision of financial conglomerates, and the evaluation of public
investment projects. The Loan agreement was amended to expand the description of the project
to include the emplovment of consultants, studies, training, computers and software equipment
not contemplated under the original Loan agreement and a postponement of the expected
completion date until June 1995. This limited program of support was developed to meet the
immediate needs of the GOM for advice and assistance to consolidate reforms in the financial
system. Consultants were also used to develop NAFIN's risk management capabilities. The
agreed TA program is being carried out.
S/ NAFIN Annual Report 1993.



16
XIL. Project Documentation and Data
1'2.1 Project documentation and data includes the legal documents, the staff appraisal report
(SAR). missions' back-to-office reports, supervision reports, audit reports and one progress
report provided bv the Borrower.
12.2 The many amendments to the legal agreements soon made it difficult to have an overview
of all relevant Loan provisions. It would have been helpful if a consolidated document could
have been prepared but because the Legal Counsel needed to process a number of new
operations for FY94 and considering the late date of the last set of amendments, this was less
of a priority. Also, the SAR lost its value as a framework and guideline for project
implementation, due to the redesign of the project.
12.3 The main outcome of NAFIN passing on the credit risk of subprojects to PFIs was a
supervision and monitoring system resting entirely on the financial intermediaries, resulting in
inadequate recording and reporting procedures for purposes of Loan administration. As
mentioned in para. IV.4.2, NAFIN scarted in 1989 a reorganization process which consisted in
a reorientation of its lending activities to become a second-tier institution. NAFIN, therefore,
had little incentives in keeping track of subprojects' financial perforrnance, since repayment by
PFIs was guaranteed, irrespective of subloan accrual status. Comrmercial banks, for instance,
have discretionary subloan approval limit for discounting up to US$1 million with minimum
financial disclosure provided to NAFIN. Also, there is no systematic collection of subproject
performance data at NAFIN main office, since regional branches can approve loans of up to
USS6.5 million without authorization from Mexico City and minimum credit information is
requested from headquarters. Only a verv small part of the usually required data for the
preparation of the PCR was readily available at NAFIN when the first PCR mission arrived in
Mexico City in March 1994. Therefore, a second PCR mission was arranged in June 1994 with
limited results. NAFIN graciously extended assistance in facilitating meetings with project
beneficiaries and PFIs, and some agencies/institutes connected with sector analysis.
XIII. Lessons Learned
13. 1 Original Project Design. Two key lessons can be ascertained from the IRP. First, the
Bank should closely assess and monitor the links between a proposed operation and the
institutional serup within which the project is to take place and develop, especially in an ever
evolving policy environment. The IRP was designed to nurture an investment banking culture
in a state-owned commercial banking setting with three governrnent finance development
agencies. as the main promoters. Commercial banks bv nature are risk averse and do not
generally engcage in merchant banking activities. Similar Bank operations in Mexico had already
shown disappointing results. Second, project design should be simplified when too many tools
are being used to accomplish the same objective. The IRP was too complex with too many



17
innovative features combining policy, an excessive number of overly sophisticated financial
engineering and products, and the involvement of a multitude of institutions. The Loan was in
fact a standard Apex line, but disguised with policy and financially sophisticated features.
13.2 Project Restructuring. The Bank should be more assertive on new conditions of
effectiveness when legal clauses are modified. The FONEI-NAFIN merger changed many of the
assumptions underlying the project design and this should have been reflected when the Loan
agreement was amended. The Bank should have been more forcible to ensure that FONEI's
strong technical capabilities, under NAFIN, would remain intact for purposes of Bank Loan
administration. Alternatively, the Bank should have insisted that NAFIN establish a technical
advisory unit composed of qualified financial specialists including outside consultants that would
be in charge of approving investment proposals. The Bank should not hesitate to reappraise and
restructure project focus when necessary.
13.3 Underpinning Sector Analysis. The Bank should do a thorough sector analysis before
introducing non-conventional features into a project. The innovative components in equity-like
financing were put into place without a good understanding of the institutional, regulatory and
policy constraints hampering their growth.



18
PART II: PROJECT FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
I. Objectives
1.1  In the Executing Agency's view, the Bank would have been better advised, instead of
analyzing the meaning of "restructuring" as interpreted by the different project participants, to
have examined whether its own understanding of this concept was fully consistent with the
dynamics and needs of the Mexican economy at the beginning of the nineties.
1.2  In Nacional Financiera's opinion, the enterprises were clearly in need of financial support
to carry out investments specifically designed to increase their productive efficiency and improve
their competitiveness, whether this be termed restructuring, reactivation, reconversion or
industrial modernization.
1.3 Within the original project context, the intention was for the Federal Government to
identify the sectors for which development bank support was urgently needed, and for the
Secretariat of Trade and Industrial Development to set the appropriate criteria and priorities for
determining whether a proposed investment project could be classified under the heading of
"modernization. "
1.4 Nevertheless. in 1989 Mexico adopted the political decision to become fully integrated into
the world economy, then in the throes of radical transformation.
1.5  This meant that the entire industrial apparatus had to meet certain standards of efficiency
and modernization as the economy opened up irreversibly to external competition, since the only
way for Mexican industry to survive, let alone develop and take advantage of the new trading
opportunities, was to strengthen its own potential to compete.
1.6 It was in this light that NAFIN viewed the World Bank loan, and it was on this basis that
it made its decisions regarding on-lending of the loan proceeds.



19
1.7  It is important to emphasize the above, because while it may seem that NAFIN was unable
to comply with the Bank's requirements for a program with few resources [sic], the truth is that
at the beginnina of 1990 the needs of the industrial sector and NAFIN's overriding priorities did
not match the loan objectives. Particularly because the instruments used by NAFIN in its
operations with medium-sized and large enterprises were never eligible for rediscounting under
the loan. In addition. the "novel" policies cited by the Bank, involving the use of ICB
procedures for private sector procurement, never got off the ground.
1.8  It should be emphasized that right from the loan negotiation stage NAFIN was included
as one of the "executing agents," and not, as the Bank states in section 4.5 of the document,
solely as Borrower, and we do not therefore understand how its inclusion could alter the
institutional quality of the project.
II. Project Implementation
2.1   Most of the loan funds were used by NAFIN in a manner consistent with the agreements
among the participating institutions and with the instructions issued by the Secretariat of Finance
and Public Credit. At no time was there any conflict of interest among the participants.
2.2 Nor is it true that the project coordination requirements were not met, since the requisite
provision was made in the loan agreement with the appointmnent of a Project Manager, a fact that
was duly reported.
2.3 As mentioned above, while it is not true to say there was no effective promotion or
boosting of the loan's "novel features, the fact is that they never worked out, and whenever there
was a move to suggest to the Bank that an instrument more appropriate to the Mexican context
be adopted. it was not possible to set up a dialogue. For example, it is not true that "commercial
banks are do not have the capacity [sic] to engage in investment or merchant banking activities.
Consequently there was no quasi-equity financing." In reality, this instrument has a cost problem
related to the tax aspect with which it is associated, which has nothing to do with the banks'
investment policies.
2.4  We agree with the Bank that the main reason why disbursements came to a standstill
cannot be the workload and problems of our computer systems, initially the Regional Discount
System (SIREDE) and now the Integrated Discount and Portfolio Monitoring System (SIDECC).
This is basically explained by the assessment and radical changes undergone by NAFIN, with
respect both to its financial policies and to its discount facilities, which to a large extent no
longer correspond to a loan signed some five years ago, whose procedures have not kept up with
the evolving characteristics of our refinancing operations.
2.5  NAFIN's change of approach is marked, inter alia, by its reorientation to serve micro,
small and medium-sized businesses; the awareness that our second-tier operation is based on the



20
assumption by the commercial banks of the entire operational risk: the redesign and continued
updating of our discounting facilities, involving implementation of large-scale automated
operating systems: and the simplification of our supervisory procedures to enable them to handle
those large-scale automated systems.
2.6  The aim  of all these changes has been to substantially increase NAFIN's exposure,
basically in the area of micro and small enterprises. It has resulted in an appreciably smaller
volume of information being made available per subproject, a volume that may be inadequate
for the traditional discounting and rediscount facilities still offered by many development banks
in Mexico and elsewhere, as well as by the multilaterals.
2.7   Moreover, it is important to remember that in Mexico's present economic situation,
policies covering support for liabilities restructuring, procurement of used equipment, expansion
of NAFIN's support for certain sectors, etc. while not included in the Bank's early decision and
quick disbursement criteria, are essential to ensure the sustainability of enterprises and expand
investment opportunities for micro and small enterprises.
2.8   Those enterprises do not necessarily need to procure new equipment, since we have
different levels of technology within our production system. It is noteworthy that the
procurement of used equipment is an option now in use in all countries of the world, including,
of course, the most highly industrialized nations.
2.9   With respect specifically to the waiver, we should like to recall the original basis and
reason for the exceptional treatment given to this loan. The majority of subprojects submitted
for consideration by the Bank have usually suffered considerable delays, since in many cases the
authorization process takes several months.
2. 10 This was discussed with Bank missions, since the lack of a timely response was affecting
not only the pace of loan disbursement but also the institution's finances, all the accumulated
delays being reflected in the commitment fee. The Bank accordingly granted a waiver, which,
by helping to simplify NAFIN's lending procedures and promote deconcentration, enabled the
institution to expedite its disbursement process.
2. 11 With respect to the cancellation of certain subprojects originally included in the project,
this is basicallv explained by the differences between the original loan objectives and the goals
of NAFIN's present refinancing programs.
III. Project Results
3.1  From  the Executing Agency's perspective, the project resources made a very small
contribution to achieving the institution's objective of preparing enterprises to compete in the



21
ongoinr process of globalization through improvements in their efficiencv or upgrading of their
production processes.
IV. Bank Performance
4.1  Under this heading, it should be stressed that communications between the Bank and
NAFIN have been slow, difficult, and sometimes impossible to arrange. Reference was made
repeatedly to the need to modify certain provisions of the loan that were not appropriate to the
economic environment, but the Bank was quite unyielding on this point. We would mention, by
way of example, the case of the Sociedades de Inversion (SINCAS), which were never accepted
by the Bank.
V. Borrower Performance
5.1  From the Bank's comments in this section, and, in general, from the overall tenor of the
document. it would appear that the Bank is perhaps not very familiar with the way in which
NAFIN's new discounting procedures and monitoring and supervision system operate. The main
features of the monitoring and supervision system are as follows:
(a)  the supervision system was overhauled in mid-1992 to-enable it to cope with NAFIN's
large-scale and newly automatized discounting operations. During the four years of the
loan. NAFIN discounted commercial bank loans to 288,425 enterprises, of which only 346
were submitted to the World Bank (0.001 %);
(b)  the supervision and monitoring system is based on the following principles:
(i)   NAFIN's second-tier operation rests entirely on its financial intermediaries;
(ii)  as a result, NAFIN's activities in the area of commercial bank supervision, as well
as other areas, are basically promotional;
(iii) to facilitate the evaluation process and ensure achievement of the institution's
objectives. the supervision and monitoring system verifies the proper use of funds
and provides the following information: increases in production capacity resulting
from a given investment: project contribution to improvements in an enterprise's
productivity; increase in sales: permanent jobs created; savings on water and energy
consumption; and, as appropriate, any effects upon the enterprise concerned in
terms of deconcentration of production (sic];
(iv)  given the huge scale of NAFIN's operation. this supervisory task can only be
performed through representative sampling. For this reason, a mandatory system of



22
supervision by intermediaries has been set up. whereby they have to furnish proof
to NAFIN that the funds are being properly used and that our Rules of Operation
are being duly observed. Direct supervision by NAFIN is performed only on a
sample basis. Any misuse of funds or violation of the Rules of Operation can give
rise to a withdrawal of funding and to the imposition of a penalty rate [sobretasa]
50% higher than the agreed rate.
VI. Technical Assistance Component
6.1  It should be emphasized that one of the main problems affecting loan implementation arose
in connection with the TA component. The fact is that most TA activities take a long time to set
up, while the demand for them is usually immediate, so that the specific needs of the promoters
can be handled as promptly as possible. This situation was compounded by the World Bank's
excessively long approval procedures.
6.2  Furthermore, these actions were not isolated, but were part of a coordinated and specific
course of action set out in the Plan of Institutional Strategy, under the specific heading of
"Promotion of Advisory, Training, and Technical Assistance Activities, " for which an ambitious
Business Development Program was put into effect.
6.3  NAFIN's Business Development Program was set up to promote widespread dissemination
of information through an extensive comprehensive national network comprising business
institutions, universities, technological institutes, the National College of Technical and
Vocational Training (CONALEP) and other institutions of secondary and advanced education,
and professional associations and firms, among many others.
6.4  The over 1700 members of the Business Development Network have signed agreements
with NAFIN for the following purposes:
-    training and technical assistance;
-    creation of development institutions;
-    technological research programs and projects, training and technical assistance;
-    rnational investment project forum;
-    financial support for technological development projects;
-    consultancy for technological development projects;
creation of the National Industrial Technology Consulting Service;



23
interinstirutional collaboration on training geared to business development;
creation of consulting and technical assistance firms:
design and preparation of teaching materials in the area of business development.
6.5   Another aspect was the preparation of self-training materials. Texts on management topics
were prepared jointly with ITAM (Instituto Tecnol6gico Aut6nomo de Mexico), covering such
aspects as accounting, finance, management, marketing, production and human resources.
ITESM (Instituto Tecnol6gico de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey) collaborated in the
launching of a process of continuing improvement (total quality). In addition, Small Business
Guides in various fields, including consultancy, printing, business development, furniture
manufacture, and maintenance services were translated and adapted for local use.
6.6   Furthermore, based on this philosophy of boosting the development of competitive
information. training-related expenses were included as specific items of investment expenditure,
covering training as such, business development, and technical assistance, and are expected to
become self-financing in the long run. Such expenses, like those related to buildings and
machinerv, are regarded as essential to the operation of a business.
6.7 Another very important point was the installation of NAFIN's Center for the Development
of Micro and Small Enterprises, which brought together in one place banks, credit unions,
leasing companies, factorage firms [empresas de factoraje], under-writers [afianzadoras],
accounting firms, lawyers' offices, oficinas de trdmite de gobierno, and all that a company needs
to enable it to progress and develop.
6.8 With the creation of this NAFIN center, and at least with the other eight centers of each
Regional Directorate. NAFIN has acquired the status of administrator [gestor] and supplier of
all types of support.
6.9 Based on a study performed in 14 Mexican cities, which surveyed the type of information
needed bv different enterprises to support their decision making and service delivery, it was
decided to develop the Business Center concept, NEGOCENTRO, through the sale of franchises
to the various sectors of production.
6. 10 In addition. the business sensitization campaign was supported by the media, through the
promotional campaign of the National Publicity Council, whose task is to sensitize entrepreneurs
to the need for training and to the importance of using technical assistance services.
6. 11 To achieve the institution's objectives, the Strategic Plan also included ambitious training
programs for NAFIN staff, which have already been attended by some 95% of its personnel.



24
6.12 Progress has also been made in the systems area. with consolidation of the office
automation process through the procurement of computer equipment and its connection to the
nationwide networks.
6.13 MIention should also be made of the various activities in the area of international
cooperation such as the Fifteenth Seminar on Business Financing and Promotion held in 1992,
and the International Seminar on the Role of Micro, Small, and Medium-sized Enterprises in the
World Economy Globalization Process held in March 1993, all of which are indicative of the
extensive institution-building program that NAFIN has been implementing since 1989, which
continues to expand and to adapt to the changing needs of Mexico's present-day economy.
VII. Lessons Learned
7.1  Lastly, we should point out that we view the implementation of these programs as a
dynamic process, one in which the exchange of experiences can result in improving and
perfecting the support mechanisms of both our institutions.
7.2  We appreciate the fact that both the World Bank and NAFIN are dedicated to the arduous
task of consolidating development. Thus an ongoing dialogue and exchanges of viewpoints and
experiences are surely the best instruments through which to arrive at a joint approach, and we
wish to underscore our readiness to pursue the review of our operating systems.



25
ANNEX I
PART III: STATISCAL INFORNIATION
RELATED BANK LOANS
Loan Title           Purpose                Year of:    Status      Comments
_________ ________ approva'l               _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _
1552-ME. Capital Goods   Develop Mexico's          1982         Closed    Closed 3-1/2 years
lndustries Development    capital goods                                    behind schedule. Fully
Project.                  manufacturing subsector                          disbursed. PCR No
and improve technology                          9019 issued in
assimilation.                                   September1990.
2331-ME. Export           Trade policy reform.     1983 -       Closed    Fully disbursed. PPAR
Development 1.                                                             No 8875 isued in June
1990.
2746-ME. Industrial       Improve the quality and   1986        Closed    Fully disbursed. PCR
Recovery Project.         broaden the scope of                             No 12234 issued in
financial services to                           August 1993.
medium-sized and large
companies.
2777-ME. Export           Trade policy reform.     1987         Closed    Fully disbursed. PPAR
Development 11.                                                            No 8875 issued in
June 1990.
3087-ME. Industrial       Industrial policy reform.  1989       Closed     Fully disbursed. PCR
Sector Policy Loan.                                                        No 1239 issued in
August 1993.



26
ANNEX 11
PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...s.........  rgalat      Acu  rvsdde
., , , ,,, ,,~.,,....... .       .......   ...
Identification                                           7/ -/86                  7/1- /86l
Appraisal Missions                     .___________l____.
1st Mission                                                           1 1/ 20/ 87l
2nd Mission                                  2/ 27/ 87                  1/ 27/ 88l
Loan Negotiations                                     12 /8/ 88                  3/ 14/ 89
Board Approval                                        4/127/ 89                  4/ 27/ 89l
Loan Signature                                        9/ 25/ 89                  9/ 25/ 89l
Loan Effectivenes                                      2/6/ 90                    2/6/ 90l
Loan C!osing                                          6/ 30/ 94                  6/ 30/ 95



27
ANNEX III
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURJSEMENTS
(US$ million)
Aestrnatestnae25.                                               292 -
Actua :: %':      ..0..OO:%...............:- .: 33 --:f.: 33   :4.7%f.2. 3%... :S.4   -8,4
tDae f First Disbursement -   -                 :/5-990
Anual Loan iiCoing' i.                                   ..0. -
Actual LonCosing- Date-              6/-/t9



28
ANNEX IV
(A)
PROJECT ESTIMATE FINANCING
(US$ million)
- . . .   .       .X 
Equipment/Fixed       143.3        90.8         175.8       29.8  439.7
Assets Subloans
Working Capital       83.7         0            84.1         65.4  235.2
Subloans
Equity Investments    19.5         0            60.7        4.8   85.0
Industry Level        0            0            0           0      0
Investments
Technical Assistance   2.1          0           0            0      2.1
Total                 248.6         90.8        320.6        100.0  760.0
% Participation      33            12          42            13    100
Note: The data is based on a sample, provided by NAFIN, of 273 subprojects (79% of
NAFIN's total) amounting to US$380.4 million of total project cost. BANCOMEXT's use of
Bank funds is based on actual (not estimated) total project cost.



29
ANNEX IV
(B)
CONTENT OF FINANCING
(US$ million)
Componem .  L.c..Cos.....g..a.k  inancin& ... ...a..
i; a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ geim  ,--i Ml
Equipment/Fixed Assets        304.7         135.0          8.3
Subloans
Working Capital Subloans      156.5         76.7           7.0
Equity Investments            69.0          16.0           3.5
Industry Level Investment    0              0              0
Technical Assistance          2.1           0              2.1
Total                         532.3         227.7          20.9
Percentage                    70            30             3
Note: The data is based on a sample, provided by NAFIN, of 273 subprojects (79% of
NAFIN's total) - of which 87 were denominated in foreign currency - amounting to US$166.7
million (84% of NAFIN's use of Bank resources), of which US$87.8 were denominated in
foreign currency. BANCOMEXT'S data is based on actual (not estimated) content of financing
costs.



30
ANNEX V
ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS
(US $ million)
Equipment/Fixed Assets Subloans                 146                143.3
Working Capital Subloans                  46                 83.7
Equity Investments                 43                  19.5
Industry Level Investment                 10                   0
Technical Assistance                  5                  2.1
Total                 250                248.6



31
ANNEX VI
DISTRIBUTION OF BANK FUNDS
1   ~~~~~~~~....   .. .. ......                  .
* Equipment/Fixed Assets           97.8           3
Subloans
* Working Capital Subloans         80.1           32
* Equity Investments               19.5            8
* Technical Assistance              2. 1           1
Equipment/Fixed Assets           45.5           18
Subloans
* Working Capital Subloans          3.6            2
Grand Total                       248.6          100



32
ANNEX Vif
USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A. Staff Inputs
|Stage of Proaje  Cycle                 staff Weeks..
Through Appraisal                       117.7
Appraisal through Board Approval        16.5
Supervision                             116.3
PCR                                     25.0
B. Missions
Activity     MonffonYear   Number of  Specialization:          :Nwi :Yber :-Staff     Dates of
-    -:0   Persns.__j o:f Weeks  We ks    Reor
Appraisal    11/87         3           IS, FNA. ECO,              2         6         3/89
(1)
Appraisal    1/88          5           IS,AG.POF,FNA,       -    2          10        3/89
(2)          _
Supervision j 6/89         3           ECO.FNAIE                  2         7         7/89
Supervision    31/90       3           POF,IS.BS                 2          8         5/90
Supervision   6/90         3           POF,BS,E,                 2          8         6
Supervision   5/91         2           POF,S,FNA                  I         4         5/91
Supervision   6/91         2           POF,ECO,FNA                I         4         6/91
Supervision   7/92        J4           POF,S4FNA,E                1         5         7/92)
Supervision   9/93        ]            POF                       2          3         9/93
Supervision   2/94         2           POF,FNA                    12 _/94_                   |
PCR ()       3/94          2           ECO,FNA                   2          5        |
PCR (2)      5/94         |2           FNA,POF                   2          8         8/94
IS: Industry Specialist: POF: Project Officer; ECO: Economist: FNA: Financial Analyst: E:
Engineer: S: StatiStician; BS: Banking Specialist; AG: Agricultural Specialist: OTH: Other



33
STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Loan Agreement 3047-ME
ANNEX VIII
Covenant              Description of Condition             status                  Comments
Section 3.01      Tr-  Borrower dxlares its               In compliance.
com=itments to the objectives of the
prcjt and to ca lend the proceeds of
the :.an.
Section 3.02      The Borrower shall issue Reglas de      In compliance.
Operation, satisfactcry to the Baik.
Section 3.03 (a)   The Borrower shill enter into         Ir compliance.
contractual arrangeents with the
Guarzator, Bancomext 2nd the Trstee,
providing for i) on lending a portion
of the proceeds of the Loan on a fist
com,e, first served basis to th.
Executing Agencies under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bankc;
ii) transferring to the Guarantor the
portion of the proceeds of the Loan
retizsted by the Guarantor to cary out
Pxrc D of the Proia-, iii) provision by
the Guarantor to the Bxecudng
agencies in accordance with the
noratividad and by mes of specific
ann    budgetary allocations of a&U
amohts required to cover CEIPS rate
differentials and operating costs iv)
payrnent by the Guarantor to the
Borrower of all amounts requires by
the Borrower to pay back the Loan to
the Bank.
Section 3.03      The Borrower shall maintain separato    In compliance    NAFI's financial position is
(a)(v)            records and accounts to reflect: i) for                   strong emough to find
peso denominated subloans, the interet                   expenditur   fom its own
rate should include 1 percentage point                   resources even though it does
to cover La expenditures; ii) for dollar                 not keep a separate accoumt to
dencminated subloans, the interest rate                  rean a portion of its Loa
should include 0.25 percentage for t.a.                  recoveries for such purposes.
____   expenditures.                                                            .
Section 3.04      The 3orrower shall canry out Direct     ln compliance.
Investments and exercise its rights.
Secticn 3.05      The Borrower shall exercise its right in  In compline.
relaticn to each Subproject.                                  .-
Section 3.C6      Procuremenrt of goods azd services will  In compliance.
be governed by the provisions of the
Bank lrocurement guidelines.



34
STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Loan Agreement 3047-MhE (continued)
Covenant             Description of Condition            Stats                 Comments
Section 3.07     The Bank and the Borrower agree on    In compliance
the obligations set forth in their
respetive sections.
Sction 3.08 (a)   The Borrower shall: i) retain a Project  Ia compliance
manager, and ii) employ consultants.
Section 3.08 (b)  Tlw Borrower shall esur that a       In compliace    The extraordinary openig of
program, satisfactory to the Bank, to                  the Mexica economy enLted
promote inut restructuring                             in a less strucured and govemn-
regional implementation of the project                 ment directed indstrial
shll be caried out in accordance with                  sasey.
its terms.
Section 4.01(a)   The Borrower shall have all the      In compliance
accounts audited, including auditors'
opinion. Also to enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such records
and to furnish each month a certified
statement of the Special Account.



35
ANNEX IX
PROJECT BENEFITS
A) Direct Benefits
..........   ..     .   ......... .* . A c ~ i a l   e s lt
Number of Project Beneficiaries                                287
* NAFIN                                   280
* BANCOMEXT                                  7
Technical Assistance                               Over 500 firms
B) Indirect Benefits
Technical Assistance Subprojects
Studies & Research                                            9             1,302.0I
Training (including purchase                                27                583.7
of computer equipment)l
Pro motions                                                   9               238.1
Total                                                       45              2 ,123 . 8
....  .................... ...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



36
rCilI59Ln'QL _U                 ANNEX X
EL PO~RMA  RSD  ELPtNTO DR
VITA DXRL 11JECEITOR
OBJETIVOS DEL PROGRAnA.
Desde el punto de vista del Ejecutor nos parece que m-As que un
anAlisis sobre el concepto de reestructuraci6n y su interpretaci6n
por las diferentes instancias que participan en el Programa, el
Banco debiera cuestionarse si su concepto respondi6 a los
requerimientos de la din&mica de la economia mexicana al inicio de
la decada de los noventas.
Para Nacional  Financiera resultaba clara la necesidad de las
empresas, de un respaldo financiero para llevar a cabo las acciones
de inversidn cuya finalidad especlfica fuera el aumento de las
niveles  de  eficiencia  productiva  y  el  incremento  de  la
competitividad de la oferta, llamese esto reestructuraci6n,
reactivaci6n, reconversidn o madernizacifn industrial.
En el contexto inicial del Pristamn se consideraba que el Gobierno
Federal deberia determinar los sectores a las cuales era urgente
que la Banca de Desarrollo atendiera, inclusive la Secretaria de
Comercia y Pomento Industrial determinaria los criterios y
prioridades para que las inversiones se consideraran co3m
"modernizaci6n".
Na obstante, en 1989 H6xico adopt6 la decisi6n politica de lograr
su integraci6n plena a la economia mnundial en indudable y
trascendente transformaci6n.
Lo que signific6 que todo el aparato industrial debe cumplir con
requisitos de eficiencia y modernizaci6n ante la irreversible
apertura de la economia a ia competencia del exterior, ya que la
finica alternativa que tiene la planta productiva del pais, no s6lo
para desarrollarse y aprovechar las oportunidades del cambio, sino
incluso para sobrevivir, ser& su propia capacidad de competencia.
Este fue el sentido que dio NAFIN a la utilizaci6n de los recursos
del  Banco,  y  bajo  este  contexto  decidi6  hacer  uso  del
financiamiento.
Es importante seflalar lo anterior porgue tal parece que NAFIN fuera
incapaz de cumplir con los requisitos del Banco para un Programa de
pocos recursas, y lejos de eso, La verdad es que al inicio de 1990,
las necesidades del sector industrial y las prioridades que
absorbi6 la Institucifn ya no compaginaban con los objetivos del
prOstamo. Sabretodo, porque los mecanismas para atender a las
medianas y grandes empresas par los que optd La Instituci6n nunca
fueran elegibles de redescuento con los recursos del prestamo.
Inclusive, politicas "innovativas" como las llama el Banco, de
aplicar "licitaci6n p1blica" para adquisiciones del sector privado
resultaron TOTALMENTE INOPXRANTES.
ncaclonai financlef, b.



37
Vale la pena seIalar, que desde la etapa de negociaci6n se incluy6
a NAPIN como otro "ejecutor" de los recursos del financiamiento, y
no como seiala el Banco en el n1mero 4.5 del documento, enicamente
en BU calidad de Prestataria, por lo qua no entendemos como su
incorporaci6n pudo alterar la calidad institucional del proyecto.
inst nmgnt-_ai6n aAl Prngrama
La mayorla de los recursos fueron utilizadas por NAFIN, de
conformidad con los acuerdos entre las instituciones participantes
y las instrucciones de la Secretaria de Hacienda y CrAdito Piblico.
En ningGn momento se prosent6 algGn conflicto de intereses entre
los participantes.
Tampoco es cierto que no se cumpliera con la Coordinaci6n del
Programa, ya que este requisito se plasm6 en el Contrato como la
designaci6n de un Project Manager, lo cual se comunic6 en su
oportunidad.
Como se coment6 anteriormente, no es que no se realizara una
efectiva promocifn e impulso de los "componentes innovativos" del
pr6stamo, sino que 6stos nunca operaron en la prz-ctica y cuando se
quiso plantear al Banco, alg-dn mecanismo m&s adecuado al contexto
nacional, no fue capaz de establecer un diAlogo de negociaci6n. Por
ejemplo, no es cierto que las "bancos comerciales no sean capaces
de invertir en empresas" y por eso no funcione el cuasi-capital,
este instrumento tiene un problema de costo inherente al asunto
fiscal al que se asocia y no tiene que ver con las politicas de
inversi6n de los bancos.
Coincidimos con el Banco en que la principal raz6n par la cual no
se pudo avanzar en el desembolso de los recursos, no puede ser las
cargas de trabajo y dificultades de nuestros Sistemas de C6mputo
inicialmente Sistema Regional de Descuentos (SIREDE) y ahora el
Sistema Integral de Descuentos y Control de Cartera (SIDECC). Esto
se explica en la fundamental por la evaluaci6n y los profundas
cambios que ha experimentado Nacional Financiera, tanto en lo que
toca a sus politicas de financiamiento, como a la mecAnica de sus
operaciones de descuento, las cuales, en buena medida, han dejado
de corresponder a un pr6stamo que fue suscrito hace cinco a?ios,
cuyos procedimientos, no se adecuaron a las caracteristicas
actuales de nuestras operaciones de descuento.
El cambio  que ha experimentado la Instituci6n cons iste en la
reorientacion de Nacional Financiera a la atencifn de la micro,
pequeila y mediana empresa; en el reconocimiento de que nuestra
operaci6n de segundo piso descansa en la asuncidn total del riesgo
de las operaciones, por parte de la banca comercial; en el rediseffo
y mejora constante de nuestras mecAnicas de dexcuento, lo cual ha
implicado la instrumentaci6n de esquemas operativos masivos y
nac'onal fsnancwe-r,-u



38
automatizadas; en la simplificaci6n de nuestros esquemas de
supervisi6n, para hacerlos acordes y operantes con el carActer
masivo y automatizado de nuestra actividad, entre otras importantes
medidas.
Todo lo anterior ha tenido como prop6sito el multiplicar los apoyas
de NAEIN, fundamentalmente a la micro y pequefia empresa; ella ha
implicado una disponibilidad sustancialmente menor de inforxMacidn
por   subproyecto;  quiz6s  insuficiente  para   las  mec6nicas
tradicionales de descuento y redescuento con que operan todavia
muchos bancos de desarrollo en Mdxico y otros paises, asi coma las
organismos multilaterales.
Por otra parte, es Lmportante considerar tambi6n que en la
coyuntura econ6mica qua vive el pals, los apoyos para la
reestructuracifn de pasivos, la adquisici6n de equipo usado, la
ampliaci6n de los apoyos de NAFIN a ciertos sectores, etc., son
politicas que, si bien no esthn consideradas en los criterios
operativos de decisi6n oportuna y hgil desembolso del Banco, son
fundamentales para asegurar la permanencia de las empresas y
ampliar las oportunidades de inversi6n para la micro y pequefla
empresa.
Estos estratos de empresas, no necesariamente requieren de .la
adquisici6n de equipo nuevo, en virtud de que en nuestro aparato
productivo existen diferentes estadias tecnol6gicos. Es importante
senlalar que la adquisici6n de equipo usado es una opci6n que opera
en todos los paises del mundo, incluyendo por supuesto a los m6s
industrializados.
Por lo que se refiere especificamente al WAIVER, consideramos
conveniente recardar cual fue el origen y causa del tratamiento de
excepci6n que se dio a este prestamo. Normalmente, la mayoria de
los subproyectos sometidos a la consideracidn del Banco sufrian
retrasos considerables, en muy diversos casos la autorizacidn llev6
varios meses.
Esto se discuti6 con las Misiones del Banco, ya qua la falta de
respuesta oportuna, no s6lo afectaba el ritmo de desembolsos del
pr6stamo, sino las finanzas de la Instituci6n, ya que todos los
retrasos acumulados se reflejan en la comisi6n de campromiso, en
virtud de esta problem6tica el Banco instrument6 un WAIVER para
devolver la agilidad y la oportunidad a los desembolsos.
Por supuesto, 4sto facilit6 las acciones de NAFIN tendientes a
incorporar una mayor oportunidad al financiamiento a trav6s de la
desconcentraci6n y la simplificaciOn operativa.
nactonia flnancmu4er>



39
Por lo que se ref iere a las empresas incluidas en el Programa y
fueron canceladas, 6sto se explica fundamentalmente par las
diferencias que existen entre los objetivos originales del pr6stamo
y las que actualmente tienen los programas de descuento de NAFIN.
RRSTITh=:DS DRTJ PUO(RAMA
Desde el punto de vista del Ejecutor, 10 recur6as del Programa
contribuyeran en un pequeflo porcentaje a alcanzar el objetivo
institucional de lograr una mayor eficiencia en las empresas, para
mejorar sus procesos de producci6n, a fin de prepararlas para
competir en el actual proceso de globalizaci6n.
D=S        lREL]
Sobre este punto vale la pena insistir en que la comunicaci6n entre
el Banco y NAFIN ha sido lenta, dificil y a veces inaccesible. En
retiradas ocasiones se hizo hincapie en la necesidad de modificar
algunos de los planteamientos del Contrato, que ya no resultaban
adecuados para el entorno economico y en ese sentido el Banco fue
bastante inflexible. A manera de ejemplo, basta citar el caso de
las Sociedades de Inversi6n (SINCAS), las cuales nunca contaron con
la aceptaci6n del Banco.
DESAwRROLT DRr. UR.fflI-TfR
De los comentarios del Banco en este apartado y, en general, del
contenida mismo del documento, se desprende que quiz6s no se tiene
conocimiento detallado de la forma en que opera el nuevo sistema de
descuento y de supervisi6n y seguimiento de NAFIN. Conviene
destacar aqul las principales caracteristicas, de este Oltimo:
a)   El sistema de supervisi6n se adecu6, a mediados de 1992, para
responder al car5cter masivo y automatizado de la operaci6n de
descuento. Durante las cuatro ailou de ejecuci6n del pr6stamo,
NAFIN descont6 a la banca operaciones de cr6dito en beneficio
de 288 425 empreoas, de las cuales s6lamente 346 fueron
presentadas al Banco Mundial (0.001%).
b)   El sistema  de  supervisi6n y seguimiento responde  a los
siguientes principios:
nacional financiewk-.



40
i)   El esquema de segundo piso con que opera NAFIN, descansa
totalmente en sus intermediarios financieros.
ii)  En este  sentido,  la labor de supervisidn de NAFIN,
respecto de la banca comercial, al igual que otras
actividades, adquiere un cardcter fundamentalmente
inductor.
iii) Con el prop6sito de evaluar y asegurar el cumplimiento de
los objetivos institucionales, el sistema de supervisi6n
y sQguimiento prev6 la verificaci6n de la correcta
aplicaci6n de los recursos, asi como la entrega de la
siguiente informaci6n: incrementos en la capacidad de
producci6n con la inversi6n realizada; contribuci6n del
proyecto al mejoramiento de la productividad de la
empresa; incremento logrado en las ventas; empleos
permanentes generados; ahorros en el consumo de aqua y
energia; y en su caso, efectos en la desconcentraci6n
productiva de la empresa.
iv)  Considerando la magnitud de la operaci6n de NAFIN, esta
labor de supervisifn s6lo es factible realizarla a trav6s
de muestreos. Asi, el sistema establece la supervisifn
obligatoria por parte de las intermediarios; los cuales
deben comprobar a NAFIN la correcta aplicaci6n, de los
recursos y el cumplimiento con nuestras Reglas de
Operacidn. NAFIN por su parte, realiza supervisiones
directas par muestreo. E1 desvio de recursos asi coma el
incumplimiento con la normatividad establecida en las
Reglas de Operacitn, son causa de rescate de los recursos
de financiamiento y de la aplicaci6n retroactiva de una
sobretasa del 50% sobre la tasa pactada.
Es importante destacar que uno de los principales problemas que se
presentaron en la ejecuci6n de este pr6stamo, correspondi6 a la
utilizacifn de los recursos de Asistencia Tdcnica, en virtud de
que, por una parte, la mayoria de estas actividades toman un largo
perlado an *u estructuracin y, por la otra, au instrumentaciOn
debe ser casi ixmediata, para responder oportunamente a las
necesidades especificas de las Areas promotoras. A esta situaci6n
se incorpor6 el retraso excesivo que sufria la autorizaci6n del
Banco Mundial.
nacmonal financierz



z y                            41
Por otra parte, vale la pena sefialar que estas acciones no eran
aisladas sino que respondIan a una accion coordinada y especifica
definida en el Plan Estrat6gica Institucional como objetivo
especifico de : "Inducir Actividades de Asesoria, Capacitaci6n y
Asistencia Tdcnica',, para lo cual puso en marcha un ambicioso
Programa de Desarrollo Empresarial.
El Programa de Desarrollo Empresarial de NAFIN ha logrado promover
la masificacidn de la imparticifn del conocimiento, asi como de su
distribucidn; para dsto se ha establecido a nivel nacional una muy
amplia red de desarrollo empresarial, en la que participan
organismos empresariales, universidades, tecnol6gicos, el Colegio
Nacional de Eduaci6n Profesional Tecnica (CONALEP) y otras
instituciones  de  educaci6n  media  y  superior,  asociaciones
profesionales, despachos, entre muchas otros.
Los mis de 1700 integrantes de la Red de Desarrollo Empresarial han
firmado convenios con esta Instituci6n, con objeto de lograr los
siguientes prop6sitos:
-    Servicios de capacitacion y asistencia t6cnica.
-    Creaci6n de entidades de famento.
-    Programas   y   proyectos  de  investigaci6n   tecnol6gica;
capacitacifn y asistencia t6cnica.
-    Foro nacional de proyectos de inversi6n.
-    Respaldo financiero a proyectos de desarrollo tecnol6gico.
-    Sistema de consultoria a proyectos de desarrollo tecnol6gico.
-    Creaci6n  del  Servicio  Nacional  de  Consulta  Tecnolgica
Industrial.
-    Colaboraci6n   educacional   inter-institucional   para   el
desarrollo empresarial.
-    Constituci6n de despachos de consultoria y asistencia. t6cnica.
-    Desarrollo y disefto de contenido para materiales didhcticos de
capacitaci6n empresarial.
Adicionalmente, se han elaborado materiales para la capacitaci6n
autodidacta: el referente a temas gerenciales qua se elaborx6
conjuntamente con el ITAM (Instituto Tenol6gico Aut6nomo de M6xico)
trata aspectos de contabilidad, finanzas, administraci6n,
nacionai FlnancmAr-;r



42
mercadotecnia,  producci6n  y  recursas  humanas;  con  el  ITKSZ4
(Instituto Tecnologico de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey) se
abordo el proceso de mejoramiento continua (calidad total);
asimismo se llev6 a cabo la traducci6n y adecuaci6n de las Guias de
Pequeftos Negacios (Small Business Guide) sobre temas como:
consultoria; iaprenta, gula del proceso de desarrollo de un
negocio, manufactura de muebles y servicios de mantenimiento, entre
otros.
Por otra parte, con base en esta filosofia de impulsar el
desarrollo del conocimiento competitivo, se incorporaron como
rubras especificos del gasto de inversi6n a los gastos de
capacitaci6n, en entrenamiento, en desarrollo empresarial y en
asistencia tdcnica, con lo que son susceptibles de financiarse a
largo pla80, ya que se les considera, al igual que los edificios y
la maquinaria, fundamentales para el funcionamiento de las
empresas.
Otro aspecto de particular importancia fue la instalaci6n del
Centro NAFIN para el Desarrollo de la Micro y Pequefla Empresa, con
lo que se logr6 que en un s6lo lugar se reunieran bancos, uniones
de cr6dito, arrendadoras, empresas de factoraje, afianzadoras,
despachos de contadares, despachos de abogados, oficinas de trdmite
de gabierno y todo lo que requiere una empresa para avanzar en su
gesti6n y obtener un mejor desarrollo.
Con la creaci6n de este Centro NAFIN y par lo menos con los otros
ocho Centros de cada Direcci6n Regional, NAFIN se convierte en
gestor y proveedor de todo tipa de apoyos.
Con base en un estudio en 14 ciudades del pals, en el que se busc6
conocer las necesidades que, sobre informaci6n para la toma de
decisiones y servicios tienen las diferentes empresas, se tom6 la
decisi6n de desarrollar el concepto de Centro de Negocios,
NEGOCENTRO, a base de franquicias a venderse entre los sectores
productivos.
Adicionalmente, se da apoyo a la campafla de sensibilizacidn
empresarial a trav6s de los medios de comunicacidn masiva, mediante
la campafa inductiva del Consejo Nacional de la Publicidad, e1 cual
se orienta a sensibilizar a los empresarios sobre la necesidad de
capacitarse y utilizar los servicios de asistencia t6cnica.
Para el logro de los objetivos institucionales, tambi6n se
incorporaron en el Plan Estrat6igico, ambicisos programas de
capacitacidn para el personal de NAFIN, los que han permitido ya
una cobertura de alrededor del 95% del personal de la Instituci6n.
nacional firnancieu'*



43
A lag esfuerzos mencionados anteriormente habria que agregar las
acciones en materia de sistemas, las que han permitido consolidar
la automatizaci6n de oficinas mediante la adquisici6n de equipo
computacional y su interconexi6n en red a nivel nacional.
Adicionalmente, es importante seflalar las actividades en materia de
cooperaci6n internacional, coma el Xv Seminario sobre el
Financiamiento y Promoci6n Empresarial que se llevd a cabo en 1992,
y el Seminario Internacional sobre el Papel de la Micro, Peque$a y
mediana Empresa en el Proceso de Globalizaci6n de la Economia
Mundial en marzo de 1993, todo la cual pone de manifiesto el amplio
programa de fortalecimiento institucional que NAFIN pumo en marcha
desde 1989 y que a la fecha continua creciendo y adecu&ndose a las
necesidades cambiantes que requiere la actual situaci6n econ6mica
que vive nuestro pals.
L.LEIQ
Finalmente, serla conveniente seffalar que entendemos la ejecuci6n
de estos programas como una actividad dinamica, como un proceso de
intercambio de experiencias que permitir&n mejorar y afinar los
mecanismos de apoyo de ambas Instituciones.
Entendemo6 que tanto el Banco Mundial como Nacional Financiera
est&n volcados sobre la ardua labor de concretar el desarrollo, por
lo que el dialogo permanente, el intercambio de puntos de vista y
experiencias debiera ser el mejor instrumento para concretar
acciones comunes, por l que reiteramos nuestra disposici6n para
continuar con el anAlisis de nuestros esquemas de operaci6n.
ruaczor-al f.nancwfer-~









- i :_i                            :
*. "    1-;i                         -7
*l,l  ,j |                           I;
Zi.    i:                           i--
_ . , .
!-- .. :
!_! ii
v! ' j I
. _
S



