Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 3047 ME
                (Industrial Restructuring Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                    NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
                          as trustee for
                 FONDO DE EQUIPAMIENTO INDUSTRIAL
                     Dated September 25, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3047 ME
                      FONEI PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  September  25,  1989, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the Bank) and NACIONAL
FINANCIERA, S.N.C. (hereinafter  referred  to  as the Trustee when
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C. is acting in such capacity).
     WHEREAS by Contrato de Fideicomiso between the UNITED MEXICAN
STATES (the Guarantor) and BANCO DE MEXICO, dated October 29, 1971
the Guarantor has entrusted a  special fund (Fondo de Equipamiento
Industrial, hereinafter referred to  as  FONEI) to BANCO DE MEXICO
as a trustee and by Contrato  de Fideicomiso, dated June 30, 1989,
between the UNITED MEXICAN  STATES,  BANCO  DE MEXICO and NACIONAL
FINANCIERA,  S.N.C.,  whereby   the   trusteeship   of  FONEI  was
transferred to NACIONAL  FINANCIERA,  S.N.C. (hereinafter referred
to collectively  as  the  "Trust  Agreement")  for  the purpose of
promoting and financing the  development of industrial and service
enterprises designed to  increase  exports and efficiently replace
imports;
Page  2
     WHEREAS (A) by an agreement (the Loan Agreement) of even date
herewith between NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C. (hereinafter referred
to as the Borrower when  NACIONAL  FINANCIERA, S.N.C. is acting in
such capacity) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount  in various currencies equivalent to two
hundred fifty million  dollars  ($250,000,000),  on  the terms and
conditions set forth in the  Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that, inter alia, the Trustee  agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by an agreement  (the  Guarantee Agreement) entered into
between the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank  of  even  date herewith, a
guarantee of the Loan  provided  for  under the Loan Agreement has
been extended to the Bank on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Guarantee Agreement;
     (C)  by a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  (the FONEI Subsidiary
Loan Agreement) to be  entered  into  between the Borrower and the
Trustee, a portion of the proceeds  of the loan provided for under
the Loan Agreement will be  made  available  to FONEI on the terms
and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Trustee, in  consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the  General  Conditions  (as  so  defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01.  The  Trustee  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement and, to this end,  shall  on behalf of FONEI, assist the
Borrower in carrying out the  Project,  (except  Parts D (i) and D
(iii) of the Project),  with  due  diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate  and  sound financial, administrative,
industrial  and  engineering  practices  and  the  FONEI Operating
Regulations, and shall provide, or  cause to be provided, promptly
as needed, the  funds,  facilities,  services  and other resources
required for the Project.
     Section 2.02. The  Trustee  shall  issue Reglas de Operacion,
satisfactory to the Bank, and which shall include, inter alia, the
terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  Schedule  6  to  the  Loan
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. (a)  The  Trustee  shall  enter  into, and duly
perform, all  its  obligations  under  the  FONEI  Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
     (b)  The Trustee shall lend a  portion of the proceeds of the
Loan required for making Subloans:
          (i)  to  Financial   Intermediaries   for   purposes  of
               carrying out Parts A, B and C of the Project, under
               its General Operating Agreement; and
         (ii)  in order,  as  Executing  Agency,  to make Subloans
               under Parts  A,  B  and  C  of  the  Project, under
               Subloan Agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, to be
Page  3
               entered  into   between   the   Trustee   and  each
               Subborrower, and which  shall  include, inter alia,
               the terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 7 to
               the Loan Agreement.
     (c)  The Trustee shall  exercise  its  rights under the FONEI
Subsidiary Loan  Agreement,  the  General  Operating Agreement and
each Subloan Agreement to which it  is  a party, in such manner as
to protect the interests of  the Guarantor, the Bank, the Borrower
and the Trustee and to  accomplish  the purposes of the Loan, and,
except as the  Bank  may  otherwise  agree,  the Trustee shall not
change or fail to enforce the FONEI Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the
Reglas  de  Operacion  of  its  General  Operating  Agreement, any
Subloan Agreement, or any provision thereof.
     Section  2.04.  (a)  The  Trustee  shall  carry  out   Direct
Investments in Industrial Enterprises  under  Parts  A, B and C of
the Project pursuant to Direct Investment Agreements, satisfactory
to the Bank,  to  be  entered  into  between  the Trustee and each
Industrial Enterprise, in accordance with the terms and conditions
set forth in Schedule 7 to the Loan Agreement.
     (b)  The Trustee shall  exercise  its  rights under each such
Direct Investment  Agreement  in  such  manner  as  to protect the
interests of the Guarantor, the Bank, the Borrower and the Trustee
and to accomplish the  purposes  of  the  Loan, and, except as the
Bank may otherwise agree, the Trustee  shall not change or fail to
enforce any Direct Investment Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section  2.05.  The  Trustee  shall  exercise  its  rights in
relation to each Subproject in such  manner as to: (i) protect the
interests of the Bank, the  Borrower  and the Trustee; (ii) comply
with its obligations under  this  Agreement; and (iii) achieve the
purposes of the Loan.
     Section 2.06. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4 to the Loan
Agreement.
     Section 2.07. The Trustee shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.04,  9.05,  9.06,  9.07,  9.08 and 9.09 of the
General Conditions  (relating  respectively  to  insurance, use of
goods and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and reports,
maintenance  and  land  acquisition)  in  respect  of  the Project
activities executed by the Trustee.
     Section 2.08. (a) The  Trustee  shall,  at the request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank  with regard to the progress of
the  Project,  the  performance  of  its  obligations  under  this
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  The  Trustee  shall  promptly  inform  the  Bank  of any
condition which  interferes  or  threatens  to  interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, or the performance by  the  Trustee of its obligations under
this Agreement, the FONEI  Subsidiary  Loan Agreement, its General
Operating Agreement, Subloan  Agreements  or the Direct Investment
Agreements.
                            ARTICLE III
                Management and Operations of FONEI
     Section 3.01. The Trustee  shall  carry  on the operations of
FONEI  and  conduct   its   affairs   in   accordance  with  sound
administrative, financial,  engineering  and  industrial practices
and the FONEI Operating  Regulations  and under the supervision of
qualified and experienced  management  assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
Page  4
     Section 3.02. The Trustee shall  furnish to the Bank all such
information as the  Bank  shall  reasonably request concerning the
administration and operations of FONEI.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Trustee  shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with  sound  accounting  practices  the  operations  and financial
condition  of  FONEI,  including  separate  records  and  accounts
reflecting  the  resources  and  expenditures  in  respect  of the
portions of the Project carried out by the Trustee.
     (b)  The Trustee shall:
          (i)  have the records  and  accounts  referred to in (a)
               above  and  FONEI's  financial  statements (balance
               sheets,  statements  of  income  and  expenses  and
               related statements) for  each  fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by  independent and qualified
               auditors;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each  such  year,  (A)  certified  copies  of  such
               financial statements for  such  year  as so audited
               and (B) the report  of  such audit by said auditors
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
are requested from the Loan Account  on the basis of statements of
expenditures, the Trustee shall:
          (i)  maintain, or cause to  be maintained, in accordance
               with  paragraph  (a)   of  this  Section,  separate
               records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, or cause  to  be  retained,  until one year
               after the Bank  has  received  the audit report for
               the fiscal year in  which  the last withdrawal from
               the Loan Account  was  made, all records (including
               contracts, orders,  invoices,  bills,  receipts and
               other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such separate  accounts are included in
               the annual audits referred  to  in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. The Trustee  shall,  upon  request by the Bank,
enable representatives of  the  Bank  to  inspect  the records and
accounts referred to in  Section  4.01  of  this Agreement and any
relevant documents.
                             ARTICLE V
Page  5
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.02. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of the Trustee thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For the Trustee:
          Direccion Internacional
          Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
          Plaza NAFINSA, Insurgentes Sur 1971
          11o Piso
          Torre Sur
          CP 01020, Mexico, D.F.
          Mexico
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               NAFIN                           NAFIME
               Mexico                          1775765; 1775629
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the Trustee may be taken or executed by its
Director Internacional or  such  other  person  or  persons as the
Director Internacional shall designate in writing, and the Trustee
shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
Page  6
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                    NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
                      (as TRUSTEE for FONDO DE EQUIPAMIENTO
                      INDUSTRIAL)
                    By /s/ Juan Jose Paramo
                                         Authorized Representative
