Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3047 ME
                (Industrial Restructuring Project)
                              between
                       UNITED MEXICAN STATES
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                     Dated September 25, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3047 ME
                        GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September  25,  1989, between UNITED MEXICAN
STATES (the Guarantor)  and  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A)  the  Guarantor  and  NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
(hereinafter referred to as the Borrower when NACIONAL FINANCIERA,
S.N.C. is acting in  such  capacity),  having been satisfied as to
the feasibility and priority of  the Project described in Schedule
2 to the Loan Agreement, have  requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  by the Loan Agreement of  even date herewith between the
Bank and the  Borrower,  the  Bank  has  agreed  to  extend to the
Borrower a loan in  various  currencies  equivalent to two hundred
fifty million dollars ($250,000,000),  on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan  Agreement,  but  only on condition that the
Guarantor agree to guarantee  the  obligations  of the Borrower in
respect of such loan as provided in this Agreement;
Page  2
     (C)  by the BANCOMEXT Project Agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and  BANCO  NACIONAL DE COMERCIO EXTERIOR, S.N.C.
(hereinafter called BANCOMEXT), BANCOMEXT  has agreed to undertake
the obligations set forth  in  the BANCOMEXT Project Agreement set
forth;
     (D)  by the FONEI  Project  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between  the  Bank  and  NACIONAL  FINANCIERA,  S.N.C.  as trustee
(hereinafter  referred   to   as   the   "Trustee"  when  NACIONAL
FINANCIERA,  S.N.C.  is  acting  in  such  capacity)  of  Fondo de
Equipamiento Industrial, the Trustee  has  agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in the FONEI Project Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Guarantor, in  consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into  the  Loan  Agreement  with  the  Borrower, the BANCOMEXT
Project Agreement with BANCOMEXT  and  the FONEI Project Agreement
with the Trustee, has agreed  so  to guarantee such obligations of
the Borrower;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of  the  Bank,  dated  January  1, 1985 (the
General Conditions), with the  modifications  set forth in Section
1.01 of the Loan  Agreement,  constitute  an integral part of this
Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to, and  Section  1.02  of,  the  Loan Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                   Guarantee; Provision of Funds
     Section 2.01. The  Guarantor  declares  its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to  this  end,  without  limitation or restriction
upon any of its  other  obligations under the Guarantee Agreement,
the  Guarantor  hereby   unconditionally  guarantees,  as  primary
obligor and not merely as surety,  the due and punctual payment of
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and
the premium, if  any,  on  the  prepayment  of  the  Loan, and the
punctual performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower,
BANCOMEXT and the Trustee, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement,
the BANCOMEXT Project Agreement  and  the FONEI Project Agreement,
respectively.
     Section 2.02.  Without  limitation  or  restriction  upon the
provisions  of  Section  2.01  of  this  Agreement,  the Guarantor
specifically undertakes  whenever  there  is  reasonable  cause to
believe  that  the  funds  available   to  the  Borrower  will  be
inadequate to meet  the  estimated  expenditures  required for the
carrying out of  the  Project,  to  make  arrangements as shall be
required, promptly to provide  the  Borrower or cause the Borrower
to be  provided  with  such  funds  as  are  needed  to  meet such
expenditures.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. Without any  limitation or restriction upon any
of its  other  obligations  under  this  Agreement,  the Guarantor
shall: (i)  carry  out  Part  D  (iii)  of  the  Project  with due
diligence and  efficiency;  (ii)  take  all  measures  required to
Page  3
assist BANCOMEXT and the Trustee in carrying out their obligations
under the BANCOMEXT Project Agreement and FONEI Project Agreement,
respectively; and (iii) not take or  permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with the performance by BANCOMEXT
and the Trustee of  their  obligations under the BANCOMEXT Project
Agreement or the FONEI Project Agreement, respectively.
     Section 3.02. The Guarantor  shall enter into the contractual
arrangements referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of the Loan Agreement
and, except as the Bank  may  otherwise agree, shall not change or
fail to enforce any provision of such contractual arrangements.
     Section 3.03.  The  Bank  and  the  Guarantor  agree that the
obligations set forth  in  Sections  9.04,  9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08
and 9.09  of  the  General  Conditions  (relating  respectively to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance  and  land  acquisition) for the Project,
shall be carried out by the Borrower for the Project activities it
executes pursuant to Section  3.07  of  the Loan Agreement, by the
Guarantor in respect of Part D  (iii) of the Project, by BANCOMEXT
and the Trustee for the  Project activities each executes pursuant
to, respectively, Section 2.07  of the BANCOMEXT Project Agreement
and Section 2.07 of the FONEI Project Agreement.
     Section 3.04.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of goods, works and consultants' services required for
the Project and to  be  financed  from  the  proceeds of the Loan,
shall be governed by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4 to the Loan
Agreement.
     Section 3.05. The Guarantor shall: (a) carry out, or cause to
be carried out each  Subsector  Restructuring  Program in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank;  and  (b)  exchange  views with the Bank
within  eighteen  months  of  the   Effective  Date  of  the  Loan
Agreement, and at the request of either the Guarantor or the Bank,
on the  progress  of  carrying  out  each  Subsector Restructuring
Program.
     Section 3.06. (a) The Guarantor shall maintain a Coordinating
Committee and shall, to  the  satisfaction  of the Bank, cause the
Coordinating Committee  to  assist  the  Borrower  in  the overall
coordination, and the Executing  Agencies in the implementation of
the Project.
     Section 3.07. For the purposes  of  Sections 6.02 (c) and (d)
and 7.01 (e) of the  General Conditions, the obligations of Mexico
under the General Interest  Rate Agreement are hereby incorporated
as obligations of the Guarantor  as  if  they were fully set forth
herein.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The  Guarantor  shall maintain, or cause to
be maintained, separate records  and accounts adequate to reflect,
in accordance  with  sound  accounting  practices, the operations,
resources and expenditures  in  respect  of  Part  D  (iii) of the
Project,  of  the  departments   or   agencies  of  the  Guarantor
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Guarantor shall:
          (i)  have the accounts referred  to  in paragraph (a) of
               this  Section  for  each  fiscal  year  audited, in
               accordance   with   generally   accepted   auditing
               standards and  procedures  consistently applied, by
               independent and qualified auditors;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year a  certified  copy  of the report of
Page  4
               such audit by said  auditors,  of such scope and in
               such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning said accounts and  the audit thereof and
               said records as the  Bank  shall  from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Guarantor shall:
          (i)  maintain, or cause to  be maintained, in accordance
               with  paragraph  (a)   of  this  Section,  separate
               records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, or cause to be retained, until at least one
               year after the Bank  has  received the audit report
               for the fiscal  year  in  which the last withdrawal
               from  the  Loan  Account   was  made,  all  records
               (contracts, orders,  invoices,  bills, receipts and
               other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such separate  accounts are included in
               the annual audit  referred  to  in paragraph (b) of
               this Section and that  the report thereof contains,
               in respect of  such  separate  accounts, a separate
               opinion  by  said   auditors   as  to  whether  the
               statements  of  expenditure  submitted  during such
               fiscal  year,  together  with  the  procedures  and
               internal controls  involved  in  their preparation,
               can  be  relied   upon   to   support  the  related
               withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
            Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
     Section  5.01.  Director  General  de  Captacion  de  Credito
Externo of Secretaria de Hacienda  y Credito Publico is designated
as representative of  the  Guarantor  for  the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 5.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Guarantor:
          Direccion General de Captacion y Credito Externo
          Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
          Palacio Nacional
          Primer Patio Mariano, 4o Piso
          06066 Mexico, D.F.
          Mexico
                                            Telex:
                                                1777313-SHDCME
     For the Bank
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
Page  5
               INTBAFRAD                       440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                     UNITED MEXICAN STATES
                     By /s/ Pedro Aspe Armella
                                         Authorized Representative
                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                     By /s/ Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
