RESTRICTED
FILE       L C M                Report No. P-6Z8
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
August 1, 1968



INTERMTATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOI NDATION OF TIE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A LIVESTOCK DEVELOPM'ENT PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US $3.6 million
to the Republic of Kenya.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.         In December 1966 the Government of Kenya submitted an applica-
tion for an IDA credit to help finance a long-term beef cattle develop-
ment program. A Bank mission with FAO participation under the cooperative
program visited Kenya in March/April 1967 to appraise the proposed project.
Because of the important socio-economic aspects of the project a social
anthropologist was used on the appraisal. Based on the mission's findings
and in agreement with the Kenya Government, the project was reduced in
scope to take into account the difficulties in increasing commercial beef
production in a traditional pastoralist environment.
3.         Formal negotiations took place in Washington in January 1968.
The borrower was represented by Mr. J. N. Michuki, Permanent Secretary to
the Treasury, Mr. Michael Dunlap from the Attorney General's office, Mr.
C. D. Westoby, the General Manager of the Agricultural Finance Corporation
(AFC) and Messrs. D. J. Pratt and Vernon Miles from the Ministry of
Agriculture and Animal Husbandry.
4.         The Swedish Government agreed in principle to participate in
the lending on an equal basis with the Association and has negotiated a
credit in an amount equivalent to $3.6 million on terms and conditions
parallel to those which would govern the proposed credit from the Association.
5.         The proposed credit would be the ninth IDA credit to Kenya and
woluld increase total IDA financing to US $42.6 million. Kenya has
received two loans, guaranteed by the United Kingdom, for a total amount
of US $1L.0 million. The following is a summary of the Bank loans and
IDA credits to Kenya as of June 30, 1968.



2
(Amounts US$ million)
No.     Year   Borrower       Purpose            Bank     IDA     Undisbursed
256-KE  1960    Kenya     Agriculture and Roads   5.6      -          -
303-KE  1961    Kenya     Land Settlement         4.6 1/   -         2.2
64-KE  1964    Kenya     Tea Development          -      2.8        1.2
70-KE  1964    Kenya     Highways                 -      4.5       0.7
77-KE  1965    Kenya     Tea Roads                -      3.0        1.6
93-KE  1966    Kenya     Education                -      7.0        .
104-KE  1967    Kenya     Agricultura'l Roads      -      5.3       4.1
105-KE  1967    Kenya     Agricultural Credit      -      3.6        3.5
l19-KE  1968    Kenya     Tea Development          -      2.1       2.1
120-KE  1968    Kenya     Highway                  -     10.7       10.7
Total (less cancellations)               10.2
of which has been repaid to Bank
and others                              3.3
Total now outstanding                     6.9
Amount sold                       4.3
of which has been repaid        3.2     1.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA            5.8    39.0
Total undisbursed                         2.2    29.3       31.5
1/   Net amount after June 1967 cancellation.
6.        The 1961 loan for land settlement (303-KE) was revised in 1964
to take account of changes in the Government's plans for settlement and
changed marketing prospects for commodities that the project had been
intended to produce. By early 1967, eight sub-projects had been approved
which would complete the area to be settled under the project. In June
1967, $3.8 million of the original loan of $8.4 million was cancelled and,
as the loans required by settlers to complete the approved sub-projects
now appear to be below previous estimates, there will probably be a fur-
ther cancellation. The lag in disbursements has been caused by a number
of technical factors, including administrative difficulties due to staffing
problems. The Bank has recently agreed with the Government on remedial measures
to be taken.  However, as a result of the delays which have already occurred,
it will be necessary to postpone the Closing Date for this loan in order
to complete the project. This is now under consideration.
7.        Disbursements on the 1964 Tea Development Credit (64-KE) have
been slower than originally estimated, mainly because the field expenses
of the Kenya Tea Development Authority (KTDA) have been lower than origin-
ally forecast. However, the rate of disbursements has recently increased.



- 3 -
The Credit has been amended tc coordinate its disbursements with those under
the 1968 Tea Development Credit (119-RE) approved by the EXecutive Directors
in June, and it is expected that Credit 64-KE will be fully disbursed in the
near future.
8.        The Closing Date for the 1964 Highway Credit (70-KE) has been
postponed by nine months to September 30, 1968. Progress was retarded because
of difficulties experienced by two contractors; these difficulties have now
been overcome and the execution of the project is proceeding satisfactorily.
The 1965 Tea Road Credit (77-KE) is somewhat behind schedule mainly because
the largest single contract had to be retendered; progress, however, is
improving. The delay in beginning disbursements on the 1967 Agricultural
Credit project (105-KE) has been caused by a delay in the Governrient's recruit-
ing an expert for AFC who would assist in the preparation and appraisal of
individual loan applications. The post has now been filled and with the
supplemental assistance provided by the Bank's ADS staff stationed in NTairobi,
the flow cf loan applications is increasing.  However, a situation has recently
arisen whereby the Kenya Government,without the agreement of the Association,
is charging 6% per annum on new funds which it is making available to AFC.
This contravenes one of the undertakings given in connection with Credit
105-KE in which the Government agreed to charge AFC no more than a rate of
interest of 3-1/2% without prior consent of the Association. We are corres-
ponding with the Government and expect that the matter will soon be cleared
up satisfactorily.
9.        In addition to the above loans and credits, the Bank has made three
loans for common services in East Africa, two for railways and harbors and
one for telecommunications. All three loans are guaranteed jointly and
severally by Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda, with the United Kingdom also being
a guarantor for the first loan for railways and harbors. The following is a
summary statement of these loans as of June 30, 1968.
(Amount US$ million)
No.    Year   Borrower                  Purpose            Bpnk   Undisbursed
110-FA 1955   East African Common Ser-  Railways and
vices Authority (EACSA)* Harbors             24.0        -
428-EA 1965   Fast African Common Ser-  Railways and
vices Authority (EACSA)* Harbors             38.0       12.0
483-EA 1967   East African Common Scr-
vices Authority (EACSA)'W Telecommunications 13.0        9.0
Total(less cancellations)                    75.0
of which has been repaid to Bank and
others                                  12.5
Total now outstanding                        7.7
Amount sold                        23.8
of which has been repaid        12.4    11.4
Total now held by Bank                       51.1
Total undisbursed                                       21.0
* The East African Community has succeeded EACSA as Borrower.
;* The East African Posts and Telecommunications Corporation has succeeded
EACSA as Borrower.



10.       Two new projects foe the East African Community, one for railways
and the other for harbors, are being prepared for submission to the Bank.
11.       For Kenya, the TW.orld Bank grcup is considering financing a feeder
and settlement road project. Other projects in various stages of preparation,
and which may result in applications in due course, cover forestry, Nairobi
water supply, electric power, education and a second project for roads in
tea growing areas.
12.       IFC has invested in loans to and shpres in Kenya Hotel Properties
Ltd. amounting in total to US $3.1 million for hotels and game park lodges.
IFC has also been approached by the Government and other interested parties
regarding a pulp and paper project.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED FINANCING
The Proposed Credit from the Association
13.       Borrower:                  The Republic of Kenya.
Amount:                    US $3.6 million equivalent in various
currencies.
Amortization:              50 years including 10-year grace period
in semi-annual payments, beginning
September 1, 1978 and ending March 1, 2018.
Service Charge:            3/4 of 1% per annum.
The Proposed Credit from Sweden
14.       Borrower:                  The Republic of Kenya
Amount:                    Swedish Kr 19,000,000 equivalent in
various currencies.
Amortization:              50 years including 10-year grace period,
in semi-annual payments, beginning
September 1, 1978 and ending MN-rch 1, 2018.
Service Charge:            3/4 of 1% per annum.
Purpose of the Proposed Financing
15.       The proceeds of the proposed financing would be used as follows:
(a) Advances to AFC of $4.2 million equivalent at a rate of
interest of 3% per annum for 18 years including five-year grace period; AFC
would relend these funds for the development of about 60 ranches at a minimum
rate of interest of 7-1/2% per annum for both long and short term credit.



- 5 -
(b) Expenditures of US $3.0 million equivalent by the Ministry
of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry on development of livestock movement
and marketing facilities, survey and development of range water and
ancillary technical services.
PART III - THE MROJECT
16.       An appraisal report entitled "Livestock Development Project -
Kenya" (TO-616a, dated August 1, 1968) is attached.
17.       The proposed project is part of the first phase of a long-term,
range beef cattle development program and would be the WJorld Bank group's
first venture into this field in Africa. Its principal objective is to in-
crease beef production for home consumption and for export, with the main
emphasis directed to the traditional pastoral societies. Though these
societies control almost 95% of the national herd of about seven million head,
they account for only slightly more than half of the cattle marketed through
commercial channels; large-scale commercial farms and ranches, with about 5%
of the national herd, account for the rest.
18.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US $11-4 million
equivalent, including foreign exchange costs of US $4.4 million equivalent.
The project would be financed as follows:
Amount in US$ million
equivalent     _        of Total
IDA                           3.6               31.6
Sweden                        3.6               31.6
Kenya                         3.6               31.6
Ranches                       o.6                5.2
iT                100.0
Investments under the project would be confined to specific regions selected
on the basis of development potential and social feasibility.
19.       The proposed project would provide funds for ranch development, for
the improvement of livestock movement and marketing facilities, for range
water survey and development, and improved technical services. Funds for
ranch development would be invested by ranching enterprises operating on
2 million acres. The investments would finance stock watering facilities,
dipping/spraying facilities, stock handling facilities, firebreaks, improved
bulls, fencing, machinery and equipment. Four types of ranches are included
in the project, three of which represent new organizations for the traditional
production sector. All four types would receive long term development loans
as well as short term credits to meet working capital requirements.   In
view of the lack of experience in Kenya and elsewhere in Africa with this
type of development, and because of the uncertainty regarding pastoral
society responses, a pilot approach would be used at this stage.



- 6 -
20.       Long-term development loans for participating ranching enterprises
would be provided by the AFC for 12 years, including five years' grace.
These terms take account of the slow-yielding nature of on-ranch investments
and the social structure of the ranching enterprises. The short-term credits
would be provided for periods of up to eighteen montlhs. In both cases the
AFC would charge its borrowers a minimum of 7-1/2%. Because of the lack
of experience and the higher risk involved in lending to the traditional sec-
tor, the Government wouldguarantee repayment to the AFC of certain of the loans.
The AFC would carry the risk on the remainder of the loans. To provide part
of the funds needed for the ranch development aspect of the project, the
Government would relend to AFC US .$2.1 million (58%) of the proceeds of the
proposed credit at a rate of 3%. Ranch development goods would be purchased
by participating ranching enterprises through normal commercial chnnnels.
All goods required for the project are available through local suppliers
and representatives of international firms, of which there are sufficient
number to provide adequate competition in the supply of the goods required.
21.       AFC was established as a Stetutory Corporation in 1963 to provide
credit for the development of agriculture with resources provided by the
Government. By the end of 1966 it had made over 1,300 long-term development
loans to farmers as well as granting about 1,200 short-term crop advances
each year (no comparable figures are available for 1967). In addition, it
handles several loan funds on an agency basis for the Governnment. AFC is
the principal beneficiary of the 1967 Agricultural Credit Project (105-KE)
involving the development of some 8,000 agricultural smallholdings in selected
areas of Kenya. A bill to amalgamate the AFC and the Land and Agricultural
Bank of Kenya is being prepared.Under Credit 105-KE approval of the bill by
the Association is required before the bill is enacted.
22.       The proposed credit provides for the recruitment by the AFC of
additional specialists in range development. During 1967, partially as a
result of Credit 105-KE, the staff was strengthened through the appointment
of a number of specialist advisors and supporting staff. Mainly because of
the resulting increases in staff expenses without sufficient additional income
from relending in the same period, the AFC showed a loss in 1967. With the
prospective increase in the volume of lending, this problem should be corrected
and it is expected that the AFC will operate profitably in the future.
23.       That part of the Credit not relent to AFC (Us $1.5 million equivalent)
would be utilized by the Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry in
executing the other segments of the project. Overall coordination and
guidance will be provided by the Range Livestock Authority, created for this
purpose.
24.       The estimated rate of return to the economy of the proposed project
is about 15%. This return, however, does not include a number of intangible
benefits that would result from it. Besides developing national marketing
services and training Kenyans in livestock development lending, the project
can be expected to have a significant impact on the problem of giving tr2.di-
tional pastoralists a market orientation. The experience gained with this
project would serve as a basis for further development of Kenya's livestock
industry.



- 7 -
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
25.       The draft Development Credit Agreement betwreen the Republic of
Kenya and the Associaticn, the draft Project Agreement between the Association
and the Agricultural Finance Corporstion, the draft Administration Letter
between the Kingdom of Sweden and the Association and the Recommendation of
the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
26.       The Credit documents generally follow the form used in other cases
where there is a co-lender with the Association. The Administration Letter
provides for concurrent but separate disbursements by the Associaticn and the
Kingdom of Sweden in equal proportions. In addition, the draft Development
Credit Agreement requires Kenya to use the proceeds of payments in respect
of the Credit which it receives from the Agricultural Finance Corporation and
which are not currently required to service the Credit for purposes of
agricultural development for a period of eighteen years from the date of the
Development Credit Agreement.
PART V - THE ECONCMY
27.       An 'Economic Report entitled "Prospects for Economic Development in
Kenya" (Volume II of AF-58b, dated August 31, 1967) was distributed to the
Executive Directors at the beginning of September last year. At the end of
March this year, an Economic Memorandum, "Recent Developments in the East
African Community, Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda", (AF-7h) was also distributed.
28.       The 3conomic Memorandum was originally prepared for the first
plenary meeting of the Consultative Groun for East Africa, which took place
in Paris, April 22-26, 1968. This is the first time a consultative group
has been formed for three countries and a. regional community. The countries
taking part were: Conada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Netherlands,
Norway, Sweden, United Kingdom and United States.  Representatives of the
African Development Bank, the International Tlonetrry Fund and the United
Nations Development Progr m were present. Representatives of other public
agencies and private trusts were present at the informal sector discussions
on agriculture, education and transport, which were held in London, March 18-22.
Both the Paris and London meetings resulted in a better understanding of
the development problems and needs of the recipient countries, and are likely
to show results in improving the coordinFtion of aid to all three East African
countries and the East African Community. There was general agreement that
the Consultative Group for Sast Africa should be continued, but the forms
of consultations are likely to vary.
29.       As reported in the Economic Memorandum (AF-74) the real growth
in GDP fell from about 8 percent in 1966 to about 4.5 percent in 1967. This
was mainly duie to the ravages of coffee berry disease and a. fall in tea output
due to inclement weather for tea growing. The reduction in output of these
two crops also affected the 1967 balance of payments, provisional figures of
which recently became available. On current account the adverse b-lance
increased from K£ 6.4 million (revised) in 1966 to nearly K£ 16 million
(provisional) in 1967. Total merchandise exports fell by K£ 9 raillion (11 per-
cent) to nearly K£ 80 million, while merchandise imports rose by K£ h million



- 8 -
(nearly 4 percent). Net non-factor service income did not increase as
much as in the past because the growth in tourist earnings slowed dolm in
1967 due to troubles in the Middle East and the closing of the Suez C-nal
and because of shortage of accommodation. However, there is likely to be
a considerable recovery in tourist earnings in 1968. The adverse balance on
current account was not balanced by a net inflow of capital, with the result
that the foreign exchange reserves fell by nenrly K£ 6 million, comp.red
with an increise of K£ 12 million during the previous two years.   i\everthe-
less, the foreign exchange reserves still amount to a respectable K£ 40
million (approximately) or about 4-1/2 months imports at the 1967 level.
30.       Preliminary forecasts for 1968 indicate that the real growth in
GDP might be somewhat higher than the 4.5 nercent in 1967, that the deficit
on current account may be somewhat reduced and that the deficit may be
balanced by a net inflow of capital.
31.       The perform.nce of the economy has been satisfactory and the public
finances are being reasonably well handled. The future prospects for develop-
ment in Kenya remain fairly bright, although, as the Economic Memorandum
points out, recent measures to increase the Africanization of the private
sector of the economy are likely to have some adverse effects upon development
during the transitional period. Nevertheless, the average growth of GDP
at factor cost and at constant prices over the next few years should be
fairly high, even if possibly somewhat less than the projection of about
5-1/2 percent a year.
32.       On grounds of relative poverty, satisfactory performance and
a need for a level of external assistance, which would lead to dangerously
high debt service obligations if received entirely on conventional terms,
Kenya should continue to be classified as a soft-blend country.
PART VI - COIPLIANCE WITH THE ARTICLES CF AGREEMENT
33.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECOUM MDATION
34.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
Resolution:
RESOLUTION NTO. IDA
Approval of Development Credit to the Republic of Kenya
in an amount equivalent to US $3,600,000.



-9-
RESCLVED:
THAT the Association shall grant a development credit to the
Republic of Kenya in an amount in various currencies equivalent to three
million six hundred thousand United States dollars (U.S. $3,600,000) to
mature on and prior to March 1, 2018, to bear a service charge at the rate
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 10) per annum, and to be upon such
other terms and conditions as shall be substantially in accordance with the
terms and conditions set forth in the form of Development Credit Agreement
(Livestock Development Project) between the Republic of Kenya and the
Association, Project Agreement (Livestock Development Project) between the
Association and the .Agricultural Finance Corporation, and.Administration
Letter (Livestock Development 'eroject) between the Kingdom of Sweden and
the Association, which have been presented to this meeting.
Robert S. !IcNama.ra
President
Attachmen'u
August 1, 1968



