RETURN  TO                        ED FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
_    .ITUTE                                  R ES TR IC TE D
R ELP O R T S D ESK k   r e  jftcg   t  * ?6>2Report No. TO-616a
WITHIN                     0  ;z
ONE  WEEK                 --------------------------
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KENYA
August 1, 1968
Projec:ts Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
K. Sh 1            =       U.S. $0. 14
K. Sh 1, 000, 000   =      US $140, 000
-, I=                      U.S. $2. 80
El                 =       K. Sh 20/100
U.S. $1            =       K. Sh 7/14
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Acre             =       0. 405 Hectares
1 Mile             =       1. 609 Kilometers
1 Square Mile              2. 590 Square Kilometers
1 Pound                    0.453 Kilograms
1 Long Ton         =       1. 016 Metric Tons



KENYA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY              . .     . .    . .    . .    . .    . .    . .    . .    .    . .    .    ...........ii
I.   INTRODUCTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     1
II.  BACKGROUND.  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  . 1
A. General ......... -.1 .---.---
B.  The Beef Cattle Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
C. Animal Health...                                         2
D. Agricultural Services.                                   3
E. Government Policies on Livestock Development. . . . .    4
III. THE PROJECT .. . . . . .. ..    4
A.  General Description . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . .    4
B. Detailed Features         . . . . ..
C.  Cost Estimates   ..                      . . . . . .    9
D. Proposed Financing  . . . .             .11
E. Lending Operations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
F. Disbursements   . . . ..13
G.  Financial Cperating Results . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
A.  Project Administration. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
B. Procurement             .. . .-* . . .   16
C. Marketing . . . . . . . . . . .    ... . . .            16
V.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIOND. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    17
VI.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . . . . . .. .   19
This appraisal report is based on the findings of a mission which visited
Kenya in March/April 1967. The mission was composed of Messrs. J.
Fransen and H. von Oppenfeld (IDA), F. Thomas (FAO/IBRD) and N. Dyson-
Hudson (Consultant Anthropologist). This report was prepared by J. Fransen.



-2-
ANNEXES
1. Animal Health
2. Social Feasibility
3. Livestock Marketing Division
4. Range Water Division
5. Summary of Ranch Development Investment Costs
6. Estimate of Ranch Development Technical Services Costs
7. Estimate of Ranch Development Working Capital Requirements
8. Summary of Livestock M4ovement and Marketing Costs Projections
9.  Summary of Range Water Survey and Development Costs Projections
10. Estimate of Ancillary Technical Services - Range Management Division
11. Estimate of Ancillary Technical Services - Department of Veterinary Servicea
12.  Agricultural Finance Corporation
13. Project Financial Statements - Projected Receipts and Disbursements
14.  Project Organizational Chart
15. Development of 35,000-Acre Group Ranches
16. Development of 64,000-Acre Company Ranches
17. Development of 2,000-Acre Individual Ranches
18.  Development of 30,000-Acre Commercial Ranches
19. Benefits and Justification - Incremental Costs and Benefits
MAPS
1. General Project Location



KENYA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPITET PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        The Government of Kenya has requested an IDA Credit to help finance
part of the first stage of a new long-term range livestock development program,
The principal objective is to increase beef production, particularly by the
traditional pastoral societies. Because there is little experience in Kenya
of public financing of this type of development and uncertainty regarding
pastoral society responses, a pilot approach is to be used at this stage,
confined to specific regions chosen on the basis of development potential and
social feasibility. The Credit would be used for investments in: (a) ranch
development, including working capital and supporting technical services; (b)
facilities for livestock movement and marketing; (c) range water survey and
development; and (d) ancillary technical services for the Range Management
Division (RIAD) and Department of Veterinary Services (DVS).
ii.       Ranch development embraces four different types of productioni
schemes.  Only developrant requiring the simplest inptits, sufficient to ensure
sound husbandry and v5.:ele enterprises, is proposed for the 60 participating
"group", "company", tLindividual" and "commercial" ranching enterprises.  By
ensuring planned investments, providing working capital and emphasizing
fattening operations, these investments, together with better herd control and
improved management, would permit a fuller utilization of native grassland
resources and increase productivity. The Project would also assist in the
transition of traditional pastoralists from a subsistence to a market-oriented
economy. Development loans to ranching enterprises would be repayable in 12
years, including four years of grace with interest at 71½ percent. The
proposed lending terms are adapted to the slow-yielding nature of livestock
development.
iii.      To ensure the steady flow of "iimmatures" (feeder cattle) from the
lower potential range breeding areas to the higher potential range fattening
areas, Government would be provided with funds for the development of range
water and livestock movement facilities. These facilities, coupled with
adequate producer incentive and the establishment of good marketing conditions,
would provide the "immatures" required for fattening by the Project ranching
enterprises, essential to their viability, and facilitate further development
of Kenya's range beef cattle industry.
iv.       The Project is estimated to cost a total of about US$ 11.4 million
equivalent, of which about 62 percent (US$ 7.0 million) would be for ranch
development. The remainder would be used for development of facilities for
livestock movement and marketing (US$ 2.0 million), range water survey and
development (US$ 1.5 million), and ancillary technical services for the RMD



- ii -
and DVS (US$ 0.9 mLllion). The proposed IDA Credit would finance about
US$ 3.6 million (32 percent) of the total Project cost. Subject to final
approval, the Kingdom of Sweden has agreed to provide a further uS$ 3.6
million equivalent. Together, therefore, the proceeds of the IDA and the
Swedish Credits would cover about 63 percent of the total Project cost
(US$ 7.2 million). The balance of the financing would be provided by the
ranching enterprises (US$ 0.6 million; five percent) and the Government
(US$ 3.6 million; 32 percent). The foreign exchange component is estimated
at about 38 percent of the total Project cost (US$ 4.4 million).
v.        A Ranch Division (RD) would be established in the Agricultural
Finance Corporation to administer ranch development aspects of the Project.
It would be responsible for assisting ranching enterprises in preparing ranch
development plans, recommending these to the Project loan committee as the
basis for lending, and for supervising execution of plans for which loans
are made.  Overall Project administration w.ould involve several Government
Agencies and Ministries. Coordination of all concerned Agencies would be
through a Range Livestock Authority, which would also establish Project
policies and provide overall guidance.
vi.       The Project is technically and economically sound, and suitable
for an IDA Credit of US$ 3.6 million. The proposed administrative arrange-
ments are satisfactory. Expected benefits both to participating ranching
enterprises and the national eccnomy are adequate, and the Project would
serve as the basis for further development of Kenya's range livestock
industry.



EENYA
LIVFSTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
101      The Government of Kenya has requested an IDA credit to help
finance investments for the improvement of its range livestock industry.
The Project was prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry
with assistance frcm the IBRD Permanent Mission to Eastern Africa. The pre-
liminary report was submitted by Government to IDA in November 1965, but the
official amended report and request was delayed until December 1966 pending
the findings of the Lawrance Mission on land adjudication and registration
and upon the establishment of a UNDP(SF) range management project intended
to furnish the technical basis for the Project. This appraisal report is
based on the findings of a mission which visited Kenya in March/April, 1967.
The mission was composed of Messrs. J. Fransen and H. von Oppenfeld (IDA),
F. Thomas (FAO/IBRD), and N. Dyson-Hudson (Consultant Anthropologist). This
report was prepared by J. Fransen. Due to the difficult social problems
involved in the transition of traditional pastoralists from a subsistence to
a market-oriented economy, indicated in both the report and the annex on
social feasibility, a social anthropologist was used for the first time by
the Bank Group on an appraisal mission.
1,02      Subject to final approval, the Kingdcm of Sweden proposes to assist
Kenya in the further development of its range livestock industry and is to
make available for the Range Livestock Project a credit in a principal amount
of 19 million Swedish K'ronor, equivalent at present parity rate to approxi-
rmately US$3.6 million.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Kenya, with a land area of approximately 225,000 sq mi, has a
wide variety of climatic and ecological ccnditions ranging from semidesert
to temperate. It may be roughly divided into the areas of high agricultural
potential, which comprise about 20 percent of the country and embrace the
highlands and narrow coastal belt regions, and the range areas devoted main-
ly to the extensive production of beef for both subsistence and commercial
needs.
2.02      Agriculture, including livestock, forestry and fishing has always
been the most important sector of the economy, both in terms of its contri-
bution to GDP and as a means of livelihood. Although agriculture's relative
contribution to total GDP has fallen slightly over the last decade to about
40 percent in 1966, its real rate of output growth has been about four per-
cent a year. This rate has been achieved despite falling prices for some of



the major export crops (coffee, pyrethrum, sisal), two drought periods and
the effects of indeperndence and large-scale land transfers. However, the
growth rate for livestock has been considerably less than that for crops.
The agricultural sector as a whole provides a livelihood for about 85 per-
cent of the estimated 9.6 million population, the greater part of which
lives at subsistence levels in the high agricultural potential regions.
The rangelands, representing about 80 percent of the total area of the
country and containing only about 12 percent of the population, offer ade-
quate opportunities for increased beef production.
B. The Beef Cattle Sector
2.03      The beef cattle population is estimated at about 7.0 million head,
about half of which is concentrated in the densely populated agricultural
areas, the other half being widely scattered over the sparsely populated
rangelands. Only about 0.5 million head are found on large-scale commercial
farms and ranches, the main source of quality beef production. There has
been little growth in the national herd in the past decade. Climate, soils,
and the association of cattle with people for subsistence purposes in pasto-
ral areas largely dictate cattle distribution.
2.04      It has been estimated that over 900,000 head of cattle were slaugh-
tered from the national herd in 1966 (slaughter data were largely derived
from hide counts of fallen and subsistence killed animals). However, only
270,000 head are estimated to have been marketed through commercial channels,
resulting in a commercial offtakel/ of about four percent, of which about 45
percent came from commercial farms and ranches, and 55 percent from tradi-
tional pastoral areas. Domestic per capita beef consumrption is estimated to
be around 20 lb per year, low by most standards. Beef exports have increased
over the past five years, and were valued at US$ 8.7 million equivalent in
1966.
C. Animal Health
2.05      Animal health problems reflect insufficient control measures, free-
dom of movement of game, together with some clandestine stock movement from
infected to susceptible areas, and the endemic disease situation prevalent
throughout East Africa. Low herd productivity and high death losses are
today, however, associated more with inadequate management and environmental
factors than with diseases, Rinderpest, once a major limiting factor, is now
controlled through a compulsory "free" vaccination program.  Government has
also made progress in the control of the other more important diseases
currently limiting animal movement and production (Annex 1); these are east
1/ The relationship between the total cattle population and number of cattle
commercially marketed and slaughtered expressed as a percentage.



- 3 -
coast fever (ECF), trypanosomiasis, contagious bovine pleuropneumonia, and
foot-and-mouth disease (FIP). Vaccination against FMD, however, is not
widely practiced because of present high cost of vaccine. Ticks responsible
for transmitting ECF can be effectively controlled by routine dipping/spray-
ing of cattle every five days even where infestation is heavy.
D. Agricultural Services
2.06      Responsibility for agricultural services rests with the Ministry of
Agriculture and Animal Husbandry, structurally divided into the Departments
of Agriculture, Veterinary Services; and Animal Husbandry and Range Manage-
ment,which is presently under formation. The staffing pattern is character-
ized by stratification into professional, technical and subordinate levels.
The number of professional and technical officers available to provide farm!
ranch advisory services is small in comparison with needs. Two-thirds of the
senior staff positions and one-third of the technical and agricultural officer
positions were still held by non-Kenyans, as of July 1966. Although Africa-
nization of professional and technical positions has proceeded satisfactorily,
there continues to be created more vacancies than can be filled by qualified
Kenyans trained in Kenya and/or abroad. Government has been aggressive in
securing additional manpower to fill this gap through secondment and/or as-
signment of individuals or teams of experts from bilateral and international
technical assistance agencies.
2.07      The new Range Management Division is responsible for the range areas.
Although understaffed in professional and technical categories, with concen-
tration of effort in the higher priority regions and continued assistance of
USAID range advisers, it should adequately provide the necessary services to
selected range areas.  Research, at present, is confined largely to studies on
bush control as a means of range improvement and management. As part of
assistance from the on-going UNDP(SF) range management project, range research
will be expanded when the Government provides additional lands and facilities.
2.08      The Department of Veterinary Services has been quite effective in
the performance of its veterinary duties, in spite of its lack of a full com-
plement of professional staff. Professional competence and overall effective-
ness has been adequate. The Department is actively pursuing control of the
important diseases limiting cattle movement and production. Three veterinary
research units, in existence for many years and operated under high profession-
al standards, are at present engaged in various aspects of veterinary research
and vaccine production.
2.09      Education and training services that may eventually meet the needs
of range management activities have recently been incorporated into existing
institutions. The University of East Africa provides training in General
Agriculture at Kaampala and Veterinary Medicine at IKabete; specialization in
Range Management must be obtained elsewhere. The present and near future out-
put of university level staff is insufficient and will need to continue to be
supplemented with overseas recruitment.  Sufficient subordinate staff 'sill be
provided frcm Egerton College's three-year diploma level course in range



- 4 -
management, and from the Animal Health and Industry Training Institute (AHITI)
at Kabete. The demand for qualified ranch managers is likely to exceed all
sources of supply, and the Goverunent is investigating the possibility of com-
bining training at AHITI and Farmer Training Centers with practical training
on existing commercial ranches.
2.10      The structure for providing agricultural credit services to the
ranching sector is not well developed. There is no traditional source of
credit for pastoralists, who have had little need for it. They have been
provided some credit, primarily for water development, by the Government
through County Council loans; they have shared in repayment of such loans on a
cess basis if they commercially sold livestock. Long established commercial
ranchers have been able to finance medium- and long-term needs from their owqn
resources, and have largely operated with short-term overdraft accommodations
from commercial banks. There is a demand for medium- and long-term credit for
further ranch development from those commercial ranchers established in the
lasttaenty years, and limited loans have been made to them by commercial banks
for periods of from five to eight years, with interest at 8-10 percent per annum.
E. Government Policies on Livestock Development
2.11      The Government has recently initiated an ambitious program for the
develcpment of the range beef industry, placing emphasis on the traditional
pastoral sector. It is actively pursuing financing for this program and pro-
viding incentives for private investment in the development of unoccupied
coastal areas. The Government is reorganizing its Ministry of Agriculture
and Animal Husbandry in an attempt to provide the ancillary veterinary, range
management, marketing, credit, and ranch advisory services necessary for de-
velopment of the rangelands. Although the tax burden on livestock sales has
been kept small and movement of cattle within the country has remained free
except for animal health reasons, Government has tended to fix producer prices
and to ignore the need for producer incentives (Para. 4.10).
III, THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The Project is a comprehensive approach to development of Kenya's
complexly structured livestock industry and would represent part of the first
stage of Government's new long-term range livestock development program. It
proposes investments in: (a) ranch development, including wiorking capital and
supporting technical services; (b) facilities for livestock movement and mark-
eting; (c) range water survey and development; and (d) ancillary technical
services for the Range Management Division (RMD) and Department of Veterinary
Services (DVS). Its principal objective is to increase beef production, par-
ticularly by the traditional pastoral societies. The Project consists of a
credit operation which on the one hand would provide both long-term develop-
ment loans and short-term working capital credits to four different types of
ranching enterprises, and on the other hand would provide funds for expendi-
tures by a number of Government agencies for financing facilities and services,



Development of the ranching enterprises would be limited to that requiring
the simplest inputs, and wculd not emphasize pasture establishment and/or
improvement in this stage. Because there is little experience in Kenya of
public financing of this type of development and uncertainty regarding pas-
toral society responses, a pilot approach would be used at this stage. Res-
pective components of the Project would be confined to specific regions,
selected on the basis of development potential and social feasibility (Annex L
and Map 1). The total cost of the Project is estimated at about US$ 11,14
million of which US$ 7.0 million would be for ranch development, and would
provide about 40 new ranching enterprises, operating on 1.4 million acres,
with funds for planned investment in stock watering facilities, dipping/spray-
ing facilities, stock handling facilities, essential ranch structures, fire-
breaks, essential vehicles and equipment, improved bulls, and working capital.
About 20 existing commercial ranching enterprises, operating on about 0.6
million acres, would also be provided with funds for similar investments and
also for bush control, fencing, and ranch machinery and equipment, Government
would be provided with funds for development of stock routes and holding
grounds, range wiater survey and development, and ancillary technical services
for the RMD and DVS. The proposed IDA and Swedish Credits would finance about
US$ 7.2 million of the cost of the Project, the rest to be provided by the
ranching enterprises and Government.
B. Detailed Features
Ranch Develcpment
3.02      Proposed ranch development embraces four different types of produc-
tion schemes, all of which would be managed as combined breeding-growing-
fattening beef cattle operations. Each of the "group", "company", "indivi-
dual", and "commercial" ranching enterprises is designed to meet local re-
quirements of location, potential, degree of development, expected responses
to inputs, management levels and social structures. The first three types of
ranches are proposed to bring about improvement in the traditional production
sector, while emphasis in the fourth type is on improvement of productivity on
existing commercial ranches. Projections for the development of each of the
four ranch types are based on representative ranch models, which form the basis
for the assessment of economic, financial and social viability, Only develop-
ment requiring the simplest inputs, sufficient to ensure sound husbandry and
viable enterprises, is proposed. These investments, together with better herd
control and improved management, should increase carrying capacity, permit a
fuller utilization of native grassland resources and improve stock quality amd
productivity. The Project would also assist in the transition of traditional
pastoralists from a subsistence to a market-oriented economy.
Group Ranching
3.03      Group ranches are production enterprises in which a group of up to
30 families collectively hold title to land, maintain agreed stocking level>,
market surplus in rotation, herd their livestock as sex/age aggregates and
yet continue to own their livestock as individuals. Group ranches are pro-
posed for areas which offer development potential, yet in which a subsistence



- 6 -
economy, tribal organization, and conservative values prevent an immediate ard
general transition to more advanced forms of ranching. They are designed to
accommodate traditional pastoralists with a desire for development, but with
little commercial experience and a strong pride of ownership in their cattle.
3.oh      "Group" ranching can proceed only followJing enactment of the Land
Titles Adjudication Act 1968 and the Land (Group Representativ s) Act 1968 by
Parliament (to be done before the Credit Agreement is signed),_bhe granting of
title, and the registration of groups as legal entities holding negotiable land
titles. Debt liability and loan servicing would be a group function. Repay-
ment would be effected by a "per head of cattle" charge to individual cattle
ow,ners for services rendered by the group. Profit sharing to members would be
based on the sale of their own animals minus collections for loan servicing.
These arrangements would be detailed in a group constitution, to be made a part
of each ranch development plan and loan, Each constitution would state group
claims and responsibilities in terms that are not only legally enforceable in
the Ntation's courts, but also intelligible and acceptable to the local commiu-
nities concerned in terms of its embodiment or modification of traditional
claims and practices relating to the use of natural resources. A committee of
elders and government officials would determine policies, which would be exe-
cuted by trained, salaried ranch managers. These arrangements were assured
during negotiations.
3.05      During this pilot stage of "group'7 ranch development the Government
would bear the major lending risk by underwriting all "group" ranch loans
(Para. 3.23); this was assured during negotiations. Group ranching would also
be restricted to the Kaputiei Section of the Kajiado Masai District (Map 1),
because this area offers distinctly better prospects for social development and
sound organization. The Goverment has initiated the preliminary planning of
the Kaputiei Section (Arnex 2, Map 2), and one of the "groups" has been formed
and has received some provisional financing. Despite the social difficulties
and greater financial risk of group ranching, it is considered to be socially
the most feasible proposal yet made for constructive economic change in tra-
ditional pastoral societies (Para,'s 8 to 12, Annex 2). Provisions are made
under the Project for the development of all of the approximately 20 groups to
be formed in the Section. The climate is dry tropical and annual rainfall is
between 25 and 35 inches. Projections are based on ranching units averaging
about 35,000 acres in size already stocked, with a current carrying capacity
of about 2,000 animal units, increasing to about 3,000 after partial developnent.
Company Ranching
3.06      Company ranches are production enterprises in which land is leased
from Government and prospective shareholders put up cattle or a cash equivalent
for shares in the company.  Animals are collectively owned and disposed of, and
profits shared according to established agreement.  Management would be paid,
and would operate under a policy-making board of directors.
3.07      Company ranching would be concentrated on the Government-owned lands
at the foot of the Taita Hills (Map 1), where the extremely high density popu-
lation engages in subsistence farming on small plots, but also keeps livestock.
1/ Both of these Acts were recently enacted by the Kenya Parliament.



The climate is dry tropical, predominantly arid and annual rainfall is between
15 and 20 inches. The Taita tribe is suitable for this operation, with an
acceptable degree of stock-handling capabilities, a market orientation obtained
from their experience with cash crops, and large areas of adjacent unoccupied
lands needing only iwater facilities for development. Ten ranches of about
64,ooo acres each would be developed in this first phase. To be eligible for
financing, companies would be required to obtain legal registration of leases
and of the company itself. This was assured during negotiations. Each of the
companies would recruit acceptable trained management, provide basic breeding
stock, furnish 20 percent of development capital needs, and a small amount of
working capital.
Individual Ranching
3.08      Individual ranches are production enterprises in wihich an individual
member of a tribal society may, with community consent and the authorization
of the local County Council, legally register communal land as private property.
On that property the individual runs his own livestock, with conscious intent
to give his herd a market-orientod rather than a subsistence structure, and is
his owfn manager.  They are designed to cater to advanced traditional pastoral-
ists who tend toward individual enterprise.  There is a short history of this
type of development in both Kajiado and Narok Masai Districts. Although it is
not possible to extend individual ranching indefinitely in Masailand, because
of disparity between land area and population, the active encouragement of
individual ranches is desirable not only because Masai have shown themselves
capable of it, but because individual ranches serve a catalytic function in
the market orientation of group ranches in the same area.
3.09      Individual ranching, like group ranching, would be limited to the
Kajiado Masai District (Map 1) for this first phase, because of better social
suitability and demonstrational effect. It is proposed to develop about 10
individual ranches of approximately 2,000 acres each under the Project, each
capable of supporting about 200 animal units after development. The major
capital inputs such as watering facilities, dips/sprays and stock handling
facilities would be shared between several such ranches. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that lending would proceed only after formal
registration of the land and the granting of title to the applicant, who would
provide basic breeding stock and 20 percent of additional development require-
ments.
Commercial Ranching
3.10      Commercial ranches are production enterprises which were developed
in the Administrative Districts of Laikipia, Nakuru and Machakos following
World War I (Map 1), when immigrants were allotted lands from territory
alienated from native tribes. These ranches represent the most advanced sec-
tor of the beef cattle industry, and supply the bulk of quality beef for
domestic consumption and export. Commercial ranches of post-Jorld WpJar II
settlers, and those purchased by Africans since independence, have high manage-
ment levels and need capital for further development. It is proposed to de-
velop about 20 recently initiated ranches to a carrying capacity of about
3,000 animal units each, on an average ranch of about 30,000 acres. Some of the
immigrants have become Kenya citizens and there are no discriminatory regula-
tions concerning the acquisition of citizenship should the Government wisll to
linmit participation in the Project to Kenya citizens.



Facilities for Livestock Movem ent and Marketing
3.11      Because of social, climatic and ecological conditions, large areas
of the rangeland are devoted almost entirely to breeding operations, while
more benign areas are dominated by fattening operations. It is proposed to
provide facilities and organizational structures to ensure the steady flow of
"immaturesir (feeder cattle) from the lower potential range breeding areas to
the higher potential range fattening areas, nearer to slaughtering and con-
sumption centers. Emphasis would be placed on the movement and sale of "im-
matures", within an increasingly competitive framework, to the private ranching
community in addition to the presently established buyers. These facilities,
coupled with adequate incentives for both the primary producer (breeder) as
well as the secondary producer (fattener), and the establishment of good
marketing conditions, would provide the "immatures" required for the ranching
enterprises under the Project and would facilitate further development of
Kenya's beef cattle industry.
3.12      Although a country-wide livestock marketing organization would be
established, priority would be given to the development of livestock movement
and marketing facilities to serve Northeast Kenya (Annex 3 and Map 1).
Quarantine bottlenecks are a major factor currently limiting movement of
livestock out of this area. Therefore, veterinary facilities, including a
mobile laboratory, would be provided at the collection holding grounds. Ani-
mals would be screened and vaccinated prior to initiation of movement along
stock routes so that, by the time of arrival at endpoint clearing holding
grounds, most quarantine requirements would have been met, facilitating the
steady movement and sale of "immatures" to ranchers for finishing. It was
assured during negotiations that all cattle moving along stock routes out of
the Northeast, as well as those entering or leaving participating ranching
enterprises, would be routinely vaccinated against foot-and-mouth disease and
other diseases, This would require the further development of collection
holding grounds at Wajir and Garissa, stock routes, endpoint clearing/quaran-
tine holding grounds and auction facilities. Basic inputs wculd be watering
facilities, dipping/spraying facilities, stock handling facilities, housing,
storerooms/offices, and diagnostic and laboratory facilities and equipment.
Provision would also be made for the development of facilities for the sale
and movement of fat cattle to market, and for the staffing, equipping, and
administration of the Livestock Marketing Division.
Range Water Survey and Development
3.13      Despite unsatisfactory statistical data, it is known that a con-
siderable reservoir of livestock exists in Northeast Kenya (estimated in 1964
at approximately one million head). This area is the principal source of
"immatures" for fattening elsewhere in Kenya.  If this source can be systema-
tically tapped and the offtake of "immatures" increased, then the livestock
industry of the country as a whole would benefit. The present offtake from
the region is low and is due primarily to: (a) insufficient permanent water
sources which cause inefficient early moves from wet-season to dry-season
pasture; (b) inadequate stock route facilities which fail to reach into the
dry-season areas; and (c) "shifta" activities (bands of armed rebels who
present a security problem for both herding and trading over much of the area,
and may well impede efficient construction and use of water installations).
Government is willing to take whatever measures are required to contain



- 9 -
"shifta" activities, and agreement has recently been r, ached between Kenya and
Somalia to restore peace and order in the Northeast1  The development of
watering facilities in the harsh environment of Northeast Kenya is proposed as
a measure for increasing production by extending the present grazing areas and
allowing the controlled and more systematic use of available grazing. It involves
minimal change in social and herding aspects and the simplest input, water.
3.14      Funds and the organization would be provided for: (a) investigation
and survey; (b) contractor construction of earth dams and boreholes in the pas-
toral areas; (c) construction of minor water works on stock routes and holding
grounds (Para. 3.12); and (d) operation and maintenance of all water facilities
in pastoral areas and on stock routes and holding grounds. The component for
construction of water supplies in Northeast Kenya has been kept small because of
incompleteness of plans with respect to location, social and economic feasibility,
and security problems.
3.15      Although a country-wide organization for range water survey and de-
velopment is proposed, priority would be given to the development of watering
facilities in Northeast Kenya (Annex 4 and Map 1). This first phase would pro-
vide for the location and construction of range water points to give full cover-
age at desirable 20-mile intervals. It would consist of 40 small tanks/dams of
about 2.0 million gallon capacity each and 10 boreholes, all to be installed in
a three-year period. The concentrated area to be covered of about 20,000 square
miles, selected on the basis of the "water discipline" of the pastoral tribes
concerned, cattle populations and development potential would be divided into
two blocks: one commencing near Garissa and extending northwards and westwards;
and the other commencing near Wajir and also extending northwards and westwards
(Annex 4 and Map 1). Prior to initiation of construction in either of the two
general sites, the Government would undertake feasibility studies of the proposed
regions, under terms of reference acceptable to IDA, This was assured during
negotiations.
Ancillary Technical Services
3.16      As a ccmplement to the directly related Project technical services,
provision would also be made for strengthening the ancillary technical services
of the Range Management Division (RMD) and the Department of Veterinary Services
(DVS) in Northeast Kenya, and in certain non-Project areas selected for inclusion
in any second stage project because of their high potential. Strengthening the
activities of RI4D and DVS in these areas should improve results and offtake,
particularly from the Northeast. The funds would be utilized for additional
staff, operating budget, vehicles, equipment, a diagnostic service and laboratory,
as well as for education and training facilities.
C. Cost Estimates
3.17      The estimated total Project cost is equivalent to about US$ 11.4
million, of which US$ 7.0 million would be for ranch development (on-ranch
1/ Diplcmatic relations have recently been renewed, the ban on trading lifted
and trading is recommencing.  "Shifta" activities have been greatly reduced,
being confined mainly to traditional cattle raiding.



- 10 -
investments, US$ 4.0 million, Annex 5; supporting technical services, us$ 0.6
million, Annex 6; working capital, US$ 2.4 million, Annex 7), US$ 2.0 million
for the development of facilities for livestock movement and marketing (Annex
8), us$ 1.5 million for range water survey and development (Annex 9), and
US$ 0.9 million for ancillary technical services for the Range Management
Division (Annex 10) and for the Department of Veterinary Services (Annex 11).
The foreign exchange component of the Project is estimated at about US$ 4.4
million, or about 38 percent of the total cost. ThE, to+-I Projict cost
estimates are summarived below:
Foreign
Total       Exchange
Investment Categories                        Cost         Colp onent
(Us$ '000)    (US$ '000)
Ranch Development
Watering Facilities                                 1,379            752
Dips/Sprays                                           139             55
Stock Handling Facilities                              90             -
Firebreaks                                             66             13
Fencing                                               112             56
Ranch Buildings                                       168             39
Ranch Machinery, Vehicles and Tools                   147            147
Bush Clearing                                       1,232            862
Improved Buills                                       341             _
Contingencies                                         326            186
Sub-Total of On-Ranch Investments            4,000          2,110
Working Capital                                     2,400
Sub-Total                                    6,400          2,110
Technical Services                                    600            300
Total Cost of Ranch Development              7,000          2,410
Facilities for Livestock Movement and Marketing         2,000           800
Range Water Survey and Development                     1,500            900
Ancillary Technical Services (REdvD)                      600           120
Ancillary Technical Services (DVS)                        300           150
Total Project Cost                                    11,400          4,380
Percent Distribution                                      100            38



- 11 -
3.18      Cost estimates are based on current retail prices in Kenya.  A con-
tingency provision of about 10 percent is included to cover possible under-
estimates both in quantity and per unit cost of inputs. On-ranch investment
costs amount to about US$ 4.0 million. Ranch development would be initiated
in each of three successive years, as would the development of each ranching
operation; hence ranch development would require five years. Development
phasing and relative emphasis given to each of the four types of ranching
enterprises is summarized below:
Development Phasing               On-Ranch
Ranching Enterprises               Years                          Investment
1        2        3      Total           Costs
(0o.)   (No.)   (No.)    (No.)   (US$ 'COO)    (q,)
Group Ranching             5         7        8       20         1,3h4        3L
Company Ranching            2        3        5       10           700        17
Individual Ranching        2         3        5       10            98         3
Cognercial Ranching        5         7        8       20         1,858        46
TOTAL                     14        20       26       60         4,000       100
3.19      Financing of working capital requirements is proposed for two rea-
sons: (a) to establish a channel of lending to pastoral herdsmen for recurrent
needs; and (b) to provide annual financing for the purchase of "immatures" for
fattening. Production increases and expected investment benefits would not be
realized by the ranching enterprises unless working capital, in particular for
fattening operations, is made available. Emphasis on fattening operations
currently permits a fuller and more immediate utilization of investments, and
provides for more viable enterprises. Working capital requirements are based
on an average of the annual requirement during the first formative five years
of development of each ranching enterprise, and includes funds for the purchase
of t"immatures" as well as short-term financing of other operating expenses. It
is expected that commercial ranchers would continue to obtain working capital
from commercial banking sources.  As an alternative, provision would be made
for such capital to be provided by the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC),
if AFC is satisfied that commercial ranchers are unable to obtain working
capital,on satisfactory terms, from established banking sources.
D. Proposed Financing
3.20      The IDA and Swedish Credits would together provide 60 percent of total
costs for on-ranch investments, w-forking capital, supporting technical services,
livestock movement and marketing facilities, and range water survey and develop-
ment. Together, the credits would provide 100 percent of the additional costs
of the ancillary technical services to be provided by the Range Management
Division (RUID) and the Department of Veterinary Services (DVS). Overall, the



-  12  -
Credits would provide 63 percent of total Project cost.i/ 1!Groupflranches would
be unable to contribute to ranch development costs. The three other types of
ranches should, however, be able to contribute 20 percent of development costs,
in cash or kind, and on an average ranching enterprises would provide 15 percent
of on-ranch investment costs. It was assured during negotiations that the
Government would provide all financing not covered by IDA, Sweden or the ranch-
ing enterprises. The total project cost is to be financed as follows:
Ranching                        IDA 1/
Category             Enterprises     Government    and Sweden        lotal
(Amount) 7 )  (Amount)  (%)  (Amount)  (5')  (Amount)
(USs '000 Equivalent)
On-Ranch Investments        600     15   1,000      25   2,h00      60   4,000
Working Capital              -       -      960      40   1,h40     60   2,hCO
Supporting Technical
Services                   -       -      240     40      360     60     600
Livestock Marketing          -       -      800    40   1,200       60   2,000
Range Water Development      -       -      600     40      900     60   1,500
Ancillary Technical
Services (RMD)             -      -        -      -       600    100     600
Ancillary Technical
Services (DVS)             -      -        -             300    100      300
Total Project Cost          600      5   3,600      32   7,200      63  11,400
1/ In equal proportions.
E. Lending Operations
3.21      The Credit would be made on normal IDA terms to the Government, which
would lend to the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) in local currency. A
working capital revolving fund, partially financed by IDA on a "startup' basis
for the Project, would be established in the AFC, an autonomous Government
organization under the general direction of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Animal Husbandry (Annex 12).
3.22      The Government would lend AFC 100 percent of the funds required by
AFC for ranch development, including working capital requirements and supporting
technical services, for a term of 18 years, including a five year grace period
on principal payments. Interest charge would be at the rate of three percent
per annum. IDA and Sweden would disburse to the Government equal percentages
of the amounts advanced to AFC for ranch development (Para. 3.24). AFC would
relend to participating ranching enterprises at an interest rate of 7½5 percent
1/ It is estimated very roughly that external donors should finance between 60
and 65 percent of the cost of "eligible projects" (projects for which some
financing is likely to be provided by external donors), if the foreign ex-
change cost of a total, reasonable, public development program is to be met.



- 13  -
for a term of 12 years, including four years of grace on principal. Relending
terms take account of the slow-yielding nature of on-ranch investments and the
social structure of the ranching enterprises.  The margin to AFC of 4½ percent
for administrative and supporting technical services expenses and net profit is
reasonable under Kenyals conditions. These arrangements were assured during
negotiations,
3.23      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that: (a) the Government
would make available to AFC, promptly as needed and on terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA, funds for ranch development, including working capital re-
quirements and supporting technical services; (b) the Government would bear the
major lending risk with "group" ranching enterprises (Para. 3.05), and would
underwrite both short-term working capital credits and long-term development
loans made to them by AFC under the Project; and (c) the Government would ear-
mark all surplus collections from AFC, attributable to the IDA Credit, for
further development of the agricultural sector.
F. Disbursements
3.24      On the basis of requests submitted by the Ministry of Finance (Trea-
sury), IDA and Sweden would each disburse the following percentages: 35 percent
of disbursements actually made by the AFC under subloans to participating
ranching enterprises and 30 percent of disbursements made by the AFC for supportr-
ing technical services directly related to ranch development under the Project
and for establishment of a working capital revolving fund out of which annual
wiorking capital credits would be made to participating ranching enterprises; 30
percent of expenditures made by the Livestock Marketing Division for the develop-
ment of facilities for livestocl movement and marketing and by the Range Water
Division for the development of facilities for range water survey and develop-
ment; and 50 percent of the expenditures made by the Range Management Division
and by the Department of Veterinary Services for ancillary technical services.
The percentage method of disbursement is proposed since it would not be feasible
to relate IDA's and Swedents oarticipation directly to each individual invest-
ment item. Any undisbursed balance resulting from savings in the amounts allo-
cated in the list of goods for items other than on-ranch investments would be
made available for additional subloans to ranching enterprises.  The AFC would
maintain separate accounts for subloans to ranching enterprises, for technical
services, and for the working capital revolving fund, which would be audited at
specified intervals by accountants acceptable to IDA.  This was assured during
negotiations.  The AFC, under the permanent supervision of the Ministry of
Finance, is audited and reported upon annually by the Auditor General or other
auditors as may be appointed by the Minister of Agriculture.  Arrangements
appear to be satisfactory. The AFC accounts are at present audited by Messrs.
Cooper Brothers ac Company, a British firm of chartered accountants, with offices
in Nairobi. The Treasury and other Project Agencies would also maintain separate
accounts for the Livestock Development Project, which would be audited under
existing Government regulations. Present auditing arrangements appear to be
satisfactory.



- 14 -
G. Financial Operating Results
3.25      The expected financial implications for Government (Treasury) and
for AFC resulting from the Project are set forth in Annex 13. Under activities
evolving from Project funds, the AFC would generate only modest cash surpluses.
Based upon 1CO percent recoveries, estimated cumulative cash surpluses would
amount to the equivalent of approximately US$ 2, 5million in the peak 14th
Project year.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEFIENT
Ae Project Administration
Ranch Development
4.01      A Ranch Division (RD) would be established in the Agricultural Finance
Corporation (AFC) to administer ranch development operations and to provide
supporting technical services to participating ranching enterprises.  The RD
Project Hanager wjould have full responsibility for execution of RD functions,
and would have delegated authoxity commensurate with such responsibility. He
would be ultimately responsible for assisting ranching enterprises in the pre-
paration of individual development plans, approving and recommending these
plans to the Project loan committee as the basis for lending, and for super-
vising the execution of plans for which loans are made. He would also be in
charge of the selection, training and supervision of Project technicians.  Tech-
nicians would be trained specialists,professionally comparable to existing Pro-
vincial Range Officers, employed on a full-time basis, A small Project loan
committee composed of the Chairman of the AFC, the General Manager, and the RD
Project Manager would ratify ranch development plans and would have unrestric-
ted authority to approve all loans recommended by the RD Project Manager.
Facilities for Livestock Movement and Marketing
4,02      The Livestock IIarketing Division (LD), currently under the general
direction of the Department of Veterinary Services (DVS), would be made a sepa-
rate Division in the Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry (MAAH), with
responsibility for the development of a national livestock marketing service,
including the functions of: (a) buying and selling of "immatures", including
auction facilities for both "immatures" and slaughter cattle; (b) development,
operation and maintenance of stock routes and holding grounds; and (c) market
and price information service, It would devote full-time to marketing functions
and would ensure that producers be allowed to sell their livestock when appro-
priate, and coordinate activities in establishing pricing and marketing policies
to provide adequate and continuing producer incentive for investment. The DVS,
in cooperation w-jith the LMD, would continue to have major responsibility for the
supervision and operation of stock routes and holding grounds only with regard
to animal health and Veterinary control measures.
Range IJater Survey and Management
4.03      A Range Water Division (RiMD) would be established under the liater



- 15 -
Development Department of the I4AAH, currently responsible for all water develop-
ment functions, to consolidate present activities and to devote full-time to
range water survey and development activities, with responsibility for: (a)
investigation and survey; (b) construction and development, including work
carried out on a contract basis; and (c) operation and maintenance of all range
water installations under the Project.
Ancillary Technical Services
4.04      The existing Range IMIanagement Division and the Department of Veterinary
Services would be responsible for the ancillary technical services aspects of
the Project.
Range Livestock Authority
4.05      A Range Livestock Authority (RLA) would be established to provide over-
all Project guidance, to establish Project policies, and to coordinate the ac-
tivities of all the Agencies concerned, It would not become directly involved
in Project execution. The Permanent Secretary of the MASH represented by the
Head of the Range lIanagement Division would be Chairman of the RLA to be com-
posed of representatives of the AFC's Project Loan Cornittee, the Livestock
Marketing Division's and the Range WTater Division's existing Coordinating Com-
mittees and the ranching and livestock industry. The AFC Ranch Divisionts Pro-
ject Manager and the Heads of the Livestock I'Iarketing Division and the Range
Water Division would also be members.  It was assured during negotiations that
the proposed Project organizational structure wJould be established prior to
signing of the Credit Agreement. Details of Project organization are show-n in
Annex 14.
Lending Policies
4.o6      Loans to ranching enterprises would be made on the basis of ranch
development plans prepared by RD field technicians and approved by the RD Pro-
ject Manager.  The RD technicians, assisted by AFC legal staff, would be res-
ponsible for financial evaluations and inspection of collaterals of loan appli-
cants, and for recommendations concerning long-term development loans as well
as short-term loans for working capital. Loans would not be used for purchase
of breeding females without IDA approval. Individual loans exceeding US$ 200,000
equivalent would require prior IDA approval. Loan approval would be by the AFC
Project Loan Committee in Nairobi, and approved loans would be processed through
the Nairobi AFC office. These policies were assured during negotiations.
Recruitment and Staffing
4.07      The RD Project Manager and the Heads of the ISD and RID would be inter-
nationally recruited, acceptable to, and appointed on terms and conditions sa-
tisfactory to IDA, before the Credit Agreement becomes effective. Adequate
staffing of the three Project Agencies (RD, LMD, and Rh.D) may require additional
overseas recruitment. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that ade-
quately qualified personnel would be recruited and maintained for all Project
Agencies including the AFC, during the IDA disbursement period.



- 16 -
B. Procurement
4.08      Ranch devolopment goods would be purchased by participating ranching
enterprises through normal commercial channels.  All goods required for the Pro-
ject are available through local suppliers and representatives of international
firms, of which there are sufficient number to provide adequate competition in
the supply of the goods required. These have adequate distribution and service
facilities and would be appropriate for procurement requirements of the Project.
Duties charged on imports are reasonable and there are no undue discriminatory
import quotas or controls. Competition is keen among the contractors who would
install water facilities. Only local procurement of livestock is anticipated.
All purchases of "immatures't for fattening and improved bulls for breeding pur-
poses would be through the LKID or ILHD supervised auction sales and subject to
the approval of the RD Project MYanager with respect to quality, source and
animal health standards. All expenditures under the Project would be authorized
and coordinated by the RD Projec-t I-anager and the respective Heads of the con-
cerned Government Agencies (UhiD, R1D., BI4D and DVS).
C. MIarketinR
4.o9      The Kenya Meat Commission (I0IC), a Government Agency which functions
under a Board of Commissioners appointed mainly by the 1Iinister of Agriculture,
has played an important role in the development of K'Xenya's livestock industry,
especially in the establishment of an export marklet for canned corned beef.  It
has been granted certain monopoly powers covering the purchase, processing and
marketing of slaughter stock, which at this point in time appear to be a deter-
rent to further development of the livestock industry.  ITroved marlkets and
marketing arrangements should be developed to provide producers and stock traders
with more markets and market outlets and at times when they are ready to sell
their cattle. Government annually fixes prices paid by 12C to producers for
slaughter stock and wholesale meat prices charged by 1I2'C to local butchers. A
thorough analysis of livestock and meat prices and price relationships is needed,
to further determine the appropriateness of present fixed prices for animals and
meat.
4.1o      Existing arrangements and policies for livestock marketing have two
principal deficiencies: (a) incentives and facilities for the flow of "imma-
tures" (feeder cattle) from primary producer (breeder) to the secondary pro-
ducer (fattener) are inadequate; and (b) marketing of feeder and slaughter
cattle is governed by rigidities, such as marketing quotas, prices fixed without
regard for seasonal changes in supply-demand conditions, and marketing practices
which tend to discourage private cattle traders ("inmatures") and local butchers
(slaughter cattle) from competitive participation in the marketing process. Im-
provement in these deficiencies would be effected in part by the provision of
facilities for livestock movement and marketing (stock routes, holding grounds,
auction facilities), but appropriate Government policies are necessary to pro-
vide greater incentives to the producer to increase his investment and produc-
tivity. The Government would undertake a thorough analysis of livestock (feeder
and slaughter cattle) and beef prices, price relationships and marketing methods,
as a basis for establishing such policies. It was assured during negotiations
that the Government wculd complete the analysis within six months of signing,
and in consultation with IDA take steps to implement the appropriate policies.



- 17  -
4.11      Under the Project, the hiD, ICIC and private traders wgould all be
encouraged to eng-ge in transactions involving "imrnatures", and their movement
to fattening areas would be effected through stock routes and other marketing
facilities, including auction sales, to be provided by the Project. Fat steers,
the principal cornodity produced by the Project, would continue to be sold to
DIC on a cold dressed weight basis so as to maintain floor prices, but not to
the exclusion of local butchers who would also continue to purchase, by nego-
tiated or auction sale, other slaughter cattle resulting from the Project.
Conditions for rail and truck transport of slaughter cattle need further im-
provement, but are considered adequate for the Project. Any beef export, either
as chilled/frozen or processed beef, resulting from the Project, would be
through existing and proposed arrangements, considered to be adequate for the
Project.  Half of the present KD1C annual beef  output is sold domestically in
Kenya and the rest is exported.
V.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION,
5.01      The benefits to participating ranching enterprises from investments
made under the Project are detailed in Annexes 15 through 18. The estimates
are based on representative model ranches for each of the four ranching enter-
prises. Expected results per ranch at various stages of development are
summarized below:
After         After
Item                   Before               Seven          Twelve
Development         Years          Years
35,000 Acre "Group" Ranch - Average Investment Cost of US$ 67,200
Net Beef Output, Tons CDW 1/             21.0               97.2          105.2
Net Profit, f '000 2/                     1.6                6.1            7.0
Herd Value, B '000                       2245               49.5           50.6
64,000 Acre "Company" Ranch - Average Investment Cost of US$ 70,000
Net Beef Output, Tons CDW 1/                               106.3          129.0
Net Profit, I '000 2/                                        7.2            8.9
Herd Value, E '000                       10.0               43.3           49.0
2,000 Acre "Individual" Ranch - Average Investment Cost of US$ 9,800
Net Beef Output, Tons CDW 1/              0.9                8.4            9.3
Net Profit, B '000 2/                     0.1                0.7            0.9
Herd Value, E '000                        1.0                2.1            2.2
30,000 Acre "Ccmmercial" Ranch - Average Investment Cost of USt 92,200
Net Beef Output, Tons CDWJ 1/           110.0              156.2          160.0
Net Profit, B '000 2/                     5.L               12.0           12.1
Herd Value, B '000                       71.0               75.0           75.5
1/ Tons CDU- are long tons of 2,240 lbs cold dressed weight (CDOTN).
2/ Before debt servicing.



- 18 -
5.02      The proposed on-ranch investments, including working capital and
supporting technical services, uould result in an overall improvement in herd
and ranch output, with improved weaning rate, reduced mortality, higher carry-
ing capacity, and increased offtake underlying the expected productivity gains.
Net operating profit would rise substantially after six years. This is due in
part to a change in herd composition and increased herd numbers and producti-
vity,but also to the introduction of fattening operations, essential to the
viability of the ranching enterprises.  The return calculations (Annex 19 -
Table 1) show that the financial returns to the ranching enterprises would be
about 11, 14, 12 and 12 percent, respectively, for "group", "ccmpany","indivi-
dual", and "commercial" ranches.
5.03      Even though the rate of return estimated for "group" ranching enter-
prises is of the same magnitude as that obtained for other ranching operations,
participation in "group" ranching is undertaken as a calculated risk. However,
despite the social difficulties and greater financial risk of "group" ranching,
its potential for increasing livestock production should be carefully considered
since large areas of Africa are given over to traditional pastoralism and some
countries have little else as an economic resource. "Group"ranching is consider-
ed to be socially the most feasible proposal yet made for a constructive approach
to economic change in traditional pastoral societies. Kenya appears the most
effective setting in w-which its potential might be assessed, because there is a
national livestock industry into which "group" ranches can be fitted; and the
Kaputiei Section of the Masai tribe seems the most appropriate place to start.
The possible multiplier effect in Kenya of "group" ranching and the prospect
that (suitably modified according to context) the "group" ranch model would be
widely applicable on the African continent, should outweigh the financial risk
initially involved (Para.'s 8-12, Annex 12).
5.04      The expected impact of the Project on I'enya's livestock production
would be modest for this first stage. The major benefit would be increased
sales of slaughter cattle. At full development, it is expected that 26,000
additional slaughter cattle would result annually from the Project (18,000
purchased steers - "iminatures" - and 8,000 head from increased herd production),
representing an increment of about 5,300 long tons of carcass beef valued at
approximately US$ 2.0 million at current prices to the producer. Moreover,
about lO,CCO breeding age heifers would be added to the national herd annually
from Project ranches, valued at about US$ 0.6 million, some of w.ihich may be
exported to other East African Countries. The analysis for the return to the
economy was done in three stages. For the purpose of the analysis the Project
was divided into: (a) on-ranch investments in participating ranching enter-
prises (ranch develcpment); (b) investment in Northeast Kenya to provide facil-
ities for livestock movement and marketing, range water development and ancil-
lary technical services; and (c) a combination of these two. In the first
stage of the analysis the benefits and costs pertaining to ranch development
were compared and a rate of return obtained.  The rate thus computed was 11
percent (Annex 19 - Table 2 - Section A). In the second stage of the analysis
the benefits (revenue from sale of "immatures" from Northeast Kenya to partici-
pating ranching enterprises for finishing) and the costs (investments in the
provision of facilities and services to Northeast Kenya) were compared to ob-
tain a rate of return of 27 percent (Annex 19 - Table 2 - Section B). Finally,



- 19 -
as an estimate of the return to the economy of the Project as a whole, the net
flows corresponding to ranch development and provision of facilities and ser-
vices to Northeast Kenya were combined and a rate of return of 15 percent
obtained (Annex 19 - Section C - Table 2).
5.05      The economic return calculations do not take into account the fact
that additional benefits would result from improved market orientation of pas-
toral tribes, from development of national marketing services, from demonstra-
tion of proper production techniques on Project ranches, and from training of
Kenyan personnel in livestock development lending. Given the large untapped
resources of Kenya's livestock sector, these intangible benefits should prove
to be substantial. Moreover, the other indirect benefit of technical livestock
production which would derive from the initiation of technically-oriented lend-
ing to the livestock sector, though difficult to quantify, could be of consider-
able importance.
VI.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECO11ENDATIONS
6.01      The Project is the first stage of the Government's long-term range
livestock development program, aimed principally at increasing beef production
and particularly to the extent possible by traditional pastoral societies. The
return on investments is satisfactory both to individual ranching enterprises
and the economy as a whole.
6.02      The Project is sound and suitable for an IDA Credit of US$ 3.6 mil-
lion.  The borrower would be the Republic of Kenya which would relend a part
of the proceeds of the Credit to the AFC in Kenya shillings. AFC would make
both long-term development loans and short-term working capital credits to
participating ranching enterprises. A Ranch Division (RD) established in the
AFC would administer ranch development. A part of the proceeds of the Credit
would also be used in connection with livestock marketing, to be administered
by the Livestock Marketing Division (LMD) of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Animal Husbandry, and a part would be used for range water development, to be
administered by the Range Water Division (RIOT) of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Animal Husbandry.
6.03      During negotiations, the following arrangements for the signing and
effectiveness of the Credit Agreement were agreed with the Government and the
following assurances obtained:
(a) Before signing of the Credit Agreement, Government would:
(i) assure that the Land Titles Adjudication Act 1968 and
the Land (Group Representatives) Act 1968 have been
enacted by Parliament (Para. 3.0h); and
(ii) cause the Range Livestock Authority and other Project
Agencies to be established, and agree with IDA as to
their composition, functions and powers (Para. 4h05)../
(b) Before the Credit Agreement becomes effective, Government
would:
1/ These conditions have been met.



- 20 -
(i) cause the appointments of the RD Project Manager and
the ITeads of the IiD and RSD, internationally recruited
and acceptable to IDA, and on termas and conditions
satisfactory to IDA (Para. h.07).
(c)  During the life of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the
Government would:
(i)  assure that the LMD would screen and vaccinate, against
appropriate endemic diseases, including foot-and-mouth
disease, all cattle at collection holding grounds in
Northeast Kenya prior to movement along stock routes
(Para. 3,12);
(ii)  assure that the RWD would undertake feasibility studies
of the two proposed range water development sites of
W!Tajir and Garissa, prior to initiation of construction
in either region, under terms of reference acceptable
to IDA (Para. 3.15);
(iii)  make funds available, promptly as needed, through the
LMD for development of facilities for livestock move-
ment and marketing, through the Range Management
Division and the Department of Veterinary Services
for ancillary technical services, and through the RHD
for range water survey and development (Para. 3.20);
(iv) make available to the AFC, promptly as needed and on
terms and conditions agreed to TAth IDA, funds for
ranch development, including working capital require-
ments and supporting technical services (Para.'s 3.22
and 3.23); bear the major lending risk with "group'"
ranching enterprises by underwriting both short-term
working capital credits and long-term development
loans made to them by the AFC under the Project (Para.
3.23); and earmark all surplus collections from the
AFC, attributable to the IDA Credit, for development of
the agricultural sector (Para. 3.23);
(v)  assure that adequately qualified personnel would be
recruited and maintained, for all Project Agencies
including the AFC, duiring the IDA disbursement period
(Para. 4.07); and
(vi) undertake a thorough analysis of livestock (feeder
and slaughter cattle) and beef prices, price relation-
ships and marketing methods, to be completed within
six months of signing, and in consultation with IDA
take steps to implement the appropriate policies
(Para. 4.10).



- 21 -
6.oh      During negotiations, the following arrangements for the signing and
effectiveness of the Credit Agreement were agreed with the Agricultural
Finance Corporation and the following assurances obtained:
(a) Before signing of the Credit Agreement, the AFC would:
(i) establish a Ranch Division, including a Project Loan
Committee, with composition, functions and powers
satisfactory to IDA (Para.?s 4.01 and 4.05). 1/
(b) Before the Credit Agreement becomes effective, the AFC would:
(i) appoint an internationally recruited RD Project Manager
acceptable to IDA and define his duties, responsibili-
ties and powers in a manner satisfactory to IDA (Para 's
4.01 and 4.07).
(c) During the life of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the AFC
would:
(i)  assure that lending to "group", "company and "indi-
vidual" ranching enterprises would only be initiated
after the legal prerequisites appropriate to each
type of lending (Para.'s 3.04, 3.07 and 3.09) have
been completed:
(ii) ensure that all cattle purchased or sold by partici-
pating ranching enterprises be vaccinated against
foot-and-mouth disease, except those being railed or
trucked directly to slaughter (Para. 3.12);
(iii) agree with IDA upon the general terms and conditions
of ranch development and working capital loans to
participating ranching enterprises (Para.'s 3.22 and
3.23);
(iv) establish and maintain separate accounts for the Live-
stock Development Project, including accounts for sub-
loans to ranching enterprises, for a working capital
revolving fund, and for supporting technical services,
and arrange for the auditing of these accounts by
accountants, and at intervals, acceptable to IDA
(Para. 3.24); and
(v)  make subloans to participating ranching enterprises
only on the basis of ranch development plans approvedi
by the RD Project Manager, and obtain specific IDA
approval on all individual ranch development subloans
larger than US$ 200,000 equivalent.  Loans would not
be used for the purchase of breeding females without
IDA approval (Para. 4.o6).
1/ This condition has been met.
August 1, 1968



LNNEX 1
KENYA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANIMAL HEALTH
1.        The Departzent of Veterinary Services (DVS) has been quite effective in the
performance of its veterinary duties, in spite of its lack of a full complement of
professional staff. It has full responsibility for all disease control measures.
Professional competence and overall effectiveness has been adequate. The DVS is
actively pursuing control of the important diseases limiting cattle movement and
production. Three veterinary research units, in existence for many years and
operated under high professional standards, are at present engaged in various
aspects of veterinary research and vaccine production. Veterinary field services
provide adequate coverage of the high agricultural potential regions, but need
strengthening in the range areas. Provision for this is made under the Project.
2.        Animal health problems reflect: (a) insufficient resources and infra-
structure for application of effective disease control measures in an environment
made difficult by the prevailing traditional pastoral production system followed
in most of the rangelands; (b) the presence and uncontrolled movement of wild game
which share grazing lands with domestic stock together with some clandestine cattle
movement from infected to susceptible areas; and (c) the endemic disease situation
prevalent throughout East Africa, characterized by the presence of a number of
diseases which have impeded the development of the livestock industry. Of these,
anthrax and blackleg are of minor significance and are controlled by vaccination.
iriderpest, once a major "killer" and limiting factor to development of the live-
stock industry, is now controlled through a compulsory "free" vaccination program.
Tick infestations produce a gross debilitating effect,and cysticercus bovis (beef
measles) has an adverse economic consequence because carcasses with cysts are con-
demned. This infestation is not considered a limiting factor to production or
movement of cattle. Its control is a human health problem, since man is an inter-
mediate host. Government has made progress in the control of most of the other
important diseases limiting animal movement and production. These are: (a) con-
tagious bovine pleuropneumonia (CBPP); (b) foot-and-mouth disease (FIID); (c)
trypanosomiasis (the vector for which is tsetse fly which renders vast areas of
potential grazing land uninhabitable for cattle); (d) theileriasis (East Coast
Fever - ECF); and (e) other tick-borne diseases.
3.        Low herd productivity and high death losses, once attributable to dis-
eases, are now associated more with inadequate management and environmental
factors than with infectious diseases. For example, severe droughts not only
result in high death losses, but also contribute to the spread of diseases since
mixing of herds occurs during droughts at communal grazing and watering places.
The success achieved in controlling the animal diseases limiting livestock move-
ment and production has removed a major obstacle to development of a viable live-
stock industry. If this is coupled with a more vigorous and positive approach
in the screening and vaccination of cattle at the collection holding grounds in
Northeast Kenya, movement along stock routes should become normal and adequate
for immediate requirements.
4.        As a result of a National program of compulsory free vaccination for
the control of rinderpest, only occasional sporadic outbreaks are reported. These



ANNEX 1
Page 2
are adequately controlled by vaccination. Over 80 percent of the cattle pcpula-
tion is protected by vaccination and rinderpest is no longer a limiting factor
in terms of movement or production of cattle.
5.        Until recently C3PP had been successfully confined to the endemic re-
gions of Narok Masailand and Turkana, through a vigorous control program. Control
efforts consist in blood testing and vaccination, and allowing only those animals
destined directly for slaughter to be moved out of the regions. It has recently
been found that clandestine movement of cattle into Northeast Kenya, from neigh-
boring countries, poses a threat to further spread of CBPP. Because of this, all
animals that would be moved out of Northeast Kenya, under the Project, would be
screened for CBPP and animals found to be infected would not be moved.
6.        FMD is widespread and represents a major hinderance to international
trade in livestock and livestock products. It must therefore assume increasing
importance where production is geared for export. It is endemic in the main
cattle regions, where outbreaks are ccntrolled by quarantine which restricts
stock movement, especially whentheyoccur on stock routes or holding grounds.
Vaccination is practiced on a very limited scale, primarily because of the high
cost of vaccine. The production of low cost vaccine is being pursued by the
Wellcome Institute at Nairobi. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that all cattle moving along stock routes out of Northeast Kenya and those pur-
chased or sold by participating ranching enterprises, except those railed or
trucked for immediate slaughter, would be vaccinated against FMD.
7.        Trypanosomiasis is considered to be of major importance, because tsetse
fly occupy vast areas, thereby precluding usage of such areas for cattle. It also
presents difficulty in movement of cattle along stock routes that go through
tsetse fly infested areas. The practice of moving cattle under trypanocidal pro-
tection has been found to give reasonably satisfactory results.
8.        A variety of ticks occur and act as vectors for a group of livestock
diseases, of which the most important is ECF. It is considered that losses from
ECF seriously limit the rate of increase in the national herd. Fortunately, ticks
responsible for transmitting ECF can be effectively controlled by routine dipping
of cattle every five days even where infestations are heavy.



ANNIEX 2
KENYA
LIVESTOCK DhMELOPI1AFT PLOJEGCT
SOCIAL FEASIBILITY
IlUTRODU CT ION
1,        Six types of development measures were proposed by Kenya Govern-
ment to increase livestock production.  Ranked in sequence according to
the degree of sophistication involved, these measures run fram vater devel-
opment schemes (involving minimal changes and the sim.plest inputs) through
community grazing scheme group ranching, company ranching, individual
ranching and culminate in commercial ranching (with complex inputs, and
essentially similar to ranching operations found in more developed areas
of the world). Only the first five of these assume economic and cultural
change for traditional tribal societies (see iHap 1 of this Annex for the
tribal societies concerned, and Appendix 1 for the social features of tra-
ditional herding societies relevant to economic development).
I,WATER DVJEWIMP;AENT SCHE1ES
2.        Kenya proposed the installation of additional water supplies in
its arid iNortheastern (N.E.) region, on the assumption that provision of
water alone Will make for increased productivity by allouing the miore
systematic use of available grazing. There were no associated proposals
for stock control, for changes in the present ownership of land and animals,
or for efforts to increase the market orientation of producers. (Stock-
route development may partially meet this last criterion, however.)
3.        The economic rationale for Government's proposals is sound.
Despite unsatisfacto:-7 statistical data there seem grounds for believing
a considerable reservoir of marketable livestock to exist in the N.1E.
(estimated in 1964 at approximately one million head). If this can be
more systematically tapped then the livestock industry of the country as
a uiole would benefit.  Although the environment is harsh, the cattle
produced (Boran-type) have low water requirements, considerable powers of
heat endurance, resistance to local diseases, and a large-framed build
excellently suited for fattening operations in more favorable areas of
Kenya. The Somali peoples of the region are market-oriented, readily
selling both their own livestock and animals w7hich they acquire by barter
from other neighboring tribes. There are established buying centers.
4.        The social feasibility of the proposals is much less clear.  A
single style of organization and incentive for development would be diffi-
cult to produce because the peoples of the N.E, are diverse (Somali, Boran,



AlNNLX 2
Page 2
Gabbra, Orma, Rendille). The various peoples of the area are also divided
into independent tribes claiming associated stretches of territory, which
will affect optimal siting of water sources.  Some of the Somali population
is politically disaffected. Bands of arrned rebels (shifta) present a
security problem for both herding and trading over much of the area, and
may well impede efficient construction of water installations.  i4ost Somali
groups show poor "water discipline" in that they make destructive use of
water installations by trampling fences, digging out tanks Tohen they ciry
up, etc.: more conservationist use is typical o-^ other neighboring tribes.
Non-Somali peoples generally keep more cattle, but are less market-oriented
than are Somalis.  Complexities ol' this kind do not seern to have been fully
considered by Government thus far; but if such factors are dealt with, then
the benefits anticipated from a range water development program could be
realized, and result in a more steady flovJ of immatures out of the N.E.
for fattenin- operations elsewhere in Kenya.
COlklITKIUTY GRAZI1G SCHEI'S
50        Community grazing schemes involve the derarcation of land areas
for controlled grazing on an agreed rotation, and with livestock numbers
limited in accordance with assessed carrying capacity, There are no changes
in ownership of land or animals.  Tihere are no measures to initiate or
increase a market orientation of the stock owners.  (Livestock above the
assessed carmryng capacity of the land have only to be moved out of an
area, not disposed of entirely.) The schemes were proposed by Government
for areas not thought suitable for the fuller development implied by group
ranching.
6.        Such areas (Turkana, West Pokot, Samburu) are occupied by pastoral
tribes, iho raise livestock by traditional meanis (free grazing, with move-
ment to pasture and water wsherever these may be) and for traditional ends
(subsistence on herd produce, exchange for wrives, acquisition of status,
and the sheer emotional satisfaction of sLimply possessing cattle). Despite
variationi in their environments, livestock resources and market exposure,
all three tribes can be considered as having no significant level of expec-
tation of consuner goods; consequently no ge-neral or permanent desire to
exchange livestock for other forms of wealth via marketing; and so no
interest in designing their herding operations with explicit intent of
commercial livestock disposal.
7.        It is doubtful that finance is really the liminting factor to
development in this situation. Various grazing schemes have alrea4 been
tried in two of the areas (Samburu, West Pokot).  But since stock owners
wzere merely required to move their animals out of demarcated zones, they
m.,oved them to adjacent areas which become overgrazed in turn.  Furthermore,
the people themselves did not wiant the schemes and took the opportunity of
national independence to abandon them.  W;7ithout long-term efforts at educa-
tion and persuasion, there vill be little chance of establishing either a
market orientation in the minds of the people or a market rationality in



ANNEX 2
Page 3
the structure of their herds. Accordingly, thby present little in the way
of a constructive development opportunity at the present time, Therefore,
they have been excluded from the Project.
GROUP RAiCHII'TG
S.        Group ranches are production enterprises in -wihich a group of
people jointly have title to land, collectively maintain agreed stocking
levels, market the surplus in rotation, herd their livestock collectively
as sex/age aggregates, yet continue to own the livestock as individuals.
They were proposed by Governm-ent as the appropriate production device for
areas uhich offered environmental and livestock potential, yet in which a
subsistence econormy, decentralized tribal organizationi and conservative
values all prevented any immediate and general transition to more advanced
forms of ranching. Four pastoral tribes (Hisai, Samb-ru, Pokot, Turkana)
and several Bantu agricultural groups (Embu, IKamba, coastal peoples) iw;ere
proposed for this purpose.
2,        The potential importance of group ranching relates mainly to
traditional pastoral societies,'here livestock are individually owqned and
run but where the natural resources required (pasture, water) are collec-
tively owned by social grooups.  Initial attempts to develop group ranches
can therefore be miore usefully concentrated in suchi pastoral areas, rather
than among agricultural societies where individual ow-nership and exploita-
tion of land is already well established.  However, the four pastoral tribes
suggested by Governmient are quite varied in their organization and environ-
ments, and therefore offer very dirferent prospects for development. Since
Turkana and Poko`v are environmentally quite poor (as well as socially, con-
servative), it seems inadvisable to attempt group ranching among them until
more is known, through practical experience, about the factors w4hich affect
the viability of such operations.
10.       Sarmburu and Hasai are environmentally more promising, but Masai
offer a better social and organizational prospect for development. Among
1-iasai there is a clear association of particular social groups with particular
stretches oL territory, and such groups have preemptive rights to the
natural resources in those distinct territories. It is therefore feasible
to take a segment of the population, and its associated land area, for
autonomous development: provided these people themselves agree, no objec-
tion or interference from thle rest of the society is possible.  Ilthough
such group territories are far too extensive to run as single ranching
enterprises, they contain recognized subgroups w7hich can be established as
ranches (Iap 2 shows the groups arid subgroups referred to).  These are
local groups in which--traditiolnall-y--people of different family groups,
owning and operating their separate herds individually, nevertheless show
common loyalties, a degree of mutual assistance, and a comnon concern for
the effective use of a single area centeredl on a particular permanent water
supply.  These organizational advantages do not exist among Saraburu, who
believe rather that their land belongs to all the people and that any
tribesman can therefore move anywhere.



AIlThTLX 2
Page a
U.        Present i4asai attitudes also offer better prospects than do those
of Samburu. Nasai interpreted  .he drought and famine years of 1959-1961 as
proof that they w-ere overstocked (as Government had long contended) but
Samburu interpreted co.parable misfortunes in the same years as due to
continual Government interference with their oun preferred stocking rate.
Thus while MIsai have become interested in giving a new structure to their
herds, for market purposes, Samburu have increasingly combated any such
suggestions and want only more cattle--and the land of adjoining European
ranches in Laikipia to run tlhem on.
12.       Despite the social difficulties and financial risk of group
ranching, its potential for increasing livestock production should be
carefully considered since large areas of Africa are given over to tradi-
tionalpastoralism and some countries have little else as an econoriic resource.
Group raiching is socially the most feasible proposal yet made 'for construc-
tive economic change in traditional pastoral societies. Kenya appears the
most effective setting in which its potential might be assessed, because
there is a national livestock industry into which group ranches can be
fitted; and the Kaputuiei section of the 4Iasai tribe seems the most feasible
place to start.  The possible multiplier effect in Kenya of group ranching
and the prospect that (suitably r*iodified according to contexL) the group
ranch model uould be widel;v applica'ole on tne African continent, should
together outweigh the financial risk initially involved. Social as well
as financial probleis are likely to be encountered--particularly the even-
tual need to resettle most of the human population of pastoral areas else-
where and in other occupations if ranches in ally modern sense are ultimately
to emerge.  Ken7ya appears to have given little thought to this so far, but
should strongly be urged to do so.
COI4PAI'N iACHIING
13.       Company ranches are production enterprises in -which land is
leased frcm Government by a number of shareholders who put up cattle or
a cash equivalent to stock it. Animals are collectively owned and disposed
of, and the profit shared according to prior agreer,ient. Day-to-day direc-
tion of ranch affairs is under the control of paid management hired by or
on behalf of the shareholders. Government proposed the Kiamba, ISeru and
Taita peoples as suitable for this form of livestock development. (Initially,
Government's proposal was for bo-th cooperative and company ranches) but as
proposed, there -as little actual difference between them and the social
feasibility of both would be identical)
14.       Kamba, Pieru and Taita are much alike:  Bantu-speaking agricultur-
ists, engaged in predominantly=r subsistence agriculture writh ancillary
livestock-raising and cash cropping on small plots in densely populated
areas (mainly 100-500 persons per square mile), with many educated and
progressive members, showing a high demand for consumer goods and services.
Nonetheless, Taita presents the best development opportunity. Their
crowded hill settlements (holdings average half an acre) are adjoined by



AX NEX 2
Page 5
Government-owned lowlands unsettled for lack of water, which may be taken
up without the litigation otherwise unavoidable in societies with complex
land law.  The Taita woild be living on, and committed to, the ranches as
complete enterprises--whereas in Kamba and lNleru the pattern is for absentee
shareholders with quite different (mainly middle class) primary occupations.
Taita value livestock higlily, but nonemotionally and so would be economi-
cally motivated to engage in ranching. They have an acceptable degree of
livestock-handling ability.  Their market orientation, developed by dealing
with cash crops, could readily be adapted to livestock transactions. The
proposed resettlemient areas are strategically close to IIombasa, with its
rapidly increasing population, and to proposed national stock routes.
Givren Kenyals limited practical experience in dealing iJithl production
schemes of this kind, there is a strong case for concentrating initial
development in Taita rather than in other areas of lesser advantage.
INDIVIDUAL PiAiTCHLG
15.       Individual ranches are production enterprises in uhich an indi-
vidual member ol a society may, with community- consent and the authorization
of the local County Council, alienate communal land and legally register
it as private property. On that property the individual runs his own live-
stock, at an agreed stocking rate dependin- on the assessed carrying
capacity of the land, and with conscious intent to give his herd a market-
oriented rather than a subsistence structure. This market orientation
involves both the culling of animals in a manner and at a rate totally
different from that practiced by his comriunity at large, and the buying
in of immatures for later disposal in a regular fashion.  The entire pro-
duction scheme, particularly in pastoral areas, is the absolute antithesis
of traditional herding operations, Individual ranching is intended, ini-
tially, for the Kajiado District af Ken-ya 1Iasailand.
16.       Individual ranching started in Ulasailand in 1957, and there are
now 37 such enterprises in active operation in Kajiado District with seven
more requests for individual enclosure pending before the County Council.
It is these individual Easai operations that are largely responsible for
present tribal interest in livestock development, because they have
presented change in a manner which the ordinary tribesmen can understand.
As-for example--when one rancher lost only 10 out of his 148 head of
cattle during the drought year of 1960/61 (withi overall liasai stock losses
estimated at 400,000 head) and in addition had surplus milk for sale
throughout this famine period.  Or when the widows of a rancher took over
her late husband's holdings and ran it successfully with hired labor.  Or
when individual ranchers and other educated 1asai in 1959 evolved the idea
of "group ranching" as suitable for people who could not rmanage an enter-
prise individually.  Individual ranching ca,nnot be extended indefinitely
in iJasailand, given the area available, the present population, and environ-
mental conditions; and Government is unlikely to entertain any further
claims to individual enclosure than are now befo;e the various County
Councils. But the active encouragement of individual ranching, initially



A!nMIX 2
Page 6
in Kajiado District, is highly desirable. The i:asai have shown themselves
capable of it, and a hanidful of successful individual entrepreneurs can do
much to catalyze economic change, particularly by providing an example of
market-oriented livestock production to group ranches in the samae area,
COilERCIAL RANCHING
17.       Further development of the commercial (European) ranching nector
and initial development of the unoccupied coastal hinterland require no
significant social changes.



AffiTiX 2
Appendix 1
KEI,YA
LIVESTOCK D=VIMOPIE17i PtOJECT
SOCIAL FEASIBLIITY
SOiP  SOCIAL EEATURES 2EARING OT 2CO0O1IC MLWELOP.EEW
1,        Certain socio-economic features of traditional herding societies
are particularly relevant to proposals for their economic (and social)
development.  They are given belowi in the barest summary form, hopefully
to allow their application to different societies.
2.        Livestock are individually ow-ned. Within specifiable limaits
they can therefore be sold, bought, culled and othenrise manipulated for
a particular puropose.
3.        The natural resources necessany for livestock production are not
individually owned (except in minor and tangential fashion).  They are
community resources.  "Cormiunity" is subject to variable definition, of
course, but it always involves collections or groups of stock o,ners.
There is an opportunistic use of resources (grazing, water) by
individual herd oianers, and a corresponding emphasis on their short-term
rather than long-term use.
5.        The association of particular human groups (and their livestock)
with particular areas of territory is quite flexible.  Such association is
subject to seasonal change and to pressure of demznd. People followr the
rain and grass resources as these change.
6.        Livestock are usually distinguishable as major property (cattle;
camels in some areas) and small stock (sheep and goats) with markedly
different values attached to each kind, which are reflected in differential
attitudes and patterns of use.  Small stock are everyrday currency, a
cushion against disaster and the slow build-up in cattle and camel herds.
They have predominantly a simple subsistence use. Iajor livestock (cattle
or camels) are a multiple value, not a single value:  they do not rmerely
stand for, and so are not always readily translatable into, a money value.
They represent prestige, power, social relationships, prerequisites for
adulthood, marriage, self-identification, etc.  They have, finally, some
aesthetic value in and on' themselves--a satisfaction as such. They are
also a necessary means of survival in a marginal environment, of course.
7.        Livestock herds are generally designed to meet the requirements
of subsistence-and by use rather than by slaughter--during the harshest
periods of an uncertain seasonal cycle.  Thus, one finds a high proportion



AZN-,Y: 2
Appendix 1
Page 2
of female stock, steers used for bleeding, a high ratio of cattle/hurans,
etc., and considerable numbers of small stock (allowing for the separation
of major stock and humans). This design is radically at variance with the
design usually desired for cacmercial ranching.
8.        Livestock aggregates and huzan groups are not onlly ecologically
interdependent as populations, they are socially and syntactically asso-
ciated in unitary fashion:  e.g. "herd" and "family" are mutually defining
ideas in most pastoral societies, so that attempts to change herd size or
composition may be seen as attempts to tamper with family relationships
also.
9.        The basic form of pastoral econonr is thus manj cattle tended by
(and supporting at subsistence level) marZr people; which contrasts completely
with the developed ranch situation of many cattle, tended by few people,
and excess livestock meant for market distribution.
10.       A major probleri in anyr move fron subsistence herding to commercial
ranching is thus (paradoxically) not so much the livestock problem of
surplus and under-conditioned animals as the huyian problem of surplus and
under-trained people--for whom some jobs and homes must be found outside
the proposed ranch enterprise.
11.       Livestock being the principal--and soietimes perhaps the only--
value in tlhese societies, the problem of cash incentive arises.  Often
there is no, insulficient or irregular demiand for money by these societies.
This means that their market entry is spasmodic, unpredictable and low in
volume--all ofL whfaich are antithetical to the typical market requirements
of a regular and predcdtable flow and a satisfacto-r level of production
of beasts.
12.       rdien changes from subsistence herding to ranchl econormy are being
proposed, what is therefore being proposed is a near-total revolution in
the life-style of such a society. That life-style represents an excellent
and highly integrated adaptation to their present social and environmental
requirements (how,ever, it may look from the standpoint of marketing).  It
has been, aid wrill be, difficult to change.  Such a change is only worth
contemplating as feasible because it enables such peoples to continue
doing (in however greatly modified a fashion) what they most value and are
good at doing--handling cattle.  And because it proposes an ecologically
feasible solution (rangeland econonm) for the areas they inhabit.  Such a
change from one state to the other always bristles lath difficulties, but
it is possible for these societies; and in the contect of todayts worldj
in their owm countries as well as internationally, it is necessary if
they are to survive at all.
13.       Given thlese socio-economic factors, tle features which are most
likely to be crucial for the success of development projects are:



A i rX 2
Appendix I
Page 3
(a)  Org,anization Sultability--lhere some existin- social insti-
tution can be utilized for development purposes (as with
local groups anong ;iasai, -Ohich can be stabilized to iorm
the basis for group ranches).
(b)  Realizable Incentives--41here aspirations can be Jostered
among people such tnat their satisfaction will initiate or
increase market o-ientation (as with the recent demand for
schools among lasai, and conseq,uent need for school fees,
and a consequent interest in selling cattle).
(c)  Identifiable IEtrepreneurs--1here individuals sensitive to
the value of new things or to new values in available tlings
can be actively encouraged and stimulate other members of
t'neir societies to emiiulate then (as with the individual
ranchers of the Ilasai area).
14.       W,here these 'eatures are absent the prognosis for development
is poor, for neither external economic rationality nor Government political
policy are in themselves su-fficient to move developrent along.



KENYA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SOCIAL FEASIBILITY
TRIBAL GROUPS INVOLVED IN LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROPOSALS A'tIEX 2
0\                                                                                     1
C)~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
~~~MBMBUR
A~~~~~~~~~
NOTE n.aes i r--e indicate       -
1.-tio. ann na,.. of tribes
EM Pastoral areas
Partly pastoral areas                            
Primarily agricultural areas
s 5*    IOOMILES
SEPTEMBER 1967                                                                        IBRD.3029



KE N YA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SOCIAL FEASIBILITY
GROUP   RANCHING: KAPUTIE]                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX 2
GROUP RANCHING: KAPUTIEI SECTION, KAJIADO MASAI                                                                                          NAP 2
* NAIROBI
NUMBER OF    NUMBER
MAP           GROUP                SIZE            CATTLE          FAMILIES
N             RANCH             (000s acees)       ALLOTED        RESIDENT
1     Olooloitiko N°.1             45.S            4 500             45
2     Olooloitiko N .2             37              3,700             45
3     Okinos                       35              3,500             35
4      Empuiyangat                 59              6 000             67
5      Embolioi                    62              6,200             68
6     Ole Narau                    10              1,000             1U
7     01 Kajuado                   32              3,200             38
a0     Ina.e.                      33              3,300             37
e/t//0l  * ATHI RIVER                       10  Iloasoro                        28.5             2,900            30
I0      Era.Eac                     29              3,000             32
11      M-sh-r                      35              3,500             40
12      Arol                        49              5,000             55
13      Nka.a                      107             11,000            120
14      Mbuko                       68              7,000            80
15     Mbilin                       35              3,500             40
16      Poka                        26              2,600             37
17      Okarkar                     33              3,300             45
18      Koboko                      35              3,S00             45
2 >             \                                          19      Merueshi                     40              4,000             50
TOTAL                          798              00,700           019
(7,623 Persons in 1965)
F-                     ~~~4 
\T APUEI  SECTION BOUNDARY
TROOP BRANCH BOBNOA0TY
AREAS ALREADY ALLOTED FOR
INDlIVIDUAL RANCHEES
0Z   KAJuiisCto                                                                                                                      00
NoroJ \ <\ kI ~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 3 
\   r   \    /  /   l NAIROBI   s                             l                                        l                s  B
SECTIONAL DIVISIONS OF KENYA  MASAI
CZ          Eoundaries of sections\-
Kaputiei section                                             \          |                    O                                  S                                   IO
SEPTEMBER 1967                                                                                                                                                                iBRD-3030



ANNEX 3
KENYA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
LIVESTOCK NYRKETING DIVISION
A. Background
1.        Existing arrangements and policies for livestock marketing have two prin-
cipal deficiencies:  (a) incentives and arrangements for the flow of 'imatures"
(feeder cattle) from the primary producer (breeder) to the secondary producer
(fattener) are inadequate. Facilities must be provided to ensure the year-round
flow of "immatures" from range breeding areas to range fattening areas, proximate
to slaughtering and consuming centers; and (b) marketing of feeder and slaughter
cattle is governed by rigidities, such as marketing quotas, prices fixed at levels
which fail to take into account seasonal changes in supply-demand conditions and
marketing practices which tend to discourage cattle traders and butchers from com-
petitive participation in the marketing process. Steps must be taken to establish
an environment in which producers can sell livestock when they want, geared to
their production purposes, under prices which reflect the changing supply-demand
conditions. All agencies and organizations concerned should cooperate in working
out producer oriented prices acceptable to them.
2.        Because of its key role in livestock marketing, the Livestock Marketing
Division (LMD) should be reorganized and strengthened. At present, it is adminis-
tratively under the Department of Veterinary Services (DVS), and key staff are
supplied by the Kenya Meat Commission (YMC). Therefore, its activities are some-
what dominated by veterinary considerations and also partly by concern for even
throughput of KMC slaughterhouses, rather than by the interests of the producers
of "immatures" and slaughter cattle.  It is proposed that the IND be established
as a separate unit and that it concentrate on strictly marketing functions. It
would coordinate with the DVS on veterinary aspects.
B. Proposed Organization
3.        The LMD, currently under the general direction of the DVS, would be made
a separate division in the Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry (MAAH).
It would devote full-time to marketing functions and would ensure that producers
be allowed to sell their livestock when they wish, assist in smoothing out peaks
of supply and demand, and coordinate activities of all concerned agencies and organ-
izations in the establishment of appropriate prices. The DVS, in coordination
with the LMD, would continue to have major responsibility of disease control and
animal health measures on stock routes and holding grounds. The LMD would be
responsible for the development of a national marketing service, including the
functions of: (a) buying and selling; (b) development, operation and maintenance
of stock routes and holding grounds; and (c) market and price information service.
C. Proposed Functions
Stock Buying and Selling
4.        Operating under a Chief Marketing Officer, this section would be provided
additional staff, vehicles and supporting budget, and with an adequate revolving



AIREX 3
Page 2
fund for the purchase of "immatures".  Initially, it would continue with present
trading functions, making all possible efforts to increase, through its own buying
and selling activities, the flow of "immatures" from Northeast Kenya. Its long-
term objectives would be to encourage trade, through increased participation of
nomadic cattle owners, stock traders, ranchers, butchers, and KMIC, in public
auction sales and livestock markets.
Ceeration of Stock Routes and Quarantine Holding Grounds
5.        Operating under a Chief Veterinarian, this section would have dual func-
tions: veterinary control and movement of cattle along stock routes. Emphasis
would be on screening and vaccination of cattle at collection holding grounds of
major stock routes, on quick movement along the stock routes of cattle owned by
LIM or private traders using improved stock route and water facilities, and on
rapid disposal of quarantine-cleared cattle through auction sale to ranchers for
finishing, or to KMIC or private butchers for slaughter. Diagnostic and laboratory
facil ities to be provided under the Project would enable the veterinary staff to
assure quick movement and disposal of stock and to minimize the quarantine bottle-
necks which have frequently prevented cattle movement for periods up to 15 months.
The proposed investment in watering facilities would make stock routes usable
tlhroughout the year.  The practice of retaining cattle for long periods in fatten-
Thng holding grounds would be discontinued.
Price Reporting and Marketing Information
U.        Under the leadership of a Chief Marketing Economist, this section would
collect, analyze and disseminate market information. Statistics and market in-
telligence would guide the Governnent in policy deliberations and would enable
LDo, KNMC, private producers, stock traders and butchers to make decisions based on
better knowledge of prices, supply and demand conditions.  The most important tasks
of the Chief Marketing Economist would be to coordinate activities of all concerned
groups in bringing about the establishment of appropriate prices, and greater
participation of cattle owners, stock traders and private butchers in the marketing
of cattle and beef.
D. Cattle Movement
7.        Due to social structure of the herding societies and to prevailing eco-
logical conditions, a great deal of natural stratification exists in the Kenya
beef cattle industry. Large areas of the rangeland are devoted almost entirely
to breeding operations and contain half of the national herd (Appendix 1), while
other areas are better suited to fattening operations. Facilities should be pro-
vided to ensure the normal steady year-round flow of "immatures" from the lower
potential range breeding areas of Iortheast Kenya to the higher potential range
fattening areas, nearer to slaughtering and consuming centers.  The provision of
these facilities, coupled with adequate producer incentive should provide sound
bases for the further development of Kenya's beef cattle industry.
8.        Proper emphasis and perspective should be given to the role of animal
health and the restrictions which it can impose on the movement and marketing of
livestock. One of the major factors limiting mobilization of livestock out of
Northeast Kenya is quarantine bottlenecks, due in part to inadequate organization,
lack of veterinary facilities, and a tendency to use quarantine stations as fatten-
ing holding grounds. A more vigorous and positive approach in the screening and



AONEX 3
Page 3
vaccination of cattle at the collection holding grounds of Wajir and Garissa
would be initiated.   It  was    assured during negotiations that the LMD, through
the DVS, would screen and vaccinate cattle against rinderpest, anthrax/blackleg,
foot-and-mouth disease (FMD) and contagious bovine pleuropneumonia (CBPP). Ade-
quate precaution against theileriasis (ECF) and trypanosomiasis would be taken.
To expedite this process, a mobile laboratory would be provided to serve the col-
lection holding grounds at Wajir and Garissa. Animals so screened and vaccinated,
prior to initiation of movement along stock routes, would have already met most
quarantine requirements by the time of arrival at endpoint clearing-quarantine
holding grounds, facilitating the steady flow of "immatures" for resale to ranchers
for finishing.
E. Proposed Facilities
9.        It is proposed to give priority to the development of livestock movement
and marketing facilities to serve Northeast Kenya. These facilities would include
collection/screening holding grounds, stock routes, endpoint clearing/quarantine
holding grounds and auction facilities. These stock routes would provide "imma-
tures" for the ranching enterprises to be developed under the Project. Provisions
would also be made for the development of facilities for the sale and movement of
fat cattle to market, particularly from Masailand and other Project areas. No
provisions would be included for the development of Government operated fattening
holding grounds; instead, emphasis would be placed on the movement and sale of
"immatures" to the private ranching community. Basic inputs for the development
of stock routes and holding grounds would be watering facilities, dipping/spraying
facilities, stock handling facilities, housing, storerooms/offices, and diagnostic
and laboratory facilities. Provisions would also be made for staffing and other
cperating needs, and for vehicles, equipment, mobile laboratory facilities, and
other capital investments required for administration. Total cost is estimated
at US$ 2.0 million (See Annex 8 for details). The proposed location of stock
routes and. holding grounds and physical inputs required for their development are
presented in Table 1 and Map 1 of this Annex. Three major stock route-holding
ground complexes are proposed. Stock route "A", leading from Wajir to Isiolo,
would be served by six feeder routes.  Stock route "B", leading from Garissa to
Kurawa/Mombasa would be served by three feeder routes.  Alternate route "B-4"
would provide an outlet for slaughter cattle shipped from Lamu to Mombasa by
cattle boat.  Alternate route "B-5" would provide an outlet for "immatures" to
fattening ranches in the Kajiado and Taita Districts. The Masailand region would
be served by Stock routes Complex "C" (Map 1).



ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
KENYA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LIVESTOCK MARKETINJG DIVISION
LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION AND MARKETING
A. Supply of "Immatures" (Feeder Cattle) and Slaughter Cattle
1.        Kenya's national cattle herd is estimated at about 7 million head.  No
systematic livestock census has been taken and data on cattle population are un-
reliable, especially for the range areas which comprise four-fifths of the land
area. However, it is believed that cattle of the predominantly nomadic tribes
account for over half of the national cattle herd. The estimated cattle popula-
ticn and numbers slaughtered by the Kenya Meat Commission (KMC) in 1966, by source
of crigin, is as follows:
Cattle       Cattle Slaughtered
Source                       Population          1966 by KNC
(0oo0          -   (I 00)
T.ange Area, Excluding Commercial Ranchesl/        3,500                 64
Jommercial Ranches                                   500                 80
Other, Predominantly Mixed Farming Areas           3,000                 43
7,000               187
1/  The number of cattle slaughtered by butchers other than KOiC slaughterhouses
is estimated at 80,000 head. Total commercial offtake does not exceed
270,000 head annually. Commercial offtake from the 3.5 million range cattle
may not exceed two per cent.
Source: KMC - Nairobi.
B. Demand for "Immatures"
2.        Data on the supply and movement of "immatures" from Northeast Kenya and
other surplus stock range areas are inadequate. Until some years ago African and
European stock traders bought cattle, mainly in the Northeast, for sale to ranchers,
to butchers or to KMC. Owing to several factors, foremost among them certain
marketing policies and the deteriorating peace and order conditions, LIVD and KMC
have gradually assumed the private trader's functions. LMD's buying and selling
policy is determined by short-term needs for throughput in KMC's slaughter plants,
resulting in a large number of unfinished, poor quality immatures going for
slaughter, rather than to finishing ranches.
3.        About three years ago the Grazier Scheme was introduced by KMC which
provides options to selected ranchers for credit and contract fattening of "imma-
tures, with subsequent slaughter by KMC. Ranchers criticize the scheme, on grounds
of high fees and charges, selectivity and encroachment on private trader's func-
tions. In 1966 the scheme supplied 8,000 cattle. K714C's Grazier Scheme, through



ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
Page 2
its trading methlods, may have eliminated private traders and thus
increased, rather than reduced, the unfilled demand for "immatures.S'
4.        Ranch development to be financed under the Project will generate an
additional demand ranging from 20,000 to 26,000 head per annum. Without an as-
sured supply of "immatures" for finishing, the "individual" "company", "group"
and "commercial" ranches to be financed under the Project would not be viable.
The Project would nearly double the existing demand for "immatures". In summary,
there exists a substantial demand for "immatures", which should continue to grow.
The proposed Project would not be viable without an integrated marketing program
that would generate and sustain the flow of "immatures" for finishing and slaughter.
C. Demand for Slaughter Cattle and Meat
5.        Demand for slaughter cattle is determined by the demand for meat in
domestic and export markets. In the domestic market, KMC exercises its beef mar-
keting monopoly in the major cities: Nairobi, Mombasa, Nakuru and Eldoret. How-
ever, in Nairobi, which is supplied by KMC's large Athi River plant, the monopoly
is more legal than real. The inflow of meat entering the Nairobi market illegally
is estimated to be equivalent to 2,000 cattle per month. Urban centers, other
than the four major ones, are supplied by local butchers who purchase cattle and
slaughter with KMC license.
6.        KMC buys at Government controlled, gazetted producer prices.  Local
butchers buy through negotiated sale or at KMC-licensed auctions. The market
system gives the butchers flexibility to adjust prices to changing supply-demand
situations. KMC, on the other hand, does not vary its legally fixed producer
prices in accordance with seasonally fluctuating consumer prices. Given these
price rigidities, KMC may have an excess supply of slaughter cattle during the
rainy season (July and August) when cattle movement and sale reaches its peak.
In times when the supply of cattle is limited, KMC cannot meet the demand. One
of KMC's responses in order to minimize supply fluctuations, has been a quota
system for shipment of slaughter cattle from commercial ranchers, KMC's most
reliable suppliers. From the producer's point of view this policy is undesirable.
It forces him to sell cattle at a time chosen by KMC, rather than in accordance
with criteria for profitable operation and timing of sales.
7.        Demand for slaughter cattle for exports can be sub-divided into demand
for chilled and frozen carcass or special cuts and demand for canned beef products.
KNC has made considerable efforts to develop the demand for chilled and frozen
beef.  These efforts have met with some success in Persian Gulf countries and
Hongkong. In addition, Mombasa serves as a supply point for the ship-chandlering
trade.
8.        The market for corned beef is well established.  KMC has been operating
its canning line with technical assistance and under supervision of Liebigs'.
KMC's corned beef is marketed under Liebigs' brand name, primarily in the U.K.
Together with meat extract, corned beef offers a profitable outlet for low quality,
poorly finished cattle from predominantly African producers. Moreover, the process-
ing facilities for corned beef and meat extract are suitable outlets for seasonal
excess supplies of higher quality slaughter cattle.
The closing of the Suez ,anJ has cjected somewhat Len',     's eIports of
meat and mieat nrcraarations, particu-1arly to countries bordering on the 17Iediterran-
ean; a2;d exports to the !T are, of course, takin<- longer and shipwLinf costs are
higher.



Table I
KENY.O
LIVESrTCK DE'ELOPMENT PROJECT
LIVESTO5K MARKETING DIVIS ION
DEVELOPMENT OF STOCK ROUTES AND HOLDUNG GROUNDS  1/
INVESTMYNT 01r(5
Storage
STOCK ROUTES                                              Wells and                       Tanks    Dips/Spray   Stock                  Senior   Junior   Diagnostic and
Boreholes    Pumping                 Taoks   and       Races         Handling              Staff    Staff    Laboratory
MHo.                             .          F         (Nan   [Whoa) Flo.) I s
NORTH-EASTERN REGION
STOCK ROUTE "A": WAJIR-ISIOLO (ISIOIO-SA^S: NAANUXKI-RAILHEAD AND SALES)
Wajir  UJ                                                                  I 1                   -       1          1            2          20        -         -                            1
Lakboggal                                                     1            -          -          -       1
Habacue in                                                           -           -          -            1
MadoGshi-                                                                  1          _          _       1
Garba Tula                                                                 -1                                       -            -           _        _         _         _                  _
Kaliamawe                                                                  -                     -       1          ---                               -         ---
Isiolo  3/  (NarYoki)                                                     I-          -          -                 1             1          10                                               I _  1  1
FEEDER ROUTE "A-1": MANDERA-WAJIR
Mandor
Finno                                                                                                    1
Ki Wak                                                        -            1          _          -                  -            -           _        _         _         _                  _
Tarbaj                                                        -            1          -          -       1          --                                -         ---
Wal ir
FEEDER ROUTE "A-2": RHAMU-WAJIR
Rhae,o
Ki Wak (Wajir)
FEEDER ROUTE "A-3S: TAKABBA-WAJIR
Takabba
Tarbal (Wajir)                                                -            -          -          -       -          -            -                    -         -         -
FEELER ROUTE "A-4": MOYALE-WAJIR
Moyaln
Buna (Wa,1ir )                                                -            -          -          -       1          ---                                         ---
FER ROUTE "A-5": ARBA JAHAN-ISIOLO
Arba Jahan                                                    1                      _          _       1
Sericho
Archers Poot (Isiolo)
FEEDER ROUTE "A-6": MARSABIT-ISIOLO
M-rsabit                                                       -           -          3          -       1          1            -           5
Laklogo                                                       -            -          -          -       1
Herille                                                                    1          _            _        1
Archers Post (Ieiolo)                                                           -              -            -                                -
SUB-TOTAL                                                     2            5          3          -      14         3             3          35        -         -         1                  2
COASTAL RZGION
STOCK ROUTE "B": GARISSA-KURAWA/EOHRASA (KURAWA-SALES, HORMASA-SL        8RN, RAEAD AND SALES)
Garissa  6/                                                                                                         1            2          20        -         -         -                  1
Garsen
K       5rawa  S/  (Mormbaoa)                                              -          -          -       -         1             1          10        1         1         1                  1
FEEDER ROUTE "HB-1": REANE-GARISSA
Bgnane                                                        -            -          -          -       1          ---                               -         ---
Borisna
FEEDER ROUTE "B-2":  ESRI-GARISSA
Heri
Garissa
F_EDER ROUTE "B-3":  JASRA/BODHAI/BURONI-KEURAWA/MA4MBAEA
Ijara                                                                     2                      2
Bodhai/Brgoni                                                 -            3                             2         2             1                    1         1         1                  1
H4kowe                                                         --                     7          -       1          -            -           _        _         _         _                  _
Carsen (KaraaA/oembaoa)
ALTERNATE ROUTE "i-41": GARSSA-RODHAi/BUROONhILAWU/MOMBASA (LAWU-1tMBLA BY BOAT)
Gsrissa (The Region )
Bodhai/Burgn-i
iamu (Mcnbasa)                                                                                                                                                                        ----
ALTERNATE ROUTE "B-5": GARISSA-KIBWZI (KIBMEZI - RAIlEJAD AND SALES OF n1ATERLE FOR UMIADO AND TIATA DISTRICTS)
G.ri3sa
Kitui
Kib-eci                                                        1         1           3          -       1         1             1          15        1         1         -                  1
SUB-TOTAL                                                     1            6         10          6       6         5             5          55        3         3         2                  L
NASAILAND RgOION
STOCK ROUJTE "'-1": KAItADO - ATHI RIVER (LrJIADO - RATIL?EAD AND SALE3: ATHI RIVER - SLAUGHTER)
Kaputei/Kajiado  8/ (Athi River)                              1                      _          _       1         1             1          10        1        1          -                  1
Matapato/Kajiado (Athi River)                                 1            _          _          -       1         1             1          10                  1         -
Dalaiak.otk/Kajiado (Athi River)                              1            - I                   _       1         1             1         10         -        1
STOCK ROUTE  0-20: NAROK-ATHI RITVER (NAROK - SALES; ATHI RIVER - SLAUGHTER)
Kekov,d/Nharok  2/  (Athi River)                              -            1          4          -       1         1             1         10         -        1
Purko/Harok (Athi River)                                      -                       1          -       1         1             1         10         -        1          _                  1
STOCK ROUTE "C-3": KIBWEZI-KIBIKO-ATHI ROIES (KlEWEZI - RAILHEAD AND SALES; ATHI RIVER - SLAUGHTER)
Kib-ezi 2/ Kibiko (Athi River)                                             -          -         -        -         -             -         20                  -
S'JB-TOTAL                                                                 2          5          -       5         5             5         70         1        5          -                  2
GRA'ID TOTAL                                                  6          13          18         6       25        13            13        160         L        8          3                  8
I Lncludes Principai, Feeder and Alternate St-k Routeo, and Prchasing2Coisrctirn/Sales eHldIdn  CIrounds and  .learing/S-re-ning Quarantine Stations.  2   WAJIR: Purchasing/Collection Holding
Greunds and Quarantine Screening Station.  3/  S0O1l (STOCK ROU7I HEADQUAiRTERS): Stock Route End--int/Salcs 1ilding Grounds and Quarantine Clearing Station for cattle fro  the Wajir Region;
P,rchaoi ng/CollectiOn,'S  en Holding Grcunds and  -arantice Screening ard Cleazvig Stat on fI rattle frnr Rua and Mars.abit Remions.   /  CARTSSA:  Purchaairg/Collection Holdiag Grounds and
Q-arantine Screening Station.  2/ K'RAWA (STOCK ROUTE HEADQUaR7UORS):  Sto-k RoWt ed ¢.--/Oai-s Holdirg Grounds and Quarantine Clearing Station.  Y   BOD             BURNI:  Purchasi/Gollection
Voiding Grounds and Quarantine Urreecing Station for cattle  ioereng ci KEurawi- P-rrha"r/S        ;e eos Holding Orounds am  -oarantine Screcning and Clearing Station ef cattle to be shipped
by boat from Lssn to Meerbasa. 7/  incldes onle d- and thr- t-nki.   -'  EoJ k   &o1 .:                   s,x/S e -'ui4rg  b-anT,-n ard Quarantine Clearing Station for Oreature cattle from  Garissa
to be sold in Kajiado and Tiata ijtricts.  5.' KAJIADC-NAR-''-K          'F                   '..:



K E N Y A
LIVESTOCK   DEVELOPMENT   PROJECT
LIVESTOCK MARKETING DIVISION
DEVELOPMENT OF STOCK ROUTES AND HOLDING GROUNDS  ANNEX 3
MAP I
-  -  -  -   -  -   -  -   -  -    -  -    -  E  T  H    I    0     P    I   A
N~~~N
V                                 \                  Marsob,t   \H        O    
s ,qC *Sioeo | \\\ E ~~A S T F,u, R
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~
4               ____                                kvNo nyub;          ,                      ;.  
1-2 ~ ~    ~         ~         ~         ~        ~         ~A
tr<to/rr  < A )                    CENTYRAL    >'                          
(                   \~l                 SMrsoN crRok
It ~ Hammus
I.-~~~~~~~~~~I
L~~~~ ._            .r-x
SEP  *E4    0 190
~~~~~~  W~~~~~~~~~~~~~S T~~~~~~~~~~~~~i~~~~~~~~~9~i KM
SEPTEMBER 1967                                                                                             IBRD-3033~,~ 



ANNEX 4
KENYA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOP1ENT PROJECT
RANGE WiATER DIVISION
A. Water Development in Northeast Kenya
1.        While statistical data are unsatisfactory, it is known that a consider-
able livestock population exists in Northeast Kenya (estimated in 1964 at approxi-
mately one million head). The region is a major source of "immatures" (feeder
cattle) for the higher potential rangelands. If this source can be systematically
tapped and offtake of "immatures" increased, then the livestock industry of the
country as a whole would benefit. Present offtake is low and is due primarily to:
(a) insufficient permanent water sources which cause inefficient early moves from
wet-season to dry-season pasture; (b) inadequate stock route facilities which fail
to reach into the dry-season areas; and (c) "shiftall activities (bands of armed
rebels who present a security problem for both herding and trading over much of
the area, and may well impede efficient construction and use of water installations).
Government has agreed to take whatever measures are required to contain "shifta"
activities ./
2.       Wilater development in the harsh environment of the Northeast is proposed
as a measure for increasing production and offtake of "immatures" by making possi-
ble the fuller utilization of grazing potential. This would be accomplished by
extending the present grazing areas and by allowing the controlled and more syste-
matic use of available grazing. It involves minimal change in social and herding
aspects and the simplest input, water. It does not involve associated measures of
stock control, or of changes in the present ownership of land and animals, or of
efforts to increase the market orientation of producers, although stock route
development may meet this last criterion. The Somali peoples of that area are
already market-oriented. They readily part with stock themselves. They also
engage in stock trading by bartering for animals raised by non-Somali producers
in the region and selling them for cash at established buying centers.
3.        Environmentally, almost half of the area falls into the very arid (semi-
desert) zone and rather more than half into the arid zone. Its vegetation cover
is dwarf shrubs and mainly annual grasses with an estimated carrying capacity of
one stock unit per 30 acres. The arid zone has a 12 to 15 inch rainfall, its
Vegetation is perennial grassland with thorn bush and thicket, and its best carry-
ing capacity is one stock unit to 10 acres. Although, the environment of the area
is harsh, it allows the production of Boran-type cattle which have considerable
powers of heat endurance, low water requirements and disease resistance, and being
large-framed, are excellently suited for fattening operations in more benign areas
of the country. However, not enough of them find their way into the National
livestock market.
4.        The region is divided between various tribal groups of differing charac-
teristics (Somali: "Ogaden-Hawiya-Gurreh"; Galla: "Boran-Gabbra-Orma"; and Rendille).
All are pastoral people, but some are primarily camel herders, and many differences
exist with regard to "water discipline" (See Map 1 of this Annex). 'dater develop-
ment is economically desirable for its effect on the livestock industry of the
1/ But see footnote on page eight of the text.



AiTEX 4
Page 2
country as a whole. But more attention should be directed to the socio-economic
situauion on the ground, viz: differences between camel and cattle-producing
areas, differences in watering habits and hence in the effective use of water
installations by different tribes, differences in market orientation of the tribes,
and the negative effects of "shiftall disturbances. For this stage, water develop-
ment in the Northeast pastoral areas would be limited to the Administrative Dis-
tricts of Wajir, Garissa and Isiolo and part of the Marsabit and Tana River
Districts. Mandera District is excluded both because its livestock resources are
primarily camel rather than cattle, and because security problems are at their
greatest there. Parts of Marsabit District are excluded also because of a pre-
ponderantly camel rather than cattle economy. Parts of South Tana River District
are excluded because of their proximity to the underdeveloped coastal hinterland.
Although priority would be given to water development in Northeast Kenya, a
co-untry-wide organization for the execution of range water survey and development
is proposed.
B. Execution of Water Development
A Range Water Division (RITvD) would be established under the
Wiater Development Department of the Ministry of Agriculture (TNAAITI), currently
responsible for all water development functions. It would consolidate present ac-
tivities and devote full-time to range water survey and development activities,
with responsibility for: (a) investigation and survey; (b) construction and develop-
ment; and (c) operation and maintenance.
Investigation and Survey
6.        Investigation and survey involves mainly the coordination of contract
,wvork of private consultant firms, and exploration activities of UNDP and USAID
technicians. Actual staff requirements are small and can be provided from exist-
ing staff within the framework of the Water Development Department. Geophysical
suwvey for borehole siting could be internally done or referred to consultants in
case of temporary staff shortage. The UJNDPl/ water development experts will be
actively engaged in this function in connection with land use surveys in range
areas.
Construction and Development
7.        Construction and development activities involve both actual construction
and. supervision of contractor construction. Minor construction of storage tanks
and troughs, small wells and pumps, and pipelines on stock routes and holding
grounds (part of the facilities for livestock movement and marketing-Annex 3),
would be carried out by the RWfD itself. This would be effected by equipping and
manning of a well construction unit within the RWL   Major works in the pastoral
areas of the Northeast would be carried out on a contract basis by internationally
known, Nairobi-based consultant firmsj/ The consultants would be authorized to
engage sub-contractors for constructing boreholes and large earth dams. A senior
inspector of the RWD. would be responsible for contract performance in accordance
with agreed specifications.
1/  UNDP Project Kenya 238 operational since October 1966, provides for 6½ man
years of water development expert services.
2/ Howard Humphreys and. Sons and Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners of London both
maintain a Nairobi-based staff of engineers.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Operation and Maintenance
8.        Operation and maintenance of watering facilities would be the major con-
tinuing function of the EWD.   Tt would be responsible for the operation and
maintenance of all water facilities developed both in the Northeast pastoral areas
as well as on stock routes and holding grounds. Maintenance of the earth dams
and tanks requires acquisition of heavy earth-moving equipment, similar to the
existing 'Dixie' unit in the Water Development Department. In addition to opera-
tion and maintenance, the existing and new 'Dixie? units could also be utilized
for some construction of new tanks and dams. The proposed Project has provisions
for budgetary support of the operation and maintenance section.
C. Proposed Development
9.        Although a country-wide organization for range water survey and develop-
ment is proposed, priority would be given to the development of water facilities
in Northeast Kenya. This first phase would provide for the location and construc-
tion of water points to give full coverage at desirable 20-mile intervals. It
would consist of about 40 small tanks/dams of about 2.0 million gallon capacity
each and about 10 boreholes, all to be installed in a three-year period. The
concentrated area to be covered of about 20,000 square miles, selected on the basis
of the "water discipline" of the pastoral tribes concerned, cattle populations
and development potential, would be divided into two blocks: one commiencing near
Garissa and extending northwards and westwards; and the other commencing near Wajir
and also extending northwards and westwards. Total cost for both operating expen-
ses and capital expenditures is estimated at about US$ 1.5 million equivalent, and
is detailed in Annex 9.
10.       The component for construction of water facilities in Northeast Kenya
has been kept small because of incompleteness of plans with respect to location,
social and economic feasibility, and security problems. Ivhile proposals for water
development along stock routes are adequately supported by specific plans so that
construction could commence immediately, proposals for water development in the
pastoral areas are not as complete. Therefore, it was Es3ured during nego-
tiations that Government would undertake feasibility studies in both of the pro-
posed pastoral regions, prior to initiation of construction in either of the two
general sites, under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA.



KENYA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RANGE WATER DEVELOPMENT DIVISION
BACKGROUND TO RANGE WATER DEVELOPMENT                                                                                ANNEX 4
-/ -  -  -  -  -----      -  -                   E      T     H      I     0      P     I    A                                        J
) '~~~~~~~~~~ 
N                            /~~H  
_,o'z'Ses'-1                                                             --/ 
boundaries of tribal comfederacies (Somali)                                A  "                    A
or tribes (no n-Somal i)                                     \  ~
Soundaries of Somali tribes
. .Somali trihal confederacies                                               9 S X\\9- 
Other pastoral tribes
l l l l Groups of known bad  watcr discipline  gx   C   R   A  N: *s ................. :                       - - -
-_Groups of kiiown poor water discipliiie. -I
v/.//Groups of kiiown good  water discipline  .--...........  S,.....jE
9~~~~~ G  ,, D E Nffi 
4~(by di.tii.t.)(                                                                 _    -- - 
SEPTEMBER/                       / 196                                                                                                   IERD-30
X ZB0,000 W X / * ~~~~~~~~~NAIROBI                                                                                    A\ o 
t115, 00 j                                                                        \'
1 60     ,00                               , 0z 
1 139, 000 \   \    /   .                                   ft           0\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L. 
O    100  z         \           V                           t                                 §'' 0
139 l      000       H      7.                    
.__ \ j>M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ombaso
. g L | . d [ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~K M
SEPTFNwBER 1967                                                                                                                                 IBRD-3035



KENYA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY OF itAICH DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENT COSTS PROJECTIONS
Foreign
INVESTMENT ITEMS                  Group        Company     Individual      Commercial      Total     Exchange
Ranches     Ranches     Ranches         Ranches         Cost       Comonent
(IJSt ) 'O~OC)  (uss '000)   (U$t    t    Ws h -000)  (Us '000)   Su 1ooo)
1.  Watering Facilities                          76h.L4     389.2           57.4t         168.0       1,379.0         752.2
2. Dips/Sprays                                    67.2       33.6            4.2           33.6         138.6          55.4
3.  Stock Handling Facilities                     42.0       42.0            5.6            -             89.6
14. Firebreaks                                    33.6        28.0           4.2            _            65.8          12.7
5. Ranch Buildings                                8,.n        78.4           5.6            -            168.0         38.6
6. Ranch Machinery, Vehicles and Tools            72.8        72.8           1.4            -           1-47.0        147.0
7.  Improved Bulls                               168.0         -             5.6          168.0         341.6
8. Fencing                                         -           -              -           112.0          112.0         56.0
9.  Bush Clearing                                  -           -              -         1,232.0       1,232.0         362.4
10. Contingencies                                112.0       56.o           14.0         1l44.4          326.4        185.7
TOTAL                                          1,3L4.O0      700.0          98.0        1,858.0       44,000.0      2,110.0
PER CENT OF TOTAL COST                            33.6        17.5           2.5           46.4          100.0          52.8



KEN YA
LIVEST(OICK DEVEL(PMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATE OF RANCH DEV0ECLOENT TECHITCAL SERVICES COSTS
Annual Salary   Staff in Year Three                      YEARS                     Total    Dollar         Foreign Exchange
EXPENDITURE ITELS1           or Unit Cost    or Units Purchased         1       2       3       l;              Cost      Equivalent       Campnt
(r '000)              (No.7)                         (f '000)                 (E '000)   (US$ '000    ( TUS  to00)
OPE.RATING EXPENSES
Director 1/                         8.0                    1               8.o    8.0    8.0    8.o    8.0         40.0        112.0       100      112.0
Techniciar 2/                       4.0                    5             12.0   16.0   20.0   20.0   20.0          88.0        24L6J        50      123.0
Bookkeepers                         1.2                    2               1.2    2 .4    2.4    2.       2.)t     10.8         30.9         0        0.0
Drivers                             0.3                    2               0.3    o.6    0.6    0.6    o.6          2.7          7.6         0        0.0
Secretarial Staff                   0.9                    1              0.9    0.9    0.9    0.9    0.9           4.5         12.6         0        0.0
Per Diem Allowances 3/               -                     -               3.0    4.0    4.5    4.5    4.5         20.5         57.4         0        0.0
Office Expenses 4/                   -                     -               2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0         10.0         28.0          0       0.0
Transportation Zxoenses 5/           -                     -               2.6    3.0    3.8    3.8    3.8         17.0         47.6        70       33.0
Su3-TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES             -                     -             30.0   36.9   42.2   42.2   42.2    193.5             541.8        _       268.0
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES
Office Furniture                      -                    -               0.5    0.3      0.2      -      -        1.0          2.8          0        0.0
Office Equipment 6/                   -                     -              1.0    ' .5    0.5       -      -        2.0           5.6        80        4.5
Camping and Field Equipment         0.1                   10               0-5    0.3    0.2        -      -        1.0          2.8          0        0.0
Vehicles                            1.0                    7               4.0    2.0    1.0        -      -        7.0         19.6         90       17.5
SUB-TOTAL CAPITAL EXPENDITURES           -                     -              6.0    3.1    1.9        -       -      11.0          30.8        -        22.0
2O E lluN2TES-                                                -              2.5    2 .     1.7    1.6    1.I         9.8         27.h.       -        10.0
MOTAL                                                          -             3s .5  142.5  h45.8   43.08  43.7    21L4.3           600. 0       50      300.0
1/  Internationally recruited; amount provided includes salary and allowances for average family of wife and three dependent children, and approx-
imately f 1,500 for horne leave round trip every two years.  2/  Includes I 2,000 salary and L 2,00) for allowances, total of E 4,000/technician/
annum:  3 in year 1; 1 in year 2; 1 in year 3; total 5.  Calibre equal to or better than present Provincial Range Officers.  One doubles as Admin-
istrativ,e Assistant to Director.  3/  Director, 100 days @ E 10; Technicians, 100 days C L 5 each; Bookkeeners, 100 days @ E 3; Drivers, 100 days
W L 2.  4/  Includes rent and general expenses.  5/  Includes t 400 cer vehicle per annum for fuel, reoairs and maintenance; plus E 1,000 per annum
for air and train travel.  6/  Four tyonewriters at E 50; 10 filing cabinets at E 40, 4 calculators at I 250, 2 adding machines at E 100, sundry
E 200 = L 2,000,
CY,



KENYA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATE OF RANCH DEVELOPMENT WORKING CAPITAL REQUIREMENT
Average Annual   l/                                    Average Annual
Ranching Enterprise             Requirement Per Ranch                               Requirement for all Ranches
Operating               Number                        Operating
"Immatures"     Expenses       Total    Ranches       "Immaturest'    Expenses       Total
(US$                        US$0)    On    560)   (u ' 00o)   (No. )  (US$ '000)  (US$  '000)  (USO)
Group Ranching                      8             16           24        20             160             320         480
Company Ranching                   63             23           86        10             630             230         860
Individual Ranching                 5              1            6        10              50              10          60
Commercial Ranching                13             35           48        20             260             700          960
TOTAL                               -               -           -        60           1,100           1,260       2,360
1/  Working capital requirement is based on an average of the annual requirement during the first formative five years
of development for each of the four types of ranching enterprises.
U0



> ~    ~       ~      3      -,, a3 r;0003 3o 0 g.    Y0,  3.                                                                          O00 U-3000 ' 3 r 30 0 0 0                                                                   0      0
~~~~~3 o~                           I a~0                       0 ~ .            C.  .-           s-0>0g'j?Z                                          ;.Si~                                         00       _3 10'-3-c'yc
x~~~~                           0 a~'03' 0a                                                   '"           3                  'i  H               3.0 '.-'0' 888g8gwg    i3 0l   000yO0e0  0-ao o         f| w¢o   o w> soo
93   Z~' .                                                                            0                .3 P b 00"$                                              W-3    3024 .33                    .3!I  030330§
e4 30f '--1                .      3 g§ '00 '              ~           3   '03 0bww              2'          z YoHoDw~w                               '  .,,                        -~HW            w ~              ~JY W                     ~                   M_A
N  Y   )    iX=>0O           0DQ        Qg~~~~oP         |            03.330030> b o        o O                           3- 03-0033    0       033'   0    0 °                            3-0 3,0303°0                   H1G
0c3    3      rw-   r 'gW.ce rvrrors o            Z~Ot   NOAIwW   b      r-Nz~  W 0 H    W             0               23-3'                                                           4                                                    I    
o          rto :                                                2-' -n soooo.         'n                 t22             30,mWv°            3'8 0oo        3.0 oo3.                           30 a            o0   o 3   o8_C ~                   
3   vw.0      w.3;   '0  r       0                         0       300        0                  303                           a03                                          =340              Ii                               3    . 33    _oo*z  0 cvvc  



K22YA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMfNT FROJECT
SUMMARY OF RANGE WATER SURVEY AND DEVELOPMHET COSTS PROJECTIONS
FOREIGN
EXPENDITURE ITEMS                                ANNUAL SALARY    STAFF DN YEAR THREE                      YEARS                         TOTAL       DOLLAR               EXCHANGE
OR UNIT COST     OR UNITS PURCHASED      1        2         3        4         5        COST        EQUIVALENT           COMPONENT
77lOoo)              (No.)                            (1 '000)                     (X-M           (                () )    (US' '00o)
OPERATING EXPENSES
Staff
Read     Division  1/                                            8.0                  1              8.o      8.0       8.0      8.0       8.0        40.0          112.0         50          56.o
Civil Engineer 2/                                               4.0                   1               .0      1.O       4.0      4.0      h4.o        20.0           56.o         50         28.0
Serior Inspector  2/                                            4.0                   1              44.       4.0     L4.0     14.o      L.o         20.0           56.o         50         28.0
Junior Technical Officer                                         0.6                  1              o.6      o.6       0.6      o.6      o.6          3.0             8.4         0          0.0
Clerical Assistant                                              0.4                   1              0.4      0.4      0.4       0.4      0.4          2.0            5.6          0          0.0
Plant Operators, Drivers and Artisans                           o.b                  20              o.4      2.8       8.0      8.0      8.0         27.2           76.1          0          0.0
Laborers                                                        0.2                  20              1.6      2.4       4.o      4.o      4.0         16.0           44.8          0          0.0
Trave  and  er Diem                                              -                    -              1.5      3.5       6.0      6.0      6.0         23.0           64.4          0          0.0
Vehicles - Operation and Maintenance                              -                   -              1.5      7.5      20.0     20.0     20.0         69.0          193.2         70        135.2
Office Supplies and Upkeep                                        -                   -              o.4       0.2      0.2      0.2      0.2          1.2             3.4         0          0.0
Replacement of Tools and Field Equipaent                          -                   -              0.2      0.4       1.2      1.2      1.2          4.2           11.8         80           9.4
Dixie Units - Operation, Repair and Maintenance                   -                    _             2.0      4.0      10.0     20.0     20.0         56.0          156.8         70        109.8
SUB-rOTAL OPERATIND EXPENSES                                          -                    -            24.6      37.8     66.1     76.4      76.1       281.6           788.5         -         366.4
CAFTTAL EXPENDITURES FOR OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE C' RANGE WATER DEVELOPMENT DIVISION
Four-Wheel Drive Pick-up, 109" Wheelbase                         1.0                  14             3.0      1.0        -        -        -           4.0           11.2         90         10.1
Five-Ton Lorries, 4-Wheel Drive (including tankers)             2.0                   6              4.0      8.0        -        -        -          12.0           33.6         90         30.2
Caravans for Living and Workshop                                1.5                   2               -       3.0        -        -        -           3.0            8.4         90          7.6
Workshop Equipment and Radio                                     2.5                  1               _       2.5        -        -         -          2.5             7.0        90          6.3
Small Tools and Tentage                                           -                    -             0.5      2.0        -        -         -          2.5             7.0        80          5.6
Tractor Scraper (Type Cat. 621)                                 23.0                   2              -      16.o        -        -         -         46.o           128.8        90        115.9
Wheeled Dozer (Type Cat. 824)                                   25.0                   1              -       25.0       -        -         -         25.0            70.0        90          63.0
Tracked Dozer (Type Cat. D6C)                                   13.5                   1              _      13.5        -        -         -         13.5            37.8        90          34.0
Twenty-Ton Tilt Trailer                                          2.0                  1               -        2.0       -        -         -          2.0             5.6        90           5.0
Portable Well Drilling and Pumping Equipmnt                     2.0                   1              2.0       -         -        -        _           2.0            5.6         80           4.5
SUB-TOTAL CAPITAL EXPENDITURES                                        -                    -             9.5    103.0        -        -         -        112.5           315.0         -         282.2
INVESTMENT IN WATER DEVELOPMENT IN PASTORAL AREAS ADJACENT TO WAJIR AND GARISSA
Water Catchment Tanks, (No.)  3/                                 2.0                  44            30.0      28.0     30.0        -        -         88.0           246.4        70         172.5
Boreholes  (No.)  3/                                             3.0                 10             12 .0      9.0      9.0       -         -         30.0            84.o        70          58.8
Borehole Siting by Consultants                                    -                    -              -        2.0       -        -         -          2.0             5.6        70           3.9
SUB-TOTAL INVESTMENT IN PASTCRAL AREA WATER DEVELOPMENT               _                    -             42.0     39.0     39.0        -        -        120.0           336.o          -        235.2
CONTINGENCIES                                                         _                    _             4.4      12.5      4.8        _        _         21.7            60.5          _         16.2
GRAND TOTAL                                                           _                    _             80.5    192.3    110.2      76.4     76.4        535.8        1,500.0         60        900.0
1/ Internationally recruited; amount provided includes salary and allowances for average family of wife and three dependent children and approximately K 1,500 for home leave travel every two years.
7/  The Government intends to utilize water development experts assigned to Kenya under UNDP for planning and survey functions.  Other senior staff would be paid an average salary of L 3,000 and
1 1,000 of other employment cost.
3/  Siting and supervision of construction by Kenya-based cmsultants on contract basis; construction by sub-contracts.                                                                                        N



KE-NY-A
LI'VESTOCK DEVELOPNENT DIROJECT
ESTIMATE OF ANCILLARY_TECHNICAL, SERVICES~ - RA~NGE MAHAGEKENT DIVISION
EXPENDITURE ITENS                       ANNUAL SALARY      STAFF IN YEAR THREE               YEARUS              TOTAL      DOLLAR
OR UNIT COST  OR UNITS TIURCHASED         1       2        3        co S±      EQUIVALENT      FOREIGH EXCHANGE COMPONENT
W0- bo)o'               ______                       0-h~~Omo)   Tuw  MOT                            M            Tg   "-1-
O$Fc~ 150~l EXPENSES
Sta ff I/
Range Officers                                     1.7                    1                  1.7      17       1.7        5.1        14.3             00.0
Assistant Range Officers                           1.1                  12                   7.7    12.1    13.2         33.0        92.L4            0              0.0
Ran,'e Assistant                                   O.h                   30                  8.0    10.01.   12.0        30.0        84.0             0              0.0
Driver/Mechanic                                    0.lj                 10                   3.2      4.O)     4.0       11.2        31.lt            0              0.0
Ooerat~InR Budg~et
Office Supplies and Upkeep                          -                     -                  0.3      0.2      0.2        0.7         2.0             0              0.0
Local Travel and Per Diem                           --3.7                                             5.1      5.7       1l.5       4LO.5            30             12.2
Vehicles -Ooeration and Maintenance                 --L.a                                             6.0      6. 5      16.5        b6.?            70             32.3
>r371 FTA,L OPZRATING EXPENSES                          --23.6    39.1    Li3.3                                             111.0       310.3              -            hh.5
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES
Four- iheel Drive Pickup                           1.0                   13                  9.0)    4.0       1.0       13.0        36.4t           90             32.3
Canning Equipment                                  0.1                   o~1.2                        0.8      0.3        2.3         6.L            10              0.6
Radio/Telenhone Sets                               0.5                    3                  1.0      0.C      -          1.5         4.2             90             3.8
5enior Staff Housing                               3.0-                 13                  911.0    12.0      3.0       39).0      109.2            10             10.9
Junior Staff Housing                               0.6                   4O                 12.0      6.0      6.0        L.         67.2             10             6.7
3UB-2SOTAL CAPITAL EXPENDITURES                                                                 4  6.2    23.3    10.3       79.3       2213.h-                          L.
CONTINGENCIES                                           -                                        10.0       .5     7.0       25.5        71.4             30            21.hi
r 0 T A L                                                                                        9  L.8    70.9    60.6.    216.3       60r.6             20           120.7
1/ Includes salary and other employment costs.
0-



KENYA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ESTIMA!TE OF ANCILLARY TECHNICAL SERVICE.S - DFp4StTMENT OF VETERINARY SERVICES
ANNUAL SALARY      STAFF IN YEAR THREE      ___YEARS                 TO TAt,     DOLLAR
EXPENDITURE IT2XS                     OR UNIT COST       OR UNITS PURCIHASED        1       2        3~   COST          EQUJIVALENT     FOREIGN EXCHANGE COMPONET
(__ No.                                       (I00    ___C  '00-0    (US$- -- 000         US   00
PERA.TI NG EX ?ENS ES_
Staff 1/
Veterinary Officers                               2.5                   2                2.5      5.0     5.0        12.5       35.0             50            17.5
Veterinarians                                     1.5                   43.0    [4.5                      6.o        13.5       37.8              0             0.0
Animal Health Assistants                          0.5                  10                3.0      4,.0    5.0        12.0       33.6               0            0.0
Driver/Mechanic                                   o.4                   6                1.6      2.0     2.4         6.0       16.8              0             0.0
OperaigBde
Office Supplies and Upkeep                         --                                    0.1      0.1     0.1         0.3         0.5              0            0.0
Local Travel and Per Diem                          --0.9                                          1.0     1.2         3.0         8.4             5042
Vehicles - Operation and Maintenance               -                                      .0      2.0     3.0         6.0       16.8              70           11.8
SOd-TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                           -                    -               12.0    13.6    22.7         53.3      1l9.2               -33.5
CAPITAL EXPENiOITURES
Four-Wheel Drive Pickup                           1.0                   6                2.0      2.0     2.0         6.0        16.6             g0           15.1
Camping Equipment                                 0.1                  10                OAb      0.3     0.3         1.0         2.3            10             0.3
Radio/Telephone Sets                              0.5                   3                0.5      0.5     0.5         1.5        [L. 2            90             3.8
Vaccine Production  2/                             -                    -               15.0    10.'0      -         25.0        70.0             90           63.0
l'ostmortem and Labora-tory Facilities  3/        2.5                   2                2.5      2. 5     -          5.0        lh.o             g0           12.6
Senior Staff Housing                              3.0                   2                3.0      3.0      -          6.0        16.6             50             8.4
Junior Staff Housing                              0.6                   6                1.2      1.2     1.2         3.6        10.1             10             1.0
SOS-TOTAL CAPITAL EXPENDITURES                         --24~.6    19.5                                        4.o        bB.l       13h.7              -104.2
CONTINGENCIES                                          --2.0                                          2.0     1.7         5.7        16.0             77            12.3
TO0T AL                                                --31.6    40.1   26.1,                                           107.1       300.0             50           150.0
1/  Includes salaryan  otheremlyntcs.
2/ Includes both equipment and enlargement of facilities for the vaccine production unit at Kabete.
3/Includes equipment.



ANNEX 12
KEIYA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
General
1.        The Agricultural Finance Corporation (.AFC) was established in
1963 to provLde credit for the development and promotion of agriculture
and related industries. Its creation was aimed at centralizing in one
institution the agricultural credit activities previously scattered among
several public agencies* It is a statutory corporation under the direct
responsibiLity of the Minister of Agriculture.
2.        AFC carries out credit operations from its own resources within
the framework of the Go7ernmentts agricultural policies.  It may also ad-
minister lending operat-_ons as agent of the Government or any public body.
There are no statutory restrictions regarding eligible borrowers, who may
be farmers, cooperative societies, private companies or public bodies.
There are no legal restrictions on any activities that are related to its
aims and objectives; it must, however, consult with the Treasury before
investing or depositing its funds, and its borrowings are subject to the
limitations imposed by the Treasury. AFC's head office is in Nairobi, and
it has ten branches in operation, mostly in the Central and Western Pro-
vinces.
Administration and Management
3.        AFCOs governing body consists of eight members who must hold
meetings at least once a quarter. The Board is composed of two ex-officio
members (the Permanent Secretaries of the Ministries of Agriculture and of
Finance), nominees of the Ministers of Agriculture and Finance designated
for their professional capacities, and one representative of the Central
Agricultural Board. The Chairman is appointed by the Minister of Agricul-
ture after consultation with the Minister of Finance, and has a casting
vote. Members' term of office is three years, and they are eligible for
reappointment. There are no stated disqualifications for membership. The
composition of AFC[s governing body is intended to ensure representation
of both Government and private interests, and at the same time to take ad-
vantage of persons experienced in agriculture and finance. Political in-
terference is possible because of the system of appointment.
4.        A loan committee has been appointed, which meets every 3 to 4
weeks to make loan decisions on the basis of reports submitted by the Gen-
eral Manager. The General Manager is appointed by the Minister of Agri-
culture, after consultation with the Minister of Finance. He is the chief
executive and has sufficient authority to enable him to carry out his duties
efficiently.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
Personnel
5.        Personnel includes civil servants seconded from Government
service. Conditions of employment are determined by the AFC, but must be
approved by the Ministry of Finance. Rates of remuneration are above those
of Government employees, but below those of commercial bank staff. Total
staff as at December 31, 1967 was 160, of which 66 were at head office and
94 in field offices. Recruitment of new staff totaled 35 during 1967. A
recent scheme has been launched to improve the training given to field
officers.
Administrative Organization
6.        Up to the beginning of 1966 the administrative organization was
rather rudimentary and generally somewhat inadequate for its operations.
There has since been a general strengthening at all levels, as required
under the Smallholder Agricultural Credit Project (105-KE). A Ranch
Division has been established within the AFC to administer this Livestock
Development Project (See Para. 4.01 of the Report).
Merger of the AFC and the Land Bank
7.        At the time of negotiating Credit 105-KE, it was envisaged that
the AFC and the Land and Agricultural Bank of Kenya (LAB) would merge with-
in the following year or so, and provision for this was made in the Credit
documents. Supplementary Letter No, 2 of May 11, 1967 records that although
the two institutions still remain separate legal entities, two steps have
been taken towards their merger. Firstly, the reconstituting of the member-
ship of each institution to contain eight persons each and appointing the
same persons to both, and secondly, the appointing of the General Manager
of the AFC to be Manager of the LAB. The Supplementary Letter also confirms
that the staff and accounts of the two institutions will be kept separate
and contains an agreement that no further steps will be taken towards the
merger without prior agreement with IDA. The new institution is likely to
continue to be known as "The Agricultural Finance Corporation". Draft
legislation is awaited, together with the Government's proposals for financ-
ing the new bank and for its management and operation. In general the
merger should be beneficial to both credit and land bank operations within
Kenya, provided the capital structure of the new institution is satisfac-
tory and does not impose an undue burden upon it in respect of interest
payments on borrowings.



ANN1EX 12
Page 3
Credit Activities
8.        AFC's loan portfolio at the end of the past four fiscal years
has been as followis:
K Sh millions                 1964      1965     1966     1967
Development                    26.9     37.4     51.9     53.5
Rehabilitation                  4.0      2.3      1.3      0.5
ICA                            1.6       1.0      1.3      1.1
Agrarian and Ranching            -        -       3.4      4.2
Land Purchase                             -        -       2.6
Total                          32.5      O.7     57.9     61.9
The above figures include interest accrued and due, including overdue
accounts, which amounted to K Sh 5.8 million at the end of fiscal 1967,
equivalent to 9.4 percent of the total. However, these figures do not
include provisions for bad and doubtful debts, which were K Sh 1.2 million
on the same date.
9.        By far the greater part of the AFC's portfolio is concerned with
agricultural development, and more recently these have included loans for
agrarian and ranching projects and land purchase, which are shoivm separately
in the table above. Long term loans have been made for purchase of dairy
stock, fencing, dips, sprays, water supplies, farm buildings and machinery.
Terms are up to 15 years, although the majority are for 5 years; repayments
being in equal annual instalments of principal and interest. Interest rate
is 6½ percent. Loans are made against a first charge on moveable assets
and crops, with the borrower usually providing over 20 percent of the cost.
In addition the AFC makes seasonal advances to farmers growing a minimum
of 15 acres of maize and wheat for cash operating expenses, recoverable
from crop proceeds. AFC acts as agent for the Government and Statutory
Boards, and receives a fee of 3 percent of funds on-lent, farmers paying
8 percent.
10.       The IDA Credit 105-KE is equivalent to USt3.6 million, of which
only US$25,000 was disbursed as at June 30, 1968. Effective date wras
June 30, 1967. The project is part of the AFC's program of promoting
development by providing credit to selected smallholders for on-farm
development and purchase of livestock. Farmers pay the AFO a minimum of
7½ percent and the AFC pays Government 3½ percent per annum. It also
includes credit to contractors for purchase of tractors and attachments,
and additional technical and specialist staff, equipment and vehicles for
carrying out the project. The relatively slow progress to date has been
due mainly to staffing and training problems within the AFC and the
Ministry of Agriculture, but the slow pace of the land consolidation pro-
gram, including delays in legal approval, have also contributed to it.
However, applications are now coming forward at a better rate, and future
prospects are generally much brighter.



ANNEX 12
Page h
Financial Position
11.       A summary of the AFC's financial operations up to the end of
1967 is given in Tables 1 and 2. For 1967 the operating loss was K Sh 0.58
million compared with a profit of K Sh 0.21 million for the previous year,
mainly due to substantial increases in staff expenses attributable to
expansion to meet the requirements of Credit 105-KE without as yet com-
pensatory income through relending. The current provision for bad and
doubtful debts of K Sh 1.20 million may not be adequate.  It is intended
that with the merger of the AFC and the LAB, opportunity will be taken to
rationalize the capital structure of the new institution, including making
adequate provisions for bad and doubtful debts, after which there is no
reason why the new organization should not operate profitably and efficiently.
Auditing
12.       AFC is under the permanent supervision of the Ministry of Finance.
Accounts are at present audited by Messrs. Cooper Brothers & Co., an inter-
national firm of chartered accountants, with offices in Nairobi.



KENYA
LIVESTOCK DEVEWPMENT PiRJECT
AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
SUMMARIZED INCOME AND EXPENDITUERE STATEMENTS
(K Sh Million)
1963/64
ITEM                                         (18 mos.)                   1 9 6 5                    1 9 6 6                     1 9 6 7
(Amount)     (%)1/         (Amount)     (%)1/         (Amount)      (%)l/         (Amount)      Ml/
INCOME
Interest Earned
Loans
Development                                  2.30                        1.97                       2.63                        3.00
Rehabilitation                                0.40                       04                         0.08                        0.04
ICA and Others                               0.11                        0.13                       0.01                        0.28
2.81       4.11            2.24       4.21            2.72        4.32            3.32        4.63
Investments                                     0.43       0.63            0.79       1.49            0.55                        o.58
Bank accounts                                   0.06       0.08            0.03       o.o6            0.06                        0.06
Sub-Total                                       3.30        38                          57            3.33        5.31            3
Government subsidy and agency commission          0.74       1.08            0.68        1.28            1.26                       1.02
Applications and legal fees                       0.12       0.18            0.17        0.32           0.16                        0.20
TOTAL INCOME                   4.1                           6.08            3.91 7 .36 4.75 7.7                                                7.2
EXPENDITURE
Interest on capital                               1.32       1.94            1.31       2.46             1.83       2.88            2.28        3.18
Administrative and other expenses                 1.80       2.63            2.38        4.48            2.70       4.24            3.48 4.85
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENDITURE                       3.12       4.57            3.69        6.94            4.53       7.12            5.76        8.03
Profit (Loss)                                     1.04       1.51            0.22        0.42            0.22       o.35           (0.58)      (0.81)
TOTAL EXPENDITURE AND PROFrr (LOSS)               4.16       6.08            3.91        7.36            4.75       7.47            5.18        7.22
1/  Percentages:  Income and expenditure expressed as perceitage of average annual resources of AFC.



ANNEX 12
Table 2
KENYA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
SUMMARIZED BALANC_J SHEETS
(K Sh Million)
As at:
July 31, Dec. 31, Dec. 31, Dec. 31, Dec. 31,
1963      1964      1965      1966       1967
ASSET3
Loan portfolio 1/
Loans not yet due
Rehabilitation loans                6.72       3.35      1.86      o.98       0.17
ICA loans                           1.28      o.84       0.35      0.20      0.16
Development loans (less
-mdisbursed loan)            22.08      24.54     34.32     44.90     55.73 5/
Sub-Total                          30.08      28.73     36.53     46.o8     56.06
Loan current accounts
Rehabilitation loans
Principal and interest overdue    1.05       o.46      0.33      0.29       0.35
Interest earned not yet due        -        0.19       0.12      0.07       -
ICA loans overdue                   0.56       0.77      1.13      1.09      0.98
Development loans
Principal and interest overdue    2.37       0.86      0.63      0.69      1.18
Interest earned not yet due        -        1.45       1.91      2.57      3.35
Sub-Total                           3.98       3.73      4.12      4.71      5.86
Total Loan portfolio                 34.06      32.46     40.65     50.79     61.92
Less provision for doubtful debts    -          -         -        1.20      1.20
-         -         -       *§;g9   -    60.72
Short-Term investments                     -       15.53     12.80      9.54       8,36
Staff advances                            -         0.07      0.16      0.37      0.34
Miscellaneous assets                      6.94      0.k2      0.23      0.44        -
Cash in hand and banks                     -        1.68      1.47      0.57       2.12
Fixed assets (depreciated)                 -        0.29      0.71      0.69       o.86
TOTAL ASSETS                            41.00      50.45     56.02     61,20      72.4o
LIABILITIES
Capital account
Rehabilitation revolving fund -/    18.75       18.75     18.75     18.75     18.75
ICA revolving fund 2/                 2.50       2.50      2.50      2.50      2.50
Development capital                  12.61      20.61     26.613/  32.50      45.71
Sub-Total                            33.86      1.86    L7.8        53.75     ;T..97
Sundry creditors                           -        o.59      0.12      0.57      0.29
Provisions                                 -        0.18      0.20      0.11       0.21
General reserve fund 4/                  7.         7.82      7.84      6.77      4.94
TOTAL LIABILITIES                       41.00      50.45     56.02     61.20      72.40
1/  All new loans are development loans, whatever the sources of finance.
9/ Irredeemable, interest free.
3/ K Sh 20.61 million irredeemable, interest 5½ percent per annum. The interest
of this portion will be waived as of January 1, 1968. K Sh 6.oo million redeemable,
interest 6 percent per annum.
4/  During the period 1963-1966, the general reserve fund was debited with an amount
of K Sh 0.75 million of uncollectible debts.
5/  Includes agrarian, ranching and land purchase, total K Sh 6.10 million.



KENYA
LIVESTOCK DEVEWMENT PBDJFCT
PR0JECT FINANICTAL STATE2lNTS
G0VKEiMENT (TREASORT) - PROJECTED BECEIPTS AND DISBURSMENTS
Y  E A  R  S                                                  1       2      3       4        5       6       7       9       9       10      11      12      13      14      15       16      17      18
( 0SS' 000, 000) )
CASH INFL0W
Credit from IDA
(a)  For Development Loans to Ranchers (AFC)Z/                      0.28    0.56    0.88    0.46    0.22                  -       -       -       -       -       -       -        -               -       -
(b) For Working Capital Loans to Ranchers (AFC)                     0.30    o.48    o.66      -       -
(c)  For Supporting Technical Services to Ranchers (APC)            0.07    0.07    0.08    0.07    0.07      -       -               -       -       -       -       -       -        -       -
(d) For Livestock Movent and Marketing Facilities (IAAHt)2/         0-33    0.25    0.26    0.18    0.18
(e)  For Range Water Survey and Development (MMAH)                  0.14    0.37    0.18    0.13    0.13              -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -
(f)  For Ancillary Technical Services - (MD) (MAAH 4,               0.24    0.18    0.18      -       -
(g)  For Ancillary Technical Services - DVS  (MAIH)-                0.12    0.09    0.09     -        -
1.48    1.95    2.33    0.84    0.60     -       -       -        -      -       -       -                        -               -        -
Loan Repayments by AFC                                                   -       -       -       -       -      0.49   049    0.49    0.49   0.49    0.49    O.49    0.49    o.49    0.49    0.50    0.50    0.50
Interest Payments by AFC (3)                                           0.02    0.06    0.12    0.17    0.19    0.18    0.17    0.15    0.14   0.13    0.11    0.09    0.08    0.07    0.05    0.03    0.03    0.01
Government ContributionW
(a) For Loans to AFC                                                0.36    0.61    o.86    0.24    0.13          -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -            -        -
(b)  For Grants to MHAA                                             0.31    o.40    0.31    0.19    0.19          -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -        -           -
0.69    1.07    1.29    o.60    0.51    o.67    o.66    o.64    0.63   0.62    0.60    0.58    0.57    0.56   0.54    o053    o.53    0.51
2.17    3.02    3.62    1.44    1.11    0.67    0.66    G.64    0.63   0.62    o.60    0.58    0.57    0.56   0.54    0.53    0.53    0.51
CASH OUTFOW
Loans to AnC
(a) For Development Loans to Ranchers                               0.40    0.80    1.25    0.65    0.30      -
(b) For Working Capital Loans to Ranchers                           0.50    0.80    1.10              -       -
(c) For Supporting Technical Services                               0.11    0.12    0.13    0.12    0.12      -
Grants to MAAH
(a) For Livestock Movement and Marketing Facilities                 0.55   0.1,3   0.44    0.29    0.29       -
(b) For Range Water Survey and Development                          0.23    0.54    0.31    0.?1    0.21                               -
b)  For Ancillary Technical Services - 1DD                           0.24    0.18    0.18     -       -       -
(d) For Ancillary Technical Services - DVS                          0.12    0.09    0.19      -       -       -
Payment of IDA Service Charge (0.75%)                                    -      0.01    0.03    0.04    0.05    0.05    o.o5    0.05    0.05   0.05    0.05    0.05    0.05    0.05   0.05        0.05    0.05    0.04
Principal Repayment of IDA Credit                                        -       -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -      -       0.07    0.07    0.07    0.07   0.07      0.07    0.07    0.07
2.15    2.97    3.53    1.31    0.97    0.05    0.05    0.05    0.05   0.05    0.12    0.12    0.12    0.19   0.12       0.12    0.12    0.11
Annual Cash Surplus or (Deficit)                                        0.02    0.05    0.09    0.13    0.14    0.62    0.61    o.59    0.58   0.57    0.W       o.46    D.45    0. 414  0.42     0.41    0.41    0.40
2.17    3.02    3.62    1444   1.11    0.67    0.66    o.64    o.63   0.62    0.60    0.58    0.57    0.56   0.54        0.53    0.53    0.51
Curnulative Cash Surplus                                                0.02    0.07    0.16    0.29    O.43    1.05    1.66    P.2q    2.Y3   3.1,0   3.89    4.34    4.79    5.23   5.65        6.o6    6.47    6.87
1/  Figures are rounded.
2/   AFC   Agricultural Finance Corporation.
3/  MAAH: Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry.
4/  hMD    Range Management Division.
g/  DVS    Department of Veterinary Services.
From Budgetary Sources.



KENTA
LITV-NCr( DF'1EOPMTEN? 0`ECT
PROJterC FINAMCTAL STAT WS
AFC - MJECTED RECEIPTS AND DISBUSRSEDS
T         E  A  R                                              1                3       4                6       7                       1        11       19        13       11,       1'       16       17        10
( US$  00,OOo ) -
C10i ItNFLOW
Loens from Government
(D) For Develooment Loans to Ranchers                                 °.40     0.80    1 25    065   I0 30        _       _                                                             -
(o) For dorking CaDital Loons to Ranchers                             0.50     o.80    1.10                                                                                             -
(r)  For Supoorting Technical Services                                0.11     0.12    0.13    0.12    n.12                                                                             -
1.01     1.72    2.48    0.77    0.4?      -        -       -        -       -       -         -        _         _        _         _         _        _
rollections from Ranchers
(,)  Development Loan Repayments2/                                     -        -        --      -      0.10    0.2S    0.42    0.43    0.42    0.43    0.42        0.43      0.32     0.18       -         -        -         -
(b) Working Capital Loan Reopyments2/                                  -       0.50    1.30    2.40    2.40    2.40    2.40    2.40    2.40    2.40    2.40         2.40      1.80     1.00       -         -        -         _
(c)  Interest Receipts on Development Lomns (7?1)W                    0.02     0.08    0.14    0.21    0.24    0.23    0.22    0.18    0.15    0.12    0.08         o.06      0.03     0.01       -         -        -
(d)  Interest Receipts on Working Cspital Loase (7O )/                0.02     0.07    0.14    0.18    0.18    0.18    0.18    0.18    O.1e    0.18    0.18         0.18      0.16     0.10       -         -        -         _
0.04     o.65    1.58    2.79    2.92    3.06    3.22    3.19    3.15    3.13    3.08         3.07     2.31      1.29       -        -         -        -
1.05     2.37    4.06    3.56    3.34    3.06    3.22    3.19    3.15    3.13    3.08         3.0?     2.31      1.29       -        -         -        -
CASH OUTDOW
Loons to Rancher.
(a)  Dlopmut Lows                                                     0.40     0.80    1.25    0.65    0.30        -         -       -        -              -        -        -         -             -        -         -
(b) WEorking Capital Loans                                            0.50     1.30    2.40    2.140    2.40    2.40    2.40    2.40    2.40    2.40    2.140        1.80     1.00
LoAn Repayments to Govermte /                                             -         -       _        -       -      0.49    0.49    o.49    0.49    0.        0.49      O.149    0.49      0.49    o0b9       0.50     0.50      0.50
Interest Poymst to GOverment (3)                                         0.02      o.o6    0.12    0.17    0.19    0.18    0.17    0.15    0.14    0.13    0.11         0.09     0.08      0.07     0.05      0.03     0.03      0.01
Technicel Services7/                                                     0.11      0.12    0.13    0.12    0.12    0.12    0.12    0.12    0.12    0.12    0.12         0.12     0.12      0.12
1.03     2.28    3.90    3.34    3.01    3.19    3.18    3.16    3.15    3.14    3.12         2.50      t.69     o.68     0.54      0.53      0.53     0.51
Annual Cash Surplus or (Deficit)                                         0.02      0.09    0.16    0.22    0.33   (0.13)   0.04    0.03    0.00   (0.01)  (0.04)    0.57          0.62     0.61    (0.54)   (0.53)   (0.53)   (0.51)
1.05     2.37    4.o6    3.56    3.34    3.06    3.22    3.19    3.15    3.13    3.08         3.07      2.31     1.29       -         _        _         _
Cumulative Cash Surplus                                                  0.02      0.11    0.27    0.49    0.82    o.69    0.73    0.76    0.76    0.75    0.71         1.28      1.90     2.51      1.97     1.44      0.91     0.40
CASH BALANCE WITH INTZS5T MINGS05
Beginning of Tear                                                         -        0.02    0.11    0.28    0.52    0.89    0.81    0.90    0.98    1.04    1.09         1.11      1.76     2.50      3.28     2.92      2.55     2.t6
Annual Cash Surplus or (Deficit) am above                                0.02      0.09    0.16    0.22    0.33   (0.13)   0.04    0.03    0.00   (0.01)  (0.04)    0.57          0.62     0.61    (0.54)   (0.53)   (0.53)   (0.51)
Interest Earned on Cash Surplus8/                                          -        -      0.01    0.02    0.04    0.05    0.05    0.05    o.06    o.o6    o.06         0.08      0.12     0.17      0.18     0.16      0.14      0.11
End of Tear                                                               0.02     0.11    0.28    0.52    0.89    0.81    0.90    0.98    1.04    1.09    1.11         1.76      2.50     3.28      2.92     2.55      2.16      1.76
Figures ore rounded.
12 year loans; 4 years of grace on principal; repa2met schedule of 8 eqal usnual installments.
Rep.yments of working capital loans would be received in the period following the ome in which the loan would be made.
rl/ Interest calculated on the basis of average of the loan amounts outstanding at the end and beginning of the various anual periods.                                                                                             °
;/ Sme basis used in footnote four.
'  l5 yesr loan; 5 years of grace; repayment schedule of 13 equal annual installments.
7/ Also includes share of general administrative expenses.
71 It is assumed that cash surplus accumulated in previous years will be used for additional lending at a net interest rate of six percent. Interest earnings calculated on the basis of the awount of cush surplus
on  uncd  -I the beginning of the year plus (or minus) half of the annual cash surjlus (or deficit) for the year.



-YENYA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPM4ENT PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AD ANIMAL HUSBANDRY
R A N G E    L I V E S T O  C K     A U T H O R I T Y
AFC General        AFC Project         Head of                  Head of                 Director of        Head of            Director of
Manager           Manager              LMD                      RMD                       DVS              RWD          Water Development
- - -- - -- - -- -   - -   - -   - --       - - 7 - - - - ----r- - -~ ------ ---
Agricultural                                                                                                                     Water
Finance Corporation                                                                                                        Development Department
AFC Ranch                            Livestock             Range Management           Departrment of                          Range Water
Division                       Marketing Division             Division            Veterinary Services                         Division
Ranch                         Livestock Movement            Ancillary                  Ancillary                           Range Water
Development                         and Marketing           Range Services          Veterinary Services                Survey and Developsmnt



KENYA
LIVESTCK DEVELOPMENT PhOJECT
DEVEL0PMENT OF 35,000-AC.RE "GROUP" RANCHES
ON4ANCH INVESTMENT COSTS PROJECTIONS
Tctal Cost for 20 Ranches
1/                                    Average      Average                              Foreign
INVEST'mENT ITEMS                             Unit    Units per   Cost per    Total    Dollar            Exchange
Cost   Ranch         Ranch        Cost     Equivalent    ComPonent
______                                              (     N:)    (To-.)  -TE   (FI 'o-)  (USs '        '000)
1. Firebreaks, (Miles) 2/                                      10        60         600          12         33.6    20          6.7
2.  Watering Facilities 
(a)  Bores (Equipped), (No.)                            3,000        3        9,000         180        504.0    50       252.0
(b)  Pipelines, (Miles)                                 1,000        3        3,000          60        168.0    80       134.4
(c)  Storage Tanks (10,000 gal) + Troughs, (No.)          300         3         900          18         50.4    10         5.0
(d)  Booster Pumps and Engines, (No.)                     250         3         750          15         42.0    90        37.8
3.  Dips (and Yards), (No.)                                   600         2        1,200          24        67.2    40        26.9
4.  Stock Handling Facilities, (No.)                          750         1          750          15        42.0      0         0.0
5.  Constructions
(a)  Office/Store/House, (No.)                            300         1         300           6         16.8    10         1.7
(b)  Manager's House, (No.)                             1,000         1       1,000          20         56.0    30        16.8
(c)  Driver/Mechanic House, (No.)                         200         1         200           4         11.2    10         1.0
6. Machinery
aF iLand Rover and Trailer, (No.)                       1,200         1       1,200          24         67.2   100        67.2
(b)  Tools, etc., (Set)                                   100         1         100           2          5.6   100         5.6
7. Breeding Stock (Bulls), (No.)                              100        30        3,000          60       168.0      0         0.0
SUB-TOTAL                                                     -           -      22,000         440      1,232.0    -         555.2
CONTINGENCIES                                                  -          -        2,000          40       112.0    -          45.8
TOTAL                                                          -          -       24,000         480     1,344.0    45        601.0
1/  Minimum for adequate management, control and husbandry.
2/  In lieu of fences for paddock demarkation, tracks and fire control.



Al=EX 15
Table 2
Ln'ESTOCK LL7E'LOPME?JT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT 0' 35,0Oo-ACRE "GROUP" RANCHES
HERD WVKIMEX?T PROJEUTIONS
VALUE OF CATTLE
Years        Years      before                                                                 END OF YEAR
CA-REORY              unit     0-6            D12     Levelopment       1          2          3         4          5         6          7          8         9          1'          11         12
HERD COMPOSITION
BreediLn, Cows                N..        15           20          1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000     1,000      1,000     1,000      1,000      1,000     1,000       L,OSft      1,0C0       l,OOC
%11s                          ,         20          100             50          40        30         30         30        30         30        30         30         30          c           (t         30
Calves  1/                                1            2           (500)       (500)     (550)      (550)      (600)     (600)      (650)     (650)      (650)      (650)      (650)       (c,5)       (650)
8-2b Mo-Th Old HRifers         "          5           10            260         250       250        275        275       300        300       325        325        325        125                     325
2),-96 14onth Old Heifers                10           17.6          230         247       237        240       264        264        291       291        315        315        i'5         '15        'LS
8-24 Month Old Steers          "          5            9            170         250       250        275       275        300        300       325        325        325        i?5          225 21;
24-36 Month Old 3teers         "          8           15            160         161       237        240       264        261        291       291        315        315        315         31;         915
36-48 Month Old Steers         "         10           27            140         152       153        227       230        253        256       282        282        305        3G,.        305         3C5
48-60 Month Old Steers         '         17.5          -             50         133       144        147       218        100         -         -          -          -          -           -
Cull Fattening Females Y                 12           16             -           -         -          -         -         100        156       120        100       100         100         100         100
TOTAL NUM3ERS                  "          -            -          2,560       2,733     2,851      2,984     3,156      3,160     3,196      3,254      3,292     3,315       3,J15       3,315       3,310
SUB-TOTAL                    A U..                      _         2,060       2,233     2,301      2,434     2,556      2,561     2,546      2,604      2,642     2,665       2,665       2,$501      2,665
PURCHASED STEERS              No.                       - _          _          200       200        200       200        150        150       100        100       100         100         000         100
TOTAL                        A.U.         -             -         2,060       2,433     2,501      2,634     2,756      2,711     2,696      2,704      2,742     2,765       2,765       2,765       2,765
MORTALITY
8-24. Month Old Heifers       No.         -            -             13          13        13         10        11         11          9         9         10         10         10          10          10
24-36 Month Old HeLfers        "          -            -             11          11        13         10        10         11          8         9          9         10         10          10          1(
8-24 Month Old Steers          "          -            -              9           9        13         10        11         11          9         9         10         10         10          10          1$
24-36 Month Old Steers         "          -             -             8           8         8         10        10         11          8         9          9         10         1C          1C          11
36-48 Mnth Old Steers           '         _             _             7           7         8          6          9         9          8         8          8          8         10          10          100
48-60 Month Old Steers         '          -            _             -            3         7          6         6          9          3        -          -          -
Cull Fattening Fe.ales                                               4 "  -  -  19  49     50         40        10         40         32        32         33        31          JO          0o          tc
TOTAL                          ,                                     97         100       112         92        97        102         77        76.        79        79          80          80          80
PURCHASED STEERS               "          _            -             -           10        10          8         8          6          5         3          3          3          3           3
SALES
8-24 Month Old Steers         No.          5                         30          -         -3
24-36 Month Old Steers         "           8           -             40          -
36-48 Month Old Steers         "          10           27            50          -         _          _         -         121       215        248        274       271         295         295         235
48-60 Month Old Steers         "          13.5         27            50          47       126        138       141        209         97        -          -          -          -           -           -
Cull fattening Females         "          12           16            -          170       184        187       190         90        68        124         87        69          70          70          70
24-36 Month Old Heifers        "          -            17.6          _           _                                                  100        162        179       205         205         205        205
Halls                          "          20           30            -           20        20         10          5         5          5         5          5          5          5           5           5
SUB-TCTAL                      '          -            -            170         237       330        335       336        425        515       539        545       553         575         575         575
PURCHASED STEERS               '          25           25            -          190       190        192       192        144       145         97         97        97          97          47          ,7
froAL                                     -            -            170        427        520        527       528        569       660        636       642        650         672        672         672
PURCHASES
AttIc L                        sNo.       -           100            -          10         10         10         5          5         5          5          5         5           5           5           ;
_rnhacde Stesre                       - _          15            -         200        200        200       200        150       150        100       100        100         10          1(00       10f
230;,0                                  --                          -         210        210       210        205       155        lS5        105       105        105         h0          L(5        11r5
PRODUCTION DATA
e vingdat2                               -                           50         50         55        55         60         60        65         65        65         65          65         55          01.
Ad1lt 9ortol ty                S          -            -              5           5         5          4         4          4          3         3          3         3           j           3
3tocking Rate              Ac./A.U.       -            -             16          13        13         12        12         12        12         12         12        12          12          12         12
larryto:g Capacity 5/         No.         _            _          2,000      2,490      2,490      2,700     2,700      2,700     2,700      2,700     2,700      2,700       2,709      2,7C0       2,700
bsws/Ooutl Lsrd 6/             U         _             _             39         37         35        34         32         32        31         31        30         29          23         29          29
.ota 1 2tp,t 1toe ,/           U         _             _              7          9         12        11         11        13         16         17        17         17          17         17          17
Extrooti-o i4t^ 8/             5          _            -             -            9        12         11        11         13        13         11         11        11          11          11         01
31-oafter Dressed Weight(C3W)-
la)  L8-60 Honth Old Steers  Lb.          -            _            350        350        360        100       100        450       450         -          -         -           -           -
(b)  36-18 Month 2ld Stners  Lb.          -            -            300          -         -          -         -         450       N5C        450       450        15C         51t         ,5C        152
c) CuLl Fattening F-males  Lb.            -            -            240        210        250       300        300        300       320        320        320       320         320         320        320
(0) 3dlls                     LO.         -            -            400        400        400        400       60C        600       600        600       600        600         60         660         660
(e)  Tsrchased Steers         Ds.                      _                        150o      450       450        450        150       _5c        450       450        451         45C         150        450
1/   deaned calves -oder one year of age.
2/  For ease of c.lcuLti.on of aenica  unita (A.U.) each  xicsting animal, with -he exception o: *al.os, iconsidered to te -he equlvalent of one anieal unit.
However, oin-c frtt-nin  cuLl fomal.s would be muintained only abhat six months, they or" -t - ated to be only C.1 k.V
l/ AL1 n.rtalicy of fe,ales above breeding a- -writte. off as fattening cu-l females.
H/ Refers ond bhlls s,ld as breeders are sob,ect to Shs 5.00 head County Council t an.
E/ stLoated ncmber of A.0. it would be pessilsc to mainta-n us the rasth t,ring one - ear.
F'emale  of breeding ag,- as  crent ge of tot-a herd.
7<   Ootal cattlh market,  as cr--aenta,  of total icc-I r^- rO  Iteitto r'ruoc 3 teers).
8/   Total cattle sono  fr 3La,ugh:tr 13 re-centa, r  tto.aL  c,ri (oe  O  'trlttde otD-chase ' .
2/   CDW: Cold dr,3scd wei-4t.



KENfA
LIVTESTOCK DEVEPPIENPT PROJECT
DEVEL0PvIENT OF 35,000-ACRE "GROUP" RANCHES
SALES PROJECTIONS
CATEGORY                      Before                                                      YEARS
Development   1         2        3         4        5         6        7         8         9       10        11       12
(E) 1/
8-24 Ionth Old Steers                          150        _         _        _         _        _         _        _         _         _       _         _        _
21t-36 Month Old Steers                        320        -         -             -             -         -        -         -             - 
36-h8 Month Old Steers                         500        -         -        -         -      3,267    6,615    6,696    7,398    7,398   7,965    7,965    7,965
48-60 Month Old Steers                         675        820    2,268    3,036    3,38a    5,643    2,619         -         -             -        -             -
Cull Fattening remales                          -       2,040    2,300    2,805    2,850    1,350    1,088    I,984    1,392    1,l04   1,120    1,120    1,120
Bulls                                           -         400       40O      200       150      150       150      150       150       150     150       150      150
Purchased Steers                                -       4,750    4,750    4,800    L,800    3,600    3,625    2,425    2,425    2,425   2,425    2,425    2,425
2L-36 Month Old Heifers                         -         -         -        -         -        -       1,760    2,851    3,150    3,608   3,608    3,608    3,608
TOTAL                                        1,645      8,010    9,718   10,84l   11,184   14,0io   15,857   lL,106   14,515   14,685  15,268   15,268   15,268
1   Prices (net on-ranch):  (a) 8-24 month old steers B 5;  (b) 24-36 month old steers B 8;  (c) 36-48 month old steers varying from L 10 before development
to E 27 by year 5 and thereafter;  (d) 48-60 month old steers from B 13.5 before development to B 24 in year b;  (e) cull fattening females from E 12
rising to B 16 in year 6 and thereafter;  (f) bulls from E 20 to B 30 in year 4 and thereafter;  (g) 24-36 month old heifers B 17.6; and (h) purchased
steers E 25.



KENYA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMET PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT OF 35,000-ACRE "lGROUP" RANCHES
OPERATING EXENE  PROJECTIONST
OPERATING EXPENSES                       Before                                                     YEARS
Development   1        2       3                5       6        7       8       9       10      11       12
(t)
Manager  1/-                                                          800      800     800     800      850     850      900     900      950   1,000   1,000   1,000
Clerk  2/                                                     -       120      120     120     120      130     130      130     130      140     150     150      150
Driver/Mechanic  /                                            -       lO     14o      140     ThO     150      150      150     150     160      170     170      170
Dipping and Dip Fluid  L/                                     -     1,370   1,130   1,l90   1,500   1,580   1,600   1,630   1,650   1,660   1,660   1,660   1,660
Vaccines, (General)  5/                                       -       270      290     300     300      320     320      330     330      330     330      330     330
Vaccines, (FMn)  6/                                           -       180      250     250     250      320     290      400     410      41lo    430      430     430
Veterinary Supplies  7/                                       -       10o    lho       150     150      160     160      160     170      170     170     170      170
Salt and Licks  8/                                            -       270      290     300     310      320     320      330     330      330     330      330     330
Repairs and Maintenance (Structures)  2/                      -       220      320     380      380     380     380      380     380      380     380      380     380
Operations and Maintenance (Pumps and Vehicles)  l1/          -       750      950   1,150   1,150   1,150   1,150   1,150   1,150   1,150   1,150   1,150   1,150
Office Expenses                                               -       150      150     150     150      150     150      150     160      160     160      160     160
Group Committee Expenses                                      -       110      110     110     110      110     110      120     120      12j     120      120     120
Bull Purchase  ll/                                            -        -        -       -      200      500     500      500     500      500     500      500     500
Cattle Sales Tax - County Councils  12/                      50        -        -       -                -       25       4O      45       50      50       50      50
TOTAL I                                                       -     4,520  L,990   5,3bo   5,660   6,050   6,135   6,370   6,425   6,510   6,600   6,600   6,600
PURCHASE 1T4ATURE STEFERS 13/                                 -     3,0C0   ',000   3,oCc   3,000   2,250   2,250   1,50c   1,50C   1,50c   1,500   1,50c   1,50c
FATTEilrNG OPEtATION EXPENSES  1,1,'                          -       300      30C     300      300     225     225      150    10       150     150      150     150
TOTAL II                                                     50     7,820   8,290   8,640   8,960   8,525   8,610   8,020   8,075   8,160   8,250   8,250   8,250
12  Competent manager essential for success.  Labor of herdsmen supplied at no cost.  2/  Essential for record keeping.  3/ For vehicle and water maintenance
and operation.  4/  Dipping about weekly intervals at lO.OC Shs per head.  5/  Anthrox and Plackquarter at 2.Oc Shs per head.  6/  All cattle moving on or off
ranch t 15.00 Shs per head for types A and 0.  7/ Miscellaneous 2.00 Shs per head per annum.  8/  Salt for metabolism and trace elements @ 2.00 Shs per head
per annum.  Z/ At 5% of structures.  10/  B 200 per annum per bore; L 450 for Land Rover, including fuel, oil and grease.  11/  Based on herd development
projections and valued at 1 100 per head.  Boran or Sahiwal breeds.  12/  5.00 Shs per head for cattle sold on hoof.  13/  Steers from North-Eastern Kenya    -3 
delivered to ranch for i 15 per head. IL/  Estimated at 30.00 Shs per head.                                                                                          O



KEWIA
LIVFSTOCK DEVELOIMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT OF 35,000-ACRE "GROUP" RANCHES
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
ITai                                              Before                                              Y E A R S
Development  1       2      3        4      5      6       7              9       10      11        12
(E TOO)-
1.    Cash Inflow.
(a)  Total Sales                                        1.60 1/    8.00   9.70  10.80   11.20   14.00  15.90  14.10  14.50  14.70   15.30   15.30   15.30
(b)  Loan                                                -         11.00   7.oo   6.oo      -        -      -       -      -       -       -        -       -
(c)  Total Cash Inflow                                  1.60       19.00  16.70  16.80   11.20   14.00  15.90  14.10  14.50  14.70   15.30   15.30   15.30
2.    Cash Outflow
(a)  Rancher's Investment Contribution 2/                -           -      -       -       -        -      -       -      -       -        -       -        -
(b)  Investment of Loan Funds                             -        11.00   7.00   6.oo      -        -       -      -      -       -        -       -        -
(c)  Operating Expenses                                  -          7.80   8.30   8.60    9.00    8.50   8.60   8.00   8.10   8.20    8.30    8.20    8.30
(d)  Total Cash Outflow                                  -         18.80  15.30  14.60    9.00    8.50   8.60   8.00   8.10   8.20    8.30    8.20    8.30
3.    Cash Balance (lc - 2d)                                   1.60       0.20   1040   2.20    2.20    5.50   7.30   6.10   6.40   6.50    7.00    7.10    7.00
I.    Interest Payments
(a)  Development Loan 3/                                 -          0,38   1.44   1.92    1.99    1.92   1.68   1.44   1.20   0.96    0.72    0.48    0.24
(b)  Short-Term Credith/                                 -          0.62   0.66   0.69    o.72    o.68   0.69   o.64   0.65   0.66    0.66    0.66    0.66
(c)  Total Interest Payments                             -          1.50   2.10   2.61    2.64    2.60   2.37   2.08   1.85   1.62    .i.38    1.1-4    0.90
5.    Cash Balance After Interest Payments (3 - 4c)            1.60       (1.30) (0.70) (0.41)  (0.44)   2.90   4.93   4.02   4.55   4.88    5.62    5.96    6.10
6.    Loan Amortization 5/                                      -           -      -       -       -      3.00   3.00   3.00   3.00   3.00    3.00    3.00    3.00
7.    Cash 3alance After Loan Amortization (5 - 6)             1.60       (1.30) (0.70) (0.41)  t0.44)  (0.10)  1.93   1.02   1.55   1.88    2.62    2.96    3.10
8.    Incremental Cash Balance 6/                                         (2.90) (2.30) (2.01)  (2.04)  (1.70)  D).33  (D.58) (0.05)  0.28    1.02    1.36    1.50
9.    Cumulative Cash Balance                                   -         (2.90) (5.20) (7.21)  (9.25) (10.95)(10.62) (11.20)(11.25)(10.97)  (9.95)  (8.59)  (7.09)
10.   Incremental Herd Value                                    -          1.90   2.50   3.60    5.30    4.90   4.40  25.00  25.50  26.10   26.10   26.10   26.10
11.   Total Incremental Value (8 + 10)                          -         (1.0 ) 0.20   1.59    3.26    3.20   4.73  24.42  25.45  25.82   25.08   24.74   24.60
1/    This is a guess estimate and is suLbject to a high margin of error.  2/ Group ranches would not be financially able to contribute to on-ranch
development costs.  3/  Eight percent Der annum on outstanding balance.  4/  Eight percent per annum.  Short-term credit is used to finance
all operating expeenses.  5/  Repayment schedule of eight equal installments as customary for Agricultural Finance Corporation operations.  6/
Incremental over predevelopment value.                                           
vk{



KENYA
LIVESTOCK DE7iIVOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENI OF 64, OOO-ACRE "COINANY: h;AJNCHES
0' -nANCH INVESTMENT _CO;ST. PRCJECTI(ONj
Total Cost for 10 Ranches
Average     Average                                Foreign
IWESTMENT ITEMS                               Unit    Units per   Cost per    Total    Doclar             Exchange
Cost    hanch        Ranch        Cost      Equivalent    Cor onent
_1               m        NT  (t '000) (Es                        - - W '  IOIOT
1.  Firebreaks, (Miles)  1/                                     10       100        1,000        10          28.0      20        5.6
2.  viatering Facilities
(a)  (Bores (Equipped), (No.)                           3,000          3        9,000        90         252.0      50     126.0
(b)  Pipelines, (Miles)                                 1,000          3        3,000        30          84.0      80       67.2
(c)  Storage Tank (20,000 Gal) + Troughs, (No.)           600          1          600         6          16.8      10        1.7
(d)  Booster Pump and Engine, (No.)                       300          1          300         3           8.4      90        7.6
(e)  Tanks or Rock Catchments, (No.)                    1,000          1        1,000        10          28.0      10        2.8
3.  Dips (and Yards), (No.)                                    600          2       1,200         12          33.6     40       13.h
4.  Stock Handling Facilities, (No.)                           750          2        1,500        15          42.0       0       0.0
5.  Constructions
(a)  Office/Store/House, (No.)                            500          1          500         5          14.0      10        1.
(b)  Manager's House, (No.)                             2,000          1        2,000        20          56.0      30       16.8
(c)  Driver/Mechanic's House, (No.)                       300          1          300         3           8.4      10        0.8
6.  Machinery
(a)  Land hover and Trailer, (No.)                      1,200          1        1,200        12          33.6    100        33.6
(b)  Tractor, Discs and Trailer, (No.)                  1,200           1       1,200        12          33.6    100        33.6
(c)  Tools and Spares, (Set)                              200          1          200         2           5.6    100         5. 
SUB-TOTAL                                                      _            -      23,000        230         644.0      -      316.1
CONTINGENCIES                                                                                                 5 2,000  20  $6.0  -  33.9
TOTAL                                                                       -       25,000       250         700.0      50     350.0
1/ In lieu of fences for grazing demarcation and fire contr-ol.



AUM 16
LIM=~ m3ixww? NNW?
VALORM 11 0O 64.00 Her2
UNIT    O-3 Ds                          t       r     Z        3 E          '                n 7     T                  9         10         11         12
Breeding Cows                              It.      30            30      6D0          570      540      513       640       650      8O O      00      8goo    8BD         Bo         800       800
Bllsa                                       *      100          100         20          20       20       20        20        22       24       24        24      24          24         24        24
Calves  /                                    '       2             2                  (360)    (340)   (324)    (330)    (411)    (521)    (560)        (560)   (560)       (560)      (560)     (560)
S-24 Month Old Heifers                              10           10         _           _       18D      170       162      165       208      262       280     280        280         280       280
24-36 Mouth Old Heifers                     n       17.6         17.6       -           -                17.       163      156       160      2G2       254     272         272        272       272
8-24 Konth Old Steer                        n        9             9        _           _       180      170       162       165      208      262       280     280         280        280       280
214-36 Inth Old Steers                              15           15                              _       171       163      156       160      202       254     272         272        272       272
36-148Itorth Old Strs                               27            27        -           -        _        -        164       156      11       155       196     246         264        264       264
TOTAL IOJNM                                 n           _                 620          950    1,260    1,539     1,81    1,981    2,231    2,467       2,648   2,734      2,752       2,752     2,752
SUB-TOTAL                                 * U.  /    -                     620         590      920    1,215     1,474    1,568    1,707    1,907      2,088   2,174       2,192      2,192     2,192
9U8CHA8O STSFIS                            NO.                              -        1,Soo    1,580    1,500     1,526    1,432    1,293    1,093        912     826         808       88        808
TOTAL                                     A.0.        -            _       620       2,090    2,500    2,705     3,000    3,00D    3,000    3,OOD    3,000   3,000         3,000      3,000     3,000
8-24 Month Old Hef1ers                     No.                   -           - -        -        -         9          7        6        5        6         a       8           8          8          8
24-36 Month Old Heifers                              -             -        -           -        -                   7         7        5        5         6       8           8          8         8
8-24 Mouth Old Stes r                       n        _             _        _                              9         7         6        5        6         8       8           8          8         8
24-36 Month Old Steers                       '       -             -        -           -        -        -          7         7        5        5         6       8           8          8         B
36-48 lmth Old Stewos                       n           _          _        _                             -         -          7        5        5         5       6           7          8         8
Beeding Gowe                                         -            -         -           30       30       27        21       26        22       25        2h      25          26         26        26
r                                                    - _          _                     30       30       45        49       59        47       52        57      63          65         66        66
P-AM   STEMIR                                        -             -        -           75       CO       s0        60        57       38       33        27      25          24         21,       24
36-48 Ionth Old Steers                     No,      27           27         _-                                      -       157      1   11      6       150     190        239         256       256
0u11 Breeding  o_s                          "       16           1A         -           _        _        _         16        20       79       80        80      so          8O         80        8o
24-36 Mmhth Old Heifers                             17.6         17.6       -                    -        -         -        -         -        50        92     111a       158         158       158
sal1e                                               30           30         -           -        -        -5                  5         5        5         5       5           5                    5
SU8-TOTAL                                            -             - _        _         _           _               21     1I2        235      281       327    416         482         499       499
PURCHABMU  STZRS                            n       25           25         _        1,425    1,5C0    1,420     1,466    1,375    1,255    1,060        885     801         784        784       764
TOTAL                                                                                3 _  _   1,425    1,500    1,1.10  1,8  1,557    1,70    1,341    1,212   1,217      1,266       1,283     1,283
Breeding Age Heifers                       No.      30           30        60                                       -
8roedi   Age Bls                                   100          100        C0           -                 -5                   7        7        5         5       5           5          5         5
Porchased Steere                                    15           1S         _        1.o0      .O      1.SIID    1.526    1432    1.2S3    1,093         912     626         808        808       8C8
TOTAL                                                                     d o _ W    1,500    1,90    1,510      1,531    1,439    1,300    1,098        917     831         813        813       813
tffective Celviig Rate                      S        -            -         -           60       60       60        65       65        70       70        70      70          70         70        70
Adult Mortality                             S        -             -        -            5        5        5         4        4         3        3         3       3           3          3         3
.ctraction Rate                             I        -            -         *           _        _        _          1         9      11         9         9      10         12          12        12
Total Output Rate  ,/                       S        -            -         -           -        -        -          1        9        .3       12        12      15         18          18        18
Stockiyg Rate                           Ao./A.C      -            -         -           28       21       22        20       20        20       20        20      20         20          20        20
Carryirg Capaity   J                      A.0.       -            -         -        2,100    2,500    2,700     3,000    3,000    3,00D    3,000      3,000   3,000      3,oco       3,000     3,000
Sl U&hter Dressed Weight (C.D.W.) I/
(1) Purchased stews                      lb.       -            -         -          40        0        50 450 ho50 4              450       450       45D     450         450        bO        1450
(2) 36-48 Morth Old Steera                         -            -        -            -        -        -         -        5        5       450        450     450        450         450      4so
(3)  oullU Brdig Cove                     n           _         _           _        _           _               320      320      320      320        320     320        320         320       320
(4) 24-36 tinth Old N tes                             _                                                                -            -         -         -      320        320         320       320
(5)  sons                                          -            -        -            -        -        -        600      600      600       600       600     600        600         600       600
1/ Weaned calves unde one year of age.
2/ For ease of caleulation, all animle idth the exception of nemed calves are classed sn oem anil  unitl
/ Heifer, md bulls aold an breeders are subject to 5.00 Oh County Council Tax.
Cattle sold for alaughter from basic herd (doees rt include purchased sters).
/  Total cattle marleted from basic hard (dues mt inslude purchased steers).
E/ s,timated total aniral urdte it would be possible to mintain during one year.
1  ClODW  Cold Dressed Weight.



KENYA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT ROJECT
DEVELOPMENT OF 64,000-ACRE "COMPLNY" RANCHES
SALES PROJECTIONS
CATEGORY  1/                         Before                                                     YEARS
Development    1       2        3       4       5        6       7        8       9        10         11         12
(i;)
36-48 Month Old Steers                                  -          -       -       -        -    4,240    4,o80   3,940   4,050   5,130    6,L50       6,910      6,910
'lull Breeding Cows                                     -          -       -       -       260     320    1,265   1,280   1,280   1,280    1,280       1,280      1,28C
2;4-36 Month Old Heifers                                -          -       -       -        -      -        -        880   1,620   2,480    2,780      2,780      2,780
Bulls                                                   -          -                       150     150      150      150     150      150      150        150       150
Purchased Steers                                        -       35,625  37,500  35,500 36,650  34,375   31,375  26,500  22,125  20,025   19,600    19,600    19,600
TOTAL                                                   -        5,625  37,500  35,500 37,06C  39,085   36,870  32,750  29,225  29,065   30,260    30,720    30,720
1/  Estimated prices received per head of stock sold (net on ranch):  (a)  36-48 month old steers, f 27;  (b)  cull breeding cows, E 16;
(c)  24-36 month old heifers, I; 17.6;  (d)  Bulls, I 30; and  (e) Purchased Steers, I 25.



KENYA
LIVESIOCK DFVELOPMENT FROJ--CT
DFVELOPVTE!UT OF 64,0CC-ACRE "COMPATY" RAPNCHES
OPEATITNG EXPENSES  ROJECTCNS
OP&IATEIG EYYHNPE.SS               Beforc                                                              EARS , _                                         _
__  _ _  Develocunt    1     2         3    _                                            T .1                                12
(1:)
1-rm-iger                                                   1,OCC    1,OOC    1,0CC    1,000    1,100    1,100    1,100    1,20C    1,20C    1,3-O0          1,300    1,300
D-iver/lechanile                                      -        1)40     1140      140       140      150       150      150       150       160      170        170       170
Clerk                                                -         120       120      120       120      130       130      130       130      11o      150        150       150
Heacimen  1/                                                   120       120      120       120      130       130      130       130       1L40     150        150       150
llrrdmen  2/                                        130        50C       600      630       660      690       770       820      820       820       860       860       86C
Dipping and Dip Fluid 3/                              -        470       630      770       900      990    1,115    1,250    1,325    1,365    1,375         1,375    1,375
Vac:cines, (General) 4/                              -          90      130       150      180       200       225      250       265       270      275        275       275
Vaccines, (FPID) 5/                                   -        -         -        -          20      140       180       210      2145      310       360       375       375
Veterinary Supplies 6/                                _         50        60       80        90      100       110       125      130       135       135       135       135
Salt .nd Licks 7/                                    -          90       130      150       180      200       225       250      265       270       275       275       275
Peoair  and Maintenance (Structures)  8/              -        210       370      li4O      1490     490       490       190       4y90    4490       149o      1490      L90
WaLer Pemping and .laintenance 9/                     -        400       800      80C       800      80C       00C       80c      800      B8o        800       800       800
land Zover Operation and ilaintenance 10/            -         350       50      350       350      350       350       350      350       350       350       350       350
Tractor Operation and Maintenance  11T               -         450     L50       450       450      1450      450      1450      450       450       450       450       450
Office Expenses                                       -        150       150      150       170      170       170       170      180       180       190       190       200
Director's Expenses                                  -         120       120      120       130      130       130       130      1140     1IJ(       140       150       150
Rent 12/                                              -        290       290      29'(      290       290      290       290      290       290       290        480      1480
Bulls Purcnased  13/                                  -        -         -                  500      700       700       500      500       500       500       500       5OC
Cattle Sales Tax to CoCLnty Cotncil                   -        -         -        -         -        -         -          15       25        *5       140         40       14O
TOTAL I                                               -      8,550    5,1460    5,810    6,59c    7,210    7,515    7,610    7,885    8,o0l,    8.300         8,515    8,S15
PURCHASE IhAMATTRE STES  15/                          -     22,500   23,700   22,500   22,890   21,1480   19,395   16,395   13,530   12,3y0   12,120    12,120   12,120
FATTENING OPEATION EXPENSES 16/                       -      2,250    2,370    2,250    2,290    2,150    1,940    1,640    1,350    1,240    1,210           1,210    1,210
TOTAL Ii                                              -     29,300   31,530   30,560   31,770   30,81.O   28,850   25,6145   22,765   21,675   21,630    21,845   21,8145
1/  'Ta  headmen wages Shs 100/per month rising to Shs 125/month.  2/  Three herdsmen before development at Shs 70/month; Year 1; 12 herdsmen at Shs 70/month
rising to 18 men at Shs 80/month.  3/ Dipping at Shs 10/head/year.  4/ Vaccines at Shs 2/head/year.  5/ FMD vaccines at Shs 15/head/year for cattle
entering and leaving ranch.  6/ At Shs 1/head/year.  7/ At Shs 2/head/year.  8/  Estimated at 5% of value of structures.  9/  Estimated at 3 200 per annum   ,3
per bore. 10/  Estimated at fl 350 per annum for fuel, repairs airl maintenance.  11/ Estimated  at r 450 per annum for fuel, repairs and maintenance.                    PS
12/  At 3% of unimproved capital value of Shs 3/acre for first 10 years, thereafter 5%. 13/  At L 100 per bull.  114/ At Shs 5/head for cattle not going    
to slaughter.  15/ At f 15 per head.  16/ At i; 1.5 per head for animal health caltrol.                                                                                   c .



KENYA
LIVESIT)CK DEVEUJPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOEMENT OF 6Lt,000-ACRE "COMPANY" RANCHES
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
ITEM                                    Before                                                      Y E A R S
Development    1         2       3        4        5        6        7       5         9      10       11       12
i.   Cash Inflow                                                                                                       (f 1000)
(a)  Total Sales                                           -        35.60   37,50   35.50   37.10   39.10   36.90   32.80   29.20   29,10   30.30   30.70   30.70
(b)  Loan                                                  -        12.00    6.00    2.00       -        -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -
(c)  Total Cash Inflow                                     -        47.60   43.50   37.50   37.10   39.10   36.90   32.80   29.20   29.10   30.30   30.70   30.70
2.   Cash Outflow
(a)  Rancher's Investment Contributian  1/                 -         3.00    1.50    0.50       -        -                          -        -        -       -        -
(b)  Investment of Loan Funds                              -        12.00    6.00    2.00        -       _ -               -        -        -        -        -        -
(c)  Operating Expenses                                    -        29.30   31.50   30.60   ,.         30.80   28.90   25.60   22.80   21.70   21.60   21.80   21.80
(d)  Total Cash Outf-low                                   -        o1430   39.00   33.10   31.50   30.8O   23.90   25.60   22.90   21,70   21.60   21.80   21.80
3.   Cash Balance (lc - 2d)                                      -         3.30    4        4J40    5.30    8.30    8.00    7.20    6.40    7.LO          8.70    8.90    8.90
4.   Interest Payments
(a)  Development Loan  2/                                  -         1.00    1.40    1.60    1.60    1.60    1.40         1.20    1.00    0.80    0.60    0.4o    0.20
(b)  Short-Tenm  Credit  3/                                -         2.30    2.50    2.50    2.50    2.50    2.30    2.10    1.80    1.70    1.70    1.70    1.70
(c)  Total Interest Payments                               -         3.30    3.90    4.10    4.10    4.10    3.70    3.30    2.l80    2.50    2.30    2.10    1.90
5.   Cash Balance After Interest Payments (3 - Le)               -        (o.00)   0.60    0.30    1.20    4.20    14.30    3.90    3.60    4.90    6.40    6,80    7.00
6.   Loan Amortization  4/                                       -          -        -       -        -       2.50    2.50    2.50    2.50    2.50    2.50    2.50    2.50
7.   Incremental Cash Balance   /                                -        (0.00)   0.60    0. 0    1.200    1. 70    1.50    1..0    1.10    2.40    3.90    4.30    14.50
8.   Cumulative Cash Balance                                   1.00 6/    1.00    1.60    1.90    3.10    1480    6.60    8.00    9.10   11.50   15.40   19.70   24.20
9.   Incremental Herd Value                                      -        (0.20)   2.30    6.80   114.70   18.00   20.70   23.30   26.40   28.40   28.80   28.80   28.80
10.  Total Incremental Value (7 + 9)                            0.0       (0.20)   2.90    7.10   15.90   19.70   22.50   214.70   27.50   30,80   32.70   33.10   33.30
1/   Twenty per cent of total investment costs.  2/  Eight per cent per annum on outstanding balance.  3/  Eight Der cent per annum.
Short-term credit is used to finance all operating expenses. 4/ Repayment schedule of eight equal installments as customary for Agricultural Finance
Corporation operations. 5/ Incremental over predevelopment value. 6/ Provided by company shareholders as part of company formation cost and woald be used M >
as a contingencies fund.                                                                                                                                                       a  5
ep 4



KENYA
LIVESTOCK DEVEELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT OF 2,000-ACRE "INDIVIDUAL" !lANCHES
ON-RAiCH INTESTMENT COSTS PROJECTIONS
Total Cost for 10 Ranches
Average     Average                                Foreign
INVEST'\MENT ITEMS                           Unit    Units per   Cost per    Total    Dollar             Exchange
Cost    Ranch        Ranch        Cost        uivalen.      Component
-_                            (o.) . . ..        (C°T 30)  (ua  3   007' ?)()
1.  Firebreaks, (11iles)  1/                                  1D        15          150        1.5          !.2    10         0.
2. dlatering Facili-ties
(a)   Bores (Equipped), (No.)  2/                      3,000      1/4         750         7.5         21.0    50       10.5
(b)  Pipelines, (Miles)                                1,000         1       1,000        10.0         28.0    80       22.4
(c)  Storage Tank (10,000 gallon) + Troughs (No.)        300         1          300        3.0          8.4    10         0.8
3.  Dips (and Yards), (No.)  2/                              6'00      1/h          150         1.5          h.2    40        1.7
L.  Stock Handling Facilities, (No.)                         2)00        1          200         2.0          5.6     0        0.0
5.  Construction. 3/
(a)  Shed, (Noj  d/                                       50         1          50         0.5          1.4      0        0.0
(b)  Herdsmen's Houses, (No.)  4/                         75         2         150         1.5           .2      0        0.0
6. Machinery 5/
a)  Too!s, etc., (Set)                                    50         1           50        0.           1.4   100         1.4
7.Breedi   Stock
(a)_BreediTig Age Bulis, (No.)                           100         2          200        2.0          5.6      0        0.0
SUB-TOTAL                                                       -        -        3,000        30.0         84.0      -      37.2
CONTI\TGENC IES                                                                                 5.0         1h.0      -       6.8
TOTAL                                                                             3,500        35.0         98.0    45      4hh.0
1/  In lieu of fences for grazing demarcation, tracks and fire control.  2/  Centrally located, and would be shared
by four ranchers.  3/ Owner's house, with an estimated cost of , 800, would not be considered as part of the total
investme-it costs.  I/  Constructed with locally available materials.  5/  Owner's vehicle, with an estimated cost of
t 1,200, would not be considered as part of the total investment costs.
(J



ANNEX 17
LIVESIOCE DVKWPK1T FROJUCT
7BIOPW  0F 21OOO-hARZ 'ISIVD0' ,RANCHE
BUKD 3VEImfE11TiNJECT
CATEGORY                  yt.~VALU  OF CATTLI e   Beoer 2
unidt     o-6            7-1       0veopsent         1          2         3          4                                          tRA       9        10          11         12
Breeding Cove                      No.       15              20           30           30         35          38       40         40         40        40        40         2.0       4.0         40~        40
Balls                                       100             100            2            2          2           2        2          2          2          2        2          2          2           2         2
Calves  1/                                    1               2          (16)         (18)       (20)        (22)     (26)       (30)       (30)       (30)     (30)       (30)       (30)        (30)       (30)
8-22.Month Old Heifer.                        5              10            a            8          9          10       11         13         2.5       15        15         1.5        15         15         i5
24.-36Month Old Heifbew                      10              17.6          7            7                      8        9         10         12        12.       1.2       12.        12.         1.2        12
8-24 Month Old Steers                         5               9            a            8          9          10       1.1        13         2.5       15        15         15         15         15         15
24-36 Month Old Stewrs                         8             15            7            7          7           8       10         10         12        12.       14         14.        14.        1.         14
36-4.8Month Old Steers                       10              27            6            6          7           7        8         10         10        12        12.       12.         1L          14.       Ii
4.8-60 Manth Old Steers                      17.5              -                        5          6           7        7L         -          -          -        ---                                         -
TOTAL NtPKNS                       NO.         -               -          89           91        102        112       122.       128       136        12.2      lhh        12.2      12.2        12.2       12.2
SUB-TOTAL                         A.U. 2/      -               -          73           73         02          90      100         98        106       112       11h        III        1.12       i111       112.
P23Bf{A  SEOTBU                    No.       25              25            -          127        118        110       100        102         94        88        86         86        86          86         86
TOTAL                            A.O.          -               -          73          200        200        200       200        200)       200       200       200        200        200        200        200
HMOTALTD
8-24 Month0Old He w a              NO.         -               -1                       1          1           1        1          1          1         1         2.         1          1          1          1
24.-36Mouth0Old Heifers                        --                          1            1          1           1        -          -          -          -        1          1          1           1         1
8-22. Month old Steers                                                     I            1          1           1        1          1          1         2         1          1          1          1          1
24.-36 Month 01d Steers                        --1                                      1          -           -        -          -          -          -        -                     -           -         -
36-48 Month Old Stewrs                                                     I .-1        1          -           -        -          -          -          -        -          -          -           -          -
4.8-6o Mooth, Old Steors                                                                                         -  -  -     -                                     -              -           -                -
Breeding Cows                       n                                                                            -  -                              -         -               -          -           -         -
TOTAL                                          --                         10           10          3           3        2          2          2         2         3          3          3           33
POBRCHASESTEmS                                 -                           -            6          4~         3         2          2          2         2         1          1          1          1          1
36-4.8 Month Old Steers            NO.        -              27            -            -          -           -        -          8        10         10        12         12.       12.         12.        12
4.8-60 Mouth Old Stewrs                      20                            5            5          5          6         7          7          -         -         -          -          -           -         -
Cull BreedingCrows                           15              16            1            1          1          3         6          9         10        12         h          .          2.         2.         4
24.-36 month Old Heifers                      -              17.6          -            -          -               -          -         -                -        9          9          9           9         9
Bulls                                        20              30            -            2          -           -        I               -               1         -          -          I           -         -
SUB-TOTAL                          No.        -               -            6            8          6           9       14         20         20        23        25         27         28         27         27
PuoNCIAsEO STEES                    '         ---                                     121.       114.       107        98        100         92        86        85         85         85         85         85
TOTAL                                         --6                                     129        120        116       112        120       112        109       110        112       113         112        112
BUlIS                              go.      100             100            -2                      --                   1          -          -         I         -          -         1           -          -
Purebased Steero                             15              IS                       2 27      Ili-        10        100        102        94.        88        86         86        86          86         86
TOTAL                                         -               --                      1.29       118        110       101        102        92.        89        86         86        87          86         86
9BOWOCON DATA
Effective Ca1vi,g Rate                         -       -                  50           60         65         65        70         75         75        75        75         75         75         75         75
Adult Mortality                                -       -                   -           10          3          3         2          2          2         2         2          2          2          2          2
Extraction Rate.4/                            -       -                    7            9          6           8       11         16        15         15        11         12        12          12         12
TotalOutSput Ratej/                 %                  -                   7            9          6           8       11         16        15         16        17         19        19          19         19
St.oidoug Rate                 Ac./A.JJ.       -              --                       10         10         10        10         10        10         10        10         20         10         10         tO
Garrying Capacity  6/             A. U.       --                           -          200        200        200       200        200       200        200       200        200       200         200        200
Slaughter Dressed Wbiitot (r01W)7/
(1)  Parchased Steers             Lb.                        -                        450       2.50        2.50      2.50      2.50       2.50       2.0       450       2.50       2.50        2.50        50
(2)  36-1.8 Month Old Steers                                  -            -            -          -         -          -       2.50       4.50       2.50     2.50       2.50       2.50        2.50       450
(3)  4.8-60 Month Old Steers.                                            350          350       360         4.00      4.50      2.50         -          -         -         -          -           -          -
(2.)  Cull Breeding Cowo s                                               24.0         22.0      250         300       300       300        300        300       300       320        320         320        320
(5)  2L-36 Month Old Heifers                                               -            -         -           -         -         -          -          -      320        320        320         320        320
(6)  Balo                                     -               --                      .0          -           -      600          -          -        600         -         -        600           -          -
I/ Wdeasd Calves.
f/ For ease of calculation, each animal, with the eaesptioo of cal,es is cons idered to be equIvalent to one an~imal unit (A.U.).
H eifers and bulls sold fw' breediuM  are subject to a Council Tax of ffhs 5.00 per head.
S.tracti.n rate ts tie number ot cattle sold for slaugh.tw expressed as a percentage of the total herd (purchased steers not included).
5/Total. output rate is the total number of cattle sold off the ranch expressed as a pe,centage of the total herd (purchased Steers not included).
f// Estimated total number of A.U. it wanld be possible Co maintain on the ranch during cna Year.
I/ CThW: Cold Dressed WJeight.



KENYA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT OF 2,000-ACRE "INDIVIDUAL" RANCHES
SALES FROJFCTIONS
l/                      ~~~~~~Before                                                  YEARS
CATEG3ORY                                 DevelopsE nt    1        2        3       4        5        67               B        9      10       11       12
(t)
36-4~8 Month Old Steers                                         -         -       -                 -      215      270    270       320      380      380     380      380
48-60 14onth Old Steers                                        88        88      90      130     160       190       -       --                -        -       -        -
Cull Breedi.ng Cows                                            12        12      10       45       90      135      150    180        60       65       65      65       65
2.4-36 Month Old Heifers                                        -         -       -        -        -                                160      160      160     160      160
Bulls                                                                    40h      -        -.      30       -        -       30       -        -        30       - 
PURCHASED STEERS                                                -    3,030   2,850   2,675   2,450   2,500    2,300  2,150    2,125   2,125   2,125   2,125   2,125
TOTAL                                                         100    3,170   2,950   2,850   2,730   3,040    2,720  2,630    2,665   2,730   2,760   2,730   2,730
I/  Prices Cnet on rahch):  (a) 36-48 maonth old steers @ L 27;  (b) 48-60 month old steers from E 17.5 before development to £ 22 in year 4;
(c)7 c-ull females from £ 12 a head before developsEnt to fl 16 in year 9 and thereafter; (d) 24~-36 month old hei-fers ~ t 17.6 per head;
Ce) bulls from L 20 in year 1 to t 30 in year 4 arri thereafter; andl (f7) purchased steers @ L 25.
!f3



KENYA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMINT PROJECT
DEVELOP?4ENT OF 2,000-ACRE"INDIVIDUAL" RANCHES
OPERATING EXPENSES ROJECTIOIiS
OPER?ATIN,G EXPENSES               Before                                                             YEARS
OPERATIISeveopnt    1    2        3                            6         7        8         9        10       11       12
(E)
Herdsmen/Labor 1/                                    -         85       85        85       90        90       90       100       100      100      1l00       100    100
Dipping and Dip Fluid  2/                            -         45       50        55       60        65        70       70        70       70        70        70     70
Vaccines, (General)  2F                              -         10       10        10       15        15       15        15        15       15        15        15     15
Vaccines, (9TD) 2/                                   -          5        5         5       10        15       15        15        20       20        20        20     20
Veterinary Supplies  2/                              -          5        5         5       10        10       10        10        10       10        10        10     10
Salt arrl Licks  2/                                  -         10       10        10       15        15       15        15        15       15        15        15     15
Repairs and Maintenance, (Structures)  3/            -         20       30        14       50        50                 50        50       50        50        50     50
Water Pumping Operation and Maintenance  24/         -         50       50        50       50        50        50       50        50        50       50        50      50
Vehicle Operation and Maintenance  5/                -         50       50        50       50        50        50       50        50        50       50        50     50
Office and General Expenses                          -         20       20        20       20        25        25       30        30        30       30        30      30
Bull Purchases  6/                                   -          -        -         -      100         -         -      100         -         -      100         -      -
Cattle Sales Tax, County Councils  7/                5          -         -        -         -        -         -        5         5         5        5         5       5
TOTAL I                                              -        300      315       330      470       385       390      505       41L4     415       515       815     15
PURCHASE IT24ATURE STEERS  8/                        -      1,905    1,770    1,650    1,500    1,530    1,810    1,320    1,290    1,290    1,290    1,290  1,290
FATTENING OPERATION EXPENSES  9/                     -        195      180       165      150       150       140      130       130       130      130       130    130
TOTAL II                                             5      2,400    2,265    2,145    2,120    2,o65    1,940    1,955    1,835    1,835    1,935    1,835  1,835
1/ Two herdsmen at 70 Shs per month rising to 80 Shs month.  2/  Charged on a per head basis:  Dipping 10 Shs; vaccines 2 Shs; FMD 15 Shs for cattle
entering or leaving ranch; veterinary supplies 1 Shs; and salt and licks ( 2 Shs/head.  3/  Estimated at 5% of value of structures.  4/ Estimated at
E 200 per bore, shared between 4 ranches. 5/ Nominal use for ranch business. 6/ D L 100 each. 7/ County Council Tax of 5 Shs per head for bulls
and helfers sold for breeding.  8/ Estimated al; l 15/head.  9/  Estimated at L 1.5 per head for animal health costs.
-.3w



KENYA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELCFTMENT OF 2,000-ACRE "INDIVIDUTAL" RANCHES
FTNANCIAL PROJECTIONS
IT3M                                     Before                                                           Y E A R S
Development         1        2        3        L        5       6        7        8        9        10       11       12
(E '000)
i.   Cash In-flow
(a)  Total Sales                                       0.10           3.20    2.95    2.85    2.75    3.05    2.70    2.65    2.70    2.75    2.75    2.75    2.75
(b)  Loan                                                -            2.80      -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -       -
(c)  Total Cash Inflow                                 0.10           6.00    2.95    2.o5    2.75    3.05    2.70    2.65    2.70    2.75    2.75    2.75    2.75
2.   Cash Outflow
(a)  Rancher's Investment Contribution 1/                -            0.70      -        -        -                -        -        -        -        -            -
(b)  Investment of Loan Funds                            -            2.80      -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
(c)  Operating Expenses                                  -            2.40    2.25    2.15    2.10    2.05    1.95    1.95    1.85    1.85    1.95    1.85    1.85
(a)  Total Cash Outf'o,,                                 -            5.90    2.25    2.15    2.10    2.05    1.95    1.95    1.85    1.85    1.95    1.85    1.85
3.   Cash Balance (lc - 2d)                                   0.10          0.10    0.70    0.70    0.65    1.00    0.75    0.70    0.85    O.Yr    0.80    0.90    0.90
.  Interest Payments
(a)  Development Loan  2/                                -            0.22    0.22    0.22    0.22    0.22    0.20    0.15    0.15    0.10    0.10    0.05    0.05
(b)  Short-Term Credit  3/                               -            0.20    0.20    0.15    0.15       0.17    0.16    0.16    0.15    0 15    0,16    0.15    0.15
(c)  Total Interest Payments                             -            0.42    0.42    0.37    0.37    0.39    0.36    0.31    0.30    0.25    0. 26    0.20    0.20
5.   Casn Balance After Interest Payments (3 - 8 c)          0.10          (0.32)   0.28    0.33    0.28    0.61    0.39    0.39    0.55    0o65    0.58    0.70    0.70
6.   Loan Amortization  4/                                     -                      -        -       -       0.35    0.35    0.35    0.35    0.35    0.35    0.35    0.35
7.   Cash Balance after Loan Amortization (5 - 6)            0.10          (0.32)   D.28    0.33    0.28    0.26    0.o4    0.08    0.20    0.30    0.19    0.35    0.35
8.   Incremental Cash Balance  5/                              -           (0.42)   0.18    0.23    0.18    0.16   (o,o6)  (o.06)   0.10    0.20    0.09    0.25    0.25
9.   Cumulative Cash Balance                                   -           (0.h2)  (0.28)   (.01)   0.17    0.33    0.27    0.21    0.31    0.51    0.60    0.85    1.10
10.  Incremental Herd Value                                    -             -       0.11    0.26    0.29    0.22    0.28    1,11    1.17    1.17    1.17    1.17    1.17
11.  Total Incremental Value (B + 10)                          -           (0.42)   0.29    0.49    0.47    0.38    0.22    1.05    1.27    1.37    1.26    1.42    1.42
1/  Twenty per cent of total investment costs.  2/  Eight per cent per annui  on outstanding balance.  3/  Eight per cent per annum.
Short-term credit is used to finance all operating expenses.  4/  Repayment schedule of eight equal installments as customary for Agricultural Finance                          `3
Corporation operations.  5/  Incremental over predevelopment value.
Corporation operations.  51  -;a_1 ue.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s-,,



KENYA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT OF 30,000-ACRE ItCOMMECIALf! RANCHES
ON-iANCH INVESTMENT COSTS PROJECTIONS
Total Cost for 20 Ranches
Average     Average                                Foreign
INVESTMENT ITEMS                              Unit.   Units per   Cost per    Total    Dollar             Exchange
Cost    Ranch        Ranch        Cost     Equivalent       CoMonent
7   (No.)7   (£)7,               (1-700-0) (USs  '000)      (d Us$ I 000)
1.  Bush Clearing, (Acres)  1/                               2.20      10,000      22,000      i40.0       1,232.0   70    862.4
2.  Wateri    Facilities
(a)  Bores (Equipped),  (No.)                           3,000           1      3,000        60.0         168.0   50      84.0
3.  Dips (and Yards),  (No.)                                  600           1         600        12.0          33.6   40      13.4
4.  Fencing, (Miles)                                          100          20       2,000        hO.o         112.0   50      56.o
5.  Breeding Stcck
(a) Bulls, (No.)                                          120          25      3,000        60.0         168.0    0        0.0
SUB-TOTAL                                                                          . 30,600     612.0      1,713.6         1,0x5.8
CONTINGENCIES                                                             -         2,580        51.6         14.4    -      99.2
TOTAL                                                           -         -        33,180       663.6       1,858.0   60  1,115.0
1/  Each ranch estimated to have 10,000 acres of Whistling Thorn and Leleshwa in 75:25 proportions.  Cost per acre of
clearing vhistling Thorn is approximately 30.00 Shs while the cost per acre for clearing Leleshwa is approximately
90.00 Shs/acre.  The average weighted cost is approximately I 2.20 or 44.00 Shs/acre.
C  (D



ANNBE 18
Table 2
KENYA
LIVESTOCK DEVILOPM3HT PNOJKCT
DEVLOPH31T OF0OOO-AC8Z 1MEMRCIAL' lAcE
w    PROJECTIONS
VALUE OF CATTLE
CATRSORY                        Years         Tears    Before                                                             END OF IUR
Unit      0-6           7-12     DeveLopant       1         2         3         4         5         6         7        8          9        10         11        12
HERO COMPOSITICN
Breeding Cows                    No.        30            30         830          830       800       800       800       800       800       800       800      800        800       800       800
Sulls                                      100           120          25           25        25        25        25        25        25        25        25       25         25        25        25
Calves  1                         s          4             5        (665)        (664)    (664)    (680)    (680)    (696)          (696)     (696)   (696)   (696)        (696)     (696)     (696)
8-24 Month Old Heifers                      15            15         325          332       332       332       340       340       348       318       348      348        348       348       348
24-36 Month Old Heifers                     28            28         315          319       325       325       325       333       333       3411     31        341        341       341       341
8-24 Month Old Steers             "         16            17         315          332       332       332       340       340       348       348      318       348        348       348       348
24-36 Month Old Steers                      25            26         310          309       325       325       325       333       333       3411     31       341         341       341       341
36-48 Month Old Steers            "         35            37         310          304       303       318       318       318       326       326      334       334        334       334       334
Fattening CTll Females            "         23            23         140          109       142       118       118       118       126        126      134      1 134      134       134       134
TOTAL NUMBERS                    at          -             -       3,165        3,170     3,177     3,196     3,232     3,244     3,272     3,278    3,300    3,300       3,300     3,300     3,300
SUB-TOTAL                       A.U. 2/      -             -       2,500        2,506     2,513     2,516     2,532     2,548     2,576     2,582    2,604    2,604       2,604     2,604     2,604
PURCHASED STEERS                 No.        28            28          _           224       217       214       468       452       424       418       396      396        396       396       396
TOTAL                           A.U.         -             -       2,500        2,730     2,730     2,730     3,000     3,000     3,000     3,000    3,000    3,000       3,000     3,000     3,000
MORTALITY
8-24 Month Old Heifwrs           No.         -             -           6            6         7         7         7         7         7          7        7        7          7         7         7
24-36 Month Old Heifers           "          -             -           6            6         7         7         7         7         7         7         7        7          7         7         7
8-24 Month Old Sters              "          -             -           6            6         7         7         7         7         7          7        7        7          7         7         7
24-36 Month Old Steers            n            _                       6            6         6         7         7         7         7         7         7        7          7         7         7
36-48 MoXth Old Steers            "          -             -           6            6         6         6         6         7         7          7'       7        7          7         7         7
Fattening Cul.Fe1,ames            "          -             -          20           20        17        16        16        16        16         17       17       17         17        17        17
TOTAL                                                      -          50           So        So        50        50        51        51         52       52       52         52        52        52
PURCHASD STTES2I                  l                        - _         4            4         4         8         9         8         8         8         8        8          8         8         8
~B W
36-48 Month Old Steers          No.         35            37         304          304       298       297       312       311       311       319      319       327        327       327       327
Fattening CTll Females            "         23            23         120          120        92       126       102       102       102       109      109       117        117       117       117
24-36 Month Old Heifer, -                   28            28         100          100       200       200       200       200       200       200      200       200        200       200       200
Bolls                                       37            37           5           15        10         5         5         5         5          5        5        5          5         5         5
SUB-TOTAL                         0          -             -         529          539       600       628       619       618       618       633       633      649        649       6419      649
PURCHASERD STEERS                            -             -          -            220      213       210       460       443       416       410      388       388        388       388       388
TOTAL                                        -             -         529          759       813       838     1,079     1,061     1,034     1,043    1,021    1,037       1,037     1,037     1,,037
PURCHASE
Bulls                            No.       120           120           5           10        10         5         5         5         5         5         5        5          5         5         5
Purchsed Steer,                   "        15            15           -           224       217       214       468       452       424       418      396       396        396       396       396
TOTAL                             '          -             -           5          234       227       219       473       457       429        423      401      401        401        .01      401
P80DUCT]DN DATA
Effective Calving Rate            %          -             -          80           80        80        85        85        87        87        87        87       87         87        87        87
Adult Mortality                   %          -             -           2            2         2         2         2         2         2         2         2        2          2         2         2
Extraction Rate5/                            -             -          14           14        12        14        13        13        13        13       13        13         13        13        13
Total Output Rate  6/             5                                   17           17        19        19        19        19        19        20        20       20         20        20        20
Stockir Rate                  Ac./A.U.       -             -          12           la        11        11        10        10        10        10       10        10         10        10        10
Carrying Capacity  7/           A.U.         -                     2,500        2,730     2,730     2,730     3,000     3,000     3,000     3,000    3,000    3,000       3,000     3,000     3,000
Slaughtr Dessed Weight (CLW) 8/
Purchased Steers                Lb.         _      -                  -          480        480       480       480       480       480       480      480      480        480        480       480
(2) 36-418 Month Old Steers                  -             -         525          525       525       525       525       550       550       550      550      550         550       550       550
(3) Cull Females                                                    4 _  1.00     400       400       400       400       400       400       400      400      400        400       1oo        WO0
(4)  24-36 Month Old Heifers     "          -              -        350          350        350       350       350       350       350       350      350      350        350        350       350
(5)  Balls                       ,                        _         650          650        650       650       650       650       650       650      650      650        650        650       650
1/ Weaned Calves.
2/ For ease of calculation of armal units (A.U.) each animal, with the exception of calves, is considered equivalent to one anial. unit. However, since fattening cull females would be held
only about six months, they are estimted to be only 0.5 A.U.
3/ All mortality of females above breedirg age taJen off fattening cull femaleo.
4l/ Fattening cull females sold at auction and heifers sold far breeding are svb4.ct to a County Council tax of Shs 5.00 per head.
The total number of cattle sold for slaughter expressed as a percentage of the total herd (purchased steers not included).
6/ The total number of cattle sold off the ranch expressed as a percentage of the total herd (purchased steers cot included).
7/ Estimated total number of A.U. it is possible to maintain on the ranch during one year.
I/ COlll Cold dressed weight.



KENYA
LIVESTIOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT OF 30,000-ACRE "COMMERCIAL" RANCHES
SALES PROJECTIONS
CATEGORY  l/                     Before                                                    YEARS
Development   1        2       3       4       5        6       7       o       9        10       11       12
(E)
36-48 Month Old Steers                            10,640    1o,640   10,430  10,395  10,920  11,507  11,507  11,803  11,803  12,099  12,099   12,099  12,099
Fattening Cull Females                             2,760     2,760    2,116   2,898   2,346   2,346   2,346   2,507   2,507   2,691   2,691    2,691   2,691
24-36 Month Old Heifers                            2,800     2,800    5,600   5,600   5,600   5,600   5,600   5,600   5,600   5,600   5,600    5,600   5,600
Bulls                                                185       555       370     185     185     195     185      285     185     185     185      185      185
Purchased Steers                                     -       6,160    5,964   5,880  12,880  12,X04  11,648  11,980  10,864  lo,864  10,864   1o,864  10,864
TOTAL                                             16,385    22,915   24,480  24,958  31,931  32,042  31,286  31,575  30,959  31,439  31,439   31,439  31,439
1/  Prices (net on ranch):  (a) 36-48 month old steers @ L 35 per bead to year 4., thereafter - l 37;  (b) fattening cull females @ f 23 per head;
(c) bulls @ f 37 per head; and (d) purchased steers Ca E 28 per head.
I.



KrENYA
LIVESTOCK DIEVELPPENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT OF 30,000-ACRE "CON4EPRCIAL" RANCHES
OPE11ATING EXPENSES ROJECTIOTIS
OPEiAT EiG EYPEN4SES             F3efore                           3 2YEARS  7                                     8                  10        11         12
(L;)
.anager                                      1,700       1,700    1,700    1,70C    1,709    1,700    1,700    1,800    1,800    1,800    1,800          1,80C    1,800
Clerk                                          210         210      210       210      210       210      210      250       250       250      250        250      250
Labor andi Herdsmen  1/                      1,90C       2,00C    2,10C    2,200    2,200    2,30C    2,300    2,h00    2,400    2,400    2,40C          2,400    2,hoC
Rations                                        610         650      70C       750      750       750      750       750      750       750      750        750       750
Dipping and Dip Fluid  2/                    1,19C       1,190    1,190    1,20C    1,205    1,220    1,230    1,230    1,240    1,240    1,240          1,240    1,240
Vaccines, General  2/                          36C         320      320       320      320      320       330       330      330       330      330        330      330
Vaccines, FMD  2/                              -           4O0      L5o       470      460       1460     4t60     1475      1475     1485      1485       485      485
Veterinary Supplies  2/                        180         160      160       160      160       160      165       165      165       165      165        165      165
Salt and Licks  2/                             1470        11 G      410      415       415      420      1425      425      1430      130      1430       1430     1430
Repairs and Ilaintenance                       610         70C      70C       "0r      700       70C      70C       700      70        700      700        700      700C
h'ater Pumping and l1aintenance                5",         790      790 790            790       790      79C       790      790       790      790        790       790
Vehicle Operation and Maintenance            1,280       1,280    1,280    1,280    1,280    1,280    1,280    1,300    1,30C    1,300    1,300          1,300    1,300
Audit                                          250         250      250       250      250       250      250       300      300       300      300        300       300
Barnk                                           90         100      100       100      100       100      100       100      1OC       lCC      100        100      100
Travel                                         175         200      200       200      20C       200      200       20C      200       200      200        200      200
Land Rental                                     525        525      525       525      525       525      525       525      525       525      525        525       525
%liscelleanous                                  350        360       360      36C       360      36C      360       380       380      380       380       380       380
Bull 1Prchases  3/                             50Q         -        -         -        60CC      600      600       600      600       600      600        600      600
Cattle Sales 'Tax  14/                          55          55        75       Co       75        75       75        75       75        80        80        80        80
TOTAL I                                     11,014,     11,300   11,520   11,710   12,30C   12.P l0   12,1435   12,780   12,810   12,825   12,825    12,825   12,825
PURCHASE TIM4ATURE STEERS  5/                  -         3,360    3,255    3,210    7,020    6,780    6,360    6,270    5,9140    5,914o    5,940        5,940    5,940
FATTENING OPERATION EXPENSES  6/                -          315       305      300      655       630      595       585       555      555       555       555       555
TOTAL II                                    11,0L45     14,975   15,080   15,220   19,975   19,830   19,390   19,635   19,305   19,320   19,320    19,320   19,320
1/  Labor paid at average monthly rate of Shs 200 including headmen and artisans.  2/  Animal health costs per head:  Dipping Shs 7.50; vaccines Shs 2.00;
vaccines (FMD) Shs 15.00 for all cattle entering or leaving ranch; veterinary supplies Shs 1,00; and salt and licks Shs 2.60/head.  3/  Purchased bulls © L 100
before development and fl 120 after development.  14/ Caunty Council Tax on sale of fattening cull females at auction and heifers for breeding at rate of
Shs 5.00 per head.  5/  Imature steers purchased for f 15 per head.  6/ Fattening operation costs of animal health is fl 1.14 per head.



KENYA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT OF 30,000-ACRE "GOMMERCTAL" RANCHES
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
ITEM                                        Before                                                             Y E A R S
Development            1        2        3       4        5        6        7                 9        10       11       12
(L '000)
1.   Cash Inflow
(aJ  Total Sales                                    16.49             22.90   24.5!   25.00   31.")Q  32.00   31.30   31.60   31.00   31.40   31.40   31.40   31.40
(b)  Loan_                                                            13.20    6.70    6.70        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
(c)  rotal Cash Inflow                              16.0D             36.10   31.20   31.70   31.90   32.00   31.31   31.60   31.00   31.40   31.40   31.40   31.40
2.   Gash Outflo,
(a)  Rancherts Investment Contributim  1/              -               3.30    1.64    1.60        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
(b)  Investment of Loan Funds                          -              13.20    6.70    6.70        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
(c)  Operating Exnenses                             11.00             15.00   15.10   15.20   20.00   19.30   19.40   19.60   1?.30   19.30   19.30   19.30  1°.30
(d)  Total Cash Outflow                             11.00             31.5r   23.h4   23.50   20.00   !9. 0   19.400   19.6')  19.30)  10.3 3    19.30   19.30   19.30
3.   Cash Balance (lc - 2d)                                5.00              4.60    7.76    2.16   11.9a   12.20   11.90   12?.'iO   11.70   12.10   12.10   12.10   12.10
4.   Interest Payments
ta)  Development Loam  2/                                              1.10    1.59    2.13    2.13    2.13    1.86    1.60    1.33    !.06    o.80    0.53    0.27
(b)  Short-Term Credit  3/                          0.88               1.20    1.20    1.20    1.60    1.58    1.55    1.57    1.54    1.54    1.54    1.54    1.50
(c)  Total Interest Payments                        0.88               2.30    2.79    2.33    3.73    3.71    3.41    3.17           2.87    2.60    2.30    2.07    1.81
5.   Cash Balance After Interest Payments (3 - Le)   4.52                    2.30    L.97    5.93    8.17    8.49    8.49    8.82    3.83    9.50    9.76   10.03   10.29
6.   Loan Amortization  4/                                                    -        -        -        -       3.32    3.33    3.32    3.33        3.3?    3.33    3.3?    3.33
7.   Cash Balance After Loan knortization (5 - 6)    4.52                   2.30    4.97      5.33    i.17      5.17     5.16    5*57.      .50    6.1       6.)43    6.71    6.-  6
.   Incremental Cash Balance  5/                           -               (2.2-)   0.Lu5    1.31      4.05    0.65      1.6)4    o.a' L    .98    1.66    1.91    2.19    2.00b
2.   Cumulative Cash Balance                                                (2.22)  (1.77)  (0.46)   3.12    3.80    L.48         5.46    6.040    8.10   10.01   12.2^   14.606
10.  Incremental Herd Value                                 -               (0.50)    -         -       ).20    0.7)      2.00    0.50    4.90    0.90    4.90    0.90          4.90
11.  Total Incremental Value (8  10D)                      4.52             (2.72)   0045    1.31       3.-5    1.35      3.04    5.40        5R     6.f6    6.        7 '>o    7.34
1/  T:enty per cent. of raltal investment costs.  2/  Eight per cent per annwn on outstanding balance.  3/  Eight ger cenrt ner annum.
Short-term  credit used to finance all operating exoenses.  L/  Repayment schedule of eight equal installnents as customary for Agriultural Finance Corporation
operations.  5/  Incremental over 7redevelo-pment value.                                                                                                                           I
DUTZ
col 



LIV531OC5 DVEMIOFWUT POJKCT
BUUITS AND JUTIFICATION
INIICLT  OOSS UND DNIT8
NANCIAL HT2 OF   B
CATMOR                       1          2           3         4           5          6          7          8          9          10         11         12          13       14-19       20
(A) OROP RAURS
Benefite
Incr Dental SaL]s                32.0       85.3      153.9      177.2       202.8      235.i     261.8      266.4       255.8      263.14     269.2      274.00     2714.0     2714.0     967.0 0
Costs
Tnet,snt Costs                   55.0      112.0      167.0        S6.0      148.0        -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -           -
Increm,ental Oper9tiy Coat.      39.0       96.1      1A3.5      17.6       174.3      17h.5      168.2      165.3       161.7      163.7      164.7      165.3      165.2      166.0      166.0
Working Capitasl              - i                       -                                 -          -                     -          -          -          -          -          -m.
Total Coa.    265.0       20.1       33°.5      26S.6       222.3      174.5      168.2      165.3      16i.7      163.7      16h.7      165.3      165.2      166.0       166.0
Not Flo                        (233.0)    (in.8)    (176.6)       (n.4)      (13.5)      60.6       75.6      101.1       S4.1       99.7      104.5      106.7      108.8      108.0       801.0
Rate of Raturms 10.7%
(B) OIKPANY RANCRE
Beamfito
c_ntal Sal".                     n.2       181.8       361.5      368.2      367.0      376.6      3n.8       341.3      309.8      293.9      297.8      305.0      307.0      307.0       902.0 V
Costs
iCoest ent Cost. -               30.0        60.0     101.5        15.0       12.5        -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -           -          -
In.c-sentel Opu>   g Costs       58.6      19S.9    3)9.2         312.9      310.0      309.2      291.9      266.9      239.8      222.3      216.9      217.0      218.0       218.0      218.0
Working Capital Y'               307.0                   -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -                     -           -
Total Costs    395.6      210.s      14D.7       357.9      3U.5       30.2       291.9      266.S      239.8      m.3        216.9      217.0      218.0      218.0       218.0
Net now                         (3214.14)   (29.1)     (-3.2)      10.3       kl.5       67.14      79.9       74.54      70.0       71.6       80.9       88.0        89.0       89.0      6014.0
Rate of Returns 13.6%
(C) INDIVIDUAL RA3i
B.ef its
Incre tai Sales                   6.2       15.0        29.55      27.8       27.6       27.3       27.65      25.85      25.85      26.25      26.50      26.50      26.50       26.50      60.20_9
Costs
invst.ent Costs                   7.0       10.5        17.50       -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -           -          -          -
In.rmental Oper#       Cosrts     4.8       U.?         23.05      21.9       21.15      20.55      20.0       19.3       19.0       18.7       18.8       19.0        19.0       19.0       19.0
Working Capital Y                32.0         -          -          - n.-                            -          .                     -                     -          -           -          -
Total Cost.      33.8       22.2       40.55      21.9       21.15      20.55      20.0       19.3       19.0       18.7       18.8        19.0       19.0       19.0       19.0
Net Flow                         (27.6)      (7.2)     (1U.00)      5.9        6.45       6.75       7.65       6.55       6.85       7.55       7.70        7.50       7.50       7.50      41.2
Rate of Returni 12.3%
(D) COIERIAL RANC.S
Bensfits
Ymermtal Sales                    32.5       86.0      151.7      202.5      255.3      307.7      305.1      290.6      298.8       296.8      300.0      300.0      300.0      300.0      739.0 V
Costs
rime.tent Costs                   82.5      157.2      232.08     125.1       66.72       -          -                                      -          -                -
Increrental Ooer#ting Costs       20.0       48.5       81.70     107.2      1140.60    175.6      172.2      168.9      168.4      166.0       166.0      166.0      166.0      166.0      166.0
Working Capital Y                3b1.0                   -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -           -               -          -           -
Total Costs     443.5      205.7      313.78     232.3      207.32     175.6      172.2      168.9      168.4       166.0      166.0      166.0      166.0      166.0      166.0
Net Flow                        (411.0)    (119.7)    (162.08)    (29.8)      47.98     132.1      132.9      129.7       130.4      130.S      134.0      134.0      13b.C      13S.0      573.0
Rate nf Return:  11.3%
' In the shove  nolyses, -rking c-pito1 is considered as o c9pital ite. chich does not depreciate over the life of the Project.  Therefore, at the nd of the ?roject its salvage ealue equal. it.
initial c-ot.  This is why it aopeors as f  cost cte- in the frsrt year of the Project and   revene iten in ths last year.
2' Includes rec--ry of working ciaital and the increase in the value of the herd.



KEYA
LIVESTOCK DEVLOP1ENT PROJECT
BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
INCREMEt3TAL OO5TS AND oM8i-TS
EOfNRltIC RATE OF R!8URl
T E A R S
CATEOORY                               1           2          3           4          5           6           7          8           9          10          11         12          13         14-19        20
(E' 000)
tA) RANIIf DEVE]LSPMENT
Benefits                                                                                                                                                                                                             1/
Incremental Sales                         141.90      368.10     696.70      775.70      352.70     9h6.70      966.40     932.20      890.30     880.40      893.50      905.50      905.50     905.50      2,682.00
70inch lnvestment Costs                    174.50     339.70      519.10     268.10      127.20        -          -           -          -           -          -           -           -           -           -
Incrmentel0 Operating Costs               122.40      307.20     570.50      613.60      646.10     679.90      652.30     620.40      588.90     570.70      566.40      567.30     568.20      569.00        569.00
RAloking Capital                           178.50     285.60      392.70       _           _          _    -            -          -           -           -          -           -           -                 -
Supporting Technical Services               39.30      43.00       46.40      43.00       43.00                   -           -          -           -          -                       -           -
Total Costs     514.70     975.s0   1,528.70       924.70     816.30      679.90      652.30     620.40      588.90     570.70      566.0    567.30       568.20      569.00        569.00
Net Floe                                  (372.80)   (607.40)   (832.00)   (149.00)       36.40     266.80      314.10     311.80      301.40      309.70     327.10      338.20      337.30     336.90      2,113.00
Rots of Ret--rn 11.4%
rI) I *iC'fA- P KEENYA
BSnefits
-ncr-nnta.7  Salos of "Ornatures" 2/       80.61      199.95      372.65     392.19      406.91     619.01      389.26     367.28      318.72      297.05     297.05      297.05      297.05     297.05        297.05
Investment Casts and Services -/          407.10      666.60      363.70     178.60      178.60     316.30      116.3D      311.30     116.30      116.30     114.30      l1b.30      126.30     116.30        136.30
Net FlPc                                  (326.49)   (246.65)       8.95     213.59      226.31     304.71      269.96      232.98     206.42      182.75     182.75      182.75      182.75     182.75        182.75
Rate cf Return: 27.0%
() PRCJFIT AS A '.'FOLE
Net Flow                                  (699.29)   (852.05)   (823.05)      64.59      262.71      571.51      584.06     549.78      505.82     492.45      509.85      520.95     520.05      519.25      2,295.75
Rate of Return- 15.3%
0, Includes increase in hard value ad recovery of werking capital.
2/ Sales of imleatures to Project ranches.  These "immatures" would cose fre Northeast Kenya ad the estimated increase in their production and sale results fromt insvestaents, facilities ad services provided
by the Projeot.
3/ These -nvestoents and services are:  (a) livestock maoement sOd narketing facilities; (b) rage cater survey and development; and (c) ancillary technical services.  Costs during the first five years comprire
investmesnt costs ad operating expenses; thereafter, only oPerating expenses appear as costs.  These costs are detailed in Annexes 8, 9, 10 ad 11. Operating expenses, starting with year six, urn based on
an average of the operating expenses of the first five years.  In this co"putatisn, the average expense for headquarters staff was weighted by a factor of one half, since after year five, headquarters staff
would only be working part-time in Rortheast Kenya.
4/ The rate of return corresponding to the net flop  estimates the return to the economy.X



KE NY A
LlIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GENERAL PROJECT LOCATION                                                                       MAP I
r~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                             H
1.ki~ ~                                                       0 z  f  
viCto'    E S T E;   R                      r  N-,-'L.                 z                            \ 
vi ,t`             N~                                                                   '''' A,)'                          \           >S4
Range water development.                         4                 , Kib.ezi    >
Stock route development                               N, (   
a     Ranch development                              4        ),                      
Naur           n cRahing                                   .     t/>        >           'S 
Taita       Companyhn                                               -s,mrs
Kaputiei     Group and individual                                                                          0     D    0 +S2KM
SEPTEMBER 1967                                                                                                                        IBRD-3034



