DOCUM-ITl CIEDIT NUMER 1228 UG
Project Agreement
(Phosphate Engineering Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPNT ASSOCIATION
and
TOROR0 INDUSTRIAL CHMICALS AND
FERTILISERS LIMITED
Dated                             , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1228 UG
P    CT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                    / $      , 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPME     ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and TORO     INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS AND FERTILISERS
LIMITED (hereinafter called TICAF).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Uganda (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to three million five hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 3,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that
TICAF agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association
as are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS TICAF, in consideration of the Association's enter-
ing into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. TICAF shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and managerial practices, and shall pro-
vide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the facili-
ties, services and other resources required for the purpose, pro-
vided that, TICAF shall not be required to carry out Part II of
the Project as long as the Association, in agreement with the
Borrower and TICAF, pursuant to paragraph 2(c) of Schedule 1 to


﻿-2-
the Development Credit Agreement, has not made a determination
that a Full-Scale Phosphate Fertilizer Project appears to be
technically and economically viable.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist TICAF in carrying out
the Project, TICAF shall employ engineering consultants.
(b)    In order to assist TICAF in the       supervision  and
evaluation of the work of the consultants referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, TICAF shall employ a technical.
advisory firm specializing in phosphate projects.
(c)    The  qualifications, experience   and   conditions  of
employment of the engineering consultants and the technical
advisory firm referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section shall be satisfactory to the Association, and their
selection and employment shall be made in accordance with the
principles and procedures described in the Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
an Executing Agency published by the Bank in August 1981.
(d)   TICAF  shall  cooperate fully   with   the engineering
consultants and the firm referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of
this Section in the performance of their services for the Project
and make available to them all information relevant to the
Project.
(e)   TICAF shall cause the consultants and the firm to
furnish to the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, specifications, reports,     drafts, work    schedules  and
estimates of costs and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in    such  detail as   the Association   shall
reasonably request.
(f)   With respect to the evaluation and implementation of
the recommendations and other conclusions contained in the
documents referred to in the preceding paragraph:
(i) during the carrying out of the Project, TICAF and
the Association shall exchange views from time to
time on said recommendations and conclusions; and
(ii) upon completion of Part I of the Project, TICAF
shall   consult   with   the   Borrower   and   the
Association on the recommendations and conclusions


﻿-3-
relating thereto and shall exchange views with the
Borrower and the Association on the technical and
economic viability of a Full-Scale Phosphate
Fertilizer Project.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the consulting and technical advisory services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively for
the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) TICAF shall:
(i) maintain records and procedures adequate to record
and monitor the progress of the Projer-t (including
its cost and the benefits to be derived from it),
to identify the services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in
the Project;
(ii) enable the Association's representatives to visit
the facilities and testing sites included in the
Project and to examine any relevant records and
documents relating thereto; and
(iii) furnish to the Association at regular intervals
all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditures of such proceeds
and the services financed out of such proceeds.
(b) Upon the award by TICAF of any contract for services to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the Association
may publish a description thereof, the name and nationality of
the party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract
price.
(c)  Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between TICAF and
the Association, TICAF shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance 'by TICAF, including the Project Unit, and the


﻿-4-
Association, of their respective obligations under the Project
Agreement, the expenditures of such proceeds and the services
financed out of such Credit.
(d) TICAF shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine  all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of TICAF and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.04. (a) TICAF shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.
(b) TICAF shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by TICAF of its obligations under
this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of TICAF
Section 3.01. TICAF shall carry on its operations and con-
duct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, finan-
cial, engineering and managerial practices under the supervision
of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent
staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. TICAF shall:
(a) establish and maintain a Project Unit responsible for
Project implementation and for the supervision of the work of the
engineering consultants; and
(b) appoint to said Project Unit and cause to resume
duties, a Project Manager, a phosphate mining and beneficiation
engineer, an economist and a financial analyst whose qualifi-
cations and experience shall be acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.03. TICAF shall at all times maintain its plant,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals


﻿-5-
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
managerial practices.
Section  3.04. TICAF   shall  take  out and maintain with
responsible insurtrs insurance against such 'risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) TICAF shall, by not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1982:
(i) update 'its accounts and financial statements up to
and including those for the' 1980 financial year;
and
(ii) have such accounts and financial statements for
each such financial year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association.
(b)   TICAF shall furnish to the Association as soon as
available certified copies of the financial statements referred
to in paragraph (a) of this Section and the reports of the
auditors.
Section 4.02. TICAF shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices' its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.03. TICAF shall:
(i)  have   its  accounts   and   financial  statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each financial year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Borrower and the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after


﻿-6-
the end of each such year (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors- of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements
of TICAF and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of TICAF thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i)  the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 10 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
TICAF of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement, shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.


﻿-7-
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is.required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as' such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For TICAF:                              Telex:
Tororo Industrial Chemicals             61069
and Fertilisers Limited
P.O. Box 254
Tororo, Uganda
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of TICAF may be taken or executed by the
General Manager of TICAF or such other person or persons as the
General Manager shall designate in writing, and TICAF shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
TORORO INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS AND FERTILISERS
LIMITED
Byor
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198  .
FOR SECRETARY


