CREDIT NUMBER 129 KE
Project Agreement
(Livestock Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 26, 1968


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 129 KE
Project Agreement
(Livestock Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 26, 1968


﻿AGREEMENT, dated September 26, 1968, between INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and the AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
(hereinafter called the AFC).
WHEREAs by a development credit agreement of even date
h3rewith (hereinafter called the Development Credit Agree-
ment) between the Republic of Kenya (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to assist in the financing of a range livestock devel-
opment project of the Borrower by making available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent
to three million six hundred thousand dollars ($3,600,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development
Credit Agreement, but only on condition inter alia that the
Borrower agree to cause the AFC to execute a part of the
project and that the AFC agree to undertake certain obli-
gations to the Association as hereinafter in this Project
Agreement set forth;
VHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith (herein-
after called the Swedish Agreement) the Kingdom of
Sweden has agreed to make available to the Borrower for
such project a credit in a principal amount of nineteen
million Swedish Kronor (SKr 19,000,000), equivalent at
present parity rate as near as possible to three million six
hundred thousand dollars ($3,600,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Swedish Agreement; and
WHEREAS the AFC, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the
Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations here-
inafter set forth;


﻿4
Now   THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
SECTION 1.01. Wherever used in this Project Agreement,
unless the context shall otherwise require, the several terms
defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the
Regulations (as so defined) shall have the respective mean-
ings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants of the AFC
SECTION 2.01. (a) The AFC shall carry out part A of
the Project described in the Schedule to the Development
Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and
shall at all times conduct its operations and affairs and
maintain its financial position in accordance with sound
agricultural, administrative and financial practices and
under the supervision of experienced and competent man-
agement satisfactory to the Association.
(b) The AFC shall have its financial statements (bal-
ance sheet and related statement of earnings and expenses)
.and the separate accounts established by it in respect of the
Project audited annually by an independent accountant or
.accounting firm acceptable to the Association and shall
promptly after their preparation and, unless the Asso-
ciation shall otherwise agree, not later than four months
after the close of the AFC's fiscal year, transmit to the
Association certified copies of such statements and of such
separate accounts and a signed copy of such accountant's
or such firm's report.
SECTION 2.02. The AFC shall lend the equivalent of the
part of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn by the Bor-


﻿5
rower pursuant to subparagraphs (i) and (iii) of Section
2.03 (a) of the Development Credit Agreement, in accordance
with the Project as loans, or portions of loans, pursuant to
terms, conditions and procedures satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation and, in granting loans, the AFC shall obtain rights
adequate to protect its interests and the interests of the
Borrower.
SECTION 2.03. The AFC shall cause all goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit supplied to it by the
Borrower to be used exclusively in the territories of the
Borrower in carrying out the Project.
SECTIoN 2.04. The AFC shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to identify the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, supplied to it by the
Borrower, to disclose the use thereof, to record the progress
of part A of the Project, and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices all finan-
cial transactions between the Borrower and the AFC with
respect to the Project and the operations and financial con-
dition of the AFC; and shall enable the Association's rep-
resentatives to inspect the goods financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit supplied to it by the Borrower and any
relevant records and documents.
SECTION 2.05. The AFC shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning the expenditures of the proceeds of
the Credit supplied to it by the Borrower, the goods financed
out of such proceeds, part A of the Project, borrowers to
whom the AFC has loaned proceeds of the Credit and the
administration, operations and financial condition of the
AFC.
SECTION 2.06. (a) The AFC and the Association shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit
will be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall fur-


﻿6
nish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably
request.
(b) The AFC and the Association shall from time to time
exchange views through their representatives with regard
to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit. The AFC
shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the per-
formance by the AFC of its obligations under this Project
Agreement or the obligations to be performed by it pur-
suant to the provisions of the Development Credit Agree-
ment.
SECTION 2.07. During the financial year ending Decem-
ber 31, 1968, and during each succeeding financial year of
the AFC up to the Closing Date of the Development Credit
Agreement, the AFC shall not, without the agreement of the
Association, incur debts maturing more than one year from
the date of their incurrence other than debt incurred under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
SECTION 2.08. The AFC shall duly perform all its obli-
gations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as
the Association and the AFC shall otherwise agree, the AFC
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the
.effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving any
provision of the said Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
SECTION 2.09. The AFC (i) shall establish and maintain
a Ranch Division with an adequate number of qualified staff
and (ii) shall employ a qualified and experienced livestock
expert (hereinafter called the Project Manager) acceptable
to the Association, with responsibilities and upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association and the AFC,
to direct the said Ranch Division.
SECTION 2.10. Except as the Association shall otherwi-e
agree, the AFC shall not, prior to the Closing Date of the


﻿7
Development Credit Agreement, make loans for ranch
development except as provided in the Project.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 3.01. This Project Agreement shall enter into
force and effect on the Effective Date. If the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate pursuant to Section 8.04
of the Regulations, the Association shall promptly notify
the AFC of this event and, upon the giving of such notice,
this Project Agreement and all obligations of the parties
hereunder shall forthwith terminate.
SECTION 3.02. If and when the entire principal amount
of that part of the proceeds of the Credit provided by
the Borrower to the AFC pursuant to Section 4.01(b) of the
Development Credit Agreement shall have been repaid by
the AFC to the Borrower in accordance with the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, or on December 31, 1986, whichever is
later, this Project Agreement and all obligations of the
AFC hereunder shall forthwith terminate.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
SECTION 4.01. No delay in exercising, or omission to
exercise, any right, power, or remedy accruing to either
party under this Project Agreement upon any default shall
impair any such right, power or remedy or be construed to
be a waiver thereof or an acquiescence in such default; nor
shall the action of such party in respect of any default or
any acquiescence in any default, affect or impair any right,
power or remedy of such party in respect of any other
or subsequent default.
SECTION 4.02. Any notice or request required or per-
mitted to be given or made under this Project Agreement


﻿8
and any agreement between the parties contemplated by
this Project Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice
or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram or
cablegram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at its address hereinafter specified, or
at such other address as such party shall have designated
by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For the AFC:
Agricultural Finance Corporation
P.O. Box 30367
Nairobi, Kenya
Alternative address for cables:
Kenagbank
Nairobi
SECTION 4.03. The AFC shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority of the person or per-
sons who will, on behalf of the AFC, take any action or
execute any documents required or permitted to be taken or
executed by the AFC pursuant to any of the provisions of
this Project Agreement and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.


﻿SECTION 4.04. This Project Agreement may be executed
in several counterparts, each of which shall be an original
and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WIEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Project Agreement to be signed in their respec-
tive names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President
AGRIcULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
By /s/ L. P. ODERO
Authorized Representative


