Report No. 1579-CY
Appraisal of Pitsilia Integrated Rural
Development Project Cyprus
July 15, 1977                                                               FILE  COPY
Project Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                         =      Cypriot Pounds (CE)
1 C7                                  =      1,000 Mils
1 CE                                  =      2.4 US$
1 US$                                        0.417 CE
1 US$                                 =      417 Mils
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Oke                                 =      1.28 kilograms
1 Donum (Don)                         =      0.134 hectares
1 hectare (ha)                        =      7.5 donums
1 kilometer (km)                      =      0.62 miles
1 liter (1)                           =      0.264 US gallons
1 cubic meter (m3)                    =      35.3 cubic feet
1 liter per second (l/s)              =      0.035 cubic feet per second (cfs)
1 metric ton (ton); (m ton)           =      2,205 pounds
1 Imperial gallon (gallon)            =      1.2 US gallons
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CCB                 -         The Cooperative Central Bank
CS                  -         Cooperative Society
DA                  -         Department of Agriculture
FAO/CP              -         FAO/IBRD Cooperative Programme
FA                  -         Force Account
GD                  -         Geological Survey Department
ICB                 -         International Competitive Bidding
LCA                 -         Land Consolidation Authority
LC                  -         Loan Commissioner
LCB                 -         Local Competitive Bidding
MANR                -         Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
MCM                 -         Million Cubic Meters
PPC                 -         Project Policy Committee
PCC                 -         Project Coordination Committee
RHC                 -         Rural Health Center
WDD                 -         Water Development Department
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ...............................
I.    INTRODUCTION          ....................... ...................
II.    COUNTRY BACKGROUND  ....................................                         I
Agriculture in the Economy ........................                         I
Structure of Agriculture ..........................                         2
Land Consolidation in Cyprus  ......................                        2
Water Resources of Cyprus .........................                         3
Institutions Dealing with Agriculture  ....               .........        4
III. PROJECT AREA ...............    4
Physical Features  .................................                        4
Surface and Groundwater Potential  ....               .............         5
Road Network and Public Transportation  ....               ........         5
Housing, Domestic Water Supply and Electricity   ....                       5
Schools ...........................................                        5
Health Facilities  .................................                        5
Agriculture .........    ...........................                        6
Land Tenure .......................................                         6
Demographic Attributes  ............................                        6
Incomes ...........................................                         7
IV.    THE PROJECT         ................................... .                        7
Objective and Scope ...............................                         7
Project Summary  ...................................                        7
Project Details ...................................                         8
Productive Investment Categories ....               .........        8
Social Investment Categories  ....              .............        9
Institutional  ................................                     10
Status of Engineering  .............................                      11
Cost Estimates  ....................................                       11
Financing  .........................................                       13
Procurement  .......................................                       13
Disbursements  .......              ..............................         14
Accounts and Audit  ................................                       14
Environmental Effects  .............................                      14
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission consisting
of Messrs. Tariq Husain, Rene Stevenin, and Dean McCrary, which visited
Cyprus in November 1976, and a follow-up mission in March 1977 consisting of
Messrs. Tariq Husain and Rene Stevenin. Messrs. Altaf Hussain and Javier
Tellez assisted in report preparation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dutis. Its contents may not otherwise be discloed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                                Page No.
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT             ...........................   15
General       ...........................................        15
Project Organization ...... ...... .................             15
Project Implementation ......      ......................        16
Operation and Maintenance .....      ....................        17
Recovery of Project Costs .....       ....................       18
Project Criteria and Review Procedure         . . .              20
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARM INCOMES .               21
Cropping Pattern, Crop Yields and Production ......              21
Market Prospects .................   .................           22
Prices          ............................................     22
Farm Incomes ......       ................................       23
Farmers' Ability to Pay Debt Service ..............              23
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .....        .....................         24
Economic Benefits ...        ..............................      24
Other Benefits ....................................              25
Economic Rate of Return .....        ......................      25
Sensitivity Analysis ......  ....................... .           26
Beneficiaries and Distribution of Benefits ........              27
Risks .............................................              27
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....          ............     27
ANNEXES
1. The Agricultural Sector
2. Policies for Rural Development
3. The Project Area
4. Land Tenure and Land Consolidation
5. Project Description and Cost
6. The Health Component
7. The Education Component
8. Organization, Management and Monitoring
9. Market Prospects
10. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
11. Financial and Economic Analysis
MAPS
1.  Cyprus                12689
2.  Project Area          12690
3.  Photographs 1, 2    Land Terraces in Pitsilia
4.  Photograph 3          A Village in Pitsilia



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The economic development of Cyprus was adversely affected by the
events of July 1974. Government efforts in the southern part of the island,
however, have resulted in the resumption of economic activity on a significant
scale. Prior to these events, as part of its strategy to develop other parts
of the island which were significantly poorer than those in the north, east,
and west of Cyprus and thus gradually bring about a balanced development
of all parts of the country, the Government had envisaged integrated rural
development in the Pitsilia region. A Bank loan for such a project was
requested. Pitsilia is a mountainous region of about 61,000 ha and is among
the poorest areas of Cyprus. Per capita annual income in Pitsilia in 1974 was
about US$310; therefore, its population is within the relative poverty group,
as Cyprus GNP per capita was then estimated at US$1,180. Farms are small and
fragmented averaging about 5.0 ha with about 13 plots per farm. About 10% of
the project area is irrigated; the village road network is poor; about 72% of
the farms lack access roads; and health and educational facilities are below
Cypriot norms. Because of past neglect of the region, combined with the
drastic overall loss of agricultural land in 1974, Government feels that a
fuller utilization of all residual land and water resources is necessary.
The attention being .ocussed on Pitsilia is a reflection of changes in Cypriot
development priorities with greater emphasis being accorded to rural development.
ii.       The objective of the proposed project is to provide income producing
assets and social services to the Pitsilia population (about 21,000). The
income producing assets comprise water (about 70 minor irrigation schemes
dispersed around the region), soil conservation works, land consolidation,
farm roads, village roads, extension and farmer training, on-farm investments,
agro-processing and credit. The social services include constructing two
schools, upgrading six rural health-centers, and improving village water sup-
plies and village streets. The Project components are widely dispersed and
the region's entire population would to some extent benefit. The cost per
beneficiary for the productive infrastructure at about US$3,600 is considered
reasonable in view of the difficult terrain in the Project area.
iii.      The Project will irrigate about 1,000 ha, rehabilitate about 150 ha
currently irrigated, construct soil conservation works on 1,700 ha of dryland
and 1,000 ha of irrigated land. About 500 ha of the new irrigated land will
be consolidated under the Project. The Project will produce apples, pears,
peaches, table and wine grapes, table and oil olives, almonds, and citrus.
The incremental income at full development would be about US$4.8 million or
US$300 per capita.
iv.       The economic rate of return for all investments (productive plus
social) is nearly 12% while for the productive alone it is 13%; even under
pessimistic assumptions the rate of return is above 10%. The project com-
prises about 70 minor projects, each one of which will be technically reviewed



- ii. -
under the Organization and Management proposed. This technical review feature
will further safeguard the economics of the project. With the financing terms
presently available to farmers, the estimated financial returns are high at
between 30 and 35%. The high financial returns do not, however, solve the
early year cash flow problems faced by farmers, since tree crops require five
to seven years for full production. Consequently, farmers will be given an
interest moratorium for the first years of the investments in their minor
schemes and interest during the first years will be capitalized. These
changes are feasible through administrative action. Although no significant
changes in the Government's present policies on financing agricultural invest-
ments are recommended for this project, changes in sector priorities have been
taking place. Government, therefore, will carry out a study by December 31,
1978 of its concessionary policies to the rural sector. The results of the
study will be discussed with the Bank and the mutually acceptable recommenda-
tions will be implemented nationwide.
v.        The project cost is estimated at US$21 million of which about US$11.8
million is foreign exchange. The proposed Bank loan of US$10 million covers
85% of the foreign exchange cost; the balance of the project costs will be
financed by the Government.
vi.       Civil works for the Xyliatos dam and its conveyance system, pumping
units, polythene sheets, pipes, valves and other ancilliary equipment will
be procured under lnternational Competitive Bidding (about US$5.8 million).
Civil works for pondq, soil conservation, construction of buildings for
health, school and training facilities, agro-processing equipment, agricul-
tural machinery wil'l be procured under Local Competitive bidding (about US$9.0
million), the procedures for which are satisfactory. Local Competitive Bid-
ding will be required due to the scattered location and small sizes of the
works and the equipment demands. Finally, US$4.9 million will be under Force
Account and will include drilling of boreholes, distribution systems for minor
schemes, farm and village roads, village streets and village water supply.
vii.      The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$10 million
for a period of 15 years including three years of grace. The borrower is the
Republic of Cyprus.



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Cyprus has requested the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) to assist in financing an integrated
rural development project in the central Pitsilia region. The Government had
well before the events of 1974, envisaged a program to introduce the benefits
of development enjoyed in the north, west and east to the other much poorer
regions in the center and south of the island. Pitsilia is situated in a
mountainous region, and is one of the poorest areas in the country with a
per capita income in 1974 estimated at about US$310; thus its population is
within the relative poverty group (as Cyprus GUIP per capita was then US$1,180).
Pitsilia is entirely in the southern Government controlled area.
1.02      IBRD has made only one loan (960-CY, 1974) for agricultural devel-
opment in Cyprus: the Paphos Irrigation Project. The loan for US$14 million
became effective in October 1975; and up to May 31, 1977, US$653,000 equivalent
had been disbursed. Although the disbursed amount is low compared to estimated,
early problems have been solved and the project is being implemented satisfac-
torily.
1.03      A set of planning papers defining the proposal for integrated rural
development in Pitsilia was initially prepared in 1973 by the Ministry of
Agriculture and the Planning Bureau with assistance from the Ministries of
Education, Health and Interior. These were incorporated into a project prepara-
tion report, with the assistance of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program, which
was submitted to IBRD in October 1976. A Bank appraisal mission consisting
of Messrs. Tariq Husain, Rene Stevenin and Dean McCrary visited Cyprus in
November/December 1976. On the recommendation of this mission, the Government
completed the additional technical work required to complete appraisal in late
February 1977. A follow-up mission consisting of MIessrs. Husain and Stevenin
visited Cyprus during early March 1977. This report is based on the findings
of the two missions.
II. COUNTRY BACKGROUND
2.01      Cyprus has an area of 925,000 ha; its population is about 630,000.
An estimated 480,000 live in the Government-controlled area with the remainder
living in the north under Turkish Cypriot control.
2.02      Agriculture in the Economy.  Before the events of 1974, agriculture
accounted for about 18% of GDP and employed about 36% of the labor force.
Post 1974 estimates for the whole of Cyprus are not available. Tentative
estimates for southern Cyprus for 1976 put agriculture's contribution at about
18% of a lower GDP, with about 23% employed by the agricultural sector. In



- 2 -
1973 agricultural exports accounted for about 70% of all commodity exports; in
1976 this percentage had fallen to 37% owing to the loss of an important part
of the land producing high value agricultural crops for export, and a rapid
growth of manufactured exports. Citrus, grapes and potatoes are the main
agricultural exports.
2.03      The events of 1974 had a profound effect on the production structure
presently under Government control. While the whole of the vine-growing area
and most of the deciduous fruit are in the south, roughly 65% of the dryland
cereal growing areas, 80% of the irrigated citrus plantations, 45% of the
olives and 30% of the carobs are in the north. This fact as well as other
adverse effects on production capabilities, including the transfer of over
150,000 refugees from the north to the south, necessitated a drastic revision
of the 1972-76 Development Plan. The revised Plan emphasized development
that would, in the short run, absorb both local and displaced labor. The
new schemes that were introduced, as well as the existing schemes that were
strengthened, included expanded financial assistance on concessionary terms
(Annexes 1 and 2) to affected farmers. The "schemes" that were emphasized
included (i) development of marginal land by soil conservation works and
reclamation measures, (ii) improvement of communal pastures, (iii) fostering
the use of improved seeds and planting techniques, (iv) planting of tree
crops, and vines, and (v) expanding credit for productive investments.
2.04      Structure of Agriculture.  The last complete agricultural census
for the island was in 1960, according to which there were about 69,000 farm
units cultivating about 440,000 ha or an average of 6.4 ha of cultivated
land per farm; area under forest grazing and scrub was an additional 392,000
ha; and 93,000 ha were non-agricultural land. Tne total cultivated area does
not appear to have changed since 1960, but the number of holdings have in-
creased. The average holding size for the island in 1974 was estimated at
5 ha. There were some 300,000 ha of dryland field crops (cereals, vines,
olives, carobs, and almonds), 40,000 ha of irrigated crops (citrus, potatoes,
grapes, deciduous fruits, vegetables) and 100,000 ha of fallow.  In the irri-
gated areas (which are about 10% of the total cultivated land) the majority
of holdings are less than 3 ha. In the dryland areas, the majority of hold-
ings are above 3 ha, with about 30% over 10 ha. About a third of all the
farmers in Cyprus are in the vine-growing areas which are mainly on mountain
slopes; in these areas the average holding size is about 3 ha. Most holdings
in Cyprus are fragmented. The average number of plots per holding is about
12.6. As a result, the sizes of individual plots range from 0.3 ha in moun-
tainous areas to about 2.1 ha in the plains (Annexes 1 and 4).
2.05      Land Consolidation in Cyprus.  Land tenure in Cyprus is a product
of tradition, inheritance laws, and population pressure. There are three
land ownership categories - private (60%), state (39%), and communal (1%).
The present land tenure has the following features: (i) continually decreas-
ing size of holdings; (ii) fragmentation and dispersal of plots; (iii) small
and irregularly shaped plots; and (iv) joint and dual ownerships (more than
one person owning the plot or ownership by different persons of trees and/or
water). In order to reduce, and eventually eliminate, the inhibiting in-
fluence of the above factors, the Government of Cyprus introduced a country-



wide land consolidation program. The empowering legislation for this program
was enacted in 1969 in the form of the Land Consolidation Law. A Land Con-
solidation Authority (LCA) was created in the Ministry of Agriculture and
Natural Resources (MANR) in 1972. Following the enactment of the Law and the
creation of LCA, progress has been significant. Five land consolidation proj-
ects, covering about 730 ha, were completed by 1974 (all in areas to be irri-
gated by dams); and thirteen new projects, covering an estimated 1,000 ha, are
planned (for dry as well as irrigated land). Six of the planned projects
will be within the framework of the Bank-financed Paphos Irrigation Project
(Loan 960-CY).
2.06      Water Resources of Cyprus.  Cyprus has no rivers of perennial flow;
the rivers flow only during the winter and spring months. Groundwater is
usually found at substantial depths and so, except for the coastal acquifers,
has not been utilized to any significant degree in the rest of the island.
According to the Cyprus Waterworks Law, all new groundwater and all water
running to waste from rivers are property of the Government. The Government
is empowered to store, divert, or otherwise use and control these water
resources. However, water from wells, springs or small streams that was used
before the Law is considered "privately owned". The collective utilization of
the privately owned water is the responsibility of privately formed irrigation
associations. The average water supply and utilization picture for surface
water is as follows:
Million Cubic Meters (MCM)
Rainfall                                                      4,600
Potentially usable water from surface runoff                    600
Present water used from the surface runoff                      150
Usable in future with storage                           350 to 450 (This is the
storage potential)
At this time, the total water storage capacity in Cyprus is 64 MCM, while the
incremental storage potential is quite substantial at 450 MCM.  Since the
groundwater (which is mainly in the coastal areas) has been fully tapped, the
main hope for future water resource development and utilization is with sur-
face water. Harnessing of surface water resources is expensive -- the weighted
average investment cost of surface water, however, is about US$27.2 per m3,
which is equivalent to about US$4,000 per ha irrigated. The investment cost
for one dam built in 1973 was US$J10.8 per m3 or US$6,000 per irrigated ha.
Most recent investment cost estimates are between US$6,500 and $7,000 per irri-
gated ha. These high development costs are due to physical constraints. 1/ In
view of the high development cost, the lack of significant groundwater sources,
and the relatively low rural incomes, the Government, under its existing agri-
cultural sector policies, has been shouldering and proposes to continue to
shoulder a significant part of the financing burden. Government financing
1/   Steep topography, unfavorable geology, high erosion in watersheds,
irregular river flow requiring high storage capacities, long conveyance
system, etc.



- 4 -
policies for water, agricultural, and infrastructural (schools, health, roads,
etc.) development are described in Annex 2, summarized in Table 3, Annex 2,
and the application in the project in para 5.04. These policies are extensive,
well defined and have been in force more than 15 years. They include grants
and soft interest loans which together provide, in most cases, 100% of project
costs. The proportion of total costs provided as grants varies with the type
of project and/or with the sector.
2.07      Institutions Dealing with Agriculture.  The Ministry of Agriculture
with its several Departments is the major public sector institution dealing with
agriculture in Cyprus. All Departments of the Ministry are well staffed and
Lht! MiI1ibLLy, ab d whoile, is fully competenc co implement the proposed project.
2.08      The Cooperative Central Bank (CCB), made up of a Greek Cypriot and
Turkish Cypriot Bank, is the second institution dealing with agriculture. It
is the hub of a network of Credit Societies which exist in all but the smallest
villages of Cyprus. Practically all the farmers of a village belong to a
Cooperative Credit Society. The principal objective of these Societies are
(i) to provide a savings channel for the rural population; and (ii) to provide
short- and medium-term loans to their members. Each Society operates inde-
pendently, and in 1976 interest rates to borrowers ranged from 7 to 8.5%;
for deposits the maximum interest rate was 7%. The Cooperative Central Bank
provides (i) deposit facilities for the surplus funds of the Credit Societies;
and (ii) lending facilities for Credit Societies whose members demand more
than the societies have available. In addition, the Cooperative Central Bank
undertakes the management of loans extended to farmers under the 1962 Credit
Law under which long-term credit is provided to farmers at an interest rate
of 4.5% per annum. The CCB also manages Government loans issued to farmers
through the Loan Commissioners (a Government Committee operating through the
Treasury and responsible for issuing soft-term loans) (paragraph 20, Annex 2).
III. PROJECT AREA
3.01      Physical Features.  The project area forms the eastern part of the
Troodos Massif Mountain range and is centrally located on the island (HIap No.
12689). Most of Pitsilia is on diabase rocks with gabbros, suitable for
conversion into agricultural land, in its western, and pillow lavas in its
northern parts. The region is characterized by cool wet winters and warm dry
summers, the relief and vegetation being moderating factors on extreme tempera-
tures. Mean annual precipitation varies from 660 mm (altitude = 670 m) to 810
mm (altitude = 910 m). The main rainy season is between December and March.
The temperatures range from 3.40C (in January) to 22.60C (in July).
3.02      Pitsilia contains 49 villages and may be subdivided into three major
and one minor subregions or administrative districts. The total area is 61,000
ha and the population is about 20,600. The region lies at elevations between
500 and 1,600 m. The topography is rugged and the terrain is dissected by
numerous streams and small deep valleys (photographs 1, 2, 3).



- 5 -
3.03      Surface and Groundwater Potential.  Pitsilia is divided into two
distinct watersheds. In the north, the Akaki and Peristerona rivers are the
main tributaries of the Serrakhis river flowing into MIorphou Bay. The southern
area is drained by the Limnatis and Kourris rivers which discharge their waters
into the Episkopi and Akrotiri Bays. The existing developed surface water
resources are estimated at 11 I1CtM: 10 MCtl for irrigation and 1 MCM for village
domestic water supplies. This represents about 13% of the total surface water
potential of 88 CICM.  The groundwater potential is only partially known.  Part
of the groundwater is tapped through boreholes and used for village water sup-
ply, while some of it appears as spring water in valley bottoms and is used
for irrigation as well as village water supply.  Recent (1976) drillings (as
part of the Pitsilia project preparation work) indicate that about 3 I1CM may
be extracted by pumping from deep boreholes.  Tests are continuing to assess
the maximum amount of reliable water supply from boreholes.
3.04      Road Network and Public Transportation.  Due to the region's topo-
graphy, intra-regional communication is difficult. The existing village
connecting roads are all of a low standard - some are gravel, and some are
asphalted, single-lane roads. The most important roads are (i) the Nicosia-
Palekhori-Agros road; (ii) the Alona-Kato-Moni road; (iii) the Zoopiyi-Limassol
road; (iv) the Limassol-Troodos road; and (v) the Karvounnas-Saittas road (Map
12690). The villages of Pitsilia are served by 120 buses which provide daily
transportation to the main towns of Nicosia and Limassol and to villages
en route.
3.05      Housing, Domestic Water Supply and Electricity.  Pitsilia's housing
stock was estimated at 7,400 in 1974. Mlost of the houses are privately owned
and are owner occupied. In 1974, Pitsilia had (i) 360 housing units per 1,000
inhabitants; (ii) 3.5 rooms per house; and (iii) 2.8 persons per house. Fur-
ther, 88% of the houses had electricity and 90% had piped water facilities in
the house. However, in spite of the availability of facilities for providing
water to homes, the overall supply of water was unsatisfactory (defined as
less than 20 gallons per head per day) in 23 out of the 49 villages. All
villages have a public telephone booth.
3.06      Schools.  Most of the villages in Pitsilia are served by their own
elementary school. However, due to the small number of children in some vil-
lages, central schools serve a number of villages with subsidized transporta-
tion. The size of the schools depends on the village's pupil population and
ranges from 1 to 11 classrooms. More than half the elementary schools in
the region belong to the 1 to 2 classroom group, and most schools have only
one or two teachers. The number of pupils attending primary schools in
Pitsilia is declining: from 3,300 in 1960 to about 2,250 in 1976. There
is only one secondary school in the Pitsilia Region--the Agros Gymnasium. It
is centrally located in the village of Agros, and specializes in classical
education. Recently its curriculum was extended to include commercial and
economic subjects. The number of pupils enrolled at the Gymnasium is increas-
ing and was 960 in 1975, including 300 pupils displaced from northern Cyprus.



- 6 -
3.07      Health Facilities.  Medical services in Cyprus are provided through
a system of General hospitals, District hospitals, Rural Health Centers (RHC)
and Rural Health Sub-centers. Pitsilia has two RHCs (at Palekhori and Agros)
and three sub-centers (at Pelendria, Kalokhorio, and Kato Amiandos). Each RHC
is usually staffed by a general practitioner, a pharmacist, a nurse, a midwife
and/or health visitor and health inspector. A health sub-center is usually a
small facility where a RHC doctor regularly visits (once or twice per week) to
provide medical services to the local population. The Pelendria sub-center
has a resident midwife as it is among the three larger (population over 1,000)
villages of Pitsilia. In addition, Pitsilia also has the Kyperounda sanatorium
which provides treatment for tuberculosis for the whole of Cyprus. With the
declining incidence of tuberculosis in Cyprus, the Kyperounda sanatorium facil-
ities are significantly underutilized.
3.08      Agriculture.  The main crops in Pitsilia are vineyards, deciduous
fruit trees (apples, pears, peaches), citrus (mandarins, lemons), vegetables,
and potato. Nearly 90% of the cultivated area is dryfarmed. The gross reve-
nue of the average farm is derived mainly (78%) from crops; animal husbandry,
which has been lagging and has limited potential in the region, provides the
balance of the revenue. Yields of irrigated as well as dryland crops are
low; husbandry standards are poor. Use of fertilizers is confined to irri-
gated tree crops and vegetables. There is relatively little mechanization--
presently 8 out of 10 farmers use animal traction. Most farms are family
operated and rarely use hired labor, except occasionally for harvesting of
fruit.
3.09      Land Tenure.  Land in Pitsilia is mainly (60%) privately owned; the
balance state land (39%) and communal land (1%). Land tenure problems in the
region are acute. The farm holdings are small, the average family ownership
being about 5.2 ha of which about 38% is not cultivated.   Fragmentation of
the holdings is high--the average family farm having about 13 plots scattered
around the village. The plot size, as a result of the fragmentation, ranges
from 0.1 ha for irrigated land to 0.3 ha for dryland. Further, about 72% of
the plots do not have road access. There are also the constraints of joint
and dual ownerships (paragraph 2.05).
3.10      Demographic Attributes.  The average age of the population is 54
years, and the average education is 5.3 years of school, both due to the
migration of young people to the towns where opportunities are better. Only
15% of the labor force are full-time farmers; with an additional 6% whose
primary occupation is farming. Sixty-seven percent consider farming as a
secondary job, and 12% are non-farmers. The average number of family members
is 4.6. The population of Pitsilia was 20,789 in 1946; 21,638 in 1960 and
20,585 in 1973. The population projections are for 19,470 in 1986 and 18,555
in the year 2000 (Annex 3, Table 1). It has been shown that when opportuni-
ties of employment exist, the people of Pitsilia remain or return to work in
the area. When citrus (mandarines) farming was introduced into Arakapas in
the early 1970's, the declining population stabilized and during the same
period the rapidly declining population in Parekklisa and Pyrrogos reversed
following the introduction of tomato production providing more jobs and better
income potential.



3.11      Incomes.  The small holding sizes and substantial fragmentation
necessitate off-farm employment. An Agro-Economic Survey of Pitsilia (in
1974) indicated that the per capita income was US$310 ranging from US$270
(for farms of less than 2 ha) to US$360 (for farms between 4 to 8 ha). This
puts the population of Pitsilia among the poorest in Cyprus as the country's
per capita income was then US$1,180. Roughly one-half the family income was
from off-farm work.
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01      Objective and Scope.  The objective of the project is to stimulate
an economically depressed region by developing its productive resources and
by improving its social services. The project is multisectoral and represents
a first such effort by the Cyprus Government.
4.02      Project Summary.  The project is subdivided into three investment
categories: productive, social and institutional. Each is briefly summarized
below.
Productive Investments
(a) water resource development to irrigate about 1,150 ha through
about 70 minor schemes, including 150 ha rehabilitated and
the construction of a dam at Xyliatos;
(b) construct soil conservation works on about 2,550 ha;
(c) complete land consolidation on about 500 ha;
(d) construct about 290 km of farm access roads;
(e) develop on-farm water distribution system on about 1,000 ha;
(f) provide incremental credit for working capital, agro-
processing, livestock and other infrastructure; and
(g) upgrade about 50 km of existing village roads.
Social Investments
(h) construct two central elementary schools by consolidating
about twelve smaller schools to provide educational oppor-
tunities to about 500 pupils;
(i) upgrade two existing rural health centers, three existing
rural health sub-centers, and modify existing facilities
at the Kyperounda sanatorium to provide for a 20-bed
in-patient facility;



- 8 -
(j) upgrade domestic water supply facilities in about 15
villages; and
(k) upgrade 20 km of existing village streets.
Institutional
(1)  reorganize and focus the agricultural extension facilities,
and construct a farmer training center;
(m)  upgrade the existing veterinary health facilities;
(n)  promote applied research on the specific agricultural problems
of the area; and
(o)  conduct three specific studies and review engineering, agri-
cultural and other aspects of the project.
4.03      Project Details.  The project's investment categories are described
below.
4.04      Productive Investment Categories
(i)  Water Resource Development.  This includes two principal sub-
categories: (a) new irrigation; (b) irrigation rehabilitation.
New irrigation will be provided through three sources of supply:
Xyliatos dam, pond storage, and tubewells (boreholes). About 59 1/
new minor schemes are proposed and the aggregate area target is
1,040 ha net of new irrigated land. The irrigation system will
be primarily the "hose basin' type. Irrigation rehabilitation is
proposed for 154 ha in eleven areas. The individual rehabilitation
schemes will cover areas ranging from 5 ha to 35 ha. Rehabilita-
tion will include construction of storage tanks, replacement of
open conveyance channels by pipes and supply of additional on-farm
delivery outlets (Annex 5).
(ii) Soil Conservation Works. Due to steep slopes, land terracing
is necessary for both irrigated and rainfed cultivation; about
60% of the new irrigated and 100% of the dry-farmed land will
require terracing, embracing about 2,550 ha (Annex 5).
(iii) Land Consolidation. The proposal is to consolidate only new
irrigated areas and only if the total irrigated area exceeds
26 ha; the consolidation target is about 500 ha. Consolidation
in the balance of the project area (irrigated, dry) will conti-
nue in accordance with the Government's ongoing national land
consolidation program. The capital costs of land consolidation
1/   Xyliatos dam                   250 ha
About 29 pond storages  =    390 ha or about 13.5 ha per pond
About 30 tubewells       =    400 ha or about 13 ha per tubewell
1,040 ha



- 9 -
are mainly for farm access roads to the new consol4dated holdings.
Based on prior experience, about 40 kms of access roads will be
needed for the proposed area (Annex 4).
(iv) Farm Access Roads. About 250 kms of farm access roads will be
provided for the non-consolidated new irrigated areas and the
dry-farmed land (Annex 5).
(v) On-farm Water Distribution. On-farm water distribution systems
will be installed in all newly irrigated areas. Such a system
will consist of installing a water gate for the farm/plot, a 1.5
inch conveyance pipe fitted with six to eight take-off valves, and
one or two flexible feeding hoses (Annex 5).
(vi) Credit. This has two parts; credit for financing (a) agro-
processing, livestock and working capital; and (b) other com-
ponents. The credit for "a" above will be through CCB and/or
Credit Societies and/or Loan Commissioners for partial finan-
cing of the sub-projects which include pork and milk processing
units, almond shelling machines, beekeeping facilities, agri-
cultural machinery, and purchase of livestock. The credit for "b"
above is essentially a cost recovery mechanism and will work as
follows: a minor irrigation scheme, say, is financed (by the
Government) through a 67% "grant" and a 33% "loan", i.e. a 100%
Governmert financing of the minor irrigation scheme.  The "grant"
component ill be funnelled through the budget of WDD, while the
"loan" component will be channelled as '"credit" through the Loan
Commissioners. The repayment of the "loan" component will amount
to partial cost recovery. Such credit is not identified as "credit"
in project costs as it is a part of the cost of project components
(Table 4, Annex 5).
(vii) Village Roads. These link neighboring villages and villages
with trunk roads, and are all-weather, one-lane, asphalted
or earthern gravel roads, about 3.75 m wide with 0.8 m
shoulders. The project will improve about 50 km of existing village
roads (Annex 5).
4.05      Social Investment Categories
(i) Schools. The Government has agreed to establish two central primary
schools--one at Alona; the other at Kalokhorio. In each case, about
six smaller schools will be consolidated to create the central
schools. Both schools will be located at central locations accept-
able to the villages affected by the consolidation (Annex 7).
(ii) Health Facilities. The Government has agreed that the health
services in Pitsilia will be improved through the upgrading of
existing facilities by:



- 10 -
(a) converting part of the Kyperounda Sanatorium into
a 20-bed in-patient hospital;
(b) providing better equipment and improved facilities to the
two existing rural health centers (at Agros and Palekhori),
and the three existing rural health sub-centers (Pelendria,
Kalokhorio, and Kato Amiandos) so as to provide for mother
and child health care, normal deliveries, vaccinations,
dental care, medical consultation facilities, pharmacy and
X-ray facilities (Annex 6). The Government has agreed to
submit to the Bank for approval no later than September 1,
1978 detailed proposals on the health component.
(iii) Village Domestic Water Supplies. The Government has agreed that
low discharge (less than 5 liters/sec) boreholes and spring water
will be used to supplement village domestic water supplies.
Fifteen schemes are proposed: house-to-house connections in
three villages, storage tanks in seven villages (including the
three with house-to-house connections), and expanded supply in
eight villages. The objective is to provide at least 75 liters
per capita per day to the village population to conform to
existing, and acceptable, water supply norms.
(iv) Village Streets. Most villages in Pitsilia are on mountain sides,
and the street slopes are steep. Paved streets are necessary
to prevent erosion and to provide reasonable walking conditions
during the wet season. About 20 kms of village streets will be
upgraded (Annex 5).
4.06      Institutional
(i) Extension and Farmer Training. The existing extension team of 9
extension agents, 11 specialists and 5 agricultural assistants
operating in Pitsilia will be reorganized into 5 beats to cover
7, 12, 10, 9 and 11 villages. The specialists (animal husbandry,
water use, horticulture, plant protection and soil conservation)
will work full-time in the project area. A farmer training
center to accommodate 20 farmers per class will be constructed
at Agros and will be an integral element of the extension service
(Annex 5).
(ii) Agricultural Research. Cyprus has a first-class Agricultural
Research Institute operating as an autonomous unit within MANR.
The Institute has several experimental stations and experiments
are carried out on new varieties of local crops, irrigation and
cultural practices in the major agricultural zones of the country.
The Government has agreed that the Institute will carry out a
concerted research program in the project area. The Institute
will seek assistance from the International Potato Center (in
Peru) in its research on seed potatotes. Only supplementary
support is needed, and funds are included in the project cost
for this purpose. Part of these funds will be used for studies
(see 4.06 (iv) below).



- 11 -
(iii)  Veterinary Health Facilities.  In spite of the limited scope
of livestock in the region, there is need to provide veterinary
health facilities for the existing animal population. The
Government has agreed that the existing facilities at Agros and
at Palekhori will be improved. This will include provision of
laboratory and clinical facilities at the two sites.
(iv)  Consulting Services and Studies.  Funds are provided for using
consultants and for other in-house expenditures to execute
specific studies: (a) on the system of investment financing for
the agricultural sector (Annex 8); (b) study of future develop-
ment opportunities in underdeveloped rural areas of Cyprus; (c)
monitoring and ex-post evaluation of the project (Annex 8); and
(d) review of engineering, agricultural and other aspects of the
project. The Government has agreed to participate in the studies
by providing qualified professional, technical and supporting
staff. Consultant services are expected to start about September
1, 1977 and be completed by December 31, 1982. Approximately
6 man months of consultant services would be involved in the
financing study, about 7 man months in the study of future rural
development opportunities, about 6 man months in the monitoring
and project evaluation, and about 6 man months in the review
aspects of the project. Costs per man month are estimated at
US$6,000.
4.07      Status of Engineering.  WDD and other Departments within the Minis-
tries of Agriculture, Health, Education and Interior have engineering and
technical capability to complete feasibility investigations, and to plan,
design, execute and then maintain the engineering works of the Project. The
WDD Water Use Section, Geological Survey Department, will plan, design and
execute the engineering works for the Xyliatos dam, the ponds, well fields
and the on-farm distribution system. Engineering works for land consolidation
areas will be carried out by the LCA. Farm roads, village roads, buildings,
etc. will be planned and completed within the appropriate ministries and
sections.
4.08      Cost Estimates.  Project cost estimates as of July 1977 are based
on the technical studies prepared by the Ministries of Agriculture, Education,
Health, Interior, and the Planning Bureau. The estimated total project cost
is US$21 million, of which about 56% is foreign exchange. Project cost in-
cludes US$2.4 million (or 17% of base cost) for physical and US$4.6 million
(or 33% of base cost) for price contingencies.  Price contingencies have been
estimated on the assumption that (i) equipment prices would increase at the
average annual rates of 7.5 and 7% for 1977-79 and 1980-85 respectively; and
(ii) civil works prices would increase at 9 and 8% per annum for the above
periods respectively. The cost estimates are summarized below with details
in Table 6, Annex 5.



.-1 'X._
Cost Estimates
Foreign
Exchange
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Percent
(CI 1,000) -----  ---- (US$1,000)…
Productive (88% of
Base Cost)
Water Resource
Development               1,336   1,993   3,329  3,206   4,784   7,990    60
Soil Conservation
(Dryland)                   333     408      741    799      979   1,778    55
Farm Roads, Land
Consolidation               206      168     374    494       403      897    45
Credit for Incremental
Working Capital             143       37      180    343       89      432    21
Agro-processing, Farm
Machinery                    49       83      132    118      199      317    63
Village Roads                 210      171      381    504      410      914    45
Social (9%)
Schools                        79       97      176    190      232      422    55
Health Facilities              30       57       87     73      136      209    65
Village Water Supply           52       98      150    126      234      360    65
Village Streets                58       47      105    139      113      252    45
Institutional (3%)
Extension & Farmer
Training                     39       38       77     94       91      185    49
Agricultural Research
and Studies                  40       10      50      96       24      120    20
Veterinary Health               8       12       20     19       29       48    60
Consultant Services            10       32       42     24       77      101    76
Base Cost             2,593   3,251   5,844  6,225   7,800  14,025    56
Physical Contin- l/
gencies (17%) -       428      575   1,003  1,027   1,380   2,407    -
Price Contingencies 2/ 829   1,074   1,903  1,988   2,580   4,568
Total Cost:      3,850   4,900   8,750  9,240  11,760  21,000    56
l/  Weighted average of 10% (roads, streets, health, school, and farmer training
center) and 20% for the rest; no physical contingencies have been assumed for
credit, consulting, research and agro-processing.
2/ See paragraph 4.08 for assumptions.



-. 1J -
4.09      Financing.  The Bank loan of 10.0 million US$ equivalent or about 48%
of the total cost ($21.0 million) will finance 85% of Lhe estirrared foreign
exchange cost of the Project. The Government has agreed to cover the balance
of the project costs, both foreign and local. The following table gives the
proposed financing arrangements:
Financed By
Investment Category                    Bank    Government    Total
-     (US$ million)…
Productive                              9.1         9.5         18.6
Social                                  0.7         1.4          2.1
Institutional                           0.2         0.1         0.3
Total                                  10.0        11.0         21.0
4.10      Procurement.  The procurement for the civil works of Xyliatos dam
and its distribution system, pumping units, ancillary electric equipment,
polythene sheets, pipes, valves, water meters, and asbestos pipes amounting
to US$5.8 million will be under International Competitive Bidding (ICB). An
estimated eight contracts will be awarded: one for the dam and seven for the
equipment. Due to their small sizes and scattered nature, procurement for
the civil works for storage ponds, soil conservation works, health, school and
training facilities amounting to US$9 million will be under Local Competitive
Bidding (LCB). About thirty-five contracts will be awarded: four for the
ponds, about twenty for soil conservation works, and about eleven for the
remaining civil works. Local contractors are qualified for such work, and
the tendering procedures for local contracts are satisfactory. There already
exists an established Tenders Board which will approve all tenders (Annex
8, Chart 1). Further, local tenders are open to all bidders whether local
or foreign. The water distribution systems of minor irrigation schemes, soil
conservation works, rehabilitation schemes, village water supply, on-farm
investments, village streets and roads, and farm roads are best constructed
through Force Account as the small sizes and scattered location of these works
would not attract local contractors. Further, in most instances, the construc-
tion of these works may require frequent revisions in design; and it is not
possible to incorporate such contingencies into bidding documents of small
subcontracts. The total estimated cost of expenditures under Force Account
(FA) is US$4.9 million. These procedures are summarized below:
Foreign
ICB   LCB   FA   Other   Total    Exchange
--(US$ million)-------
Civil Works                    2.1    9    4.9    -       16         7.55
Equipment                      3.7    -     -      -       3.7       3.33
Consultants and Studies        -      -     -    0.3       0.3       0.22
5.8    9    4.9   0.3      20        11.1



- 14 -
The Government has agreed to follow these procurement procedures for Bank-
financed components in accordance with the current Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank loans.
4.11      The draft specifications and bidding documents for items procured
under ICB and for those contracts under LCB whose value exceeds US$250,000
will be approved by the Bank before tendering. The dam and its distribution
system will be a single contract. The Bank loan would not finance more than
US$1.4 million of the total expenditures under Force Account. The Government
has agreed to carry out the project in accordance with the above requirements.
4.12      Disbursements.  The Bank loan will be disbursed in five and a half
years as follows:
(i) 40% of total expenditures for civil works contracts awarded
through ICB or LCB or incurred under FA;
(ii) 100% of the foreign cost of imported materials and equipment,
or 100% of local costs (ex-factory) for locally manufactured
materials and equipment if purchased in accordance with Bank
procedures;
(iii) 100% of the foreign costs for consultants' services.
Disbursement requests will be supported by full documentation, except for
civil works performed under Force Account which will be made against a state-
ment of expenditures, the supporting documents of which will be retained
by the executing agency and be available for review by project supervision
missions. An estimated quarterly disbursement schedule is given in Annex 10.
Any savings in the loan after project completion will be cancelled.
4.13      Accounts and Audit.  A separate account will be kept for the
project. This account will be subdivided to accord with the categories used
in the project cost estimates (paragraph 4.08). The account will be audited
annually by the Auditor General of Cyprus and the audit report will be sent
to the Bank within six months of the end of the audited period. It was agreed
that the above separate account will be established by no later than December
31, 1977 and that it will be audited annually by the Auditor General of Cyprus
and his report will be submitted to the Bank within six months of the comple-
tion of each financial year.
4.14      Environmental Effects.  The project would not cause ecological damage
to the land, water and human resources of the area. All proposed investments
will be technically reviewed by the respective implementing Departments prior
to implementation, to ensure, among other things, they exert a positive or
at least a neutral environmental impact. Improvements in domestic water
supplies, educational and health facilities, soil conservation works, and
the intraregional communication network would have a positive effect on the
environment.



- J5 -
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.01      Gen'eral.  The multis ctor-l nature of the project will involve 12
departments or agencies in 6 rm i-i:rles 1/.  Their coordination would be the
responsibility of the Ministr' of Agriculture which will implement the bulk
of the project through its existing departments: Water Development, Agricul-
ture, Land Consolidation and Geological Survey (Annex 8).
5.02      Project Organization.  Coordination between the involved ministries,
departments and agencies will be the responsibility of the Director General
of MANR who will be designated Project Coordinator. A senior staff member
of MANR will be designated Assistant Project Coordinator as early as possible
and not later than November 30, 1977. The selection of this Assistant will
be made in consultation with the Bank. The two Committees shown below will
be established.
(i) Project Policy Committee (PPC). This Committee will provide
the policy framework 2/ for the project. The PPC will be
chaired by the Minister of Agriculture. The Director General
of Agriculture will be the committee Secretary.  The Directors
General of Finance, Interior, Health, Education, a representa-
tive of the Planning Bureau and the Commissioner of Cooperative
Development will be the Committee members.  This Committee will
meet as and when necessary but no less than four times a year.
(ii) Project Coordination Committee (PCC): This Committee will
provide the focal point for all project-related activities. It
will be chaired by the Director General of M4ANR in his capacity
as Project Coordinator. The Secretary of this Committee will
be the Assistant to the PC. The Committee members will include
representatives from the four relevant departments of MANR (Water
Development, Agriculture, Land Consolidation, Geological Survey)
and from the Mlinistries of Health, Education and Interior. The
PCC will meet monthly if necessary.
The coordinating and implementing responsibilities of the Director General
of MANR are thus assured since he will act both as Secretary of the Project
Policy Committee and as Chairman of the Project Coordinating Committee.
Chart I, Annex 8, provides a schematic presentation of the above proposals.
It was agreed that the above organizational structures will be created by
November 30, 1977.
1/   Ministries of Agriculture, Health, Education, Interior, Finance,
and the Planning Bureau.
2/   Project size, composition, financial arrangements, budget issues,
and the like.



- 16 -
5.03      Project Implementation.  The project will be divided into major
projects, minor projects and other infrastructure.
(i) Major. The Xyliatos dam is the only "major project". WDD will
be responsible for the planning, designing, construction and
maintenance of the dam.
(ii) Minor. Minor projects (new irrigated areas utilizing water
from ponds and/or boreholes, and rehabilitated schemes) would be
implemented by an "Irrigation Division" (ID) 1/ and the WDD. An
"Irrigation Division" is a group of at least 10 landowners who
agree to (a) share the provided irrigation water according to
agreed rules and (b) maintain defined parts of the irrigation
system. In implementing minor schemes, WDD and an ID will agree
on the terms and conditions, such as location and size of water
source and terms of repayment before WDD could develop the
project. Allowance in the implementation schedule has been made
for such procedural delays.
(iii) Other. The remaining components will be implemented by the relevant
Ministry or Department as follows:
Land consolidation by LCA
Farm roads on consolidated areas by LCA
Farm roads on non-consolidated areas by District Officers
Village roads and village streets by District Officers
School facilities by Ministry of Education
Health facilities by Ministry of Health
Village water supply by WDD and Village Water Council
Credit by CCB and Loan Commissioners
Soil conservation works by MANR
5.04      Due to the varying extent of villages'/farmers' participation, the
implementation rates of the productive investments will differ. The most
time-consuming and uncertain will be the "minor" projects which also happen
to be the most significant single category of investments. Because the
farmers' consent to the terms and conditions of government financing of the
investment is required, and in order to minimize the "delays" that may be
caused due to separate and individual "negotiation" of the 70 minor projects,
Government agreed that pre-defined terms and conditions will be applied to the
Pitsilia project for the productive investments. These terms and conditions
are given in the table below.
1/   In rare instances "minor projects" could be implemented by an "Irriga-
tion Association" (IA). An Irrigation Association is a group of at least
7 water owners. Irrigation Associations are not common since water was
declared a National Resource belonging to the Government. Formation of
IAs is not now encouraged by Government.



- 17 -
Number of Years             Years of
for which             Grace Period
interest              for Repayment
Percent Percent  moratorium   Interest          of       Repayment
Loan    Grant    is given        Rate       Principal   Period
Ponds/
boreholes         33      67/1        5/2       6.0          5/2          25
Rehabilitation      33       67/1        0        5.75         2            15
Soil
Conservation      75       25         5/2       5.75/2       5/2          15
On-farm systems
(water use)       o3      15          5/2       5.75/2       5/2          12
Xyliatos dam        /3
/1   In exceptional cases in extremely depressed areas of Pitsilia,
the figure may be increased to 75.
/2   These figures will be gradually applied over a period of four years
(the estimated period for the project to reach its development stage)
starting with 3 years or 5% as applicable, and subject to amendment
upon the conclusion of the study referred to in para 5.11.
/3   About half of the investment cost will be receovered in nominal terms
by a water charge computed at 9% interest per annum over 40 years pro-
vided that the resultant charge (excluding O&M costs) is not less than
7 mils/m3 for the first year.
5.05      In the implementation of these terms and conditions, the loan compo-
nent of all investments would create a demand for credit. These requirements
are estimated in Annex 5 (Tables 4 and 11) and will have to be met by the
government. Assurances were obtained that the project would be implemented
over five years in accordance with the implementation schedule (Annex 5, Chart
1). The Government has agreed to fully provide the credit requirements for
the project.
5.06      Operation and Maintenance (O & M).  Four Government departments and
two community groups will be responsible for the operation and maintenance of
the project. The Xyliatos dam, its distribution system, and the structures of
ponds and boreholes will be operated and maintained by WDD. The maintenance
process will include periodic inspection by WDD staff of the structures and
the conveyance system of the dam, ponds and boreholes. For the dam, the
inspection will include examination of the settlement of the embankments,
structural deformation, reservoir sedimentation, rip-rap condition, downstream
erosion, drainage, leakage, concrete deterioration, gates and other mechanical
parts. To assure the dam's safety, WDD will arrange, at intervals of not more
than five years, a formal inspection of the dam and appurtenant structures
to determine any actual or potential deficiencies in the condition of these
structures. A copy of each inspection report will be forwarded to the Bank.
For the ponds, the inspection will include examination of the embankments,
leakage, sedimentation, erosion, and mechanical parts. For the boreholes, the



- 18 -
inspection will include examination of the mechanical parts and the supply
potential. These procedures are satisfactory and WDD has competent staff for
the job. The District Officer will be responsible for the maintenance of
village and farm roads. The maintenance procedures are satisfactory and the
staff of the District Officer is competent for the tasks. The schools and
hlealth facilities will be staffed by the Ministries of Education and Health
respectively as has been the practice with the existing school and health
facilities in Pitsilia. The facilities are operated and maintained jointly by
the village councils and the respective ministries. Depending on the poverty
level of the village, different cost sharing arrangements apply. The water
conveyance systems of the ponds, boreholes, the on-farm water distribution
networks, the rehabilitated farms, and the terracing on dry and irrigated
land areas will be operated and maintained by farmers and/or Irrigation
Divisions. This is the traditional practice and has been quite successful;
the responsibility as well as the financial cost of such maintenance is fully
borne by the beneficiaries. This practice is considered satisfactory and the
farmers and IDs are competent to carry out the related tasks. Finally, the
village streets and the conveyance system of the village water supply will be
operated and maintained by the village councils. The Government has agreed
that for the dam, pond and borehole schemes it will by MIarch 1, 1978 submit
its existing O&M program for review and approval, and that once a year,
through WDD, the Government will devise, for the dam, ponds and borehole
schemes, a construction program for the twelve succeeding months.
5.07      For most project components, the operation and maintenance costs
will be fully borne by the beneficiaries. For the dam, WDD will apply a water
charge (Para 5.04, footnote 3) of which about 5.2 mils/m3 will be for full
recovery of 0 & M. Government has agreed that this charge will be reviewed
not less than once every two years and that any change in O&M costs will be
reflected accordingly in adjustments to the water charges. For the health
and school facilities, the 0 & M cost will be partially or fully borne by
the village population. For village streets and the village water supply,
the 0 & M cost will be fully borne by the village population. The cost of
operating and maintaining village and farm roads will be fully borne by
the Government; partial cost recovery would be indirectly achieved through
gasoline and other road use taxes. These procedures for explicit cost sharing
of operation and maintenance are satisfactory and acceptable for the project
area.
5.08      Recovery of Project Costs.  Although the government subsidizes the
agricultural sector, farmers do, nevertheless, bear a portion of the cost of
agricultural investments both of a productive nature and social infrastruc-
ture, including schools, health facilities and village water supply (see Annex
2, Table 3). The government covers part of the investment costs, but requires
beneficiaries to repay the rest as if it were a loan to them, in addition to
bearing the full operation and maintenance costs. This is done through (i)
"grants" to the beneficiaries and (ii) "tloans"? at subsidized interest rates.
The proportion of the total cost that is provided as a "grant" varies with the
type of project, the poverty of the beneficiaries and prior debt and/or other



- 19 -
obligations of the beneficiaries. Loans for social or institutional (non-
productive) infrastructure will be borrowed and serviced by the relevant
village council. The details of the relevant policies are discussed in Annex
2. The individual effect of these policies on cost recovery are presented in
Tables 10, 11, and 12 in Annex 11.
5.09      In view of the flexibility of policies noted above, several alter-
native policies were evaluated. In order to facilitate comparison, the
effects of an alternative policy were evaluated for a typical project: (i)
cost = Cb 100; (ii) grant - 67%; and (iii) loan = 33%. As a proxy for the cost
of public sector funds, a discount rate of 10% was used. The results of the
evaluation are as follows:
Typical Present Policy   Proposed Policy
If:    Interest rate (%)                           6                       6
Grace period (years)                        2                       5
Repayment period (years)                   20                      25
Interest paid grace                      Yes                      No
Interest capitalization                   No                     Yes
Project cost (CO)                         100                    100
Loan amount (Cb)                           33                      33
Then:  Recovery percentage (%) /1                 24.1                    20.4
Subsidy (Cb) /2                            75.9                    79.6
/1   Ratio of the net present value of amount recovered from the beneficiary
and the cost of the project component, calculated at a discount rate of
10%.
/2   Net present value of the difference between cost and the amount recovered
from the beneficiary.
5.10      Typical interest rates for productive components have been between
4.5 to 6%. In discussions, the Government had suggested an increase in
interest rates with repayment over 20 years with a grace period of 2 years.
Due to the five to seven year gestation periods of tree crops, however, the
2-year grace period would not be viable, even if significant intercropping
were practiced. Cash flow constraints on repayment during the first five
years would have been severe under the government proposal (Table 13, Annex
11). As a result the proposed alternative includes (a) a lengthening of the
grace and repayment periods and the introduction of a moratorium on interest
to better suit the cash flow sequences of the proposed cropping pattern (about
55% tree crops which become productive between five and seven years); and (b)
an increase in the interest rate to the top of the scale. The recommended
proposals will be implemented through administrative decision.



- 20 -
5.11      Although no significant changes in the Government's present poli-
cies on financing agricultural investments are recommended for this project,
changes in national sector priorities have been taking place, and the Govern-
ment proposed therefore that a study of the present policy framework for
agriculture be a part of this project. The Government has agreed that, in
accordance with the proposed terms of reference (Annex 8), it will undertake
such a study, to be completed by December 31, 1978, and that its mutually
acceptable recommendations will be implemented nationwide by July 1, 1980.
5.12      Project Criteria and Review Procedures.  Since the project comprises
a number of minor and one major scheme, it is necessary to define criteria for
choosing the preferred set of investments from among many alternative sets
possible. The principal criterion is that the productive components of the
project as an aggregate should be economically viable. The Government has
agreed that the project criteria include:
(a) a mini-feasibility study to be prepared for each pond and
borehole scheme;
(b) the economic rate of return in the study to be estimated using
current input and product prices as used in this report; the
economic rate of return to be calculated on a basis similar to
that used in Table 16, Annex 11;
(c) in the case of minor irrigation projects (ponds and boreholes),
the cutoff rate of return used would be 8%;
(d) in the case of rainfed soil conservation works, a maximum cost
will be established so as to ensure a cutoff rate of return of
10%;
(e) in the case of village roads the cutoff rate of return to be 10%;
(f) the technical criterion for choice of land consolidation schemes
would be the availability of at least 26 ha (200 donums) of new
irrigated land;
The Government has agreed that the irrigation systems would be designed
on the basis of crop water requirements given in Technical Note 1, Annex
5. The Project Coordinator will cause up-to-date records of costs and returns
to be kept, submit progress reports to the Bank on a six-month basis, and
within six months of project completion, an ex-post evaluation of the proj-
ect. A suggested outline for progress reports is given in Appendix B, Annex
8. It was agreed that the project will be monitored according to a set of
agreed key indicators.



- 21 -
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARM INCOME
6.01      Cropping Pattern, Crop Yields and Production.  There are three types
of developments proposed: (i) new irrigation; (ii) irrigation rehabilitation;
and (iii) rainfed improvement. Both new irrigation and rainfed improvements
will develop virgin areas; consequently, irrigation rehabilitation is the
only project activity with prior production activity. The cropping patterns,
yields and production for the three development activities are given below;
crop yields presently obtained in the project area are also given:



- 22 -
Crop Yields
Area      Present          Full          Incremental
Project Type                 Developed    Range         Development       Production
donums   tons/donum tons/donum tons/ha    tons
I. New Irrigation
(7,750 donums)
Cherries                    930          -           2.4       18        2,232
Apples                      163       0.7 to 2       3.2       24          521
Almonds                     698           -          1.5       11        1,046
Peaches                     388        .9 to 2       3         22        1,162
Plums                       155        .9 to 2       3         22          465
Table Olives                798           -          2.5       19        1,995
Citrus                      875         1 to 4       5         37        4,379
Table Grapes                310           -          3         22          930
Summer Vegetables         1,627         1 to 2       3         22       4,882
Potatotes                 1,806         1 to 2       3         22       5,417
II. Irrigation Rehabilitation
(1,160 donums)
Peaches                     580           0.9        1.8       13          522
Table Grapes                580           1.5        2.0       15          290
III.Rainfed Improvement
(13,000 donums)
Wine Grapes              11,000        .3 to .5      1         7.5     11,000
Almonds                   1,000        .1 to .3      0.9       7           900
Olives                    1,000        .1 to .3      1         7.5       1,000
6.02      Market Prospects.  The Cypriot Planning Bureau prepared a supply
and demand analysis of deciduous fruit, citrus and other crops; and the crop-
ping pattern proposed for the Pitsilia Project is derived from the results of
the study (Annex 9). No marketing problems are envisaged. Most of the
project production will be for the domestic market. Small quantities of
cherries, nuts and citrus would be exported and no problems are envisaged
(Annex 9).
6.03      Prices.  Prices are not controlled.  The prices used in the finan-
cial and economic analysis are, therefore, based on the actual farm gate
prices received in recent years. Farm gate prices obtained by farmers during
1974-76 have varied significantly due to seasonal and/or other factors. The
table below provides the historical price ranges for the main crops and the
prices used in the financial and economic analysis. As the last comparison
column indicates, the price assumptions used in the analysis may be considered
conservative (Annex 11).



- 23 -
Average of
Price' Used   Historical   Historical  I_
R _eport   Price Ranges    Prices    ,
A                           B
--------(CO/ton)…--------------…----
Cherries                       155         141-277         209          +35
Apples                          90          54-95           75          -17
Almonds                        150         138-198         168          +12
Peaches                         75          76-93           85          +13
Plums                           75          64-110          87          +16
Table Olives                   200         275-315         295          +48
Citrus                          75          81-102          92          +22
Table Grapes                   100            -             -
Potatoes                        40          30-72           51          +28
6.04      Farm Incomes.  Farm income estimates are derived from the aggregates
of the relevant project components:  new irrigation, irrigation rehabilitation,
and dryland improvement.  Since the project comprises about 70 minor schemes,
it was felt that estimation of farm income by working downwards from the aggre-
gate project would be a reasonable estimate of project income. However, four
farm budgets (Table 6, Annex 11) were prepared to provide a check on the esti-
m&tes made by the method used. The background information for the estimated
farm-generated incremental income is given below (Annex 11).
Aggregate Incre-
mental Net       Incremental
Income at Full      Net Farm
Area Under    Development         Income
(donums)      (CO  1,000)     (Ch per donum)
I.   New Irrigation                  7,750               1,100             142
II.   Irrigation Rehabilitation        1,160                 79              68
III.   Rainfed Improvement            13,000                 858              66
Total                             -                 2,037               -
IV.   Income per Capita (US$)       With Project            610
Without Project         310
6.05      The estimated incremental per capita income due to the project is
US$300 per annum. The total "With Project" income is estimated at US$610 by
adding the above incremental income to the "Before Project" income estimated
at US$310 per annum (this is the income level at present - Tables 5 and 6,
Annex 3). Chat is, the project is expected to increase average farm incomes
by about 100%, with all of the increase farm generated.
6.06      Farmers' Ability to Pay Debt Service.  The above incremental income
will involve increased financial obligations: (i) debt service payment
for loans against the productive infrastructure; (ii) charges for repaying
loans against the social infrastructure. These financial obligations are
gi-en below for: (a) present policy; and (b) proposed policy:



- 24 -
Annual Repayment Stream (at Year &-) Under
Present Policy    Proposed Policy
… ----------------- (CGb)…
I.  Productive Infrastructure             303,076             264,934
II.  Social Infrastructure                  23,262              23,262
III.  Total                                 326,338             288,196
IV. Debt Service/Charge
per family /2 (Gh)                         93 (US$223)         82 (US$197)
/1   Year 8 is chosen as all repayment streams are operative in that year.
Due to the different repayment periods, the annual debt service burdens
would vary from year to year.
/2   For simplicity, we use 3,500 families for both sets of investments; for
per capita estimate divide by the family size of 4.6.
At full development, the financial charges represent about 16% of incremental
income under present policies and about 14% under proposed policies for the
project as a whole, or 15% and 13%, respectively, for the productive invest-
ments. However, while the aggregate burdens (16%; 14%) appear bearable, there
would be financial problems in the earlier years of the project. Most of the
fruit crops take five or more years to produce income; the intervening period
can be partially covered through intercropping the orchards with vegetables
and potatoes. However, cash flow analysis under alternative assumptions
(Table 13, Annex 11) indicates that under all but the most favorable condi-
tions farmers would not be able to service their debt in the first years of
the project. Consequently, an interest moratorium would be an appropriate
financial requirement. The interest moratorium would provide an additional
incentive for farmers to participate, invest collectively in a new water
source (thus reducing migration), and the net result would be an income
transfer to the target group (para 5.11).
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      Economic Benefits.  The project will contribute to a significant
increase in the productive infrastructure of the economically depressed
Pitsilia region. The most important of these will be the 72% increase in
new irrigated areas; others will be (i) improvement of dryland through soil
conservation works and farm roads; (ii) land consolidation; (iii) an improved
village roads network. These investments in productive infrastructure would
integrate the region and significantly increase the incomes of the project
beneficiaries. The incremental income from agricultural development alone
would be about CG 2 million at full development (about year 10). The project
would economically stimulate the area, by providing incentives for young
farmers to consider agriculture as an attractive alternative to off-farm
work.



- 2z) -
7.02      Other Benefits.  The attractiveness of the area would be enhanced
due to the improvements in the social infrastructure (health, schooling, water
supply, village streets). The benefits from these improvements are not quan-
tifiable; however, it is evident that the investments in social facilities
would not only improve the actual levels of services provided, but also
improve the perception of available services from the viewpoint of the village
population and induce potential migrants to reconsider their options. It is
not possible to make a firm estimate of the overall impact of the project on
migration; but it is clear that unless some significant effort is made for
the Pitsilia Region, out migration would continue with undesirable economic
effects: reductions in the production of deciduous fruits, induced invest-
ments in social infrastructure in the urban areas, and incremental investments
for job creation in non-agricultural sectors. The project is the first example
in Cyprus of a fully integrated, economically viable set of investments which
could ultimately be applied to other less-favored regions on the island.
7.03      Economic Rate of Return.  The economic rate of return is estimated
for the productive infrastructure as a whole, and for its major components.
The productive infrastructure includes water resources, land consolidation,
soil conservation, farm roads, on-farm investments, 0 & M and incremental
working capital. First year returns (counting only road users' savings,
Annex 11) were estimated for the proposed nine village road segments. Three
road segments accounting for about 30% of the cost had first year returns
of between 10% and 20% to paving; the remaining six segments had first year
returns between 4 to 7% to paving, implying that a delay in their construction
or lower standards would be more economic. Government has agreed that prior
to approving the paving of village roads it will examine whether improvement
of these roads to gravel rather than paved standards is justified. The main
rates of return are summarized below with details in Tables 15 and 16, Annex 11:
Economic Rate of Return
(%)
1.  New Irrigation                                          12
(i) Xyliatos Dam           14
(ii) Pond Scheme             10
(iii) Borehole Scheme         14.6
2.  Rainfed component                                       18
3.  Irrigation Rehabilitation                               18
4.  Village roads                                    Above 10
The overall economic returns are satisfactory. The rate of return for all
investments (productive plus social) is nearly 12%, while for the productive
alone it is 13%.



- 26 -
7.04      In order to assess the financial attractiveness of the investments,
the financial rates 1/ of return under present financing policies for the
more crucial investments are summarized below:
Financial Rates of Return
(%)
Xyliatos Dam                                          33
A Pond Scheme                                         30
A Borehole Scheme                                     35
The financial rates of return are very attractive. It could, therefore,
be argued, on the basis of project level analysis alone, that project area
beneficiaries could carry an interest burden beyond the 6.0% proposed, after
the first five years. A higher interest rate, however, would constitute
discrimination against the poorest segment of the farming population, since
interest rates for the rest of the agricultural sector would remain unchanged.
As mentioned above, the level and incidence of the present concessions to
agriculture will be studied under the project, the most appropriate method
of addressing this issue without penalizing the project area beneficiaries.
7.05      Sensitivity Analysis.  Since this project is an aggregate of about
70 minor projects, it is possible that costs and benefits of individual
schemes may vary significantly. For example, among the three water sources,
the pond scheme appears to be the least economic. The economic rates of
return of the 30 ponds envisaged may vary from 8 to 15%. Further, the diffi-
cult physical conditions in the project area may unexpectedly raise costs of
all schemes. Finally, the production potential assumed may not be achieved
everywhere. These contingencies are most likely for the new irrigation
schemes; so, a sensitivity analysis has been performed for the whole project
and also for the new irrigation component only with the following results:
Economic Rate of Return
(%)
Aggregate Project
Cost increased by 10%                           12
Benefits decreased by 10%                       12
New Irrigation
Costs increased by 10%                          10.7
Costs increased by 20%                          10
The rate of returns are satisfactory; and, given the technical review proce-
dures incorporated in this project, it is not expected that uneconomic minor
schemes will be chosen.
/1   The financial rate of return is estimated on the assumption that the
beneficiary incurs a cost only when paying back the debt (Annex 11).



- 27 -
7.06      Beneficiaries and Distribution of Benefits.  The beneficiaries of
the project comprise the entire population of Pitsilia which is about 21,000.
However, the number of beneficiaries varies with the project component. The
costs and subsidies of the project are summarized below (Table 11, Annex 11):
Number of      Cost     Subsidy
Beneficiaries   Per Beneficiary
(US$)
Village Roads                       100,000 /1       10          10
Water Resource Development /2         3,500        3650        2450
Village water supply                  5,000          86          54
Health                               10,000          13          11
Village streets                      10,000          37          23
/1   This includes benefits to those who pass through Pitsilia, but are
not residents of Pitsilia.
/2   Includes rehabilitation, dam, ponds, borehole, soil conservation,
on-farm system and farm roads. Beneficiaries are farmers actually
benefitting.
The above estimates indicate that the costs are reasonable. The per-
beneficiary subsidies above and the aggregate subsidies reported earlier
represent income transfers to the target group. The total fiscal burden
is well within the means of the public sector.
7.07      Risks.  A multi-component, many-sector project is not an easy
project to implement. The difficulties of intra- and interministerial coor-
dination pose the first risk in the project. However, the proposed organiza-
tion structure will improve both coordination and control hence lowering the
associated risk. The second risk in the project derives from the physical
environment: the topography, the geology and, most important, the supply
of water inherently carry the possibility of significant cost variation.
Systematic tests of groundwater availability are being carried out for one
full dry season to determine the safe withdrawals feasible for irrigation
before the water source distribution systems are implemented. It is expected
that the required technical reviews of the minor schemes will weed out poten-
tially costly developments.
VIII. AGREEtMENTS REACHED AND RECOMIENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, agreements were reached and assurances were
obtained on the principal issues referred to in Chapters 4, 5 and 7. The
project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$10 million for
a 15-year term including 3 years of grace. The Borrower is the Republic
of Cyprus.






ANNEX I
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
The Agricultural Sector 1/
1.        General.  Cyprus has an area of 925,000 ha with a total population
of about 630,000. Before 1974, agriculture accounted for about 18% (range 13
to 20% including the 1973 drought year) of GDP and employed about 34% of the
labor force (see Tables I and 2). Situated in the Eastern Mediterranean at
350 north latitude and south of the entire Mediterranean coast of Europe,
Cyprus has a warm and rather dry climate with winter rainfall. Five main
physiographic regions may be distinguished:
(i) the narrow Kyrenia range of mountains bordering the north
coast and rising to some 900 meters;
(ii) the coastal plain and foothills along the north coast and
Karpas peninsula;
(iii) the Troodos massif in the southwest rising to 2,000 meters;
(iv) the central plain known as the Mesaoria between the two
mountain ranges; and
(v) the southwestern coastal plains and foothills.
2.        The average rainfall ranges from about 300 mm to 400 mm in the
Mesaoria and 400 to 450 mm in the coastal areas at the foot of the mountains.
Winters are mild at the lower altitudes, especially on the coast; and summers
hot and dry with mean monthly temperatures reaching 27 C (800F) in July and
August. The mountains are cooler and moister. Snow usually covers the higher
parts of the Troodos from January to April and the mean annual precipitation
here reaches 1,000 mm. Rainfall on the plains is erratic and droughts are
frequent and sometimes severe.
3.        Prior to about 1950, most of the population was engaged in sub-
sistence agriculture on small family farms. Dryland winter cereals and pulses
were grown on the plains with fallows in alternate years, olives and carobs
in the foothills, wine grapes on the steep sides of mountain valleys and
1/   Based on a report prepared by Dr. Charles Johnson in 1974 and information
provided in the FAO/CP Preparation Report.



ANTTEX 1
Page 2
oriental-type tobacco on the Karpas peninsula. There was some irrigation from
springs, streams and shallow wells and deeper groundwater was brought to the
surface by underground tunnels sinilar to the Persian "ganat" mainly to
produce vegetables and fruit. Spate irrigation was practiced in some places
when there was enough rain to produce floods.
4.        Since the second World War, a strong impetus to commercial production
of fruit, wines, vegetables, milk and meat has been provided by the presence
of British and United Nations troops, the development of tourism and an export
market for citrus fruits, early potatoes, carrots and other vegetables, grapes,
wines and sherry. A substantial trade with Britain has been built up by
exploiting a climate favorable for producing certain vegetables and fruits
earlier than other accessible sources of supply and the market facilities
arising from the British connection and the presence of a Cypriot community in
Britain. These developments have led to the emergence of a modern agricultural
sector producing fruit and vegetables under irrigation, pigs and poultry in
modern units and some beef, veal and fresh cow's milk.
5.        The traditional subsistence sector remained for some time largely
untouched by these changes, except as a source of labor, but has begun in
recent years to respond in part to modern technology. Cultivation and trans-
port have been mechanized and few draft or pack animals are now to be seen
except in the mountain areas. Fodder production has begun to replace the
fallows and some improvement of the scrub pastures by reseeding, top-dressing
with fertilizers, fencing, etc. has started. Soil conservation measures and
improved wheat and barley varieties have been introduced and efforts are being
made to improve methods of dryland cultivation and forage conservation.
6.        Mixed farming is being encouraged by providing cereal growers with
livestock for which they grow fodder crops. This has been shown to improve
both the financial returns and the utilization of family labor on the arable
farms and to increase stability, since fodders make some growth in seasons too
dry to bring a grain crop to maturity and cereals that fail to produce grain
can be grazed or cut for fodder. MIost sheep and goats are in units of between
50 and 100, with or without arable land. There are a few larger flocks and a
number of farmers with less than 10 animals, usually attached to larger flocks
for grazing. The cattle population is small and mostly in units of less than
10 except for one or two large-scale dairy farms.
7.        Features of Present-Day Agriculture.  The last complete agricultural
census was in 1960, according to which there were about 69,000 farm units cul-
tivating about 440,000 ha or an average of 6.3 ha of cultivated land per
farm. The total cultivated area does not appear to have changed much since
1960. It is estimated that in 1974 there were some 300,000 ha of dryland
field crops, over 40,000 of vines, 56,000 of olives, carobs, almonds and
other dryland trees, 40,000 of irrigated fruit, potatoes and vegetables and
about 100,000 fallow (Table 3).  In the irrigated areas there is a small



ANNEX 1
Page 3
.~j-> large commercial is:ates, but the great majority of holdings
are less than 3 ha. A recent study ot dryland and cereal-growing farms in
the Western l!esaoria showed that most of these are above 3 ha and about 30%
above 10 ha, which is probably abo-i the average size of dryland holdings on
the plains. About a third of all the farmers in Cyprus are in the vine-
growing areas on the mountain slopes, and here the average size of holding
is about 3 ha, with very few above 6 ha. tIost holdings throughout the island
are fragmented, because of the operation of inheritance customs, into a number
of very small pieces.
8.        Production in the modern sector is dependent on irrigation, and
recent years have seen much development of water supply from boreholes. The
most important aquifers are those of the western Mesaoria near HIorphou, the
southeastern Mesaoria between Famagusta and Larnaca, the Akrotiri peninsula
near Limassol and the Kyrenia limestone, and all are reported to be suffering
depletion, with intrusion of seawater in some places near the coast. There
are several minor aquifers and over 300 springs, mostly rather small and many
diminishing in yield as a result of heavy extraction from boreholes.
9.        There are no perennial streams except at the higher levels in the
mountains, and most rivers in the lower reaches dry up by June. Few dams were
built before the 1960's as dam storage is expensive because of the topography
and short season of flow of the rivers, but since 1960 a number of dams have
been constructed to assist in meeting the increasing demand which can no
longer be met from groundwater and springs (see Annex 2). Soil survey have
classified 89,000 ha as potentially suitable for irrigation. About 40,000 ha,
roughly 12% of the cultivated area, are at present irrigable, in addition to a
variable area which can be irrigated by spates when they occur. About half of
this area has been developed since 1960.
10.       Irrigation has been used mainly to produce fruit and vegetables for
export and the expanding domestic market. Output of dryland farming is meant
to satisfy the local market requirements for cereals, pulses, olive oil, wines
and spirits, mutton, lamb and goat meat, and the export demands for wines and
spirits, raisins, carobs, almonds, cheese, wool, hides and skins. Deficits
of wheat and barley in unfavorable years are met by imports and there are
regular imports of beef and mutton, condensed and evaporated milk, butter
and certain types of cheese, sugar, vegetable oils and fats and concentrated
animal feeds. Local production of fresh cow's milk, pork, eggs and poultry
had by 1974 developed sufficiently to meet the local demand.
11.       Forestry and fishing are, in economic terms, relatively minor items
in the gross domestic product though useful from other aspects. State forests
cover 160,000 ha; private forests, 10,000; and village forests, 2,000 ha. They
supply timber for construction and mining, for making boxes and for firewood
and other purposes (Table 3). Imports of sawn timber, plywood, chipboard and
manufactured wood products have been substantial in recent years. About



ANNEX 1
Page 4
100,000 ha of the main forest area have been planted, mostly with pines;
and there is enough land available for further afforestation to utilize the
present capacity of the forest department up to about the end of the century.
Tree growth is slow in the mountains. Quick-growing species such as eucalyptus
can be grown at the lower altitudes, but most of the suitable land is used for
agriculture. The traditional fishing industry supplies the local demand for
fresh fish. Frozen fish, cheaper than fresh, is imported. Recently trawler
fishing in deeper waters has been developed and exports of swordfish may be
possible. Trout fishing in the mountain streams has developed to supply the
local demand, mainly from hotels and the expatriate community, and might find
export outlets for processed trout but the potential supply is limited by
scarcity of suitable water.
12.       There is a strong cooperative movement in Cyprus.  There are about
400 credit societies and 44 savings banks with deposits amounting to over
CL 40 million and advances of over CL 30 million in loans each year, esti-
mated to cover 85% of all short-term agricultural credit. The interest rate
charged by societies to farmers does not exceed 8% per annum. There are over
60 societies for marketing, storing and processing produce and for handling
cereals. The Cooperative Central Bank Ltd., established in 1938 for the
disposing of surplus funds by societies, finances cooperative packing, storage,
processing and farm machinery servicing facilities, operates various Govern-
ment loan schemes with funds made available by the Loan Commissioners, makes
bulk purchases of fertilizers, seeds, insecticides and arranges insurance
services for member societies. Government credit is supplied through the Loan
Commissioners 1/ to the Cooperative Central Bank to lend to farmers partici-
pating in various development schemes. The Loan Commissioners also provide
medium and long-term credit for irrigation works, improvements of water use,
soil conservation, land consolidation, boats and equipment for fishermen and
various minor projects (see Tables 4 and 5). The Cooperative Central Bank
pays 3% to the Loan Commissioners and lends to farmers and fishermen at 4-1/2%.
13.       Effect of the 1974 Emergency.  The hostilities of 1974 caused a
large-scale movement of Greek Cypriots from the northern part of the island
to the southern area controlled by the Cyprus Government and a much smaller
movement of Turkish Cypriots from south to north. It is estimated that about
36% of the land passed out of the control of the Cyprus Government and that
some 20,000 farm families had to move from the northern to the southern area
and a much smaller number from south to north. Estimates of the principal
crop areas affected are given in Table 3. Roughly 65% of the dryland cereal-
growing areas, 80% of the irrigated citrus plantations, 45% of the olives and
1/   It is a Government committee responsible for issuing loans, and operates
through the Treasury.



ANNEX I
Page 5
most of the deciduous fruit is in the south.  Over 75% of the forests are in
the south. Some 200 of the 400 family fishermen had to move away fiom the
northern and northeastern coasts to the south, leaving behind boats and
fishing shelters. Exports of produce were affected by the dislocation of
transport facilities. The airport at Larnaca did not offer the facilities
formerly available at Nicosia and the use of Beirut was hampered by the dis-
turbances there. The local market was depressed by the collapse of tourism
and construction. Trout fisheries were not affected by division of the
island; but the market declined through loss of the tourist trade, though it
now seems to be reviving without the tourists.
14.       Short-term Development Plans.  The above effects necessitated a
drastic revision of the 1972/76 development plan, exactly half way through
its prescribed period. Emphasis was given to development that would absorb
labor in the short term. It is estimated that some 7,000 displaced people
had found employment in the agricultural sector by late 1975 and an additional
6,000 by the end of 1976. About 60,000 ha of land owned by Turkish Cypriots
in the southern area has been vacated; and of this it is estimated that about
20,000 ha is cultivated land, some of it in permanent crops such as vines,
fruit trees, olives, carobs and nuts. This land is being registered and
leased to displaced farmers from the north. Farmers who brought their live-
stock with them are grazing them in the communal pastures and uncultivated
scrublands. Some of the displaced fishermen have acquired boats and gear
and are fishing off the southern coasts, and some displaced farmers may have
joined the family labor force of relatives in the south.
15.       Plans to absorb displaced labor hopefully by the end of 1977
include:
(i) Financial assistance to farmers to grow cereals on vacant
marginal land of which it is estimated that 3,350 ha are
suitable for cereal production without major land improve-
ment measures;
(ii) Development of early vegetable production through loans
to farmers for vegetables in the open and in plastic tunnels
or cloches; and development of early vegetable and flower
production in plastic greenhouses;
(iii) Expansion of the on-going mixed farming project modified to
provide special conditions for displaced farmers by reducing
the size of units;
(iv) Loans for establishment of (preferably 40-animal) sheep and
goat units. This is for landless stockowners and is asso-
ciated with a project for the establishment of livestock
areas designed to set aside places where stockowners can
erect sheds, watering facilities, etc;



ANNEX I
Page 6
(v) Encouraging development of nucleus breeding units for
sheep and goats. This is a small scheme for experienced
stockowners designed to produce improved breeding stock
to meet local and export demand for Chios sheep and
Damascus goats; and,
(vi) Loans to displaced stockowners for maintenance of their
flocks by purchase of animal feeds and erection of sheds.
16.       The first emergency development plan proposed, in addition to these
projects for the immediate settlement of as many displaced tarmers and agricul-
tural workers as possible, priority for a number of on-going projects which
appear in the general development plan and which have particular relevance to
the short-term plans. These include the development of marginal land by soil
conservation and reclamation measures; the improvement of communal pastures
by reseeding, fertilizing and fencing; fostering the use of improved seeds,
fertilizers and pest and weed control practices; planting of tree crops,
replanting of vines, production of disease-resistant rootstocks of vines
and citrus and virus-free budwood of citrus; purchase of animals for resale
to farmers for breeding and/or fattening; and installing of a plant for
dehydrating poultry litter, wastes from citrus canning and wine making, vine
prunings, etc. In the field of water development, special attention is being
given as part of the emergency development plan to completing the water distri-
bution works for irrigation from a number of existing dams and boreholes and
for the drilling of new boreholes (see Table 4).



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Gross Domestic Product by Industrial Origin
In Current Prices                                          In Constant 1967 Prices
1971    1972    1973       1974    1975      1975             1971      1972     1973     1974     1975     1975
_ _   _ _   _ _   _ _    _  _     _  _             _  _   _%          _        _  _                /
---- CE Millions ---------------                              ------------         CE Millions -----------=
Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing                     47.1    48.7    40.5    50.2    40.0    16.8                   41.7     39.3     27.2      33.7     21.0     14.2
Mining and Quarrying                                  10.7      9.4    11.6        9.3      6.2      2.6             10.6     11.1     11.1       7.7      6.0      4.1
Construction                                          19.8    23.0    28.7    21.3    33.5          14.1             15.3     16.2    16.2        9.8      6.8      4.6
Manufacturing                                         29.9    37.9    43.3    38.4    14.8           6.2             25.6     30.4    32.2       24.6     19.2     13.0
Electricity, Gas and Water                             4.6      5.2      5.6      5.1       3.9      1.6              4.8      5.6      6.1       5.3      4.6      3.1
Transportation and Communication                      23.2     25.4    32.3    23.5    22.8          9.6             19.4    20.9      23.7      17.5     16.6     11.2
Wholesale and Retail Trade                            36.6    42.2    49.3    42.5    36.0    15.1                   32.2    35.8    29.8        29.9     22.9     15.5
Banking, Insurance and Real Estate                    11.8    13.2    17.4    13.2    11.4           4.8             10.6     11.2     12.0       8.7      6.4      4.3
Ownership of Dwellings                                19.7    21.3    23.2    20.7         17.0      7.1             17.4     17.8     18.3      15.8    12.6       8.5
Services                                              25.9    31.9    38.6    34.1    28.0    11.7                   19.6     21.7     22.7      19.2     17.1    11.6
Public Administration and Defense                     12.9    15.7      19.0    22.6    24.7    10.4                  9.4      9.8      12.0     13.4    14.7       9.9
Gross Domestic Product (At Factor Cost)              241.2   273.9   309.5   280.9   238.3   100.0                  206.6   219.8   221.5    185.6   147.9   100.0
Plus Indirect Taxes (Net)                             20.8    23.7      26.3      18.0    12.9    --                 21.1     23.2    27.4       20.4    15.9      --
Gross Domestic Product (At Market Price)             262.0   297.6   335.8   298.9   251.2          --              227.7   243.0   248.9   206.0   163.8          --
1-3 
Source:  IBRD Country Economic Memorandum, 1976
February 16, 1977



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Economically Active Population
1971    1972         1973                1974    1975               1976
---- (Actual) ------                    (Estimated)             (Projected)
------------------------- Number in Thousands. ------------------------
Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing              96.2    95.6    93.9  ( 33.6)            45.3    52.0          56.5  ( 26.7)
Mining and Quarrying                            4.2     3.9      3.7  (  1.3)            2.2      2.3           2.5  (  1.2)
Manufacturing                                  36.3    37.5    38.1  ( 13.6)            20.5    25.0          27.8  ( 13.1)
Construction                                   26.0    26.6    28.6  ( 10.2)            12.2    12.3          15.4  (  7.3)
Electricity, Gas and Water                      1.3     1.6      1.7  ( 0.6)             1.8      1.6          1.6  (  0.8)
Transportation and Communication               11.4    11.5    11.6  ( 4.2)              5.6      6.3          6.9  (  3.3)
Wholesale and Retail Trade                     21.6    21.5    21.9  (  7.8)            15.2    16.1           17.0  (  8.0)
Banking, Insurance and Real Estate              2.6     2.7      2.9  (  1.0)            3.0      3.0          3.1  (  1.5)
Public Administration                           9.2     9.7    10.5  (  3.8)            10.3    10.4          10.7  (  5.0)
Service2                                      36.9    39.2    41.8  ( 14.9)             21.4    23.5          25.0  ( 11.7)
Other 1    2/                                  25.0    22.9    21.7  (  7.8)            31.8    25.2          23.1  ( 10.8)
Unemployed -                                    2.3     2.4      3.3  (  1.2)           44.4    34.7          22.4  ( 10.6)
Total Economically Active                    273.0   275.1   279.7  (100.0)            213.7   212.4         212.0  (100.0)
Rate of Unemployment (%)                        0.8     0.9      1.2                    20.8    16.3           10.6
Total Population 3/                          620      626      634                     497      490          481
1/ Employed at British Sovereign bases and National Guard.
2/  Greek Cypriots Only.                                   
3/  After July 1974, South Cyprus Only.                                                                                     C >
Source:  IBRD Country Economic Memorandum, 1976                             
February 16, 1977



APPRAISAL OF                         ANNEX 1
Table 3
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Land Use in 1974
Cyprus   North   South
(Area in Thousand ha)
I.   Land Distribution
. Forests                          172        41     131
. Uncultivated Scrub               124    (      ) (      )
. Grazing Land                      96    ( 122 ) ( 191 )
. Non-agricultural Land             93    (      ) (      )
. Cultivated Land                  440       207     233
- Dryland                    (300)    (142)   (158)
- Irrigated                  ( 40)    ( 18)   ( 22)
- Fallow                     (100)    ( 47)   ( 53)
. Total                            925       370     555
II. Use of Cultivated Area
Dryland                         (300)    (142)   (158)
- Cereals                     160       104      56
- Pulses and Fodder            41        21      20
- Vines                        43      --        43
- Olives                       20         9      11
- Carobs                       27         8      19
- Almonds                       9       --        9
. Irrigated                       (40)    (18)   (22)
- Citrus                       15        12       3
- Potatoes                      8         3       5
- Vegetables                    8         3       5
- Grapes                        3       --        3
- Other Fruit                   6      --         6
. Fallow                          (100)     ( 47)   ( 53)
. Total                           (440)    (207)   (233)
Source: IBRD Country Economic Memorandum, 1976.
February 16, 1977



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Long-term Loans by the Cooperative Central Bank
Amount of Loans                                              Number of Loans
January-October                                            January-October
Amount of Loans   Number of Loans          1973       1974       1975           1976            Total        1973   1974    1975            1976             Total
------- Percent ------------             --------------                CE ------------------------
I.   Normal Loans
1.   Agricultural Credit Law
56/62                                31.67               16.72           476,553   282,028   228,817           226,490         1,213,888      553    287       207          177              1,224
2.   Water Use                                8.08                7.79            76,066    79,008   117,021            37,695          309,790       145    139       212           74                570
3.   Mixed Farming                            2.59                2.57            22,505    14,870    20,850            41,230            99,455       91      45       22           30                188
4.   Soil Conservation and Tree
Planting                              4.27                7.60             23,705    39,669    50,510           49,745           163,629       79    129       180          168                556
5.   Early Vegetables and Flowers             3.64                1.63            15,600    40,050    83,900             __              139,550       14      36       69           __                119
6.   Resiting of Villages                     1.73                2.31            35,149       7,439    22,250           1,508            66,346       89      19       58            3                169
7.   Mixed Farming Kokkinochorion             0.06                0.03             --          1,000      1,200          --                2,200       --       1        1 -                            2
8.   Hay Making                               0.49                0.27              1,675      2,630     5,575           8,760            18,640        3       3        6            8                 20
9.   Viable Mixed Farming                     0.72                0.38             6,120      11,230    10,156           --               27,506       10      11        7           --                 28
10.  Water Use (E.E.C.)                       2.47                2.54              _           __         __           94,681            94,681                                    186                186
Sub-Total:             55.72               41.84           657,373   477,924   540,279           460,109         2,135,685      984    670       762          646              3,062
II.  Loans to Displaced Persons For:
11.  Livestock                               12.72               29.36             --       168,766   315,740            2,979           487,485       --  1,243       889           17              2,149
12.  Erection of Greenhouses                  6.03                1.84              --        23,721   182,579          24,850           231,150       --      19      101            15               135
13.  Reactivation of Cereals and
Vegetables                            2.96                7.08              --          --      113,143             300          113,443                       517             1               518
14.  Beekeeping                               1.07                1.41              --          --        9,600         31,600            41,200       --      --       24            79               103
15.  Water Use                                3.02                4.00              --                   29,953         85,816           115,769       --      --       63           230               293
16.  Rural Development                        0.97                6.33              --                   13,163         24,185            37,348        --             117           346               463
17.  Goat and Sheep Units                    14.16                6.98              --                  164,050        378,835           542,885       --              175           336               511
18.  Cow Breeding                             2.81                0.85              --                     --          107,627           107,627        --              --            62                62
19.  Mixed Farming                            0.54                0.31              _                      --           20.20        2       00        --              --            23                 23
Sub-Total              44.28               58.16              _        192.487   828.228         676.392         1.697,107        --1,262   1886            1.109              4.257
TOTAL:                100.0               100.0            657_373   670,411 1.368.507         1.136,501         3,832,792       984  1,932   2,648          1.755             7,f319
Source: Planning Bureau
February 14, 1977
412



ANNtA i
Table 5
APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Loans Under the Agriculture Credit Law
Loans Issued During
January-June          Total Loans Issued  1/             Total Loans
1974            1975                1976              Up to June 30, 1976                  -As %
--------------------------------- CE -----------------------------------
Loans For:
I.    Purchase of:
Land                                   17,621            5,190            5,580               538,495
Water Rights                              --              --               --                   1,030           _
539.525                 14.2
II.   Plantations
Citrus                                   2,385              800           1,735                44,922
Vines - Table Varieties                    755             200             --                   8,739
other Plantations                          800            --              1,647                21,177
74,838                  2.0
III. Purchase of:
Sheep/Goats                            10,780           27,755            6,170               240,606
Dairy Cattle                            4,975            8,650            2,700               145,835
Work Animals                              --               --              --                  40,520
Animals for Fattening                    3,100          17,705            1,800               159,101
586,062                 15.5
IV.   Construction of:
Sheep Stables                            9,155          18,470           18,100               169,747
Pig Sties                              35,390           11,050             --                 179,207
Chicken Batteries/Equipment                710          11,140             --                  33,779
Stores                                    --              --               --                   6,989
389,722                 10.3
V.    Land Improvement
Land Levelling                         14,562            4,740              850               240,645
Anti-erosion Works                       1,645              loo             650                53,143
Fencing                                  7,115              970           2,756                93,547
Other                                    5,515            --               --                 123,583
Fertilizer                                --               --              --                  18,000
Borehole Drilling                      39,659           19,385           17,567               280,632
Reservoirs                               4,150              350             280                56,247
Structure for Pumps                      2,010            --                930                24,098
889,895                 23.5
VI.   Agricultural Machinery
Pumping Equipment                      81,742           82,491           45,897               790,221
Piping                                  11,009             541            5,000               150,170
Small Tractors                          13,591           9,020            5,365               255,117
Other Machinery                          2,955              180           2,060                28,573
1,224,081                 32.3
VII.  Miscellaneous -                               12.614            9,070                                 84.903        84,903                   2.2
TOTAL:              282,238 2/      227,807 2/       135,449                            3,789,026                 100.0
1/  Including loans from the beginning of the Program,
2/ Slightly different from the totals included in Table 4, Annex 1.
3/ Includes beekeeping, greenhouses, and others.
Source: Planning Bureau
February 14, 1977



ANNEX 2
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Policies for Rural Development
1.        This chapter describes present Government policies for water, agri-
cultural, rural, economic and social infrastructural development.
I. Water Development
2.        Cyprus has no rivers of perennial flow.  Groundwater is usually
found at substantial depths which, except for the coastal acquifers, has not
been developed to any significant degree.
3.        Water Supply and Utilization.  Table 1 gives an estimate of water
consumption by activity and source for an average year of rainfall. Rainfall
ij an average year is estimated (based on data ove5 60 years) as 4,600 million
m . Out of the total rainfall about3950 million m  have been estibaSed to be
usable water resources -- 600 x 10 m  as surface run-off; 350 x 10 m  as ground-
water and springs. The run-off occurs through about 40 watersheds radiating
from the Troodos range and reaching the coast, maiglI in the western half of
the island. Table I shows that only 25% (150 x 10 m ) of the total surface
run-off is presently being utilized. The balaice flows to the sea. The Govern-
ment of Cyprus believes6trat of the 450 x 10 m surface run-off to the sea
about "300 to 350" x 10 m can be productively used by constructing storage
reservoWrs. At this time, the total water storage capacity in Cyprus is about
64 x 10 m . That is, the potential water storage capacity in Cyprus is at
least five times the present capacity.
4.        Unit Costs of Dams/Reservoirs.  Construction of reservoirs is, and
has been, very costly. Due to this, the Government policy until 1950 was to
focus on the development of groundwater, and utilization of water in springs
and small rivers through small diversion works. Studies and investigations
carried out during the early 1950's, however, established that, although
dams/reservoirs are costly per unit volume of water stored, there were many
suitable sites where dams/reservoirs could be built. A cautious dam/reservoir
construction program was, therefore,6ilitiated and by 1960 about 16 dams (with
a total storage capacity of 6.2 x 10 m ) were constructed. Experience gained



ANNEX 2
Page 2
in this initial period led to increased emphasis on storage projects (espe-
cially because the important sources of groundwater had already been fully
developed). So, by 1975 an additional 51 dams (22 major, 11 major recharge,
and 18 minor recharge dams) were constructed to increase the storage capacity
tenfold to about 64 x 106m3.
5.        Table 2 gives the unit costs of 10 dams/reservoirs.  Based on the
dam/reservoir construction program (1960-73), the weighted average cost 1/ for
water at the dams is estimated to be about 17.5 mils/m3 (USJ 4.2 per m3); for
water delivered to the farmer, the weighted average cost 1/ is 28 mils/m3
(USJ 6.71 per m3). As an extreme example, the cost for water at the Lefkara
dam (1973) is estimated to be 20 mils/m3 (USe 4.8 per m3) at the dam, and 45
mils/m3 (US/ 10.79 per m3) at the end of a long conveyance system and after
treatment to improve quality. These costs are high 2/ by international
standards. There are, of course, specific reasons for these high costs:
(i)  Steep topography which requires relatively high dams;
(ii) Unfavorable geology of the sites requiring relatively more
treatment;
(iii) High erosion in the watersheds requiring the provision of
considerable dead storage;
(iv) Irregular river flow requiring high storage capacities to
provide dependable supply;
(v)  Due to topography the conveyance of water over long distances
is often necessary; and
(vi) Steep land areas, highly fragmented and irregular land holdings,
prior water rights also add to costs.
These costs (USe 7 to 10 per m3) can be justified for high value uses -- (i)
crops (citrus, vegetables, deciduous fruits), and (ii) domestic water supply.
These have been the usual justifications for the projects undertaken so far.
6.        However, with only 25% of the surface water resources being utilized
at this time, the main dams/reservoir program for Cyprus remains in the future.
In view of the high costs, the Government has been shouldering a significant
part of the financing burden.
7.        Financing Policies.  Financing policies for major and minor dams,
rural domestic water supplies, groundwater recharge, flood protection, drainage
and multipurpose projects are described below.
1/   Not adjusted for inflation.
2/   From 80% to 100% higher on average.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
8.        Major Dams.  Major dams are initially fully financed by the Govern-
ment. Costs financed include planning, investigation, design and construction.
Government policy is to recover about 50% of the weighted average cost of all
Government financed dams. However, depending on the economic and social con-
ditions of the region, the financial positions of the people, the kinds of
crops that can be cultivated, the Government contribution mav be varied
between 33.33% and 80% of the overall island-wide cost. 1/ In consideration
of farmers' ability to bear the financial cost, the Government has decided
upon certain maximum charges which cannot be exceeded. These charges are:
Maximum
Crop                                 Charge
(mils/m3)
Cereals                                  5
Vegetables                              10
Citrus and Bananas                      20
Deciduous                               20
9.        Minor Irrigation Projects.  (i) Government contribution towards
works carried out for Irrigation Divisions 2/ is based on the following
rules:
Government
Grant
Winter crop irrigation schemes                80%
Spring crop irrigation schemes                75%
Perennial irrigation schemes                  66.67%
(ii) Government contribution towards works carried out for Irrigation Asso-
ciations 3/ depends upon the distribution of the water shares amongst the
Association members. The contribution ranges from 66% to 38%. The former
applies when maximum water owned by 25% of shareholders is between 25 to 30%;
the latter when it is 96 to 100%.
1/   The weighted average of recently completed Government financed major
irrigation projects is 30 mils/m3 (USJ 7.19 per m3). A 50% contribution
of this would give 15 mils/m3 which is what is now being accepted in
Cyprus for high return crops such as citrus.
2/   A group of owners of land (at least 10) who own land in the project
area form an Irrigation Division (ID). This is administered by a com-
mittee of the members' representatives, with the District Officer as
chairman and the village President (Muhta) as ex-officio member.  The
Loan Commissioners lend the loan component directly to the ID and the
District Officer is responsible for assuring repayments.
3/   When owners of water (at least 7) form a group, it is called, an
Irrigation Association.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
10.       The Director of the Water Development Department (WDD) is respon-
sible for fixing the proportions to be financed as grants by the Government in
accordance with the above rules. However, the Government may accept a higher
grant level if special conditions (poverty, flood damage, failure of previous
works, etc.) justify the action. The balance (total cost minus Government
grant) of the cost is financed through a Government loan for up to 20 years 1/
at an interest rate between 5 to 7% depending on the repayment period. Table
3 summarizes the main parameters of Government's financial policies.
11.       Minor irrigation projects include construction of ponds, development
of boreholes, irrigation rehabilitation and other minor works. The financing
arrangements discussed above (paragraphs 9, 10) relate only to the actual
construction costs. Costs of planning, investigations, design and supervi-
sion of construction are financed entirely by Government, while operations and
maintenance costs are wholly financed by the beneficiaries.
12.       Rural Domestic Water Supplies.  Government finances 50% of the total
investment cost as a grant, the balance as a loan 2/ at 5% interest. The
village is the borrower; it also pays the full cost of the water meters that
are normally installed. The village authorities usually put a charge 3/ on
water consumption to cover maintenance, operating and administrative costs.
The loan repayments are raised by initiating a local tax on the village
residents. In rare cases, the Government will consider increasing the extent
of its grant. The considerations used in such cases include: (i) the out-
standing loans of the village, (ii) the income of the village, and (iii) the
average annual tax burden per head of population.
13.       Groundwater Recharge Works.  The financial arrangements are the same
as for minor irrigation projects (paragraphs 9,10).
14.       Flood Protection Works.  These are financed at full cost to the
Government unless carried out for an Irrigation Division in which case the
arrangements relevant for minor irrigation projects apply.
15.       Drainage Works.  The financial arrangements are the same as for
flood protection works.
1/   Under exceptional circumstances it could be extended to 30 years.
2/   Through the Loan Commissioners.
3/   In towns, the present rates for water are progressive and range from
a minimum of 50 mils/m3 (USi 12 per m3) to a maximum of 200 mils/m3
(USe 48 per m3). For town water supplies, the Government does not give
any grants. Town water boards fully finance the cost which is fully
recovered through water charges.



AIINEX 2
Page 5
16.       Multipurpose Projects.  The rules applicable to the individual
components are applied to the financing of the components.
17.       Legal Framework.  There are a number of laws dealing with water
which have been enacted from time to time. The important laws are:
(i)  The Government Uaterworks Law.  This law vests all ground-
water and all water running to waste from rivers to be the
absolute property of the Government.  It gives power to the
Government to store, divert or otherwise use and control all
Guvet[iiLLeLL waLer resources and to construct any water works
as required. Under this law Project or District Wlater Boards
can be established for the regulation of the Government proj-
ects. It empowers the application of water charges to be
levied on the consumers. Also under this law any water rights
or other property can be evaluated and acquired if required
in connection with the proposed works.
(ii)  IJater Development and Distribution Law.  According to this
law the Council of Ministers can declare an area as a devel-
opment area and appoint a Development Committee for the
purpose of taking over and acquiring all water rights and
all water works as required for carrying out schemes for the
proper water distribution and water development of that area.
(iii) Public Rivers Protection Law. This law gives power to the
Government for the protection of rivers against dumping of
any materials, excavation in the river bed and pollution of
the rivers.
(iv)  The wells law and connected legislation for issuing of
drilling permits and controlling the use of water.
(v) The Irrigation Divisions and Irrigation Associations Law
in connection with the establishment of Irrigation Divi-
sions and Associations and the regulation of the use of
water for irrigation.
(vi)  The Village Wlater Supply Law for the regulation of rural
water supplies.
(vii) The Municipal Wlater Supply Law for the regulation of town
water supplies.
18.       Maintenance and Safety of Dams.  Routine inspection by the operating
and Headquarters staff has to be made under the supervision of the responsible
Engineer. The main features which should be given close examination are



ANNEX 2
Page 6
settlement of the embankmernt, structural deformations, rip-rap condition,
downstream erosion, drains, leakage, concrete deterioration, sedimentation of
the reservoir, grading of the riverbed downstream, gates and other mechanical
parts. For the large dams, piezometers have been installed both upstream and
downstream of the dam to measure the water level. In the case of Yermasoyia,
lavrokolymbos and Lefkara dams, pore water and total pressure cells have been
installed in the foundations and the embankment.
II. Agricultural Development
19.       Cyprus has a land area of 925,000 ha.  About 48% (440,000 ha)
of this is considered arable; about 21% (194,355 ha) is pasture land; the
remaining is non-agricultural. About 360,000 ha are currently cultivated;
of this, about 10-12% (about 40,000 ha) is irrigated. Prior to 1974, agricul-
ture accounted for 13-20% of GDP and about 36% of the labor force was prin-
cipally employed in agriculture. Some 70% of the country's exports were of
agricultural origin. Following the events of 1974, important parts of the
areas under citrus (80%), cereals (65%), forage crops (47%), tobacco (100%),
olives (45%) and vegetables (35%) are located on 40% of the Island's land
surface presently not under Government control. Of the livestock population,
about 36% of the sheep and goats, 46% of the dairy cattle, 30% of the pigs
and 50% of the poultry remained in the northern sector.
20.       In view of agriculture's importance (before as well as after 1974)
for the economy, the Government has a series of special programs for agricul-
tural development under two systems: (a) Government funds through a four-
member committee; and (b) Government funds through the Cooperative Central
Bank. Under the former ("a" above) loans at concessional (4.5% interest)
terms are channelled through a four-member committee 1/ consisting of
representatives from the Department of Agriculture (Chairman), Cooperative
Central Bank, Mfinistry of Finance and Loan Commissioners. Under the latter
("b" above) the loans are from a revolving fund in the Cooperative Central
Bank. The interest rate is 4.5% per annum and the Government provides addi-
tional funds (through the Loan Commissioners) whenever repayments from prior
loans are inadequate to meet the current demand for loans. The financial
terms cover a spectrum which is detailed in Table 3 (under B and C). Tables
5 and 6 summarize the status of loans issued for various project categories
by the Loan Commissioners. The major project categories are described below.
1/   This committee and representatives from the Planning Bureau and the
Department of Cooperative Development controls the loans provided to
displaced persons.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
21.       Loans Through the Four-member Committee.  The projects eligible for
financing under this procedure are: (i) soil conservation and tree planting,
(ii) water use improvement, (iii) tree crop and vine replanting, (iv) encour-
agement of beekeeping, (v) establishing sheep and goat units, (vi) other
specific projects; and (vii) loans to displaced farmers. Each category is
briefly described below. The interest rate for all the above is 4.5 percent
per annum.
(i) Soil Conservation and Tree Planting. Long-term loans for
up to 75% of total cost are provided for soil conservation
works and tree planting in hilly areas. Project works include
land levelling for areas irrigated from dams. The balance
(25%) of the cost is financed as cash and/or food commodities
in cases where the works are undertaken by individual farmers.
For works undertaken by the Soil Conservation Division, the
loan is for 50% of the cost and the balance as cash subsidy.
The repayment period could be up to 10 years, loan amount
cannot exceed Ch 500 per family.
(ii) Water Use Improvement. Medium-term and long-term loans, up
to 85% of total cost, are provided for installing improved
on-farm irrigation systems. The repayment period is between
5 to 10 years and the maximum loan amount is Cb 3,000 per
family.
(iii) Tree Crops and Vine Replanting. For tree crops the project
mainly involves the production and sale of grafted seedlings
(olive trees, citrus and avocado) at below cost. For vine
replanting, loans of up to CT 500 per family may be granted
for repayment between 7 to 10 years. In addition, cash of
up to Cb 50 and food commodities valued up to Ch 120 are
also provided.
(iv) Encouragement of Beekeeping. Medium-term loans are provided
for the purchase of beehives, swarms and foundation sheets.
Maximum amount per family is C+, 400 to be repaid over 4 years.
(v) Establishment of Sheep and Goat Units. Medium and short-term
loans are provided for erection and/or improvement of sheds,
purchase of animals and land, and purchase of feed. The
repayment periods are 7 years for shed erection, 3 years for
shed improvement and 1 year for feed purchase. Maximum loan
amount is Ch 2,000.
(vi) Other Specific Projects. Project categories may be added or
subtracted from the list. At present, the following specific
projects are eligible.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
Maximum            Maximum
Repayment             Loan
Project Category                          Period (Years)      Amount (CO)
1.   Water Use Project                                10               2,550
2.   Soil Conservation and Tree Planting              10               2,000
3.   Early Vegetables                                  5               2,000
4.   Fallow Utilization                               10               2,000
5.   Haymaking                                         7               2,000
6.   Mixed Farming                                     7               2,000
7.   Nucleus Breeding Unit                             7               3,500
(vii)  Loans to Displaced Farmers.  This is a post 1974 program and
includes:
Maximum            Maximum
Repayment             Loan
Project Category                          Period (Years)       Amount (CO)
1.   Reactivation of Women's Handicrafts               2                 120
2.   Rabbit Breeding                                   4               1,000
3.   Mixed Farming                                    10               5,000
4.   Livestock                                         7               2,500
5.   Greenhouses                                       7               2,500
6.   Beekeeping                                        4                 400
7.   Cow Breeding                                      7               4,000
8.   Goat and Sheep Breeding                           7               2,000
9.   Water Use                                        10               2,550
22.       Loans Through the Cooperative Central Bank.  Under the Agricultural
Credit Law of 1962, the Cooperative Central Bank provides long-term loans at
the concessionary interest rate of 4.5 percent per annum for agricultural



ANNEX 2
Page 9
purposes. Under the Law, "agriculture" includes horticulture, fruit growing,
dairy farming, livestock breeding and the keeping of land as pasture. The
purposes for which loans have been given are: (i) purchase of land and water,
(ii) tree planting and vine growing, (iii) purchase of animals, (iv) land
improvement, (v) agricultural machinery, (vi) miscellaneous. Each is described
below. Repayment periods range from 4 to 15 years for all except agricultural
machinery for which the maximum is 7 years.
(i) Purchase of Land and Water. Only agricultural land purchases
are financed. Loans are given for the consolidation of holdings
(purchase of land adjacent to the consolidated land) and for
the purchase of land from religious institutions and land-
owners who are not residents of the village. Full cost is
financed.
(ii) Tree Planting and Vine Growing. Loans are for financing 100%
of the cost of land preparation for new tree plantings of
specified varieties. Maintenance expenses till yielding stage
of the trees may also be financed. Citrus, deciduous fruits,
almond, carob, olives and table-grape vines are eligible.
(iii) Purchase of Animals. Loans are for purchase of animals for
breeding, fattening, milk and egg production and work animals.
Related expenditures on erection of stables, pens and poultry
units and for establishng fisheries and apiaries may also
be financed.
(iv) Land Improvement. Loans are for the clearing, reclamation,
levelling and terracing of land, for water tanks, anti-
erosion works, drilling of boreholes, etc. Drilling of bore-
holes has become the dominant purpose under this category
because land levelling is also covered by other schemes.
(v) Agricultural Machinery. Loans are for the purchase of water
pumping equipment; small tractors for cultivation of gardens,
orchards and vineyards; and other agricultural tools (spray-
ing machines). The loan volume for agricultural machinery
is the highest among the above five categories and accounts
for about one-third of the total loan volume under the law.
The most demanded item for financing is pumping equipment.
(vi) Miscellaneous. Loans are for beekeeping, greenhouses and
other agriculture-related activities not covered above.
23.       Loans under the Agricultural Credit Law may cover up to 100% of the
investment costs. In the case of land purchases, however, the farmers must
contribute 20% of the cost from their own resource.



ANNEX 2
Page 10
III. Rural Social And Economic Infrastructure
24.       The above includes Roads, Educational and Rural Health Facilities.
Each is described below.
25.       Roads.  These comprise village roads, farm roads and village streets.
(a) Village Roads. These are roads linking villages or providing
access to villages from main roads. These may be either
earthen roads or they may be covered by an asphalted surface
3 to 3.65 meters in width. They are constructed, maintained
and improved entirely at Government expense and are the
responsibility of the District Officers.
(b) Farm Roads. These are financed under three separate schemes:
(i) Contributory Schemes, (ii) Non-contributory Schemes for
vine growing areas, and (iii) Land Consolidation.
(i) Contributory Schemes. The Government would usually
provide 50% of the cost as grant and the rest is pro-
vided by the community. In special cases where the
village is very small or very poor, the Government
contribution could be up to two-thirds of the cost.
The community's share in either case is provided
through loans provided by the Loan Commissioners
(normally for 2 to 5 years at 5% interest) or from
loans by the local cooperative credit societies.
The interest rate of the credit societies could be
up to 8.5 percent per annum.
(ii) Non-contributory Schemes. These schemes are part
of the Government policy of restructuring the vine
growing industry by providing loans for replanting
and by developing farm roads to improve farm access
thus reducing cultivation and harvesting costs.
The Government pays the entire cost.
(iii) Roads Under Land Consolidation. Farmers contribute
50% towards the cost of roads constructed under a land
consolidation project. They are the responsibility
of the farmer and not the community. Each farmer's
share of the farm road cost is mortgaged against his
property. Loans for 50% of the cost are provided
through the Loan Commissioners through the Land
Consolidation Authority. The Land Consolidation
Authority borrows at 5-1/2% from the Loan Commis-
sioners, and lends at 4-1/2% to the farmers. The
loans are for a period of up to 8 years. The
period of repayment is determined by the amount of
the loan itself:



ANNEX 2
Page 11
for loans between CI, 10 to 40, repayment is over 3
years; for loans between Cb 40 to 100, repayment is
over 5 years; and for loans over CG  100, repayment is
over 8 years.
26.       Elementary Education.  Following Independence, the emnphasis was
initially on the construction of new primary school buildings, the replacement
of old buildings and the establishment of schools in all the villages that had
tne required minimum (15 pupils) to justify the employment of a teacher.  By
1971 the basic requirements in physical facilities had largely been met, and
greater emphasis was then placed on qualitative improvements. In order to
overcome the problem caused by the rural settlement pattern, the Government
encouraged the consolidation of small schools. This was achieved by persuading
school boards to close down their small schools and send the children by bus
to larger schools in neighboring villages. A high proportion of the resulting
transportation costs is subsidized by the Government. This policy has been
extended in recent years and thie Government has encouraged the construction of
new central schools (or the extension of suitably located existing schools) in
order to provide schools of optimum size in the rural areas. Larger central
schools approaching the optimum size of 8 to 10 classes and serving a popula-
tion of 3,000 will enable the rural schools to match urban schools in educa-
tional standards and facilities. In this way it is hoped that disparities in
education between urban and rural areas will be eliminated. Responsibility
for elementary education is shared between the school boards at local level
and the Government. In rural areas the school boards are normally the vil-
lage authorities, except where there is a central school in which case the
affected village authorities are represented. The school boards undertake
the responsibility of providing the buildings and running costs (water, elec-
tricity, school materials) for which local taxes are levied on all persons
living in the village earning an income.
27.       Financial Arrangements for Education.  The Government provides
subsidies for construction of school buildings, operating costs, teacher's
salaries and travelling costs. Normally the Government provides grants of
between 20-30% towards the construction of school buildings and extensions but
where a village is considered to be poor, Government provides grants to cover
a higher proportion of the total costs. Owing to the relative poverty of the
Pitsilia Region, the Region's school boards generally receive grants of between
30-50%. In order to provide additional incentives for the establishment of
central elementary schools, the Ministry of Education has proposed that grants
for such schools should form a higher proportion of the costs.  The Ministry
has suggested that the schools included in the Pitsilia Project should he
financed 70% by the Government and 30% by the communities involved. In addi-
tion, the Government, through the Loan Commissioners, would (and does) provide
loans to the school boards for the remaining part of the constructirn cost.
These loans are at the following interest rates:



ANNEX 2
Page 12
Up to 5 years                4%
6 " 12  "                   4-1/2%
13 " 15                      4-3/4%
16 " 20                      5%
Interest rates for education purposes are 1% below the normal rates of the
Loan Commissioners.
28.       Transport and Other Subsidies for School Children.  The Government
subsidy towards school operating costs in rural areas is Ch 4 per pupil per
annum. Teacher's salaries are paid entirely by the Government. Children who
have to travel more than 1-1/2 miles to school receive a subsidy of CL 1 to 2
per month from the Government depending on the distance between residence and
the school. Normally this does not cover the entire transport costs, and
so parents have to contribute the balance. Although, where convenient, the
children travel by normal bus services, in many cases the parents arrange for
special bus services for the transfer of the children. In view of the trans-
portation costs involved, great care is taken in the choice of location for
central primary schools.
29.       Rural Health Facilities.  Present policy is to construct Rural
Health Centres so that the entire cost is borne by the Government. Facili-
ties for Rural Health Sub-Centres, however, are provided by the village
community. Normally, the village committee will rent a building which will
then be equipped and staffed by the Ministry of Health. When a village cannot
provide rented space, it can apply for a 50% Government grant contribution
and the balance as loan from the Loan Commissioners at 5% interest rate. The
repayment of the loan is made from taxes imposed on the village community.
30.       An analysis of the above policies in terms of the Pitsilia Inte-
grated Rural Development Project is presented in Annex 11.



APPRAISAI OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Water Consumption by Activity and Source (Average Year)
Evaporation and
Surface Run-off                      Groundwater Including                     Evapotranspiration
Excluding Riverbed                          Infiltration                           Consumption by
Infiltration                                                                    Direct Rainfall                 Total Consumption
Pumped and Surface               Springs
6 3      3         1/        63        3                6 3      3                6 3                        6 3              3
10 m     10  donums -        10  3   10  donums         10 m     10  donums       10 m     10  donums        10 m       i%    10  donums       %
I.     Irrigated Crops Including Irrigated Cereals               150        390                332        270             27          30            130        690            639     14.1        690        10
II.    Dry-farming Crops (Cereals, Carobs, Olives,
Tobacco, Vines)                                                                                                                          900       2,000            900    20        2,000         29
III.   Forests, Shrubs                                                                                                                             900       1,400            900    20         1,400        20
IV.    Pastures, Grass                                                                                                                             450       1.200            450     10        1,200        17.5
V.     Evaporation Loss                                                                                                                          1,270       1,610          1,270     26.4      1,610         23.5
VI.    Domestic, Animal Husbandry and Industrial Use                                            35                         6                                                   41       1.0
VII.   Groundwater Overextraction                                                             -120                                                                           -120   - 3
VIII.  Sub-surface Losses                                                                       70                                                                              70      1.5
IX.    Surface Losses to the Sea                                 450                                                                                                          450      10
TOTALS:                                       600        390               317         270             33         30          3_650       6,900          4,600   100        6.900        100
+   1            +           i=    E         +  |~~37  Rainf:lll                 oa                Total|
LE j          ~~+                         +                =  9501    ±    7U1                        l7      7             7
------------------------- Usable Water ---------------------------               LosRainfall                                   Land
1/ 7.5 donums - I ha
Source:  Dams of Cyprus by Konteatis C.A.C.
February 7, 1977



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Unit Coats of Main Government-Built Dams
Costs
Dam Only        Including Irrigation System                                    Cost per m
Year of                        Capital   Annual         Capital         Annual            Water Supplied  Dam            Including
Completion    Dam TYPe           Cost      Cost --        Cost           Cost V               AnnuallVOl --             ri                       Owner          Remarks
----------(cf. 1,000)…---------                             (Millimon in')   …---   Ml".
I. Unit Costs
Kiti                                      1964       Earthfill           140         12            220            19                    1.0         12              19                  Govgnment
Pomos                                     1966       Rockfill            242         20            326            27                    1.1         18              25                  ID 2/
Ayia Marina                               1965       Rockfill            100          9            128            11                    0.2         45              55                  ID             Irrigation
Argaka                                    1964       Rockfill            270         22            398            35                    1.4         16              25                  Government
Kalopanayiotis                            1966       Earthfill           236         19            300            28                    0.5         38              56                  Government   Schemes
Polemidhia                                1965       Earthfill           809         60            968            84                    2.5         28              33                  Government
Yermasoyia                                1968       Earthfill           930         89          1,900           165                    6.2         13              27                  Goverr_ent
Mavrokolymbos                             1966       Earthfill           335         28            490            42                    2.0         14              25                  Government
Weighted Average                                                                                                                               17.5            28
Masari                                    1973       Earthfill           250         21            370            32                    1.2         17              27                  Government   Groundwater
Recharge
scheme
Lefkara                                   1973       Rockfill          1,266        110          3,128           250                    5.5         20              45                  ID -           Domestic
Water Supply
Scheme
Cost Per m3 at an
II.  Unit Cost Variation with Interest Rate                                                                              Interest Rate
7          8             9             10                   11             12
Unit Coat for:                                                                                                Mils/m3
Dam Only                                                               17.5      19.78          22.15         24.58                 27.04         29.48
Dam and Irrigation System                                              28.0       31.64         35.44         39.33                 43.27         47.16
Index of Cost                                                     100       113            127            140                 155             168
1/ Capital cost amortized at 77. over 50 years; includes operation and maintenance costs.
2/ 1,000 mils = I C;
3/  ID = Irrigation Division                                                                     I
4/  Jointly owned by the Lefkara Irrigation Division and the Famagusta Water Board
Source:  Dams of Cyprus by Konteatis, C.A.C.
February 4, 1977



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Subsidies and Interest Rates in Cyprus
Borrower    Percent         Percent         Interest Rate   Duration   Source uf         De Ju-e Limit       Remarka
Grant          Loan             For Loan       of Lean       Lose        On Loan Amounts
(Years)                         (CE)
A. Irrigation Works
D-m 1 /
a)  Major DO8s                                       100             --                  --            -            _                __              Waterworks Law
b)  Small Dams                        Irrigation    66.7              33.3            5- % 2_         5-30 2/   Loan                None             Structure plus distrib. system.
Diviaion                                             2/                   Comis. -
Boreholes                                     "          66.7             33.3           5 - 7%          5-20
Ponda                                                    66.7             33.3           5 -7. -  2/     5-20
Irrigation Rehabilitation                                66.7            33.3            5-5.75%-        5-15                                              "
B.  Agricultural Development Proj. -
Soil Consern  and Tree Planting -        Parmer          25+       Up to 75               4.5%          Up to 10 )                 500 per family       Mortgage Guarantee
Water Use Improvement                                    15+              85              4.5%               5-10 )                Up to 2550           Mortgage or Government Guarestee
Beekeeping                                               --               --              4.5%          Up to  4 )                         400/fic.         '     " 
Sheep and Goat Unit Eatablishment                        --               --              4.5%               1- 7 ) Loam Coo-             2000/fam.    For Refugees only
- Early Vegetables                                                                                                ) miesinners
a)  For Refugees                                    __              100              4.5%           Up to  7 ) through the           2500           Government Guarantee
b)  For Non-Refugees                                 --              80               4.5%                  5 5 Co-operat.           2000           Mortgage Guarantee
- Fallow Utilitation                                     -   )    Subject to              4.5%                 10 ) Bank.                 2000
- Nucleus Breeding Units                                 --  )    Man.  Loan              4.5%                  7 )                       3500          Mortgage or Government Guarantee
- Mixed Farming                                          -    _ )    Amounta              4.5%                  7 )                        0. 0.
- Say making                                             --               75              4.5%7                10 )                       2000          Mortgage Guarantee
C.  Loa,sa Under Agric. Credit Law 6          Farmer
Purchase of Land                                         -- )                             4.5%               4-15   Co-op Bank )                        In Practice, the loans issued
Tree Planting and Vine Growing                           -- )      100. Except For        4.5%               4-15                )  2000/family          cover purposes not covered by
Purchase of Animals                                      __ )      Land Purchase          4.57               4-15                   5000/company         other Government schemes.
Land Improvement                                         -- )      Where the Maxim.       4.5%               4-15
Purchase of Agric. Machinery                             -- )      is 807.                4.5%               4-15       "                               Accounts, so far, for one-third
and Warer Equipment                                                                                                                                   of loans issued.  The  mate
frequently financed item was
pumping equipment.
Miscellaneous
D. Roads
Village Roads -/                          These roads link villages and are constructed, improved and maintained by the Government.  For village streets, grant  (50%) and
leIas (50/) are provided to the local authorities.
Farm Roads:
Contributory Schemes                  FPrmer/          SI               50              5%                 1- 5   Loam Comis.                          Grant may go up to 66.7% in
Irrigation                                                                 or Local                            special cases.  Interest rate
Division                                                                   Cooperative                         increases up to 6% (see jf
Vine-Growing Areas                        -_          100 lo            __                                         Credit                             below).
-- Societies
Land Consolidatiec                     Farmer                           50              45%           Up to  8   Land/
Consolidation
Authority
E.  Schoola                                   20-30% subsidy for construction of school buildings; higher proportion possible for poorer villages; for Pitsilia up to 70% is
proposed by the Government.  The balance to be financed as loan with an interest of 4.5% for repayment over 15-25 year.  Loan
Commissioners grant the loans. In addition a subsidy of CB 4 per pupil per annum is given to meet a part of the operating costs.
Teacher's salaries are entirely paid by the Government.  Children who travel more than 1.5 miles to the school receive a
additional subsidy of up to Ch 2 per month;  this subsidy does not cover the full transportation cost.  In eaxeptional cases
increaaed subsidy is provided to cover the full transportation cost.
February 1977



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Subsidies and Interest Rates in Cyprus
F. Health Centres
Centres                                  Government bears full cost of constructing the Health Centre.  Normally provided by the community which usually rents a building
which is equipped and staffed by the Ministry of Health.
Sub-centres                             For new sub-centres to be built, a 507% grant is given; the balance is given as a loan at 57. by the Loan Commissioner.
G.  Village Domestic Water Supplies          Normally, Government contributes 50% of the cost; balance is given as a loan - . Only in rare cases would Government
increase the proportion of the grant.
1/ There are precedents (the Palekhori dam and Arakapas dam) in the Pitsilia area of the Government contributing 75% of the cost of a dam and the Irrigation
Division getting the balance as a loan.  The Ministry of Finance uses the following criteria to assess the proportion provided as a Grant:  (i) The
outstanding loans of the village; (ii) the income of the village; and (iii) the average annual tax burden per family. The Government wishes to
maintain its normal limit of only a 2/3 grant.  In the case of major dams construction, Government covers the total expenditure and charges water use Fees
according to the kind of crops.
2/ Interest rate charge varies with the length of the repayment period as follows:
Up to 5 years to repay   5%
6 - 12                    5 /%
13 - 15                    5-3/4%
16 - 20                    6%
21 - 25   "6r7   In Exceptional cases only.
3/  Loan Commissioners is a Government committee responsible for the issuing of loans; it operates through the Treasury.
4/ Mortgaged loans are controlled by a four-member committee consisting of representatives from the Department of Agriculture (chairman) Cooperative Central Bank,
Ministry of Finance, and Loan Commissioners. The same committee together with representatives from the Planning Bureau and the Department of Co-operative
Development controls the loans provided to displaced persons.  The loans are administered by the Cooperative Central Bank which charges 1.5% for its services.
The funds are provided by the Loan Commissioners to the Cooperative Bank at 3% p.a. and so the interest rate paid by the farmer is 4.5% p.a.  The rate of
interest for default of payment is 7%.
5/  About 25% of the total cost is offered as cash and food when works are undertaken by individual farmers.  If works are performed by the Soil Conservation
Division, 50% of the total cost is offered as cash; the rest as loan at 4.5%.  In the case of vines replanting the loans limit is CE 990/family, a 4-year
grace period is provided and a CE 3.5/donum subsidy for 5 years is granted.
Sa/ Additional incentives provided:  CE 1/animal for record keeping, Ch 2/culled animal and CE l/donum for fodders.  Limits:  CE 120, CE 30 and CE 60 per
unit, respectively.
6/ Loans under the agricultural Credit Law provide low interest rate credit for longer term investment. The loan fund operates as a revolving fund with
Government providing, through the Loan Commissioners, additional funds whenever the repayments are inadequate to meet the demand for loans.  The Loan
Commissioners charge 3% p.a. to the Bank which charges 4.5% p.a. from the borrowers.  The Cooperative Bank has recently requested (last quarter 1976)
that a default charge of 7%/ be allowed for loans under the Credit Law. Request is under consideration.
7/ Linking villages; either earthen or asphalted surface 3 to 3.65 meters in width.
8/  Loan Commissioners charge 5.5% from the Land Consolidation Authority which charges 4.5%, from farmers.  The differential interest cost for the Authority is
subsidized by the Government.
Note:  The aforementioned are the main projects receiving Government assistance.  Additionally, the Government provides at its own risk medium-term
loans to displaced farmers at 4.5% interest rate for handicrafts and rabbit breeding through the Cooperative Bank.  For the purchase of
agricultural machinery, pumping units, medium-term loans are issued. These loans with short-term loans as well, up to CE 500/family, to
cover cultivation expenses for grapes, citrus, cereals and vegetables, are provided through the Department of Cooperative Development and                                    a,
the local Co-operative credit societies                                                                                                                                   a r -,
February 11, 1977



ANNEx 2
Oat                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Table 4
-         -         -o"-  o- - -~ -         ~         0000                  0
-Z Z                  00 000                         00                  00000                         0 0000000
. .o, .: .. 000 .:000          .  .00:   0. . .0 0 00 0'00000                                                              00
*  , o  Q               O    O,,**A0 :0 4 0 00 ,                                          0    :        00
000 ...     003      0        00     00.00000.                                    0     0000                      00. 
7,' ~        ~          00 00                          0    0        0     0 00           0              0 000000                       00           
.    ..O   ..   .   .  . 0 .o              00    0   000.0                   0 :.o



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Loans by Loan Commissioners
Loans Approved During
------ 1975 -----         ------ 1974 -----         ------ 1973 -----                 1972 -----
Number     Amount         Number      Amount        Number      Amount         Number      Amount
CE                        CE                        CE                         CE
I.    Water Development and Use                                           104      728,972           78      306,719            61       468,210          78       429,868
of Which:
Major Irrigation Works                                           1      18,000            -         -                2        39,893            1         1,000
Minor Irrigation Works                                         45      157,013            29      81,558            14        56,433           23        60,917
Village Water Supply                                           47      168,476           46      157,450            40       230,901          50       221,410
II.   Agricultural Development                                             20   1,553,856            10      379,880             6        80,999           6        85,448
of Which:
WFP -/ Soil Conservation and Tree Planting                      3       59,669             1       23,705            1        31,865            1        38,322
Land Consolidation and Settlement                               3       28,256             3      32,882             3        34,854            2        23,658
III.  Rural Development                                                   120      116,140          122       91,065           130       131,092          143       115,608
IV.   Education and other Social Services                                  44      774,505           37   1,165,250             44       314,619          47       847,264
of Which:
Elementary School Buildings                                    25      243,555            19     104,000            22        84,639           25       217,200
Secondary School Buildings                                     16      416,950            17     343,250            22       229,980           22       630,064
TOTAL:                                             414   5,099,773            293   2,286,109           286    2,204,690           324    3,907,349
Amount Disbursed During:
From Current Year Commitments                                        3,608,746                 1,877,616                   1,696,768                  2,609,824
From Previous Years' Commitments                                       382,827                    687,814                  1,273,678                    649,475
TOTAL:                                                    3,991,573                 2,565,430                   2,970,446                  3,259,299
1/ WFP = World Food Program
Source: Loan Commissioner Accounts
March 18, 1977
aex



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Loans by Loan Commissioners
Cumulative Loans Outstanding at December 31,
…1975 -----              ------ 1974 -        …-  ------ 1973               ------ 1972
Number     Amount        Number      Amount        Number     Amount        Number      Amount
CE                       CE                        CE                        CE
A. BY PURPOSE
I.    Water Development and Use
of Which:                                                    990    7,411,495          933    6,840,326         960    6,759,320          960    6,420,335
Major Irrigation Works                                    5       165,404           4      147,404           4       147,404           2       107,511
Minor Irrigation Works                                  335    1,255,805         314    1,131,648          326    1,102,829          343    1,104,178
Village Water Supplies                                  626    2,742,817         597    2,609,288          612    2,618,812          598    2,455,104
II.   Agricultural Development                                      50    2,457,746           40       844,890          33      464,010          28       380,612
Soil Conservation and Tree Planting (WFP) -               1      286,125            1      226,456           1       202,751           1       170,886
Land Consolidation and Settlement                        11       119,649          8        91,393           5        58,511           2        23,658
Soil Conservation                                        25       111,160         23       107,160          22       106,160          20       103,760
III.  Rural Development                                            662       949,844         616       812,913         588      779,626         550       721,162
IV.   Education and Other Social Services                           636    5,985,831         636    5,425,201          614    4,287,081         601    4,100,342
Of Which:
Elementary School Buildings                             464    2,179,343         479    2,116,238          477    2,047,368          484    2,081,709
Secondary School Buildings                              159    2,686,350          145    2,303,882         127    1,952,632          107    1,731,552
TOTAL:                                     2,999   28,164,283        2,612   24,323,199       2,559   22,279,935        2,481   20,175,658
B. BY INTEREST RATE BETWEEN:
2.5 - 3%                                                      49    3,582,032           43    1,892,949           47    1,506,160          53    1,385,282
3 - 4.5%                                                     508    4,110,803          520    4,067,974          554    4,016,740         563    4,003,360
4.5 - 6%                                                   2,436   19,725,583        2,043   17,616,411        1,952   16,125,226        1,860   14,190,540
6 - 7%                                                          6      745,865           6       745,865           6      631,809            5      596,476
Value Weighted Interest Rate (%)                                   4.75                     4.84                      4.85                      4.82
C. BY LENGTH OF REPAYMENT PERIOD
Up to 9 Years                                               1,381                    1,048                       997                       967
Between 10 - 20 Years                                       1,591                    1,536                     1,535                     1,488
Between 21 - 30 Years                                          27                       28                        27                        26
1/  WFP = World Food Program
Source:  Loan Commissioners Accounts and Statistics, 1971 to 1975.
March 18, 1977



ANNEX 3
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Project Area
1.        Location.  Pitsilia occupies about 61,180 ha and includes 49 vil-
lages with a total population of 20,585 (1973). The area forms the eastern
part of the Troodos Massif Mountain Range and although centrally located in
relation to the Island's form, it is rather isolated and relatively distant
from the two main centres, the towns of Nicosia to the northeast and Limassol
to the south.
2.        To the north of the region spreads the Western Mesaoria Plain, to
the east the lower Troodos foothills, to the south the region is demarcated
by a region of undulating terrain while westwards is the western and highest
part of central Troodos with the highest peaks reaching over 6,400 feet and
densely forested.
3.        The physical homogeneity of Pitsilia and historic development have
provided the area with an identity. This homogeneous region may be divided
into three major Economic-Service sub-regions and one minor sub-region:
(i) The Nicosia Economic Region and the Service Region of
Klirou, with the following villages: Alithinou, Alona,
Apliki, Askas, Ay. Marina, Ay. Irini, Ghourri, Kannavia,
Kambi, Khourdali, Spilia, Laghoudera, Lazania, Livadhia,
Phterikoudhi, Palekhori, Phikardou, Pharmakas, Platanistassa,
Polystipos, Sarandi, Xyliatos;
(ii) The Troodos Economic Region and the Service Region of Agros
with the following villages: Agros, Agridhia, Ay. Ioannis,
Ay. Theodoros, Dhymmes, Kato Mylos, Khandria, Kyperounda,
Kato Amiandos, Pano Amiandos, Pelendria, Potamitissa;
(iii) The Economic and Service Region of Limassol town with the
following villages: Akapnou, Arakapas, Ay. Konstantinos,
Ay. Pavlos, Athrakos, Dhierona, Eptagonia, Kalokhorio,
Louvaras, Sykopetra, Zoopiyi; and
(iv) The Larnaca Sub-region with the following villages: Ayii
Vavatsinias, Melini, Odhou, Ora.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
4.        Relief.  The region lies at an elevation ranging between 500 and
1,600 metres above sea level. There are two mountain peaks, i.e., Madari
1,600 m and Papoutsa 1,545 m. A rugged topography prevails and the terrain
is dissected by numerous streams and small deep valleys. The drainage pattern
has a generally north-south direction.
5.        Geology.  Structurally the region is part of the Troodos Massif
created from the intrusion of ophiolitic magma into overlying sedimentary
rocks. The region lies mainly on diabase rocks with gabbros in its western
part and the northern part mainly occupied by pillow lavas. Some pillow lavas
and ultrabasic plutonic rocks are met in the southern part, as well as some
granophyre outcrops. A number of faults dissect the region.
6.        Climate.  The region is characterized by cool wet winters and warm
dry summers, the relief and vegetation being moderating factors on extremes.
Mean annual precipitation varies from 659 mm at Kalokhorio (alt. 670 m) to 807
mm at Palekhori (alt. 910 m) and most villages fall within this range. The
main rainy season is between December and March; the dry period from June to
August.  The temperatures also vary with altitude, exposure and season and are
quite low in winter; the mean daily for Pano Amiandos in January being 3.4 C
and in July 22.60C. Mean temperature minima are usually above freezing.
7.        Surface Water.  The region is divided into two distinct watersheds,
the northern and the southern. In the north The Akaki and Peristerona rivers
are the main tributaries of the Serrakhis river running down into Morphou Bay.
The southern area is drained by the Limnatis and Kourris rivers which discharge
their waters into the Episkopi and Akrotiri Bays. None of these streams are
perennial.
8.   Mean annual flows of the rivers flowing through the region is given
below. In most cases, these flows, which form the potential in surface water
resources, include water currently being used for irrigation. The existing
developed water resources are estimated at 11 MCM (10 MCM for irrigation and
1.0 for domestic supplies) and represent only a fraction of the total poten-
tial of about 87.7 MCM. The table below gives a disaggregated estimate.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Mean Annual Flows of Rivers in the Pitsilia Region
Catchment        Mean Annual
Area             Run-Off
Name                                 (sq/km)           (M.C.M.)
North Region
Kalokhorio    )                        25                  6.5
) (Akaki)
Maroulena      )                       34.2                9.0
Palekhori     )
(Peristerona)
Phterikoudhi  )                        78.5               20.0
Lagoudhera    )                        16.3                2.0
) (Elea)
Kannavia      )                        20.5                3.5
Spilia            (Atsas)               9.2                1.5
South Region
Sykopetra     )                        18.8                4.5
) (Yermasoyia)
Arakapas      )                        35                  7.0
Ambelikos     )                        75                 18.5
)
Treimilini    )  (Kourris)             31                 15.2
TOTAL:          343.5               87.7
9.        Groundwater.  A part of this water is tapped from small springs
and shallow wells which are mostly used for village water supplies.  There
is potential for exploiting the groundwater through boreholes. Recent drill-
ings indicate that an estimated 2 to 3 MCM could be extracted by deep pumping
through boreholes.
10.       Mineral Resources.  On the northwestern part of the region lies one
of the most important mining centres of Cyprus, the Amiandos asbestos mine.
Indications of sulphide mineralization are met, particularly in the pillow
lavas in the northern part of the region. Pyrrhotite mineralization has been
located within gabbros at Ay. Ioannis village with chromite mineralization
located in the Limassol Forest area in the southern part of the region.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
11.       Soils.  Most of the soils in the region are shallow eutric lithosols
developed on igneous rocks, non-calcareous of a generally low phosphorous
content.  Eutric cambisols of a medium texture are met in the eastern part of
the region. Deep soils are met in the river valley bottoms.
12.       Forests.  The total area of the main forests in the region is approxi-
mately 17,530 ha, about 29% of the total area. The greatest part (75%) of such
forest areas is formed by the Adelphi Forest on the north part of the region,
the rest being parts of the Troodos, Limassol and Macheras forests. They are
all typically pine forests.
13.       Road Network.  Transport by road both to and within Pitsilia is
difficult owing to the topography. The main roads are all of a low standard
with one single asphalted lane. The most significant roads are the Nicosia-
Palekhori-Agros road, the Alona-Kato-Moni road, the Zoopiyi-Limassol road, the
Karvounas-Saittas and the Limassol-Troodos road. The narrower north-south
valleys to the north of the main watershed make communications between villages
difficult and, consequently, each valley has developed its own north-south
road to Nicosia. Communications between the villages to the south of the
main watershed are somewhat better, but since many roads linking villages are
earthen or gravel roads, there is potential for improvement.
14.       Public Transportation.  The villages of Pitsilia are served by 120
buses providing public transportation on a daily basis to Nicosia, Limassol,
and points en route.
15.       Villages.  Settlement in the Pitsilia Region dates largely from the
medieval period when most villages were founded. Practically all villages
have rural funct4ons and are agricultural in character. Although no notably
large settlement exists in this truly rural region, some of the large ones,
such as Agros and Palekhori, have developed as minor rural service centres
for the area providing secondary education, health and low-grade shopping
and other social facilities and services. Practically all villages are
located in valley sides adjacent to agricultural land in the valley itself.
Even more significant is that all communications (both main and minor roads)
follow the watersheds and the valleys themselves. As the land rises from
900 m to over 1,500 m, communication becomes more difficult and most villages
are served by only one road.
Three groups of settlements may be distinguished:
(a) the central core, including the majority of villages,
as well as the larger ones of Agros, Kyperounda and
Palekhori;
(b) the southern group, somewhat isolated from the rest
of the region and associated more with Limassol than
main Pitsilia. These include Zoopiyi, Ay. Pavlos, Ay.
Constantinos, Athrakos, Louvaras and Kalokhorio; and



ANNEX 3
Page 5
(c) the eastern and nort& -stern group, Pharmakas, Kambi,
Lazania, Phikardou and Gourri, again isolated from the
the rest of the regi. -s and more linked to Klirou as well
as to Nicosia via ti.e Makheras-Nicosia road.
Within these three groups, the settlements are closely located mostly within
a mile from each other.
16.       Housing.  The Region's housing stock in 1974 was estimated at 7,400
housing units; in 1960 it was 6,740 units, i.e., over a period of 14 years
the housing stock has risen by 9.8%. Over the same period the Islands' total
housing stock has increased by 24.5%. The great majority of houses are pri-
vately owned; most are owner-occupied. The following indicators summarize
the housing standards in Pitsilia:
1960      1974
No. of housing units/1,000 inhab.                     311.       359.
No. of households/1,000 inhab.                        244.       257.
Average No. of rooms/house                              2.4        3.5
Average No. of persons/house                             3.2       2.8
Average No. of persons/room
(taking into account total stock)                      1.4        0.8
Average No. of persons/room
(taking into account occupied units only)              1.8        1.1
Percent of housing units lacking
- Electricity                                        78.5       12.0
- Running water (inside the house)                   83.8       10.0
- Modern bath/shower                                 99.5       76.4
- Flush toilet                                       94.8       74.0
17.       Village Domestic Water Supplies.  The domestic water supplies in
Pitsilia villages compare poorly with other parts of the country.  Three of
the forty-nine villages in the Region do not have house-to-house supplies, and
there are 23 villages in which water supplies are considered unsatisfactory
(defined as less than 20 gallons per head per day).
18.       Electricity Supply.  By 1976, all Pitsilia villages had electricity;
the villages of the Troodos Sub-region being connected between 1963 and 1968,
those of Nicosia between 1964 and 1970, and those of Limassol during and after
1970.
19.       Telephone Services.  All villages have a public telephone box.  An
automatic exchange at Agros village serves most of the region and there are
no plans for future expansions as the system has spare capacity.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
20.       Education.  The administration of education is done through the
Ministry of Education assisted by school committees in every town and village.
21.       Pre-elementary.  In 1973/74 there were two kindergartens located at
Agros and Pelendri.
22.       Primary.  Primary education is free and compulsory for all children
aged 5 to 11 years. Most of the villages in Pitsilia are served by their own
elementary school. Due to their small numbers, children from six villages
attend school in neighboring villages. The size of the school depends on the
village's pupil population and ranges form 1 to 11 classrooms. More than half
of the elementary schools in the region belong to the small size group (1 to 2
classrooms), and most are of the one or two teacher type.
23.       The number of pupils attending primary education in Pitsilia is
declining. In 1959/60, enrollment in all elementary schools was 3,300 pupils;
it declined to 2,377 in 1973/74. The average annual decrease in the period
1959-74 is estimated at 2.2% which is much higher than the national average
annual decrease of 0.3% for the same period.
24.       Secondary Education.  The only secondary school in the Pitsilia
Region is the Agros Gymnasium specializing in classical education although
recently its curriculum has been extended to include commercial and economic
subjects. The number of pupils enrolled at the Agros Gymnasium is increasing:
in 1959/60 there were 294; in 1973/74, 566; and in 1974/75, 962 pupils (in-
cluding 300 displaced pupils). The Gymnasium draws pupils not only from its
immediate hinterland but also from the wider Pitsilia Region.
25.       Health.  Publicly provided medical services are hierarchically orga-
nized in the following order: General Hospitals, District Hospitals, Rural
Health Centres (R.H.C.) and Health Sub-Centres. The only medical institut-
ions that provide services locally are the publicly administered Rural Health
Centres. Three R.H.C.s (Palekhori, Agros and Klirou), two of which are located
in the Pitsilia Region and the third at its periphery, provide local medical
services to about 95% of the population of the Region. Each of these has a
unit which is responsible for a number of villages and within the service area
of an R.H.C. there are a number of Sub-Centres.
26.       Each R.H.C. is staffed with a team of health workers:  a general
practitioner, a pharmacist, a nurse, a midwife and/or health visitor and
health inspector (environmental health). The R.H.C.s also have a small number
of beds.
27.       The Kyperounda Sanatorium, which specializes in the treatment of
tuberculosis and chest patients from all over Cyprus, is located in Pitsilia.
28.       Hygienic and Environmental Health Conditions.  Hygienic conditions in
the region and environmental sanitation in general are considered satisfactory.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
No epidemics of any serious infectious diseases have occurred in the area.
The responsibility with regard to the improvement of sanitary condit_ons in
the area rest with the existing public health staff and includes the following
activities: inspection of water supplies, sanitary inspection of buildings,
insect control, health education, vaccinations, assistance and advice to the
local authorities for the improvement of sanitation, etc. It should be noted
that environmental sanitation is considered as the most well-functioning health
service in rural areas.
29.       Population Trends.  During 1946-60 the total population of the Island
increased by 1.7% per annum from 450,000 in 1946 to 574,000 in 1960. The urban
areas grew at 4.2% per annum, while growth in the rural areas at 0.7% was below
the natural rate of population increase. In the Pitsilia Region, only the
Troodos sub-region showed growth, while the population actually fell in the
Nicosia and Larnaca sub-regions. Overall, the population of Pitsilia grew by
0.3%. Between 1960 and 1973, the population of the Island increased at an
average of 0.8% per annum; the growth rate of population in the urban areas
was 2.0%, while the rural population declined from 368,000 to 365,000. This
decline of the rural population was largely due to the inclusion of the
villages around Limassol as suburbs. In general, the rural areas maintained
their population largely beause of the growth of the commuting villages (i.e.
those within a reasonable commuting distance from the towns). In the Pitsilia
region the population showed an absolute decline from 21,638 in 1960 to 20,585
in 1973. The population decline in the Troodos sub-region was very small, but
in the Larnaca sub-region the rate of decline was accelerated. In 1973 the
Pitsilia region had 3.2% of the Island's population.
30.       Population Projections.  Population projections are based on trend
extrapolation taking into account Island-wide population projections up to
the year 2000. These projections are based upon the proportion of the total
rural population of Cyprus that Pitsilia would have, adjusted for each sub-
region and village. The projections do not allow for the effects of the
Pitsilia Project (see Table 1).
31.       Age Structure.  There are no statistics available regarding the
age structure of Pitsilia; however, the statistics available for the Kilani
Statistical Region provide a reasonable approximation of the age structure of
Pitsilia. The Kilani Statistical Region had a 1973 population of 23,747 of
which 9,304 (or 39%) were from the villages of the Troodos sub-regions of
Pitsilia. A cross-check with the number of children in primary schools in
Pitsilia and the number implied by the age structure of the Kilani Region
showed a reasonable match, with 2,757 actual pupils and 2,384 implied.
Comparison with the age structure of the Whole Island indicates a lower birth
rate and a markedly aged population (over 50 years of age) (see Table 2).
The statistics for elementary school children imply that 16% of the present
population of Pitsilia consists of persons displaced from the occupied areas.



ANNEX 3
Page 8
32.       Land Use.  The basic cultivation is the vineyards which predominate
the sloping terrain. At present, the cultivated area is restricted to around
the settlements and along the riverbeds (irrigated crops), and on terraced
areas on the valley sides.   The basic cultivations are wine grapes predomi-
nating in all sub-regions, and deciduous fruit trees concentrated basically
in the upland villages. Potato and other vegetable cultivation is restricted
to the irrigated valley bottoms near the villages, whereas citrus groves
(mandarines) are found in some of the low-land southern villages. The
most outstanding feature is that though dry-farming takes up 88% of the
cultivated area, its contribution to gross output is only 32.5%.
33.       Land Tenure.  The total area (61,180 ha) of the region is divided
into the following major categories (1964 data):
(i)  Private land                     36,051 ha (59%)
(ii)  Communal land, roads
and riverbeds                     495 ha (0.8%)
(iii)  Hali (or state) land              7,095 ha (11.6%)
(iv)  Main Forests                     17,539 ha (28.6%)
34.       The region demonstrates the land tenure problems of Cyprus in their
most acute form. The farm holdings are small, the family ownership being
about 5.2 ha of which about 38% is not cultivated. There is considerable
variation in the average size of holdings within the villages of the Region,
with the Troodos sub-region having the smallest holdings. Fragmentation of
the holdings is high, the average family farm having about 14 plots scattered
around the village. As a result, the average plot size is about 0.37 ha,
ranging from 0.1 ha for irrigated land to 0.3 ha for dryland (see Tables 3 and
4). To make matters worse, about 72% of all the plots do not have access by
either public path or farm road. Problems are also created by the existence
of undivided shares, by which a number of people own a plot of land, thus
making farm management extremely difficult (Also See Annex 4).
35.       Animal Husbandry.  Livestock development in Pitsilia is limited.
Free grazing is restricted, especially in villages at the higher altitudes.
However, each family usually kieps at least three to five goats as tethered
animals and six to ten fowl for its own needs. The feed for goats, fowl and
traction oxen is derived (mainly) from hay and straw produced from the local
vetch and on vegetable wastes; sometimes it is supplemented through purchased
feeding stuffs. Recently, some poultry and pig units have been established;
feeding requirements are almost exclusively based on purchased feed. Sheep
and goats are relatively the most important livestock in the area; however,
in the context of the national flock, the goat and sheep population is only
about 1% (9,000 in Pitsilia; 860,000 in the island). The output (milk ard
meat) produced is essentially for self-consumption either fresh or as cheese
(Holloumi cheese manually made, from goat milk, is sold on the local market).



ANNEX 3
Page 9
36.       Animal Health.  The main diseases observed in Pitsilia are:  Endo-
and Ecto-parasites of animals, mastitis and avitaminosis. Animal health
is looked after by the veterinary station at Limassol and by six substations
at Agros, Gajata, Klirou, Saittas, Skarinou, and Aakaki. The substations are
used as veterinary clinics by visiting mobile units at weekly or fortnightly
intervals. Besides curative and a little extension work, the veterinary sys-
tem in Pitsilia essentially provides preventive services through vaccinations
against enteroxemia and foot and mouth disease. The overall level of facili-
ties and services is inadequate for the livestock population of the area.
37.       Agro-processing.  Three specialized wineries, six small factories
for rose water and about fifteen meat processing units specialized in smoked
pork meat constitute the present industries dealing with the processing of
agricultural products in the Pitsilia Region. In addition, the production of
local village wine, olive oil processing and the distillation of spirits are
common in almost all the villages of the region and are based on traditional
methods. A considerable number of people are engaged, particularly women, in
small cottage industries such as cheese making from goat's milk, embroidering,
cane and straw basket making, floor covering, etc. The existing non-industrial
local agricultural production is not, however, in a position to supply large
agroindustries. Even the existing ones are operating only one or two months
during the year due to the seasonality of products they depend upon. Cold
storage is widely used in villages where deciduous fruits are among the main
products. The storage capacity of the existing 96 cold storage plants is esti-
mated at around 3,000 tons and is not presently fully utilized. Beekeeping is
also practiced in the region and there are presently about 90 small units in
35 villages. The prospects for a developing beekeeping industry in the region
are very promising even from the marketing viewpoint.
38.       Mechanization of Farming.  Recently, small tractors were introduced;
but the lack of agricultural roads, the highly fragmented land and the old
way of planting (not in rows) vineyards, prevent the introduction of more
tractors in the region and, therefore, the animal traction power would conti-
nue to be important for some years to come. In fact, presently 9 out of 10
farmers use animal traction.
39.       Use of Fertilizers.  The use of fertilizers is common but confined
to irrigated tree crops and vegetables.
40.       Labor.  Most farms are family farms and rarely use hired labor
except occasionally for harvesting of fruit (see Tables 3 and 4).
41.       Credit and Marketing.  Practically every village has a well-estab-
lished and active cooperative which provides both short-term and long-term
credit to the farming community at rates of interest between 5-1/2 to 8-1/2%.
Marketing of produce is generally done on an individual basis by the farmers
who sell their production directly on the regional markets or to middlemen.
However, grapes for Commandaria wine are generally sold to specialized co-
operative wineries.



ANNEX 3
Page 10
42.       Production Pattern.  The gross revenue of the average farm is derived
78% from crop production and 22% from animal husband-y. About 27% of produc-
tion in terms of value is consumed by the family and animal products form a
disproportionately high percentage of this non-cash income. It should be
noted that the revenue from vine production is approximately equal to that of
tree and crop production. This is because the grapes of the region are also
sold fresh as table grapes even though they are of local winemaking varieties,
and because the value of the product is increased due to local processing into
wines and spirits (i.e., Zivania, Commandaria, etc.). Vines contribute more
to gross revenue in the Limassol and Nicosia sub-regions, and other crops more
in the Troodos sub-region. Limassol sub-region attained the highest gross
revenue of all sub-regions followed by those of Troodos and Nicosia (Table 4).
43.       Agricultural Extension and Other Services.  The agricultural practices
and programs are generally disseminated through the Agricultural Extension
Services of the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources. The Region is
well-covered by 9 Beat Officers. There is currently a Beat Officer stationed
at Agros serving a total of 17 villages in the Region. Another 11 villages
are served by a Beat Officer stationed at Deftera, whereas the remaining
villages are served by other Beat Officers who serve villages outside the
Region as well.
44.       Farm Incomes.  The average age (54 years) and education (5.3 years)
(Table 3) suggest that the majority of farmers are old people with an elementary
education. Young people usually seek better opportunities elsewhere since they
see no prospects in agriculure and look to education as a means of finding
other forms of employment. The size and farming pattern of the area does not
allow full employment on the farm (Table 4) and, therefore, many people have
off-farm employment. Only about 20% of the owners consider themselves as
full-time farmers, or with farming as main jobs (Table 5).
45.       The difficult physical and land tenure conditions existing in the
area have their effects upon farm incomes. An Agro-economic survey of Pitsilia
(in 1974) indicated that the per capita income of an average family (with 4.6
members) was US$310 ranging from US$270 (for farms less than 2 ha) to US$360
(for farms between 4 to 8 ha); roughly one-half the family income was from
off-farm work (see Table 6; and Tables 3 and 4). Since about 75% of the
residents of Pitsilia do not consider farming as their principal occupation
and/or source of income (see Table 5), the off-farm income is earned by
selling labor in cities and/or other villages. Substantial commuting, there-
fore, is a characteristic of the Pitsilia farmers.
46.       A survey on commuting undertaken in 1969 provided detailed informa-
tion on both the number and direction of commuters from each village. The
survey indicated that the villagers of the Nicosia sub-region predominantly
commute to Nicosia, while those within the Limassol District commute to
Limassol. The exceptions to this pattern are the villages of Khandria,



ANNEX 3
Page 11
Kyperounda and Agros which have considerable commuting to both Limassol and
Nicosia. There is regular commuting within Pitsilia to the Amiandos asbestos
mine in the Troodos sub-region. The total number of commuters travelling out-
side the Pitsilia region was 2,539, of which 1,086 went to Nicosia, 925 to
Limassol and 102 to the mines at Kalavassos, Mitsero and Chromium, the rest
commuted between villages in Pitsilia.



ANNEX 3
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTECRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Population Projections - Pitsilia
1946      1960        1973         1986           2000
Census    Census    Survey    Projection    Projection
A. Nicosia Sub-Region
1.   Kannavia                          198        222        222          220             224
2.   Ay. Irini                         107        122         88           53              34
3.   Khourdali  )                      538        555        437          329             246
4.   Spilia      )
5.   Sarandi                           134        164        149          131             114
6.   Laghoudera                        338        310        328          335             336
7.   Polystipos                        425        430        489          533             578
8.   Livadhia                          188        188        128           76              48
9.   Alithinou                          82         73         50           31              20
10.  Platanistasa                      571        590        561          513             466
11.  Alona                             550        569        507          437             373
12.  Phterikoudhi                      385        294        261          228             187
13.  Askas                             439        363        362          346             330
14.  Palechori                       1,918      1,906      1,683        1,431          1,214
15.  Apliki                            118        120        130          135             140
16.  Ghouri                            386        397        365          324             287
17.  Phikardou                         120         81         32           11             -
18.  Lazania (with Makheras
Mon.)                 175        101         51           76             65
19.  Kambi                             267        228        235          239             242
20.  Pharmakas                         501        479        504          517             521
21.  Ay. Marina                        418        516        539          587             628
22.  Xyliatos                          110        131        140          152             161
Subtotal            7,968      7,839      7,261         6,704          6,214
B. Troodos Sub-Region
23.  Khandria                          446        560        581          577             561
24.  Kyperounda                      1,197      1,538      1,806        2,021           2,242
25.  P. Amiandos                       656        430        200          200             200
26.  K. Amiandos                       281        406        372          323             279
27.  Dhymes                            321        373        391          394             389
28.  Agridhia                          443        525        557          563             566
29.  Agros                           1,499      1,476      1,256        1,018             822
30.  Potamitissa                       262        339        293          241             197
31.  Pelendria                       1,503      2,094      2,253        2,295          2,331
32.  K. Mylos                          169        192        199          200             193
33.  Ay. loannis                       760        875        929          939             945
34.  Ay. Theodoros                     691        604        467          343             251
Subtotal            8,228      9,412      9,304         9,114          8,975
C. Limassol Sub-Region
35.  Zoopiyi                           307        265        254          234             217
36.  Kalonkhorion                      522        548        528          484             448
37.  Athrakas                           51          7        -            -               -
38.  Ayios Pavlos                      218        244        214          122             153
39.  Ayios Konstantinos                208        250        272          285             299
40.  Sykopetra                         215        217        193          163             141
41.  Louvaras                          283        328        384          435             496
42.  Eptagonia                         470        427        350          275             201
43.  Arakapas                          326        401        415          431             437
44.  Akapnou                           228        175        100           62              36
45.  Dierona                           310        322        353          360             372
Subtotal            3,138      3,184      3,063         2,911          2,800
D. Larnaca Sub-Region
46.  Odhou                             263        250        215          172             148
47.  Melini                            221        221        156          122              82
48.  Ora                               583        335        236          141              80
49.  Ayii Vavatsinias                  388        397        350           306            256
Subtotal            1,455      1,203         957          741            566
Overall Total      20,789    21,638    20,585          19,470         18,555
Source: Department of Town Planning and Housing Planning Bureau
March 17, 1977



ANNEX 3
Table 2
APPRA_.SAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED PUPRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
QY URU S
1973 Age Distribution of the Kilani Statistical Region
and the Whole Island
Age Group                      Kilani Statistical                       Whole
(Years)                             Region                             Island
Under 1                                 0.9 )                             1.7 )
1 -  4                                 5.6 )                             6.9 ) 28.9
5 -  9                                8.1 )709.5)
10 - 14                               12.4 )                             10.8 )
15 - 19                                11.2 )                            10.6 )
20 - 24                                 8.6 )                             8.8 )
25 - 29                                 5.6 )                             7.9 )
30 - 34                                 4.3 )                             5.9 )
35 - 39                                 3.8 ) 54.5                        5.7 ) 57.5
40 - 44                                 5.1 )                             5.4 )
45 - 49                                 5.0 )                             4.9 )
50 - 54                                 5.2 )                             4.3 )
55 - 59                                 5.7 )                             4.0 )
60 - 64                                 5.8 )                             4.1 )
65 - 69                                 5.1 )                              3.4 )
70 - 74                                  .    18.5                        2.9 ) 13.6
75 - 79                                 1.6 )1.5)
80 - 84                                 1.2 )                             0.9 )
85 and over                             1.1 )                             0.8 )
TOTAL                                100                                100
Source: Planning Bureau
March 17, 1977



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILlA INTEGRATED RURAL DVEOLOPS4ENT
CYPRUS
Land Ownership, F-rtni Pattern and GnrlnoeniaonSelected Fan   in Piteilla  i
Nictosia                                                           Troeda.                                                            Ltse                                       Global
Aper&Ae of                                           Mean of       A-eras. of                                           Pte. of        Average of                                           Mean of        Mean of
Nsber ofF -anE:                                     5          9....      7      ....5..       10        36            5          5          6          7         4          31            3          5          5......   j4j                   23             90Q...
1.  Ow  Loand                                         16.05      15.87      38.15     34.94      98.00    37.97            8.00     21.19      33.00      31.36     62.62      30.00         25.75      33.50      76.50      57.25      59.00    51.99           38.80
2.  RentedprFet--                                                 --         --        --         --         --            --        --         --         --        --         --            --         --         3.00       --         --        1.29           0.51
3.Ch6.1 iLoand                                               --              --        2.5        --         0. 44         --         --        --         --         --        --             --         --        7.00       -    --               1.41          0.55
4.  UO..sItitvad                                       8.51       -         15.00       7.5      38.75      14.32          0.25       5.50     10.50       2.00       4.00     11.27          12.00      6.00      52.50       4.50       --       20.74          14.91
(I   Cslttvabls                                7.5 )       -      (5.00)   (7.5 )(38.75)  (12.08)                 --       (5.00)  (6.00)          --        4.00    19.42)         (17.00)   (6.00)   (42.50)  14.50)           --       (14.22)       (11.71)
(ii) Nn-Culti-ohle                             1.0 )       -      (10.00)      --        --       72.24)        C0.25)   (0.50)   (4.50)   C 2.00)           --       (1.85)          --         --       (10.00)      --         --         6.52)      73.20)
5.  CulIvteitd Land (1+2+3-4)                          7.55      15.87      23.15     20.94      59.25      24.09          7.75     13.68      22.50      29.36     58.62      18.73          13.75     27.50      33.00      52.75      59.90     33.95          24.95
6. R..ted T.                             --         --         --        --         --         --            --         --        --         --         --         -              -~-,                                       --                       .88
6.  RentedmdTo-- .5-5   1i5.8 7                                          23.1       2994       5925      23.23            7.75    1568       22.50     29.36      58.62      18.73         157940  -3.0                       ..0                33.95         233137
II.   Irrieated  and DrYSsed Opeorated Loand tdoet-)
8.  Orylend                                            4.88      14.25      21.31     28.07      55.00      20.51          3.75     11.05      16.50      24.30     42.62      14.14          11.00     22.50      22.50    44.75        55.00      30.61         20.45
9.  1irrgeted                                          2.67       1.62       5.84      1.87       4.25       2.72          4.00      4.63       6.00       5.06      16.00      4.59           2.75       1.50     10.50       1.00       4.00       3.34          3.53
(i)   Fnlly                                  72.67)   (1.25)  (0.87)           --         --      (0.76)        (3.12)   72.50)  (2.32)  (0.56)  78.00)  (1.14)                     (0.50)   (1.00)         CM.0)  70.75)         --      71.64)        (1.12)
(if)  Seacoonily                               --      C 0.25)( 0.72) 7 1.87)             --      ( 1.13)       ( 0.50) ( 2.13) ( 0.59) 7 4.50)     0.50) ( 2.30)                   ( 2.255      --       7 6.50)      --      7 4.00)7 1.26)            7 1.57)
7011) Irrigeble                                --      10.12)  (0.25)          --      74.25)  70.83)           70.38)       --       (3.09)       --      (7.50)  (1.14)             --       70.50)       --       70.25)       --        O .44)       70.84)
10. Numbeer of Plots
(1   Dryland                                    3          8        24         11         22        11              5        11         1.4        15        22          Fs             1         6.        U          14         10          6             9
(ii) Irrigated                                  3          7         12         4          3          5             4        16          9          6         12         6              3          4         5          3          1          3             5
Ill.  Parsies Patton  (do-an)
11.  VegetshLen                                        --         0.25       0.87       1.69      --         1.02          --         1.13      0.88       0.25       1.50      0.67           0.50       0.50       1.25      0.25       --         1.26          0.96
12.  terease--                                                    -          2.25       --       14.50       1.43          --         --        --         -          --         --            --         1.00       --        2.50       --1.99                    1.24
13.  Lagtse-                                                      --         --        0.55       --         0.55          0.25       -    --         --         --              0.25          --         --        4.00        1.235     -          0.25           0.32
14.  Pedilere                                           -         -          --        0.38       1.50       0.54          --         1.73       2.84      0.75       -          1.62          3.00       --         3.50       2.00       1.00      1.41           0.95
15,  vines                                             4.88       8.75      56.81     25.94      35.50      14.58          5.58      11.05     15.50      24.30      42.62      11.52          8.00      21.50       8.00    '39.58      55.00      21.76          15.14
16.  Irrigated Trace.                                  2.67       1.37       0.82       1.87      --         2.01          3.62       4.23      6.00       5.06       9.25       3.66          2.75       0.25      10.50       0.50       3.00      2.31           2.66
17.  Dryland tre..e                                     --        550        2.50       1.38      2.50       4.52          -           -         -          -         -           --                      1.00       9.00       -    --              3.44           3.43
18.  Total Ares Under Crop                             7.55      15.87      23.25     31.81      54.00      24.65          7.37      1.4       2.2        3.6        5.7       177             42        24.25     36.25      46.00      59.00      32.4          24.90
IV.   G-ners
19.  P.areer'e Age (Years)                             35         42         30         57        61         55.7          57         67         52        55         54         52.4          61         26         75         41         45        54.6           54.3
20,  Farteer'.egducatine (Yeare)                         7          5         6          6          5         5.6            6         2          0          5         4          5.7           3          4          1          6          6         4.3            5.3
21.  PFeily Laber (No. of Working Days)               120        150        220        186       150        160           190        210       330        140        450        171           150         80        300        150       278        175            168
22.  Hired Laber ( Ne. of Working Day.)                16         --         --         --        --          4            --         --         --        40         --          4            --         --         --         --         --          7             4
23.  Total L.abor (No. of Working Day.)               136        150        220        186       150        164           190        210        330       180        450        175           150         80        500        150        270       182            172
jo'  Survey by the Agri-at=lutl RaecebSntiotet, 5975.
2/  7.5 doem- -Iha.
2/ Stare Lend
4/ Cultivated land net nof (1) rented and (ii) pereneia11y cropped (alnode, vinee) leand.
5/0.86 deeam, praparad.f-r elteod planting.
y 3.0 dents  for viee.
~/7 donasm, for vine..
8/The averega for 90 faern  is poeitive even thoogh for the smallr eob-sanpls thie teas negligible.
9/0.79 dseus  for vine. ad e1aneds.
Note en Valsation:
____      " 020 - 1 dents nof dryland
0* 150 = 1 den-   of e.acenally irrigated land
C*200 a 1 don-e of irrigated land
Trace. Value for none. et, Ck30 par denti; for citron nod petn et 0lt3 per tree;
for ether trees a C*F 2 per tree; ned fort drylend tr.ee ot C* 1 per tree.
I-neary 1977



0    I     0
I             '     '.9    -'                                ANNEX3
000'       0       '.4     '.4
'0 0'0i    "9      0        '.    -                                 TobIe4
'.4'.'.   0.00   '000  0000'4'0 44O00.
-.9-'.'.'  0.4.9   .4.40400000000000  0  '.-0
4.]                049-1    004  .940.94 .940-'.4 0000  '0
00               '.4      -     '4
.9' I                   .40.444000000.4000           '0
000    0'00  400.9-0
0'-'404     000  040  00440000  0-  .0
o       0     0
-00              -              -
0'     000    00.94    04 oo0o000090000
I      0
004    004  00<<0000.400  0  00
000   0 '0'.-.0000 00400000000  -0
00 000000
4       4     .4
oCO    000    00-  0.44  00000  00               0
-    -    -                   -      0      4
044000          '000  .900  000.9-4<00  0  .44
0.-'0    040  00    04    00.0'.40   -o   90
.4     ,-. -  4            000   -'0.-'    0   44
.4.4             0        .4
004    004  000.400040000
000    0.40404400000.400
000  04400040000004
o  .4         .4.4  .4    .4000
'C
0       0     .4.                           -.9
0             0                                  4.
400  040<44040<00  0  00            0
'1                           040
40  joo        000 000                   '-',.-.--'00'                   4-
04.404-00.4 4.44.40 00
4.44000040004 .40000
0..4          40          4  40
0             2
004      '.4    '.4      .4     0                             4'
04   440  404   000004000004000
400    440    40 004000..40 0440  0  00
000 Oco 0.440000
.44   400004   000 000.440400.04
440    000  000004040004  0  00              0
040           00.4044    0400                 0 00
.4            0  0'0't0  000
4
.4                 0              0                               0 010  0
4                  .4             0
0                               0 *00  0
.9                                   000000. 00
.4                 000            4400004.40000
J          000    000         '   040000000000  0   0    NO.90 N 0
0'                 040            04004000004  0  00            4004.4  -..
.4           .4   .4        004  .4         .4 L-'E
440-004.9 44
0-40440.'' 4.
01             o4..94  N
0                '.4           '-0  0                  
r
NO                     0j                     010  .9.        000   
440    '      0        0004004-'      4.0  4.9.4 44           0
00             0.94.   .404'   000.914  000400.9  '.4   0              .9
.00.     .90.9 4.4 0o0  .9.90.9  .9 -.400.00    00  00.. 0-   00004   0
N I 00-4    00     000  044.4                 -0.94 0    00-04.  0 0
04'    '01000  0 04)0  4' 000  0.4o044004.4.444.0-4.00        0000    0 0
04      0.0  4' NO  4.  44.0  04.000'-.4  0.90         0444-0  0 0
4.4000  0 ON'.  4. 00'.  004.4.00-0-040444.               0     0 0
400   4.  4   0  '0  04  4   04.4.                  .4 00-    004   0
NO.90    .9.90    000  4.                     -      '.9*.90-0    0
1 g.-.  .9 o.-.O  .90-0  0-.0-oo0N0        .90-00    00o0  4.
00    0 040  0 0.40  4 0.40  00' '4..'  '00         .9.000    000.40
4.           0        41      0-4'  40    004-14.    0..    .4       4.   1'
00.90  004.0  4. 04.0             0.00   0.40  0                 >'
04.04.  .94.04.  04.04.       0     04.00            0-0.00
4.40     0>0    00044004                    44444.04  '4-'           s
>1  4..     .41                                   .4IoI0l4I4I    0  10
.4                                             .9  .0
4.  *01                                          .9 0



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT
CYPRUS
Occupation of Owners by Size of Ownership
Number of Owners Working
Ownership          Number of         As Full-Time       With Farming         With Farming As
Class             Owners              Farmers         As Main Job          Secondary Job           As Non-Farmer
0.1 -0.3               27               2 (5.9)             2 (14.3)             21 (13.6)                2 (10)
0.31-0.7               37               1 (3.0)             3 (21.4)             26 (16.9)                5 (25)
0.71-1.33             53                7 (20.6)            4 (28.6)             34 (22.1)                8 (40)
1.34-2.00             29                2 (5.9)             5 (35.7)             21 (13.6)                2 (10)
2.01-4.00             50                7 (20.6)            -   __               34 (22.1)                3 (15)
4.01-8.00              25              10 (29.3)            -   --               15 (9.7)                 -  --
8.01-15.00+            10               5 (14.7)            -   __                3 (2.0)                ----
TOTAL:       --               231               34 (100)            14 (100)            154 (100)                 20 (100)
PERCENTAGE:                         100              14.7                6.1                  66.7                     8.7
1/ 8 owners are pensioners; 1 is church. They are not included in the occupation data.
Source: Agroeconomic Survey of Pitsilia 1975
January 1977                                                                                                                        r 



ANNEX 3
Table 6
APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Cropping Pattern, Costs and Returns by Farm Size
Farm Size Range (donums)
Up To 15          16-30             31-60            Mean
. Number of Farms in Sample                     29              36                25               90
. Operated Land (donums)                         9.9             22.0             43.3             24.0
. Cropping Pattern
Vegetables                             0.8             1.0               1.1              1.0
Cereals                                0.1             0.3               3.9              1.2
Legumes                                0.0             0.1              1.0               0.3
Fodders                                0.5             0.9               1.5              0.9
Vines                                  6.5            15.5             25.5              15.4
Irrigated Trees                        2.1             2.9              2.9               2.7
Dryland Trees                          0.4             1.9              9.1               3.4
Dryland (% of Operated) Land                  74.3             83.8             89.4              85.3
Irrigated (7. of Operated) Land               25.7             16.2             10.6             14.7
Vines (% of Operated) Land                    66.0             70.4             59.0              64.1
Livestock (Number of)
Goats                                  2.2             3.0              4.4               3.1
Pigs                                   0.1             0.1              0.2               0.1
Poultry                                6.4             9.9             13.2               9.7
Gross Revenue                               288.3            444.4             663.4            454.9
Vines                             ( 80.9)           (158.2)          (305.6)           (174.2)
Tree and Crops                    (135.6)           (179.8)          (228.6)           (179.1)
Livestock                         ( 71.8)           (106.4)          (129.2)           (101.6)
Variable Production Cost                     83.4            145.9             167.4            130.7
Fertilizer                         ( 11.9)          ( 28.7)          ( 30.8)           ( 23.9)
Hired Labor                       (  3.0)           (  6.6)          ( 6.4)            ( 5.3)
Fixed Cost                                   79.9            128.8             179,8         * 127.1
Imputed Rent                      ( 49.2)           ( 85.3)          (139.2)           ( 88.6)
Depreciation                      ( 15.8)           ( 20.7)          ( 18.3)           ( 18.4)
Interest Cost                     ( 14.9)           ( 22.8)          ( 22.3)          ( 20.1)
Net Farm Income                             125.0            169.7             316.2            197.1
Off-farm Income                             383.0            290.0             241.0            306.0
Total Family Income                         557.2            545.0            696.4             591.7
Family Members on Farm                        4.9              4.4               4.6              4.6
Per Capita Family Income                    114              124               151              129
February 8, 1977



ANNEX 4
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMEN'" PROJECT
CYPRUS
Land Tenure and Land Consolidation
1.        Present Status.  As in other countries with a long agricultural his-
tory, the pattern of land tenure in Cyprus is a product of tradition, inheri-
tance laws and population pressure. The present land tenure in Cyprus has the
following main features:
(i) Continually Decreasing Size of Holdings. The average hold-
ing size decreased from 7.2 ha in 1946 (census) to 6.2 ha
in 1960 to about 5 ha in 1974. There are significant re-
gional variations. For example, in the Pitsilia region,
average size of holding ranges from an average of 4 ha in
the Troodos region to 7 ha in the Limassol region.
(ii) Fragmentation and Dispersal of Plots. The island-wide esti-
mate of average number of plots per holding is about 12.6;
an average holding in Pitsilia consists of about 14.5 plots
with some extreme examples of fragmentation, i.e. 86 plots
per holding in Alithinou, 67 plots in Livadhia, 58 plots in
Polystipos, etc.
(iii) Small Plot Sizes. Such size varies with region and land
use ranging from about 0.28 ha in mountainous areas (0.27
in Pitsilia) to about 2.1 ha in the plains, 0.1 ha in
irrigated and 0.3 ha in dryland agriculture.
(iv) Irregular Shapes of Plots. Most of the plots are highly
irregular in shape. The worst type of irregularities are
observed in mountainous areas.
(v) Lack of Access to Plots. Over 70% of the plots do not have
direct access; in Pitsilia, 72% of the plots are without
road access.
(vi) Joint Ownership of Plots. It is estimated that about 30%
of the agricultural land is jointly owned.
(vii) Dual Ownerships. Ownership of trees and rights to water
are distinguished from ownership of land. Often, the owner
of the plot does not own the trees on the plots or the water
in the plot.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
(viii) Land Ownership Categories. There are three: State,
Communal and private. In the Pitsilia region, 40% is
State owned, 1% is Communal and 59% is privately owned.
2.        Effects of the Land Tenure.  The above features have had an inhibit-
ing influence on agricultural development. The small size of plots and their
irregular shape create conditions unfavorable for mechanization, irrigation,
soil conservation and other improvement works. Soil conservation, for example,
is based on slope. It is difficult and sometimes impossible to fit the plots
with their existing size, shape and layout into a proper soil conservation
plan based on contour lines. The same holds true for irrigation networks, both
for distribution and for on-farm networks. Superimposing irrigation and soil
conservation works on the present land system would be highly wasteful of land,
water and capital. Land fragmentation increases the time spent by farmers to
cater for their plots. The distance between residence and plots, as well as
the inaccessibility of most areas, discourages permanent cultivations, hinders
the proper catering of cultivation, increases transport costs, encourages
nomadic animal husbandry and discourages mixed farming. A lot of land is also
wasted for boundaries to differentiate between plots. It has been estimated
that due to the necessity of plot boundaries about 10% of the area of a holding
remains unutilized.
3.        Land tenure with its undivided dual or multiple ownerships, lack of
access, boundary disputes, lack of titles on land also results in significant
intangible costs. Boundary disputes, for example, cause ill feelings among
farmers. Co-ownership of land hampers development since according to Cyprus
legislation, in cases of land held in undivided shares, all owners are entitled
in proportion to their shares to any permanent improvement on land.
4.        The Land Consolidation Law.  The Government of Cyprus decided to
directly address the above land tenure implications by launching country-wide
land consolidation programs. The empowering legislation for this program was
enacted in 1969 in the form of The Land Consolidation Law. This law provides
the basis on which to set up the necessary administrative and technical struc-
ture to carry out a program of consolidation. The relevant aspects of this
law provided:
(a) for the creation of a Central Land Consolidation Authority
responsible for the central direction, organization and
coordination of all land consolidation activities in the
island. Among other functions the Authority is empowered
to buy or compulsorily acquire land and other property and
sell or use such property for the purposes of land consolida-
tion. The Authority is chaired by the Director General of
the Ministry of Agriculture, with representatives from other
Ministries and Departments as well as farmers in its Board.
The Authority began functioning in 1972;
(b) for the formation of village level Land Consolidation Com-
mittees with representatives from the office of the District
Officers, land consolidation, lands and surveys, agriculture,



ANNEX 4
Page 3
water development and of farmers elected by owners in
the area. The Committees supervise and coordinate land
consolidation activities on the village level;
(c) that land consolidation could be effected in three ways:
(i) by agreement among a small number of farmers;
(ii) by owners' resolution where the majority of owners
in an area who own the majority of the registered
value of land are in favor of thte project; and
(iii) by Government order, where the Government proposes
to spend large sums of money for the construction
of dams or the implementation of extensive soil
reclamation and conservation works;
(d) that the basis of the land redistribution plan would be the
current value of ownerships, and that valuations of all im-
movable properties in a land consolidation area would be
carried out by a Committee of government officers and
elected owners;
(e) that land consolidation measures would include amalgamation
of fragmented holdings, the construction of a farm road net-
work servicing all new plots, the abolition of undivided and
dual ownerships, the enlargement of holdings, the expropria-
tion of land less than areas prescribed by the Immovable
Property Law (in land consolidation areas these minimum
sizes are 0.26 ha for perennially irrigated land, 0.53 ha
for seasonally irrigated land, and 1.33 ha for dry lands),
and landscape renovation;
(f) that any government land available in a land consolidation
area may be used for enlarging holdings; and
(g) that the government contribution towards costs covers all
administrative and planning expenses as well as half of
the costs for road construction. The owners are charged
with half of the road construction costs, and the value
of extra land given to them through the project. The
owners' share of the costs is paid in yearly installments
up to a period of 8 years at low rates of interest.
5.        Implementation.  Following the enactment of the law, progress has
been rapid, and doubts about the willingness of farmers to accept consolida-
tion have gradually lessened. Five land consolidation projects were com-
pleted by 1974, all in areas to be irrigated by dams, on various types of
terrain (2 on low lands, 2 on hilly, and 1 on mountainous terrain). In such
irrigated land consolidation projects, there is a close cooperation between
the Land Consolidation Authority, the Water Development Department and the



ANNEX 4
Page 4
Department of Agriculture in the preparation of the plans. The Land Consolida-
tion Authority staff prepare the road network and land consolidation plan and
is responsible for the construction of the roads through contracts awarded to
private firms. The Department of Water Development designs and constructs the
secondary irrigation distribution system, and the Department of Agriculture
designs and constructs the soil conservation and on-farm irrigation system;
both are based on the new land consolidation plan. The second generation of
land consolidation projects now under way include 13 projects altegether, both
in irrigated as well as dry land areas. Six of these projects would be carried
out within the framework of the Paphos Irrigation Project.
6.        Experience with Land Consolidation.  The actual experience with the
five land consolidation efforts carried out so far has been very encouraging.
Table 1 details the results from land consolidation in Kissonerga, Chlorakas,
Akrojuda, Phinikaria and Palehkori (Palekhori is in the Pitsilia region). The
main changes brought about were:
(i) the number of owners was reduced by an average of 39%;
(ii)  absentee owners were reduced by an average of 37%;
(iii) holding size increased by an average of 47%;
(iv)  pigmy ownerships (less than 0.27 ha) were practically
eliminated;
(v) fragmentation was reduced by about 38%;
(vi)  the total number of plots was reduced by about 63%; and
average plot size was increased by about 126%;
(vii) ownership in undivided shares was eliminated;
(viii)  all plots after consolidation were provided access by a
properly constructed road network;
(ix)  substantial amount of land was purchased from the church
and used to increase sizes of holdings; and
(x) all plots were given title deeds.
7.        A quantitative assessment of benefits from land consolidation is not
easily done due to the difficulty of separating these benefits from those aris-
ing from other contemporaneous activities. In Cyprus, quantitative assessments
were considered of secondary importance as land consolidation was not deemed as
an end in itself but basically as a means for enabling the more appropriate
execution of other development activities. However, based on experience in
Cyprus and elsewhere, the following estimations may be expected from land
consolidation:



ANNEX 4
Page 5
(a) increase in total cultivated area due to elimination of a
number of plot boundaries;
(b) increases of about 20% in the land area irrigated by exist-
ing water supply;
(c) decrease in the cost of soil conservation works (about 20%);
(d) decrease in the costs of installing irrigation distribution
networks (about 20%);
(e) decrease in the cost of installing on-farm irrigation equip-
ment (about 15%);
(f) increases in crop yields -- 30% for dryland cultivation and
50% for irrigated ones.
8.        The cost of land consolidation comprises:  (i) administrative/
personnel cost (about 25-35%); and (ii) rural road construction (75-65%).
Since rural roads are, in any case, required infrastructure, there are addi-
tional cost savings in road construction as without consolidation roads may
have to follow plot boundaries. In the Cyprus context, therefore, the case
for land consolidation appears to be very sound indeed.
9.        Land Consolidation in the Project Area.  The need for land consolida-
tion in Pitsilia and implementation priority within it was established by pre-
paring a list of villages and ranking these on the basis of the following 17
criteria: 1/ rate of population growth, industrialization index, agricultural
index; extent of commuting; rate of change in the amount of cultivated land;
extent of private land; extent of state land; average size of operated unit;
fragmentation of operated units; size of plots; size of ownership; fragmenta-
tion of owned unit; extent of irrigation; per capita income; per holding in-
come; extent of animal husbandry; and altitude of area. The ranking of each
of the 48 villages in the region is given in Table 2.
10.       Project Proposals.  The need of land consolidation in Pitsilia is
evident. However, the Government has decided to limit land consolidation to
only new areas to be irrigated and at irrigation projects of at least 200
donums (27 ha) of gross area or more. The irrigation projects which satisfy
these criteria are located near the villages of Kyperounda, Kato Amiandos,
Pelendria, Potamittisa, Kato Mylos, Kalokhorio, Arakapas, Akapnou and the
villages in the vicinity of the Xyliatos dam. The total area would be between
400 to 600 ha - an area of about 500 ha is assumed for the proposed project.
The rationale for consolidating only a part (about 1/2) of the newly irrigated
area is that the required skilled manpower cannot be made available to the
project. The balance of the irrigated as well as the dryland areas would
be consolidated as part of the Government's country-wide land consolidation
program.
1/ Developed in a Conference on Rural Planning (1973) in Spain.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
11.       Capital Costs.  The capital costs of land consolidation are mainly
the costs for the farm access roads network. Based on the prior consolidation
efforts at Palekhori, Akrounda and Phinikaria, the road network requirements
were estimated at 35 kms. As a conservative estimate, the figure of 40 km has
been used. Using the per km cost of CB 1,500, the total cost is estimated
at Ch 60,000. Other overhead expenditures would be C1 9,000 for staff work.
Since it is so small, these are not separately itemized but are included in
the unit costs of farm roads. The credit requirements for financing the
farmer's share (50%) of the cost are estimated in Table 4, Annex 5.
12.       Personnel Required.  It is tested practice in Cyprus to allocate the
execution of a land consolidation project to a work team of three technical
assistants working under the directions of an engineer and an agronomist, with
the latter two supervising more than one scheme. A work team would be assigned
to the execution of four schemes at a time. One-half of the land consolidation
schemes will be initiated in year 1 and the other half in year 3.



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Results From Land Consolidation (l.c.)
KISSONERGA             CHLORAKAS              AKROJUDA            PHINIKARIA             PALAEKHORI
Before     After      Before    After       Before    After       Before   After       Before    After
l.c.      l.c.        l.c.      l.c.        l.c.      l.c.        l.c.    l.c.         l.c.      l.c.
No. of Owners                           395        214        278        204         164       103         97        63        319        186
Average Size of Ownership (ha)            0.63       1.0        0.69       0.92        0.54      0.7        0.68      0.98       0.42       0.7
Average No. of Plots/Ownership            2.7        1.6        1.7        1.3         2.8       1.4        1.7       1.3        2.0        1.2
Average Size of Plot (ha)                 0.23       0.64       0.4        0.7         0.2       0.5        0.4       0.78       0.21       0.6
No. of Plots or Shares                 1053        334        481        268         466       144        171        79        635        225
7O of Area Held in Undivided
Shares                                24.9        1.8       17.5        0.14       23.8       1.2       12.7      5.7        10.3      NIL
% of Plots Held in Undivided
Shares                                51.7        2.4       37.2        0.7        31.7       0.7       30.4       7.6       27.7       NIL
7% of Area Served by Roads               38.7      100.0       56.8      100.0        57.5    100.0        52.9    100.0        26.8      100.0
% of Plots Served by Roads               16.5      100.0       27.4      100.0        31.3    100.0        48.9    100.0        27.9      100.0
% of Plots with No Title Deed            15.2       NIL        23.3       NIL         18.7      NIL        22.8      NIL        14.3       NIL
Road Length (kIn)                         3.7       18.4        4.9       13.1         4.7       9.0        0.8       4.6        8.5       11.4
Average Road Width (m)                    3.5        5.5        3-6        6           3         4-6        3-6       3-6      1.5-7.5   3-7.5
% of Ownerships with Dual
Ownership                             NIL        NIL        15.1       NIL         58.6      NIL        97.9      NIL         NIL       NIL
Church Land (ha)                         21.6        6.2        4.4       NIL          1.04    NIL          3.7       3.2        3.1       NIL
Hali Land (ha)                           NIL        NIL        NIL        NIL          3.2       1.9        0.03    NIL          9.4        1.7
Pigmy Holdings Under 0.27 ha            203         NIL       104         NIL         76        NIL        38        NIL       182         32
7 of Absentee Owners (Abroad,
Unknown)                              13.6        5.2        1.8        1.5        13.0       9.7       12.3       9.5        3.8        2.7
Source:  Land Consolidation Authority, Cyprus.
February 11, 1977



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Ranking of Pitsilia Villages for Land Consolidation
Number of         Points on                                              Number of         Points on
Selections         the 17                                               Selections          the 17
Village Name           in Village        Criteria                          Village Name         in Village        Criteria
Ora                            7              200                           Dierona                     3               88
Ay. Pavlos                     6              208                          Melini                       3               24
Phikardou                      6              192                           Potamittissa                3               24
Alithinou                      6              184                           Palekhori                   3               16
K. Amiandos                    6              184                           Ayios Konstantinos          2              128
Polystipos                     6              152                           Xyliatos                    2               72
Akapnou                        6              128                           Ay. Marina                  2               72
Platanistassa                  6               72                           Arakapas                    2               72
Kolochorio                     5              104                           P. Amiandos                 2               72
Khandria                       5               64                           Phterikoudhi                2               64
Agridhia                       5               56                           Askas                       2               20
Laghoudera                     5               56                           Sarandi                     2               16
Agros                          5               52                           Kyperounda                  2               12
Livadhia                       5               52                           Ay. Theodoros               2               12
Odhou                          4              176                           Eptagonia                   2               12
Lazania                        4              148                           Louvaras                    1               64
Apliki                         4.             120                           Pelendria                   1                64
Karmbi                         4              108                           Kannavia                    1               32
Alona                          4               96                           Khourdali-spilia            1                 8
Gourri                         4               88                           Ay. Ioannis                 1                 8
Sykopetra                      3              144                           Zoopiyi                     1                 8
Athrakos                       3              132                           Kato Mylos                  1                 8
Ayii Vavatsinias               3              108                           Dhymes                      1                 8
Pharmakas                      3              100                           Ay. Irini                   1                 4
February 11, 1977                                                                                                                



ANNEX 5
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Project Description
1.        Xyliatos Dam.  The dam would be a rockfill structure with a clay
core; it would be 42 m high with the full supply level at elevation 537.5 m.
Detailed plans for the dam and the associated distribution network are pre-
sently under preparation by WDD. The main design parameters and technical
details are given in Technical Note 1. The dam and reservoir would be located
on a rough and forested area where there are no residents. The owners of the
land in the commanded area would receive water from the dam for irrigation.
Although the dam would be located near Xyliatos village, residents from seven
villages would benefit. The dam itself, being a "major project", will remain
the property of the Government.
2.        Ponds.  These would be earth reservoirs, partly in cut, partly in
fill. The ponds would usually be located in flat, saddle-shaped ground in
order to minimize earth moving. The embankments would be made of the excavated
material with inside and outside slopes of 3 or 3.5/1. A similar design stor-
age pond was constructed at Kyperounda; smaller ones have also been constructed
by private farmers in the project area. The WDD is carrying out detailed sur-
veys to identify specific locations for such ponds. Gross capacities of the
storage ponds would be between 50,000 and 150,000 m3, sufficient to serve
between 80 to 250 donums. The storage ponds would be located near streams and
would be filled in the winter season by diverting water either by gravity or
by pumping. It is also proposed to combine the operation of a tubewell and
the filling of a storage pond. Details are in Technical Note 2.
3.        Boreholes.  A typical tubewell (borehole) would be 100-230 m deep
and would be cased with 8-inch diameter pipes. A submersible electric turbine
pump would be used. Electric power for each pump would be 15 to 60 KVA, for a
discharge of 5 to 20 litres/second (l/s) and a delivery head of 100-200 m. The
area irrigated by each borehole would be between 40 and 200 donums. A larger
area may be served if a borehole is operated to fill a pond before it is used
for direct irrigation. Details are in Technical Note 3.
4.        Rehabilitation of Existing Traditional Schemes.  Eleven such schemes
are included in the project. The individual sizes of the schemes vary from
40 to 275 donums; the total area to be so rehabilitated would be about 1,160
donums. The rehabilitation would include (i) the construction of storage tanks
to impound the natural flow during night hours, since irrigation is usually
carried out only during the daytime; (ii) the replacement of open channels by
pipes in order to reduce conveyance losses; and (iii) the supply of additional
on-farm irrigation delivery outlets and equipment for hose basin irrigation
to serve each farm lot of 3-5 donums. Details are in Technical Note 4.
5.        Water Conveyance System.  Pipes would be used as discharges are small
and the slopes are steep, thus allowing for use of small diameter pipes. The



ANNEX 5
Page 2
WDD has long experience in installing similar systems. Asbestos cement pipes
would be used for diameters of 8 inches or more, and galvanized iron pipes
for diameters up to 8 inches. Metal pipes are often laid on the ground sur-
face without excavating a trench. The following criteria would be used in
designing the system: (i) each plot shall have its own farm outlet; (ii)
irrigation duration during the peak season would be up to 16 hours per day;
and (iii) peak water requirements in July would be 250 m3/donum (1,875 m3/ha
or 1 1/s/ha), based on 80% field efficiency and 95% conveyance and distribu-
tion efficiency.
6.        Soil Conservation Works.  Due to the steep slopes, land terracing is
necessary in most of the project area for both irrigation and rainfed cultiva-
tion. A part of the project area has already been terraced, and it has been
estimated that new terracing would be necessary only for about 60% of the
project lands to receive new irrigation (7,770 donums). Land terracing
would, however, be necessary for the entire 13,000 donums of rainfed area
included in the project. The Soil Conservation Division of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Natural Resources has substantial experience in construction
of terraces. Excavation is made by bulldozers. Terracing can be made with or
without retaining walls. In the old cultivated areas, the farmers have built
retaining walls made of dry stones or masonry and it is likely that over a
period of time such walls would be constructed in the project lands by the
farmers own labor. However, the project cost estimates have been assessed
without retaining walls. The stability of terraces can generally be secured
by a slope of two vertical and one horizontal. The slopes between terraces
may be used to grow grapes, while trees are planted on the terraces.
7.        On-farm Distribution Networks.  The configuration of the land plots
and terraces requires that a hose-basin irrigation system be used as a standard
for the project. It would be used for both trees and annual crops and would
permit good field efficiency and would consist of (i) a farm gate at the
delivery point on the distribution line; (ii) a fixed pipe 1-1/2 inch diameter
galvanized iron to serve each terrace within the individual holding and fitted
with 6-8 take-off with valves; and (iii) one or two feeding flexible hoses,
rubber or polythene to serve the small basins formed around the trees or crops.
8.        Agricultural Development.  This would include provision of an im-
proved technology package (new varieties, planting method, ...) to the farmers
in the project area. The same crops - deciduous fruit, cherries, citrus, table
grapes, irrigated olives, vegetables - would be grown on the new irrigated
areas, but improved varieties would be used and the planting and the husband-
ing practices would be improved. The same would be true for rainfed crops -
vines, almonds and olives. Besides the provision of improved materials to
the farmers, (i) a part of the new irrigated land would be consolidated;
(ii) extension activities would be intensified; (iii) a farmer training center
would be developed in the Agros village; (iv) the existing credit facilities
would be expanded; (v) credit would be provided for livestock units and (vi)
the veterinary system would be expanded.
(i) Land Consolidation. See Annex 4.
(ii) Agricultural Extension.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
(a) The Existing Extension System. Presently, the Pitsilia
area is served by 9 field extension agents and 11 special-
ists (3 for water use, 3 for animal husbandry, 2 for soil
conservation, 2 for plant protection and 1 for soils).
A number of agricultural assistants also cover the area.
(b) Proposed System for Extension. The project area would be
divided into 5 beats to be served by five university
graduate Agricultural Extension Officers. The following
will constitute the five agricultural beats:
-    Agros-Pelendri Beat, with Agros, Agridhia, Kato
Mylos, Ayios Ioannis, Pelendri, Dhymes, Potami-
tissa (7 villages);
-    Agros-Kalokhorio Beat, with Ayios Theodoros,
Zoopiyi, Ayios Pavlos, Ayios Konstantinos,
Kalokhorio, Louvaras, Athrakos, Sykopetra,
Arakapas, Dhierona, Eftagonia, Akapnou (12
villages);
-    Agros-Pharmakas Beat, with Kambi, Pharmakas,
Ghouri, Phikardou, Lazania, Makheras, Odou,
Melini, Ora, Ayii Vavatsinias (10 villages);
-    Agros-Palekhori Beat, with Palekhori, Apliki,
Askas, Phterikoudi, Platanistassa, Alona,
Alithinou, Livadhia, Polystipos (9 villages);
-    Agros-Kyperounda Beat, with Kyperounda, Kato
Amiandos, Khandria, Spilia, Kourdali, Ayia
Irini, Kannavia, Sarandi, Lagoudhera, Xyliatos,
Ayia Marina and Pano Amiandos (11 villages).
In addition, specialists in Animal Husbandry, Water Use,
Horticulture, Plant Protection, and Soil Conservation
would be assigned full-time to the project. Since the
new staff would be selected from staff already employed,
no additional staff costs are envisaged under the proj-
ect. But, incremental costs for vehicles and teaching
aids plus operating costs of the training center, amounting
to CL 40,000, are included under extension. Five agricul-
tural assistants would also be selected from among the
agricultural assistants presently servicing the region.
(iii)  Farmers' Training Centre.  Farmers' Training Centres have been
operating for several years in Cyprus. Their aim is to train
farmers, rural women and youth in concepts and practices of
modern agriculture and home economics. These centres are also
used for training agricultural workers, i.e., spraying con-
tractors, pruners, etc., and for In-Service training of the
staff of the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
The duration of the training courses varies from 2 to 15 days.
The courses are organized by the Agricultural Extension Serv-
ice in collaboration with the specialized sections and depart-
ments of the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources.
Trainees are given board and lodging at a nominal fee. A new
training centre at Agros village would be established to serve
the whole Pitsilia region. The cost for a 20-person training
centre would be about CL 37,000.
(iv)  Credit.  Short-term and long-term credit for production costs,
establishment of new tree plantation, irrigation and land ter-
racing works, domestic water supply, agro-processing and live-
stock development would be provided to the project beneficiaries
through the village Cooperative Credit Societies and the Loan
Commissioners. To enable farmers to satisfy their project-
related credit requirements, a credit component has been in-
cluded in the project cost estimates to complement funds avail-
able in the Central Cooperative Bank, village cooperative
societies and the Loan Commissioners. Loans would be extended
to farmers, village communities and cooperatives under terms
and conditions presently applying to the various types of
credit operations in Cyprus.
(v)  Livestock Units.  Although prospects for livestock development
in the Pitsilia Region are limited, a few livestock units may
be established for demonstration and supplementary income. The
project would supplement the on-going national program through
providing about CL 30,000 for promoting sheep and goat husbandry:
(a) the establishment of large (40 animals) goat or sheep
units near villages where no physical or legal res-
trictions exist for grazing and where by-products of
agriculture could provide supplementary feed; and
(b) the establishment of small (10 animals) family sheep
or goat units in areas where grazing is restricted.
The investment cost of the large units is estimated at CL 2,500, including
purchase of animals at CL 35 per animal. The investment cost of the small
units would be about CL 650. The average gross monetary output per animal is
estimated between CL 18-20; the corresponding production cost per animals is
estimated to be between CL 13 to 15 provided most feed is farm produced. The
gross cash margin per animal is estimated at CL 5. In addition, manure and
family-consumed milk and meat would account for about CL 10 per animal.
(vi)  Veterinary System Expansion.  In spite of the limited scope of
livestock in the region, there is need for improving the vet-
erinary health facilities for the existing animal population.
The project includes improvement of the Agros Veterinary Sta-
tion and the expansion of veterinary facilities at Palekhori.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
At both villages, the facilities would include a small
laboratory and a small animal clinic. The total cost for
the above facilities is estimated at CL 20,000. A detailed
list of equipment is available and includes clinical equip-
ment (CL 3,000), clinical supplies (CL 3,000), laboratory
equipment (CL 9,380), laboratory supplies (CL 1,620), car
(CL 2,500), and vaccines (CL 500).
9.        Agro-processing.  The proposed project would supplement on-going
programs of providing credit to promote selected agro-processing activities:
pork and milk processing units, almond shelling machines and beekeeping.
(i) Pork Processing. Two pork processing plants are proposed. Each
processing plant would consist of a building with facilities and
equipment for processing hams, bacon, sausages and loins and
would cost approximately CL 6,000. Each unit would permanently
employ four persons and would have a processing capacity of 50
tons of pork meat annually (see Table 9).
(ii) Milk Processing. One milk processing plant which would serve
as a "demonstration" or "pilot" unit is proposed. The plant
would consist of a shed-type building with facilities and
equipment for the production of hallumi cheese and the handling
of anari, a by-product. The plant, which would have a daily
capacity of about 1,200 kilograms of milk, would employ two
persons and would operate about 180 days per year. Total cost
of the plant would be about CL 3,000 (see Table 9).
(iii) Almond Shelling Machines. There are presently about 550,000
almond trees in the Pitsilia Region. The average production
of almonds is about 1,500 tons. Harvesting of almonds takes
place during the second half of July and early August when
farmers in the area are almost fully occupied with their deci-
duous trees. The shelling of almonds (removal of pericarp) is
also performed by hand. This causes employment peaks during
the period which is critical for other intensive crops. The
shelling operation could be mechanized to some extent through
shelling machines. The machines would be located near the
cooperative centres which handle the marketing of almonds.
The cost of each machine is estimated at CL 300. About five
shelling machines would be financed (Table 9).
(iv) Beekeeping. The Pitsilia Region is favorable for the develop-
ment of the beekeeping industry. There are already about 90
beekeeping units in the region. Yields per beehive range
between 10 kgs to 40 kgs with an average of about 20 kgs/
beehive. In view of the expected expansion of deciduous
plants and the existing vegetation, the development of bee-
keeping in a systematic way could be a source of additional
income and a good opportunity for part-time employment. About
50 beekeeping units (a capacity of 35 beehives per unit) could
be established in the region of Pitsilia. The cost for estab-
lishing one beekeeping unit is estimated at CL 400 and includes
the purchase value of 35 beehives, one machine for the extrac-
tion of honey and other necessary tools (Table 9).



ANNEX 5
Page 6
10.       Agricultural Machinery.  The use of agricultural machinery in the
Pitsilia Region is presently limited due to the topography of the area and
the existing farming pattern. Only a few farmers have their own orchard
tractors which they use for cultivation in irrigated areas and, to some ex-
tent, in vineyards. Other farmers have to hire such tractors when necessary
or, in many cases, they use animal traction. Plant protection activities
are performed mainly by using small portable sprayers and dusters. In view
of the proposed extension of the cultivated area under the project, additional
machinery will be required for the various cultural practices involved. The
agricultural machinery requirements during the five-year period would cost
about CL 95,500 and would include orchard tractors with high pressure sprayers
and rotary cultivators, mist blowers, knapsack, sprayers and motorized portable
hand sprayers (Table 9).
11.       Health and Medical Care.  See Annex 6.
12.       Primary Schools.  See Annex 7.
13.       Village Domestic Water Supplies.  Supply of domestic use water would
be improved in 15 villages. "Improvement" is defined as the availability of
20 gallons/person/day (Table 8).
14.       Road Infrastructure.  This includes village roads, farm roads, and
village streets. Each is discussed below.
Village Roads
15.       Policy.  Village roads provide links between neighboring villages
and also link the villages with trunk roads leading to the town. In some
areas where there are no trunk roads, the village roads provide access to
towns. The responsibility for the construction, improvement and maintenance
of village roads is vested in the office of the District Officer. All costs
for construction of village roads are incurred by the Government. In terms of
construction standards, these roads are either one-lane asphalted roads with
a shoulder on either side or earthen/gravel roads. The one-lane asphalted
roads have a 3.75 m wide asphalted strip with an 0.80 m shoulder on either
side. The earthen or gravel roads are often of similar total width but do not
have an asphalted surface. They are, however, all-weather roads. Present
Government policy is to provide at least one asphalted access road to each
village that was only connected by earthen gravel roads. An access road was
defined as the road providing access to the District Town or the commercial
center to which the village commuted. A systematic ranking of priorities was
established and the Government decided that all the villages without asphalted
access would have such a road within 10 years.
16.       Project Proposals.  Ten village roads are proposed under the Pitsilia
Project. These proposals aim at integrating the Pitsilia Region by removing
the physical obstacles to communication between villages. The total road
network would be about 63 km, of which 47.3 km would be in the Project area.
Only the costs for these are included in the Project cost estimates. The
total Project cost would be about CL 419,000 (see Table 1).



ANNEX 5
Page 7
17.       Unit Costs.  The cost per km of these proposed village road schemes
varies considerably depending on the current state of the road, the extent to
which the alignment needs to be improved and the condition of the surface.
Under the Pitsilia conditions, the actual cost per km of road will vary from
case to case.
18.       Maintenance.  The maintenance of village roads is undertaken by the
District Officers. The cost of maintaining these roads is estimated as follows:
(a)  Non-asphalted roads      CL 100 to CL 160 per km per annum
(b)  Asphalted roads              150 to    250 per km per annum
Village Streets
19.       Policy.  Since Independence, the Government has implemented a program
for the construction of asphalted streets in the built-up areas of the villages
of Cyprus. This program is part of the Government's overall rural development
program and is implemented by District Officers. Villages contribute 50% of
the cost and the Government provides the balance as a grant unless the village
is small and/or very poor in which case the Government contributes two-thirds
of the cost. The village contributions are often provided by the Government
in the form of loans issued through the Loan Commissioners.
20.       Project Proposals.  The proposals for village streets amount to the
sum of CL 130,000 for the asphalting of streets, construction of paving where
the ground is too steep or the houses are too close together for road construc-
tion, and the improvement of street drainage. This should permit construction
of some 20 kms of village streets during the five-year implementation period
of the project. The unit costs are given in Table 2. Table 3 gives the pro-
posed village street program.
Farm Roads
21.       Policy.  Government policy is to ensure that the proposals for farm
roads are coordinated so that each irrigated area and each land consolidation
scheme would have a farm road constructed by the District Administration con-
necting the area with the village. Within each irrigated area, the Land Con-
solidation Authority is responsible for ensuring that each irrigated plot has
direct access to a farm road. In dryland areas, it is not possible to provide
each plot with direct access to a road because of the extreme fragmentation of
agricultural plots. So, the District Administration simply opens up farm roads
providing access to certain areas that are intensely cultivated; and although
direct access is not provided to each plot, many plots will have such access
and the distance to the road is reduced for all the plots in the area. In
general, the construction of the farm roads must be phased with the irrigation
and soil conservation works. Farm roads are either constructed by the District
Administration or by the Land Consolidation Authority.



AMiE_ _
Page 8
22.       Project Farm Roads Constructed by the District Administration.  These
farm roads consist of earthen or gravel roads, ten feet in width. The major
part of the cost consists of machinery costs (bulldozers) and, where necessary,
suitable material for the surface is provided or labor is used to construct
ditches. No land acquisition costs are involved because the farmers volun-
tarily arrange the right of way for these roads. Farm roads are financed by
the Government under two schemes: (i) a contributory scheme, and (ii) a non-
contributory scheme limited to vine-growing villages. Under the contributory
scheme, the Government and the village each contributes 50% of the cost,
unless the village is small and/or very poor, in which case, the Government
contributes two-thirds of the cost and the village one-third. The villages
sometimes raise their contributions from the local cooperative credit society,
but more often they receive a loan from the Government through the Loan
Commissioners. The non-contributory scheme for farm roads is related to the
vine-culture subsidizatior. scheme. In order to encourage structural cost-
reducing improvements in vine-growing areas, the Government proposed that,
over and above the contributory farm road schemes, it would provide funds
covering the costs of construction of farm roads in vine-growing villages.
The farmers' unions agreed to this arrangement, and each year the farm road
program in vine-growing villages has been negotiated. It is estimated that
about 250 kms of farm road will be constructed by the District Officers at a
total cost of about CL 375,000.
23.       Project Farm Roads Constructed by the Land Consolidation Authority.
It is Government Policy that in all areas where land consolidation is imple-
mented each consolidated plot should have direct access to a road. Within the
areas to be consolidated, the roads would be constructed by the Land Consolida-
tion Authority and the roads leading to the areas to be consolidated would be
constructed by the District Officers. Farm roads make up the major part of the
costs of land consolidation if personnel costs are excluded. Where land con-
solidation is implemented, the affected farmers contribute 50% of the cost
of the farm road and the Government contributes the remaining 50%. Once the
roads are constructed, they are declared public roads and the District Officers
become responsible for maintaining them. About forty kilometers of road will
be constructed by the Land Consolidation Authority under the project at a cost
of CL 60,000. The unit costs are given in Table 2.
24.       Maintenance.  Until recently, the villages themselves were respon-
sible for the expenditure required for the maintenance of farm roads con-
structed under the various schemes described above. Serious problems arose
and the roads were in danger of serious deterioration because of the lack of
maintenance. In 1975 an agreement was reached by which the Government would
provide 50% of the cost of maintenance on the condition that the villages
affected will do the same. In 1976 a Budget allocation for farm road main-
tenance was introduced, and it appears that the new arrangements are working
well. The unit costs of farm roads are given in Table 2.
25.       Consolidated Project.  Table 5 gives a consolidated statement about
the structure of the project. Chart 1 gives the estimated Implementation
Schedule.
26.       Project Cost.  Table 6 gives the total cost and phasing.  Tables 7
to 11 provide the backup information for Table 6.



ANNEX 5
Technical Note No. 1
APPRAISAL OF                         Page 1
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Technical Note 1 for the Xyliatos Dam
River                 Laghoudera River, tributary of
Elea River
Dam type              Rockfill with clay core
Spillway type         15 m width, open weir, chute and
(left bank)           flip bucket
Dam height            42 m
Storage
capacity                    3
(gross)               1.3 Mm'
Useful capacity       1.3 Mm3
Full supply level    537.50 m a.s.l. i'
Crest level           541.75 m a.s.l.
River bed level       500 m a.s.l.
Catchment area        19.2 km2
Annual inflow
(80% probability)    1.46 Mm3
Spillway design
floor discharge       130 m3/s (inflow) - 101 m3/s (outflow)
Freeboard design
flood discharge       243 m3/s (inflow) - 197 m3/s (outflow)
1/ a.s.l. - above sea level.



ANNEX 5
Technical Note 1
Page 2
Construction Materials
Clay core                        43,000 m3
Gravel Filters                   23,000 m
Rockfill                        163,400 m3
Mass concrete                       700 m3
3
Reinforced concrete                 450 m3
Diversion Works, combined with irrigation outlet.
Diversion tunnel                132 m long, 2 m diameter
concrete lined
Upstream diversion                 (elevation)
510 m a.s.l.
Diversion capacity               34 m /s
Cost Estimates (rounded) including physical contingencies.
Embankment               EC    300,000
Spillway                         70,000
Diversion and outlet             60,000
Drilling and grouting            55,000
Miscellaneous and access
road                           20,000
505,000
Source; Ministry of Agriculture



ANNEX 5
Technical Note 1
Page 3
Crop Water Requirements. Major crops in the project area would be
deciduous fruit trees and vegetables. The assessment of water requirements
is based on actual experience reviewed by the agriculturalists of the Depart-
ment of Agriculture. Due allowance would be made for the elevation of each
minor scheme, and the following table indicates the average net water
requirements.
Net Irrigation Requirements
m3/donum
Perennials
Cherries                                          550
Apples                                            700
Almonds                                           200
Peaches and Apricots                              550
Plums                                             550
Table Olives                                      400
Citrus                                            800
Table Grapes                                      300
Subtotal (Perennials)
Annuals
Fodder                                            400
Summer Vegetables                                 600
Potatoes                                          400
Seed Potatoes                                     400
Subtotal (Annuals)
Total                                        484
Allowing for 80% field
irrigation efficiency                                  605
Allowing for 5% conveyance losses                      637
Normally water requirements will vary according to the following average
percentages:
April   May    June    Jul       Ag      Sept.
percentage           7     22       26       18     11        8
The peak water requirement in June for citrus would amount to 2,050 m3/ha
at the headgate, i.e. 0.8 1/s/ha continuous flow or 1.2 1/s/ha over 16
hours per day.



ANNEX 5
Technical Note 2
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Technical Note No. 2 on Storage Ponds
1.        In the topographical conditions of the Pitsilia area, large storage
dams are not feasible; the alternative is to construct small reservoirs to
serve small areas suitable for irrigation. These reservoirs would be filled
in winter or early springtime by diverting water from small streams. Such an
off-stream storage pond was constructed by WDD in 1972 near Kyperounda with
a capacity of about 60,000 m3; it serves an area of 160 donums. It proved to
be satisfactory and the WDD would be using the following design guidelines:
(a) ponds would be located on flat or saddle-shaped land in order
to minimize earth movement;
(b) embankments would be made of excavated material with light
compaction;
(c) inside slopes would be 3.5/1 either in cut or in fill and
outside slopes would be 3/1;
(d) freeboard would be 0.5 meters with overflow outlet;
(e) water tightness of the pond would be secured by a membrane
of polythene covering the whole reservoir bottom. The
polythene sheet would be laid on a 50 cm layer of compacted
clay and would be protected by a 25 cm overlayer of sand
and coarse material.
2.        During project preparation, the WDD studied five proposed sites
for storage ponds. The main characteristics of these sites were:



ANNEX 5
Technical Note 2
Page 2
Location                   Khandria  Kalokhorio  Pelendria  Ephtagonia  Melini
Region                       Agros    Limassol    Troodos        Larnaca   Larnaca
Pond capacity (m3)          70,000      96,000       99,000       92,000   53,000
Estimated cost CL           42,000      72,000       60,000       62,000   54,000
Cost per m3 of useful
capacity (Mils)              720         786          425          595    1,000
Annual Water Require-
ment (m3 per donum)           610        660          610          780       750
Net Irrigated Area
(donum)                      105         148          241          134       70
Water Supply                gravity    pumping       gravity      gravity  gravity
plte
ptuping
from
borehole
The useful storage capacity was determined by reservoir operation studies
taking into account the 80% probability flow of the stream and the evapora-
tion and the monthly water requirements of the selected cropping pattern.
Estimated costs include 20% for physical contingencies and supervision of
construction. The Pelendria storage pond is an example of a pond which could
be operated in conjunction with a nearby borehole.



ANNEX 5
Technical Note 3
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Technical Note No. 3 on Groundwater Schemes
1.        Investigations on groundwater potential were begun in June 1976.
By February 1977 31 boreholes had been drilled. These boreholes are located
in faults or highly fractured zones in the gabbros area cz along the Arakapas
fault at the point of contact between pillow lavas and diabase. Pumping tests
have been carried out and 15 boreholes have already been identified with a
capacity of more than 20 m3 per hour, therefore able to serve at least 50
donums. Water balance in the project area has been tentatively assessed and
the annual replenishment is about 3 MCM. The anticipated use of groundwater
for irrigation or water supply purposes would not exceed half of the annual
replenishment. The total number of boreholes to be used for irrigation is
not yet ascertained, but is likely to be 25 to 30; and in the cost estimates,
provision has been made for 30 boreholes equipped with casing, electric
submersible pumping unit and electric supply. The size of each irrigated
scheme to be served by one borehole will vary between 50 and 250 donums,
with an average of about 130 donums (17 ha). 1/ Detailed layouts and designs
were prepared by WDD for three typical schemes totalling 370 ha net. Cost
estimates for the remainder have been based on the average thus derived.
The main features of each groundwater scheme would include (i) an electro-
submersible pump of 25-60 KVA to deliver 5-15 l/s with a delivery head of
120-180 meters, (ii) a balancing tank of about 30 m3 with a float valve and a
pressure control switch to regulate the automatic operation of the pump unit
and prevent overheating; (iii) conveyance pipes and tertiary pipes, of dia-
meter between 3 and 8", laid on the ground surface except where crossing
roads or tracks; and (iv) farm outlets to serve a plot or a group of plots.
2.        Pumping Costs.  Pumping would be required for supplying irrigation
water to the areas using groundwater and to part of the areas served by the
1/   Since it is expected that the water withdrawal from the borehole will
affect nearby springs or wells, one-third of the borehole yield would
be spared for compensation purposes.
Source: Ministry of Agriculture



ANNEX 5
Technical Note 3
Page 2
storage ponds. Pumping costs consist of electric energy consumption, 1/
maintenance, and periodic replacement of the pumping unit and miscellaneous
hydraulic or electric related equipment. The costs have been assessed using
the following assumptions:
(a) annual water consumption (v), 650 m3 per donum;
(b) overall pumping efficiency (R), 0.65;
(c) cost of electric energy during off-peak hours, 16 hours per
day at 10.35 mils per kwh;
(d) average delivery head (H), 135 m;
(e) about 40% of the water delivered by the storage ponds would
be pumped;
(f) annual maintenance costs would amount to about 4% of the
capital costs of the pumping unit and accessories. The
resulting costs are shown in Table 10, Annex 5.
1/   Assessed by the relation E (kwh) = 9.81 V H;
3600 x R
where:
kwh = kilowatt hour
V   = m3 annual water use
H   = total delivery meters head
R   = pumping efficiency



ANNEX 5
Technical Note 4
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Technical Note No. 4 on Rehabilitation Schemes
1.        The purpose of rehabilitation is to save water now lost in obsolete
earth or masonry distribution canals by the construction of watertight canals
or by the installation of pressure pipes. The water thus saved permits better
irrigation of existing permanent crops (mainly deciduous trees) and extension
of summer irrigation to neighboring areas presently irrigated only in winter
and spring. Benefits accrue from higher yields of existing plantations, new
summer crops or extension of tree plantations; and reduction in maintenance
costs for water distribution. Similar rehabilitation projects already carried
out, have been monitored and have demonstrated that the net income of farmers
may be almost doubled. The rehabilitation work is usually comprised of one or
more of the following:
-    repairing or replacing diversion structures and conveyance
channels.
-    replacing earth distribution canals by pressure pipes,
either asbestos cement or galvanized iron depending on
diameter.
-    provision of night storage tanks to permit irrigation
only during about 16 hours of daylight during the peak
season.
-    provision of outlet valves for each individual farm.  On-
farm system would be hose basin for the deciduous trees
and hose-furrow for vegetables.
Source: Ministry of Agriculture



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVEXLPT PRJ3T
CY^lll
Detailed Cost Estimte  of Villege Roa
--------------------------------------.  --------------- Road Links Between ---------------------------------------------------
Alona-    Xyliatoe-    LAgoudhera-    Ioanmia-    Arakap"s-    Eptagonia-    Eptagonia-    Sykopetra-    Ora-                   Melini-
Agros     Lagoudhera   Polystypos        Theodoros   Dhierona       Melini         Akapnou        Arakapas        Khirokitia   Eptagonia             Total
Sub-Region      ------------- Nicosia -------------    -------------------------- Limsseol ---------------------------                ----- LArnaca --------
Length (km)       7            13            2.9            2.4          4              1.6            3.2            7.2             20             2               63.3
Width (m)         3.75          3.7          3.6            3.7          3.7            3.7            3.7            3.7              -             -                 -
Preliminaries                                                        0.50        1.00          0.50            0.50        0.25                           0-              -             060           0.4                3.75
Erection of Bridge                                                    -           -             -               -          5.28             -              -              -               -            4.5               9,78
Earthworks                                                          12.00       10.00          5.00            5.62        9.10           3.90           7.45           19.6           21.00           5.4              99.07
AlIlverts                                                            3.25        5.40          1.80            0.72        2.64           o.76           3.33           10.32           1.95           0.40             30.57
Retaining Wells                                                     10.00        2.00          4.00             -           -               -              -              -             1.20           0.30             17.50
Poundationing                                                       12.25       14.80          4.00                         -               -              -              -               -             -               31.05
Asphalting (2 Coats)                                                27.60       57.70         11.00            7.70       12.80            5.1          10.2            22.10          15 20           6 30            175.70
Side Drains                                                          2.10        3.90          O.&7            o.96        1.6            o.48            1.28           2.88           3.60           0.30             17.97
Beroe                                                                2.80        6.50          1.13            1.10        1.8            CA84            1.68           2.7            3.60           0.60             22.75
Road Signs                                                           0.35        0.70          0.20            0.4         0.23           0.12            0.16           0.4            0.25           O                 2.91
Compensatior                                                         1.00         -            0.50            1.2         1.8            1.00           1.4             0.80           o.6o            .20 P.50
Subtotal                                                 71.85      102            29              18.2        35.5            12.2           25.5           58.8            48            i, 5             419.55
Thysical Contingencies (10%)                                         7.15       10             3               1.8         3.5            1.3             2.5            5.8             5             1.8              41.85
OCTAL:                                                  79         112            32               20          39             13.5           28             64.6            53            20.3              461.40
Foreign Exchange Cost (at 45%)                           35.55       50.4          14.4              9.0       17.55            6.08          12.6           29.07           23.85          9.14             207?64
J,/ Only 20t of this cost is included in Project Cost Estimates.
lfarch 10, 1977



ANNEX 5
Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Unit Cost of Roads
Rate    Amount
Description                           Quantity   Unit    mils        CL
1. Village Streets (3.75 m width)
Preliminaries                                                       100
Foundationing                         3,750      M2       150       562
Asphalting:  1st and 2nd coat         3,750      M2     1,000    3,750
Retaining Walls                         100      M3     8,000       800
Traffic Signs                             2      no.   10,000        20
Contingencies, Final Design
and Supervision                                                 1,267
TOTAL:                                                 6,500
2. Farm Roads (3 m width)
Preliminaries                                                        30
Earthworks                            3,600      M2       200       720
Culverts                                 30      M     18,000       540
Contingencies                                                       210
TOTAL:                                                 1,500
February 16, 1977



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Proposed Program for Village Streets
Phasing of Expenditure
Aggregate Length   Total                        ---------------- Year -----------------
of Streets       Cost     Unit Cost           1         2        3         4         5
(ki)         (CE-) (CE km)-                      -       (C  1,000) --------------
I.    Limassol District
Khandria, Kyperounda, K. Amiandos, Dhymes,
Agridhia, Agros, Potamitissa, Pelendria,
K. Mylos, Ayios loannis, Ayios Theodoros,
Zoopiyi, Kalokhorio, Ayios Pavlos, Sykopetra,
Louvaras, Eptagonia, Arakapas, Akapnou,
Dhierona.                                                   9.7           75,000     7,730         15,100   15,000   15,000   14,900   15,000
II.   Nicosia District
Palekhori, Askas, Phterikoudhi, Alona,
Platanistassa, Apliki, Polystipos,
Livadhia, Lagoudhera, Sarandi, Alithinou,
Kambi, Lazania, Ghouri, Phikardou, Spilia,
Kourdhali, Kannavia, Ayia Irini, Ayia Marina,
Xyliatos, Pharmakas.                                        9.1           50,000      5,495         10,000   10,000   10,000   10,000   10,000
Ill. Larnaca District
Ora, Melini, Odhou, Ayia Vavatsinias                        1.8            5,000      4,170          1,100    1,100        950      900       950
TOTAL:                                          20            130,000      6,500 -       26,200   26,100   25,950   25,800   25,950
1/ See Table 3 for detailed breakdown.
Source:  Planning Bureau                                                                                                                                  13
March 1977                                                                                                                                                |x
u t



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Estimated Credit Requirements -
Required -                     Total
Credit Per   X   Total   =    Credit                                Rough Phasing
Donum           Donums      Required             --------  Year ----------------------
(CF.)        (Donums)         (CE)               1           2          3           4           5
Investment Category
I.   Per Donum
Ponds                                            219            2,900         635,100        139,722    139,722    139,722    139,722         76,212
Boreholes                                        114            3,000         342,000        102,600      85,500      68,400      51,300      34,200
Rehabilitation                                    46            1,160          53,360         13,340      13,340      13,340      13,340        -
On-farm System                                    48            7,770         372,960         44,756      59,674      89,510      89,510      89,510
Soil Conservation:  Rainfed                       51           13,000         663,000         76,245    139,230    149,175    149,175    149,175
:  Irrigated                    39            7,770         303,030         39,392      36,364      75,758      75,758      75,758
II. Total Proiect
Village Water Supply                                                           90,000         22,500      22,500      22,500      22,500         -
Village Streets                                                                78,000         15,600      15,600      15,600      15,600      15,600
Schools                                                                        59,000         18,290      20,060      11,800       8,850        -
Health                                                                          6,000           2,280       1,560       1,140         540         480
Land Consolidation:  Farm Roads                                                30,000          6,000       6,000       6,000       6,000       6,000
:  Land Acquisition                                         23,000           -         12,500        -         10,500        -
Agro-industries                                                               132,000         33,000      33,000      33,000      33,000         -
TOTAL:                                                           2,787,450         513,725    585,050    625,945    615,795    446,935
1/ These are not listed under the credit component of the Project as they are included in the
Project Cost under their respective headings.
2/  From Table 8, Annex 11.                                                                                                                                         >
March 1977
4-b



ANNEX 5
Table 5
APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Project Works
Village          Rehab. Boreholes  Ponds  Xyliatos  Water   Schools Health          Extension and
Dam     Supply            Services   Training Center
--------  donum  ----…-------
1. KOURDHALI
2. SPILIA
3.  AYIA IRINI          120
4.  KANNAVIA         J          5C (P)       45               X
5.  SARANDI                     60 (P)                45
6.  LAGOUDHERA                  60 (P)             3
7.  XYLIATOS                                        475
8.  AY. MARINA                                       345
9.  POLYSTYPOS            50    50 (P)                35
10. LIVADHIA
11. ALITHINOU
12. ALONA                80    50 (P)                                  x
13. PLATANISTASA         40
14. PHTERIKOUDI          50                 100
15. ASKAS                 50                                                               x
16. PALEKHORI                                                 X                  X
17. APLIKI                                                    X
18. KAMBI               100                  30
19. PHARMAKAS                                60               X                            X
20. GOURRI                                   80               X
21. PHIKARDOU                                                 X
22. LAZANIA                                                   X
23. KATO AMIANTOS       270   190            50                                  X
24. KYPEROUNDA                  77          290      220      X                  X         X
25. KHANDRIA                                140      750      X                  X         X
26. PELENDRIA                  190          240               X
27. POTAMITISSA                200          240
28. DHYMES
29. AGRIDIA                                  65
30. KATO MYLOS                  93          220               X
31. AGROS               200   190                             X                  X         A
32. AY. IOANNIS          90   250
33. AY. THEODOROS              130
34. ZOOPIYI                                  45
35. KALOKHORIO                  80 (110 P) 270                         X         X         X
36. AY. PAVLOS                 110 (P)                        X
37. AY. KONSTANTINOS           110 (P)       65               X
38. LOUVARAS                    60 (P)
39. ARAKAPAS                   260          18C
(170 P)
40. DHIERONA                    60 (P)                        X
41. SYKOPETRA                                                 X
42. MELINI                                   70
43. EPHTAGONIA                  50          310
(140 P)
44. AKAPNOU                    200 (P)      290
45. ORA                         60 (P)       70
46. AY. VAVATSINIAS                          40
47. ODHOU               110
1,160 1,710        2,900   1,870
(1,290 P)
3,000
(P) proposed
Source: Government of Cyprus
March 1977



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Detailed Project Cost Estimates
Phasing of Cost                                   Total Cost
Including
Foreign                                                                Including Only    Physical
Exchange       Up To                                                   Physical             and Price
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total   Percentage    1977               1978     1979     1980    1981      1982    Contingencies         Contingencies
(CE 1,000) -------   -__   (US$1,000)                                                         (Cl; 1,000) -----------------
New Irrigation Schemes
A. Supply Works
Xyliatos dam                    168       252       420       403       605    1,008          60           -         -        250      254        -       -            504                 650
Storage ponds                  513       627    1,140       1,231     1,505    2,736          55           -        300      300       300      300      168        1,368                1,760
Boreholes                        76       304       380       182       730       912         80          190        60        60       60       60       26           456                 580
B. Distribution System
Xyliatos dam                    57         85       142       137       204       341         60           -         -         -       130       40       -            170                 210
Ponds/Boreholes                 167       251       418       401       602    1,003          60           -        110       110      110      110       62           502                 640
C.  Soil Conservation                 150       183        333       360       439       799        55            -        100      100       100      100       -            400                 510
D.  On-farm Systems                   145       217        362       348       521       869         60           -        100       134      100      100       -            434                 550
Subtotal            1,276     1,919     3,195      3,062    4,606      7,t 8        60           190       670      954   1,054        710      256        3,834                4,900
Irrigation Rehabilitation                    60        74       134       144        178       322        55                      41       4;;      40       40        -           161                  200
Soil Conservation-Dryland                   333       408       741       799        979    1,778         55            -        200      210      210      210        60          890               1,140
Farm Roads *                                206       168       374       494        403       897        45            -         75      105      150       105       -           435                  560
Village Roads *                             210       171       381       504        410       914        45            -         50       90       90      120        69          419                  540
Village Streets *                            58        47       105       139        113       252        45            -         26       26        26       26       26          130                  160
Village Water Supply                         52        98       150        126       234       360        65            -         45       45       45        45       -           180                  230
Health Facilities *                          30        57        87         73       136       209        65            -         32       38        12        6        7            95                 120
Schools *                                    79        97       176       190        232       422        55            -         60       66       39        29       -           194                  250
Extension and Farmer Training *              39        38         77        94        91       185        50            -         40       20        10       10        5            85                 105
Agro-pEocessing, Machinery *                 57        95       152        137       228       365        62            _         40       3/        29       26       20           152                 195
Credir.Y and Incremental Working            143        37       180        343        89       432        21            _         45       63        55       17       -            180                 232
C*pital **                                                                                                                                                                                            23
Consulting Services **                       10        32        42         24        77       101         76           10        10        10       10        2       _             42                  54
Agricultural Research **                     40        10         50        96        24       120        20             3        10        10       10       10        7            50                  64
2/
Total (W.O.P.C. - )           2,593    3,251       5,844     6,225     7,800   14,025          56                 -         -        -        -        -                  -                   -
Physical Contingencies-3         428       575     1,003     1,027     1,380    2,407                             -         -        -        -        -                  -                   -
Subtotal                 3,021    3,826      6,847     7,252    9,180   16,432           56           203     1,344   1,714    1,780   1,356         450        6,847                    -
Price Contingencies 4/           829    1,074      1,903     1,988    2,580    4,568                          7       164      373      564      561       234        1,903                   -
TOTAL COST              3,850    4,900    8,750    9,240   11,760   21,000                            210    1,508   2,087    2,344   1,917          684        8,750                8,750
1/  About CE 30,000 is included for purchase of animals.  (see Table 11).
2/  Without Physical Contingencies.                                                                                                                                                                          noi
3!  Average contingencies 7 is 177 made up from:  10% for components marked with a single asterisk; 0% for those marked with a double asterisk; 20% for the rest.
4/  Assuming 8.5% p.a. (civil works 707,; equipment 307.) for 1977-79, and 7.5% p.a. (civil works 507.; equipment 50%) for 1980-82.  The six price contingency factors
are 0.0425, 0.131, 0.227, 0.327, 0.425 and 0.531.
April 1977



ANNEX 5
Table 7
APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Irrigation Rehabilitation Schemes
Irrigated Area
Location                   Permanent      Total       Cast
Crops                   CL 000'
donum
1.   AGROS                             200           200       25
2.   AYIOS IOANNIS                      90            90       12
KATO MYLOS
3.   KAMBI - PHARMAKAS                 100          100        10
4.   ALONA                              40            80       10
5.   ODHOU                             110          110        10
6.   KATO AMIANTOS                     275          275        30
7.   AYIA IRINI - KANNAVIA              30          120        10
8.   ASKAS                              50           50         7
9.   PHTERIKOUDI                        50           50         7
10.  POLYSTYPOS                         50           50         7
11.  PLATANISTASSA                      40           40         6
Total                1,030        1,160 -    134
1/ With 130 donums of intercropping.
Source: Ministry of Agriculture
March 1977



APPRAISAL OF                           ANNEX 5
Table 8
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Village Water Supply Improvement Works
Location                         Improvement         Cost Estimate
Proposed            CL '000
SYKOPETRA                                HS -                    7
LAZANIA                                   HS - ST                1
PHYKARDOU                                HS - ST                 6
KANNAVIA                                  ST                     6
KATO MYLOS                               ST                      5
AYIOS PAVLOS                              ST                     5
AYIOS KONSTANTINOS                        ST                     5
KYPEROUNDA - KHANDRIA                     BH                    28
AGROS                                     BH                    20
PELENDRIA                                BH                     20
DHIERONA                                  BH                     5
KAMBI                                     ST                     5
PALEKHORI - APLIKI                        BH                     7
PHARMAKAS                                 BH                    55
GOURRI                                    BH                     5
Total
180 -
HS - house supply
ST - storage tank
BH - borehole
1/ Including Physical Contingencies
Source: Ministry of Agriculture
March 1977



ANNEX 5
Table 9
APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Agro-processing; Agricultural MachinerY: Veterinary Equipment
Cost Estimates
Phasing of Cost
Foreign
Foreign       Unit     Number       Total    Exchange
Exchange      Cost     of Units    Cost       Cost            1          2         3          4          5
(7.)       (CB)                   ----------------------------- (CE,) ---
I.    Pork Processing
Buildings -/                                          3,200
Equipment -                                           2.800
50       6,000          2        12,000      6,000       6,000      6,000
II.   Milk ProcessinR
Building-3                                               600
Equipment -t                                           2.400
50       3,000           1        3,000      1,500       3,000        -
III.  Almond Shelling,3
Equipment -                                  70          300         5         1,500      1,050       1,500
IV.   Beekeeping
Equipment 6/                                 10          400        50        20,000      2,000       4,000      4,000    4,000       4,000      4,000
V.    yeterinary equipment 7/                           60          -           9/        20,000    12,065       10,000      5,000    3,000       1,000      1,000
VI.   Agricultural Machinery
Orchard Tractors                             75          500        150       75,000    56,250       15,000    15,000   15,000    15,000    15,000
Mist Blowers                                 75          120         50         6,000     4,500       1,500      1,500    1,500       1,500        -
Knapsack Sprayers                            75           30        150        4,500      3,375       1,500      1,000    1,000       1,000        -
Motorized Portable Hand Sprayers             75          200         50        10,000      7,500      2,000      2,000    2,000       2,000      2,000
TOTAL                             62           -          -       152,000    94,240       44,500    34,500   26,500    24,500    22,000
1/ Working room, cold storage, fumigation room.
2/  Basins, mincer, sausage filling machine, has press, working tables, other.
3/  Shed.
4/  Cheese vats, stirring equipment, cheese table, cheese press, boiler, milk cans, other.
5/  Shelling machine.
6/  Machine for extracting honey and other tools.
7/ Clinical equipment, laboratory supplies, vehicle.
8/ With high-pressure sprayers and rotary cultivators.
9/ To improve the existing Agros Veterinary Station and to establish facilities at Palekhori.  Detailed requirements for equipment were
supplied to the mission and are available; but since a large number of small items is involved, the list is only indicative and is not
included in the report.
Source: Ministry of Agriculture
April 1977



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Operation and Maintenance Annual Cost
Area          Capital Cost          Percentage         Operation          Maintenance          Replacement          Total         Annual Cost
Donum           000' CL                0% --------------------                     ------------------------------------           CL Per Donum
1. XYLIATOS SCHEME                               1,870
A. Dam                                                      507                                     2,500              1,400                 -                3,900              3.5
B. Distribution System                                      172                  1.5                1,298              1,290                 -                2,580    J
2.  PONDS                                        2,900
A.  Storage Works                                          1,370                 1.0                6,850              6,850               5,700             19,400
B.  Pumping Energy & Pump Maintenance                                                               4,500              4,200                                  8,700             10.9
C. Distribution System                                       247                 1.5                1,850              1,850                                  3,700
3. BOREHOLES                                     3,000
A. Pumping Units                                             265                 4.0                5,300              5,300               18,000            28,600
B. Pumping Energy                                                                                  11,360                                                    11,360             14.6
C. Distribution System                                       255                 1.5                1,910              1,910                                   3,820
4. REHABILITATION SCHEMES                        1,160              160                  1.0                 800                800                                   1,600              1.4
Source: Mission Estimates
March 1977
0



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Incremental Working Capital Requirements
--------- Irrigated Crops -----    ---------------------- Rainfed Crops ------------------------
--------------- Year   --------                                      -------------- Year -----------
Percent of                              Full                        Percent of                              Full
Area Under        1          3      Development        Crops        Area Under         1          3      Development
(Cb/donum)
(Cash II Costs/donum)
(Weighted by Crop Percent)
I.    Crops (CE/donum)
Cherries                                                12            3.14       2.7        4.09           Vineyards           46          8         5.93          8.37
Apples                                                   2.1          0.67       0.53       1.57           Almonds             15          2.57      1.35          2.46
Almonds                                                  9            1.32       1.22       4.83           Otives              39         11.1       2.73          7.02
Peaches                                                  5            1.62       1.43       2.57
Plums                                                    2            0.54       0.44       1.04
Table olives                                            10.3          3.06       2.21      10.28
Citrus                                                  11.3          4.79       2.07       6.33
Table Grapes                                             4            1.72       0.66       1.68
Potatoes                                                23.3         15.59      15.59      15.59
Vegetables                                              21            9.39       9.39       9.39
Total (X1)                                  100           41.84      36.24      57.37                              100         21.67    10.01          17.85
II.   Area Under Crop (donums)(X2)                                  -            1,840      5,520      8,900                                         3,000      6,000         13,000
III. Estimated Maximum Working Capital
I (X    Y(CR)                                                         25,661    66,681   170,197                                          21,670    20,020          77,350
IV.   Sum of 'III" for Irrigated and Rainfed (CE)                               47,331    86,701   247,547
V.    Phasing of Requirements                                       Year              Cumulative
(CE)
1                 35,000
2                 88,000
3                133,000
4                150,000 2                                                                                    X 
1/ Transplanting, seeds, fertilizer, chemicals, machinery and hired labor.
2/ Due to phasing of development, increases in internally generated funds, the actual need for working capital would decline over time.
April 1977



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Project Implementation Schedule
1976      1977      1978       1979       1980      1981       1982
I.    Investigations and Design
Xyliatos Dam and Distribution System                     l
Ponds
Groundwater (Drill and Test)                        l
Distribution Network for Ponds and Groundwater                l
Rehabilitation Schemes                                        l      _l
Village Domestic Water Supply
Village Roads
Village Streets
Schools
Health                                                   _
II.   Construction
Xyliatos Dam and Distribution System                                                 |
Ponds
Groundwater
Distribution Network for Ponds and Groundwater
Rehabilitation Schemes                                                     i                                         I
Village Domestic Water Supply                                              I
Soil Conservation (Irrigated, Rainfed)
Village Roads
Village Streets                                                            I
Schools
Health
III. Area Available from New Irrigation, Rehabilitation,
Soil Conservation (donums)                                                                                                               Total
New Irrigation                                                                          1,550      1,550     2,300      2,350          7,750
Rehabilitation                                                                            290        290       290        290          1,160
Rainfed                                                                      3,000      3,000      3,000     3,000      1,000         13,000
Source: Based on information provided by Water Development Department, Ministry of Agriculture, Cyprus.
March 1977
Lfl



ANNEX 6
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
The Health Component
1.        Present Status of Health Services in Pitsilia.  There are four Rural
Health Centers and three Rural Health Sub-Centers available for providing
health-related services to about 95% of the population of Pitsilia. The
population of Pitsilia also uses hospital facilities available in Nicosia
and Limassol (see Table 1). The four Rural Health Centers are located in
Palekhori, Agros, Klirou and Lefkara; only the first two are actually located
in the Project area. The three Rural Health Sub-Centers are located in
Pelendria, .Calochorio and Kato Amiandos. In addition, the Kyperounda
Sanatorium 4s located in Pitsilia. The Sanatorium specializes in the treat-
ment of tuberculosis and chest diseases from all over Cyprus. There are no
private clinics in the Region.
2.        Each Health Center is staffed with a medical team (including a gen-
eral practitioner, a pharmacist, a nurse, a midwife and/or health visitor and
health inspector) responsible for a number of' villages. The Health Centers
also have a few (up to ;) beds to provide daytime facilities for maternity
patients. Only one dentist, located in Agros, provides dental services for
the Pitsilia population.
3.        The Health Centers and Sub-Centers are functioning reasonably well
in meeting the preventive and social health demands of the population. How-
ever, for the provision of curative and restorative services, the Pitsilia
health system is so poorly equipped that the only curative function it par-
tially performs is outpatient examination (see Table 1). But even in this,
due to the ]Rck of equipment and facilities, the Centers/Sub-Centers do not
enjoy the confidence of the local population.
4.        Proposed Improvement in the Provision of Medical Care.  After eval-
uating the region's requirements, the Government of Cyprus has proposed im-
provements of health services in the region through the use of the existing
infrastructural facilities supported by additional equipment and facilities.
Such expansion would enable the Centers and Sub-Centers to adequately provide
the medical services assigned to them. Child health care, vaccination, mother
health care, normal deliveries, dental care and school health services, etc.,
should be the services that could be provided locally.
5.        The proposal includes the conversion of part of the Kyperounda
Sanatorium into a small inpatient hospital with an outpatient department to
serve people in the area. The proposal also provides for the upgrading of
the Agros and Palekhori Rural Health Centers as well as of three rural Sub-
Centers operating at Pelendria, Kalochorio and Kato Amiandos. This integrated



ANNEX 6
Page 2
health system, i.e. improved outpatient facilities in the Rural Heal 'h Cen-
ters and higher standard of locally available inpatient facilities, will
function within the framework of the existing hierarchy of health services
in Cyprus. Each component of the proposed health system is discussed below.
6.        Modification of the Kyperounda Sanatorium.  The Sanatorium would
continue to function as a "Sanatorium" but would, in addition, function as a
small hospital with a 20-bed capacity providing inpatient and outpatient fa-
cilities for the Pitsilia region. Services such as internal medicine, normal
deliveries, emergency acute cases and accidents, full laboratory and X-ray
examinations would be provided by the inpatient unit at Kyperounda. The
outpatient department would provide examination, casualty services, child and
mother health care, mainly for its immediate hinterland, though there would be
no restrictions on patients from beyond the hinterland. In addition, the
inpatient unit of Kyperounda will be used for the relief of the heavily con-
gested district hospitals by accepting people from Pitsilia for convalescence
and perhaps local people classified as chronics. In this way, more effective
use will be made of this presently underutilized institution. Finally, the
conversion of part of the Sanatorium to a small hospital is considered to be
on an experimental basis; further expansion in both concept and facilities is
possible in case demand for its services is seen to exceed supply.
7.        Agros Rural Health Center.  This Center would function as the major
outpatient facility of the Region. It will offer services on a 24-hour basis,
providing outpatient facilities, casualty treatment, normal deliveries, child
and mother care, pediatric and dental services. This Center would be upgraded
in equipment to provide X-ray and laboratory facilities. There would continue
to be two doctors: a General Practitioner responsible for the immediate area
of Agros, and a pediatrician responsible for most of the region. The dentist
stationed at Agros would also be responsible for most of the region for dental
health. A small inpatient unit would be maintained mainly for delivery and
for short-term use by mothers until they can be transferred to the Kyperounda
or a district hospital. It should be noted that X-ray and laboratory facili-
ties at the Agros Center will also be available to patients from the Palekhori
Health Center.
8.        Palekhori Rural Health Center.  The Health Center at Palekhori would
function as an integrated unit with the Agros Health Center for outpatient
facilities such as X-ray and laboratory services, and with the small hospital
at Kyperounda as far as inpatient services are concerned. The complementary
relationship between the Palekhori and Agros Health Centers and the small
hospital at Kyperounda would be facilitated by the provision of an ambulance
service stationed at Palekhori. However, child and mother health care, im-
munizations and normal deliveries would be provided at the Palekhori Center.
9.        Health Sub-Centers.  These are essentially physical facilities used
for outpatient examinations by the Health Center doctors (who regularly tour
the main villages of their area) and by midwives who are permanently stationed
at these Sub-Centers. It is proposed that improved buildings should be pro-
vided at the Pelendria, Kalokhorio and Kato Amiandos Sub-Centers.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
10.       Costs for buildings and equipment are given in Table 3.  Total cost
is about CL 95,000. Phasing of cost is given in Table 4.
11.       Hygienic and Environmental Health Conditions.  Hygienic conditions
in the region, and environmental sanitation in general, are satisfactory. No
epidemics of any serious infectious diseases have occurred in the area. The
responsibility with regard to the improvement of sanitary conditions in the
area rest with the existing public health staff and includes the following
activities: inspection of water supplies, sanitary inspection of buildings,
insect control, health education, vaccination, assistance and advice to the
local authorities for the improvement of sanitation.
12.       Government would submit to the Bank for approval detailed proposals
on the equipment specifications as well as on the specific health components to
be adopted in each of the above areas.



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Use of Nicosia and Limassol Hospitals by the Population of Pitsilia
Nicosia General Hospital                        Limassol Hospital
Number of Patients                          Number of Patients
-B x 100                                     E   100
Total   From Pitsilia   A                   Total   From Pitsilia   D
A            B           C(%)               D            E           F(%)
I.   Outpatients (in a Six-day Week)             3,074         97            3.2              2,970         39             1.3
II.  Inpatients (During November 1976)           1,225         88            3.6                636         23            3.6
of Which:
Internal Medicine                        173         13            7.5               160           7            4.4
Maternity                                185         14            7.6                 89          2            2.3
Gynecological                             79          9           11.4                84           3            3.6
Surgical                                 219         16            7.3               102           4            3.9
Pediatric                                153          9            5.9               119           4            3.4
Opthalmological                           59          5            8.5                 -           -             -
Ear, Noise, Throat                        97         12           12.4                 28          2            7.1
Neurosurgical                             25          1            4.0                 -           -             -
Orthopedic                               104          6            5.8                 32          1            3.1
Private Wards                             51         -              -                  22          -             -
Psychiatric                               61          3            4.9                 -           -
Intensive Care                            19         -              -
1/  Based on surveys conducted during November/December 1976.
Source:  Ministry of Health, Cyprus.
March 1977



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Services Performed at Two Rural Health Centers
Rural Health Centers
-------- Agros----------           ------ Palekhori -------
1973      1975       1976          1973       1975       1976           Remarks
Staff and Facilities
1.  Doctors                                   1          1          1             1          1         1
2.  Number of Beds                            4          4          4             4          4         4
3.  Imnunization -/ (No.)                 3,461      3,323      1,674         3,202      1,941       405
4. General Curative and Preventive
Medical Care:
- Inpatient Patient-Days           47                                  59
- Inpatients                       17                                  13
- Outpatient Total Attends    9,052        6,557      6,689         5,228     8,291      5,946
- Number of Dressings               0                                   0
5. Specialized Services (No.)
- Dental Total Attends          3,754      4,085      1,902             0                                 From the Villages of Agros, Palekhori,
Polystypos and Kyperounda
- Maternal Total Attends          524        262         63           100         24         30
- Child Total Attends           2,725      2,793      2,217           545        233        175
- Home Visits for Women           246      N.A.       N.A.             54      1,115        257
- Home Visits for Children    1,331        N.A.       N.A.          2,220      1
6.  Deliveries                            N.A.          18          5             0          0          0           Probably all go to Nicosia
1/ Smallpox, Diphtheria, Tetanus, Whooping Cough, Polio, Measles and Influenza.
Source:  Ministry of Health, Cyprus
March 1977                                                                                                                                                   " a



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Costs of Health Facilities
Hospital                   Rural Health Centers               Rural Health Sub-Centers
Kyperounda            Agros        Palekhori   Pelendria      Kalokhorio   Kato Amiandos
Inpatient   Outpatient                                                                                                      Foreign
Unit         Unit                                                                                            Foreign      Exchange
Total    Exchange       Cost
------------------------------------__________- (CE) --        -      -     -      -     -      -     -
I.   Buildings                          10,000         9,000 2/     11,000 3      3,000 4/    5,000 -/         3,000 -        3,000 4         44,000       50         22,000
II.  Equipment and Vehicles             22,200         4,020          7,190       8,120          620             150            300           42,600       85         36,200
of Which:
Furniture and Fittings           260          420            140          370          400             100            140            1,830
Laboratory Equi g  nt         4,040           300          2,02?          350          220              50            160            7,120
X-Ray Machine 7               12,000          -             - -           -            -               -              -             12,000
Anaesthetic Machine            1,500          -             -             -            -               -              -              1,500
Operation Table               4,000           -             -             -            -               -              -              4,000
Electrocardiogram               400           -              400          400          -               -              -              1,200
Dental Unit                     -           3,000           -           3,000          -               -              -              6,000
Physiotherapy Equipment         -             300           -             -            -               -              -                300
Ambulance                       -              -           4,000        4,000          -               -              -              8,000
Other                           -              -             650          -            -               -              -                650
Subtotal:          32,200        13,020        18,190       11,120        5,620           3,150          3,300           86,600       67         58,200
Physical Contingencies (10>):      8,700       67          5,800
TOTAL:    95,300       67         64,000
1/ Structures to separate the Inpatient unit from the rest of the Sanatorium.
2/ Two examination rooms, one casualty room, one registration room, waiting room, pharmacy, storage area.
3/ Rooms for general examinetion, maternity care, registration, X-ray unit, laboratory, nurses.
4/  Additions to existing facilities.
5/  Examination, maternity, and registration rooms.
6/  Include  centrifuge, microscope, distillator, blood bank fridge, auto-clave, oven, incubator, sterilizer, stethoscope, etc.
7/  Specifications given in Appendix A.
8/ The present X-ray unit at Kyperounda will be transferred to Agros.
March 21, 1977



ANNEX 6
Table 4
APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Phasing of Health Services
Health Center/                            Costs -  During Year
Sub-Center              1         2          3          4         5        Total
_________---------------- (CL) ---------------------------
Kyperounda             20,920    28,880       -          -          -       49,800
Agros                  10,610      9,410      -          -          -       20,020
Palekhori                -          -       12,250       -         -        12,250
Pelendria                -          -         -         6,200       -        6,200
Kalokhorio               -          -         -          -         3,400     3,400
Kato Amiandos            -          -         -          -         3,630     3,630
TOTAL:      31,530    38,290    12,250       6,200      7,030    95,300
1/ The Table does not include price contingencies.
Source: Planning Bureau and Ministry of Health
March 21, 1977



ANNEX 7
Page 1
APPRP,SkAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
The Education Component
1.        Introduction.  Elementary education in Cyprus is free and compulsory
for all children between the ages of 5 and 11 years. Since Independence in
1960, substantial progress has been achieved in educating the population as
may be seen from the high literacy rate (88%) and the high proportion (94%
during the 1975/76 school year) of primary school children that go on to
secondary school. However, a difficult problem remains: the relatively low
level of facilities and educational standards in the rural areas.   This
problem is mainly due to the settlement pattern which consists of small
scattered villages. Most of these scattered villages can only support a small
school of one or two teachers for all the pupils. Educational standards are
normally lower in these small schools because one or two teachers must simul-
taneously teach children of different educational levels and ages. In 1972
there were 245 small schools out of a total of 546 on the whole Island.
2.        Existing Policy.  Following Independence, the emphasis was on the
construction of new primary school buildings, the replacement of old buildings
and the establishment of schools in all the villages that had the required
minimum (15 pupils) to justify the employment of a teacher. By 1971 the basic
requirements in physical facilities had largely been met, and greater emphasis
was then placed on qualitative improvements. In order to overcome the problem
caused by the rural settlement pattern, the Government encouraged the con-
solidation of small schools. This was achieved by persuading school boards
to close down small schools and send the children by bus to larger schools in
neighboring villages. A high proportion of the resulting transportation costs
is subsidized by the Government. This policy has been extended in recent
years, and the Government has encouraged the construction of new central
schools (or the extension of suitably located existing schools) in order to
provide schools of optimum size in the rural areas. Larger central schools
approaching the optimum size of 8 to 10 classes and serving a population of
3,000 will enable the rural schools to match urban schools in educational
standards and facilities.
3.        Responsibility for elementary education is shared between the
school boards at the local level and the Government. In rural areas the
school boards are normally the village authorities, except where there is a
central school, in which case the affected village authorities are represented.
The school boards undertake the responsibility of providing the buildings and
running costs (water, electricity, school materials) for which local taxes are
levied on all persons living in the village earning an income. The Government
provides subsidies for construction purposes, operating costs, teachers'



ANNEX 7
Page 2
salaries and student transportation cost. Normally the Government provides
grants of between 20-30% towards the construction of school buildings and
extensions; but where a village is considered to be poor, Government subsi-
dizes a higher proportion of the total costs. Owing to the relative poverty
of the Pitsilia Region, the Region's school boards generally receive grants
of between 30-50%. In addition, the Government, through the Loan Commissioners,
provides loans to the school boards for the remaining part of the construction
cost. The loans are at low interest rates (4 to 5% depending on the repayment
period). Interest rates for education purposes are 1% below the normal rates
of the Loan Commissioners.
4.        The Government subsidy towards school operating costs in rural areas
is Cb 4 per pupil per annum. Teachers' salaries are paid entirely by the Gov-
ernment. Children who have to travel more than 1-1/2 miles to school receive
a subsidy of Ch 1-2 per month depending upon the distance between residence and
the school. Normally, this does not cover the entire travelling costs. Al-
though, where convenient, the children travel by normal bus services, in many
cases the parents arrange for special bus services for the transfer of the
children. In view of the transportation costs involved, great care is taken
in the choice of location for central primary schools.
5.        Status of Elementary Education Facilities in Pitsilia.  There are 43
elementary schools with 2,508 local pupils; during 1976 there were also 687
displaced (from northern Cyprus) pupils in Pitsilia. Only 4 of these schools,
those at Pelendri and Kyperounda with 11 teachers each and Agros and Ayios
Ioannis with 6 teachers each, provide complete services. The table below
shows that 85% of the schools have less than 3 teachers.
Number of Teachers      Number of Schools        _
1                      10                 23
2                      17                 39
3                      10                 23
4                       2                  5
5                      __                 __
6                       2                  5
7                      _-                 __
8                      __                 __
10                      __                 __
11                       2                  5
Total                   43                100
Of these schools, three, those at Sarandi, Livadhia/Alithinou and Melini, are
below the minimum of 15 pupils required to justify the maintenance of a school.
6.        Proposals for Improving Elementary Education.  The Ministry of
Education has proposed that two central primary schools be established in
order to raise educational standards. It is proposed that one central



ANNEX 7
Page 3
school would be in the Alona area within the Nicosia District to serve
the villages of Alona, Polystipos, Platanistassa, Livadhia/Alithinou and
Pheterikoudhi; and the other will be at Kalochorio to serve Zoopiyi, Ayios
Pavlos, Ayios Konstantinos and Louvaras. Both schools would be located at
central locations acceptable to the village. The Government is actively
pursuing the policy of consolidating smaller schools into centrally located
larger schools. This policy is predicated on the following:
(a) Larger schools afford enhanced opportunities to socialize
and enrich the early lives of rural children who are
generally not exposed to stimulating environments in
rural areas;
(b) larger schools permit pooling of teachers, and this raises
the potential for creating a better academic environment;
(c) special facilities (social classrooms, libraries, laboratories)
can be provided more economically;
(d) pooling of resources permits economies in operating cost while
raising efficiency of resource use; and
(e) if central schools are not established, the downward trend in
pupil numbers (see Tables 1 and 2) would continually lower
the academic levels of small village schools.
7.        The proposed central schools at Alona and Kalokhorio are intended
to serve as pilot schemes to test the practical advantages against the dis-
advantages of school consolidation. The proposed consolidation of schools
in the project would be the first time for the implementation of this policy.
8.        Alona Central Elementary School.  The need for a central primary
school in Alona is both recognized and welcomed by the residents of the area.
Four alternatives (including the extension of the existing four-classroom
school in Alona) were considered. The most desirable location was found at
Ayia Anna which is close to the road junction between the villages of Livadhia
and Platanistassa. An eight-classroom school is planned for this area. The
total cost is estimated at CL 104,000 (Table 3).
9.        Kalochorio Elementary School.  There is general agreement among
residents of the area that a central school is needed and would be desirable.
Two alternatives (including the extension of the existing four-classroom
school) were considered and the new location alternative was unanimously
chosen. The proposed new school would be located at Pefkos crossroads which
is easily accessible from all the affected five villages. The estimated cost
of the eight-classroom school is CL 89,000 and (Table 3). The building
facilities of the present school would be used for other community purposes.
10.       Phasing of Construction.  It is expected that both schools would
become operational in four years.



AP7iUIShL 0"
PtTSOLI& lKTkGDATgD R0661R  0VEW ESt MAMJICT
Al-e C-enCr-l fet.r-  Srboo  frgagol.
.     r .   0.1. and Th.-her. 1h the Afaftotd ShrAIs
1963264   1964/65   196/66   19b6267   1967/68   1968/69   1969/70   1970/71    197172   1972/73   --- 1973/74 ----                   --------- 1974/1975 ------------- _-_                                     ---2- ------
otlca                                           4e
~~-~---~----------------------------             -----------------------------------------------eahes  Pil.                      Plj.   D atpl- ... d               Pupils  DaP>c*i.p-.    Teeher.  Z-11
Amas                          94         36         a3         as         81          73         78         71         60         51         2         46         41          Sb            4        97          47          24            3        75
1§lY-pen                   63          66         67         69         65         72         66         67          69         60         2         61         63          34            3        97          62          16           3         7S
platnel.r"s,                  b2         94         96         90        100          93        37         so          80         is         3         I3         59          69            6       14S          65           36           4       1lD
LIv bfl./ASItthln.            3S         46         47         42         40         40          35         29         Z4         16         1         12         16           22           2        33           a            4           1        12
phtertkotw1 54                           55         52         S0         50         S3          51         45         39         35         1         24         23           21           1        44          22           10           5        32
331        347        345        336        336        391         327       300         271        237         9        214        203         222           16       424         2D4           90          12       Z94
kMruSA:  P1977i       a
PebPeery 1977



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Ka.okho-io Central Ele-entary School Proposal
Nmbher of P.pil. and Teachers in the Affected Schools
1963/64   1964/65   1965/66   1966/67   1967/68   1968/69   1969/70   1970/71   1971/72   1972/73   _    1973/74  …---    ------------- 1974/75 -___-____-__                        --------- 1975/76 --------------------
Lo-ol                                          Local
---------------------------------------- Pupil ------------------------------------------                      Teachers  Pupils .   Pupils   Dipslaced   Teachers  pupils            pils   Displaced   Teachers  Pupils
Kslokho-io                    92         98        104         96         93         92          93         91         85         75         3         68         53           4            3        57          48           4            2        52
Zoopigi                      43          51         44         42         33         28         27         26         22         21          1         21         24          8             1        32          27          -             1        27
Ayos Pavlos                  49          50         49         45         40         34         29         27          27        25          1         26         27          3             1        30          22          -             1        22
Ayios Constantinos           44          48         45         41         43         42         39         36          36        37          2         33         33           1            2        34          32          2             2        34
Loovaras (long r1 s)         53          58         64         59         56         60         61         58         58         38          2         65         60           2            2        62          60           -            2        60
281        305        306        283        265        256        249         238        228        216         9        213        197          18            9       215         189           6            8       195
Source: Planning Bureau
Febr-ary, 1977



6FRAiSAE OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PRiOJECT
CYPRUS
Capital Costs of Schools
Alone l/                  Kalokhorio /                                                                 Ph4sing of lotal Cost
Total        Foreign           Foreign
Quantity      Cost          Quantity      Cost          Cost         Exchange      Exchanxe Cost               Year         Cost
(CE)                        (Cb)         (CB)            (7)             (CE)                                 (Cb)
I.    Buildings
Classrooms                         8        24,000             6       18,000         42,000                                                  1          60,050
Specialist Rooms                   3        12,000             3       12,000         24,000                                                  2          65,860
Multipurpose Rooms                 1        10,000             1       10,000         20,000                                                  3          38,740
Headmaster Room                    1         1,600             1        1,600          3,200                                                  4          29,050
Staff Room                         0         1,600             1        1,600          3,200
Storerooms                         5         5,000             5        5,000         10,000                                                  Total    193,700
Water Connection (W.C.)           12         7,200            10        6,000          13,200
Subtotal:                   -         61,400             -       54,200         115,600          30             34,680
II.   Other Construction
Site Layout and
Landscaping                     -         6,000             -         3,000          9,000
Fencing (i)                   1,500          6,000         1,400        5,600          11,600
Sports Facilities                  2         2,400             2        2,400          4,800
Earth Filling (i3)            8,000          5,000         2,000        1,000          6,000
Subtotal:                   -         19,400             -        12,000         31,400          30              9,420
III. Equipment
Heating (No. of Heaters)          13         1,300            13        1,300           2,600
Furniture                         -          3,000            -         3,000          6,000
-         4,300             -         4,300          8,600          30               2,580
IV.   Land Acquisition (donums)               11         3,300            10        4,000           7,300          0                 0
V.    Utilities
Water Supply                      -          2,000             -        2,000           4,000
Electricity                       -          4,600            -         4,600           9,200
Subtotal:                   -          6,600             -         6,600         13,200          50              6,600
Total                                 95,000                      81,100        176,100          30              53,280
Physical Contingencies
(107)                         -          9,500             -         8,100         17,600          30              5,280
GRAND TOTAL            -        104,500             -       89,200         193,700         30              58,560
1/ Accepts students from  the Villages of Alona, Polystypos, Platanistassa, Alithinou, Livadhia, and Phterikoudhi.
2/ Accepts students from the villages of Kalokhorio, Zoopiyi, Ayios Pavlos, Ayios Konotantinos, Louvaras.
Source:  Ministry of Education, Cyprus
March 1977



ANNEX 8
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMFENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Organization, Management and Monitoring
1.        General.  The multi-component features of the project necessitate
the involvement of a number of ministries and departments in the implementa-
tion of this project. The main departments involved in the agriculture-
related components would be:
-    The Department of Agriculture (DA);
-    The Water Development Department (WDD);
-    The Land Consolidation Authority (LCA);
-    The Geological Department (GD);
-    The Loan Commissioners (LC);
-    The Cooperative Central Bank (CCB); and
-    The Planning Bureau.
In addition, other ministries would be responsible for implementing and/or
coordinating the non-agricultural components. These other ministries would
be those of Health, Education, Public Works, Interior (and the concerned
District Officers), and Finance.
2.        Project Organization.  Since more than three-quarters of the pro-
posed project would relate to agriculture, the project coordination function
is located in the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR). The
Director-General of MANR would be the formal Project Coordinator. However,
in view of his other commitments and responsibilities, he would be assisted
by a senior (see Appendix A for qualifications) staff member who would be
a full-time employee of the project. In order to provide a formal vehicle
for coordinating policy as well as project-related decisions, two committees
are proposed:
(i) Project Policy Committee (PPC). This committee would provide
the policy framework for the project. The PPC would be chaired
by the Minister of Agriculture. The Director General of MANR
(as Secretary and Member); Directors General or representatives
of Planning Bureau, Finance, Interior, Health and Education and
Commissioner of Cooperative Development would be its members.
(ii)  Project Coordination Committee (PCC).  This committee would
provide the focal point for all project-related activities.
It would be chaired by the Director General of MANR in his
Project Coordinator capacity. Its members would include
representatives from the four relevant departments of MANR
and representatives of the Ministries of Health, Education,
and Interior. The Secretary of this committee would be
the Assistant to the Project Coordinator.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
Chart 1 provides a schematic presentation of the above functions. Chart 2
gives the present Organization Structure of MANR.
3.        Project Organization Rationale.  The principal feature of the pro-
posed organization is that it uses existing departments as they presently
function. However, since this would be the first integrated project in
Cyprus, the proposed organization provides the PPC and PCC as coordinating
mechanisms. The various project components (minor irrigation schemes, soil
conservation works, village streets, etc.) have been implemented as part of
the development components of the relevant ministries. For example, the WDD
has a budget category for minor projects and the LCA has a budget category
for farm roads. Traditionally, WDD and LCA would coordinate their activities
as both are part of MANR. However, the development activity of WDD and LCA
would usually not be coordinated with the Ministry of Health of the Ministry
of Education. This interministerial coordination would be crucial for the
implementation of the project.
4.        Project Monitoring.  The Project Coordinator would be responsible
for the implementation and monitoring of the project. He would be responsible
for submitting Project Progress Reports (Appendix B gives a sample Progress
Report) to the World Bank. In the first year of project implementation, the
reporting frequency would be three, i.e., one report every four months. In
subsequent years, the frequency would be two per year. The proposed higher
frequency in the first year is because three specific and a number of general
tasks have to be completed in that year. The three specific tasks are: (i)
Development of a specific and coordinated implementation program; (ii) Comple-
tion of investigations and designs for the Xyliatos dam, and (iii) Completion
of the groundwater drilling and testing program. The general tasks would
include setting up the project organization, initiation of discussions with
villagers on specific ponds, boreholes and other activities in which the
villagers participate financially, setting up a project monitoring system 1/,
etc. No additional staff is necessary as the data collection would be done
by the staff of various departments and data analysis would be done by the
Assistant to the Project Coordinator.
5.        Project monitoring activities also include an economic and technical
evaluation of the project as it was actually implemented. The Project Co-
ordinator would submit to the Bank, within six months after completion of
disbursements, an evaluation ex-post of the project.
1/   This would include designing and observation and monitoring system to
keep track of project execution and project impact on income, produc-
tion, prices, wages, migration, investment, savings and other relevant
categories.



ANNEX 8
Appendix A
APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Qualifications for the Assistant to the Project Coordinator
1.        The Assistant to the Project Coordinator would be the de facto
Project manager. He would be working through the line authority of the
Director General (DG) and would have the benefit of frequent consultation
with the DG.
2.        The main qualifications are experience in a technical field (water
resources or agriculture) so that he could have a meaningful dialogue on
specifics. Preferably, he should be presently a senior (Assistant Director
Level - this is only indicative) staff member of MANR. He should have prior
experience in project implementation or he should have a track record in
some significant leadership role.



ANNEX 8
Appendix B
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Suggested Outline of Progress Reports to Bank
The following is suggested for the Progress Reports of the Pitsilia
Project which are to be prepared by the Project Coordinator with the assis-
tance of staff responsible for carrying out the Project.
A.   FORMAT
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Report for Period Ending
I.   Introduction
This section should include discussion of general topics including
market conditions, prices, changes in Government policy and other
actions, farmer attitudes, etc., which have affected or may affect
project execution.
II.   Major Accomplishments During Period
This section should include a discussion of accomplishments in
quantitative and, where necessary, qualitative terms. Progress
of each project component as listed in the Project Cost Table
should be separately described. Progress Reports should compare
actual progress with what was initially planned.
III.   Work Planned for the Following Six Months
This section should describe the work planned in terms of the
specific project components.
IV.   Organization and Management
The organizational status (staffing, office space, etc.) of the
project should be described in the first report with periodic
updates. If special problems arise during the period, these
should be flagged with indication of steps taken.



ANNEX 8
Appendix B
Page 2
V.   Major Problems of Project Execution
Any key issues or bottlenecks impeding the progress of the
project should be mentioned together with remedial measures
which have been taken or anticipated. Also give details of
any actions taken or contemplated which could conceivably
result in the project, or any project component, developing
along lines significantly different from those foreseen at
appraisal.
VI.   Miscellaneous
Discuss briefly any matters which do not conveniently fall
under any of the above headings.
VII.   Summary and Recommendations
Give a brief summary of project activities and a list of
recommended actions designed to facilitate project execution.
VIII.   Tabular Material
The following data should be provided in tabular form and
attached as annexes:
(a) Physical facts relating to the project with meaningful
details: area planted by crop, crop yields, prices,
production cost, lengths of village streets, farm roads,
etc.
(b) Expenditures under the project subaggregated by components.
B.   REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
While there would be flexibility, the above or a similar format
should be followed as closely as possible each period in the interest of uni-
formity. It is suggested that the narrative portion of the report should be
2-4 pages of single typescript and should provide material to explain and/or
clarify the tabular data. The reports should be submitted to the Bank within
2 months after the end of each period, and the end-of-the-year report should
include a summary of the progress and evaluation for each year. In addition,
certified copies of audited project accounts and the auditors' report should
be submitted not later than 6 months after the end of each fiscal year.



ANNEX 8
Appendix C
Page I
APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Terms of Reference
Study of Agricultural Investment Financing
1.        Objective.  The study would attempt to establish the need, if any,
to modify the present system of concessions to the rural sector. The criteria
for establishing the need would include (i) the sectoral and/or the income
groups' financial need for concessionary terms; (ii) the economic returns from
investments in the sector; (iii) regional and/or income group specific con-
siderations; and (iv) availability of resources in the public sector.
2.        The recommendations of the study should be submitted to the cabinet
as the net result of the effort should be either (i) a reaffirmation after
due consideration of the implications, of the existing system of concessions;
or (ii) adoption of a revised system which may or may not have significant
concessionary financing.
3.        Organization.  The study would be jointly carried out by the Plan-
ning Bureau and the Ministry of Agriculture. Additional staffing is not
needed, but the consultant funds provided in the project could be used for
short-term consulting needs. The responsibility for completing the study
would be with the Project Coordinator. The study could be completed in six
to eight months by a professional manpower input of 12 to 16 man months.
4.        Analysis and Output.  The study would evaluate:
(i) the structure and performance of the existing system of
concessions, especially the effects on production, farm
incomes, and technology choices;
(ii) the adequacy of the existing institutions, especially the
Cooperative Central Bank, the Cooperative Credit Societies,
and the Loan Commissioners;
(iii) the adequacy of the present supply of credit;
(iv) the extent of subsidization implicit 1/ in the concessionary
policies and the incidence of these subsidies; and
1/   Besides the amount of the "grant" in the financing package, the cost
includes the opportunity costs of the grants and the low interest rate
loan component.



ANNEX 8
Appendix C
Page 2
(v) alternative concessionary policies, resulting in recommendations
for the policy set most appropriate for Cyprus conditions, in-
cluding its final position. The recommendations should include
a transition program from the present to the proposed system.



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Project Organization Chart
Project Policy Committee (PPC)
|Tenders Board 3/ ---------------------------------  Project Coordinator and 2/
Secretary of PPC
Assistant to Thel
Project Coordinator
Project Coordination
Committee (PCC)
Project Coordinator
Chairman of PCC
water Development        Agriculture        Land Consolidation        Geological       Liason in Ministry       Liason in Ministry        Liason in Ministry
Department            Department             Department              Survey              of Health              of Education               of Interior
LEGEND
---------- Consultative Relationship
Line Relationship
1/  Members would be Minister of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR) (Chairman), Director General of MANR (Project Coordinator and member) Director Generals
or representatives of Planning Bureau, Finance, Interior, Health and Education, and Commissioner of Cooperative Development.
2/  Director General of MANR would be Project Coordinator and Secretary of PPC.  He or staff designated by him would be the focal point for project-related
activities including communications with external financing agencies.
3/  Accountant General, Representatives of Ministries of Finance and Commerce, Representative of Planning Bureau, Director of Stores and Project Coordinator.                  m
Funding for short-term consultants for engineering problems.



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
OrAs-ication Structure of the Ministro of Ajriculture
|Minister-
Water Developent                           ult                      Land Consolidation                    Geological Survey                        Department of                       Agriculture Research
Deportment                        Department                         AutrityDepartent                                                       Veterinary Services                          InstItute
_    Director                   _ Director                     _    Di-t-ect                              Director                        _     Director                                Dir-ctor
Water Reerce |4 Agricultural Steneon | -|Adminiatration -|Administrative Sections                                                               Central LaboratorY                     Ad5ini5tretive
Small Project Planring              -Plnt Protection                                                                                            Vt--Technical |Mineral   ploration  |etrary Public R.atth  Agronomy  6*
n-Pasture  Developren|        Planning end Seaearch                Drilg                                 Vaccine Production                      Agricultural ECo.omic| 3
q DesiKn   l   -| Horcicultur  |     Accounting  |     GeoPhycical | i     Artificial lnsericaiion              4 -Animal Productioo   8
-|Construction  |                    |Agricultural EcononSce  |        artogaphy                             ydrogeological |                    Admieierratfon                           Pl-nt Protection|7|
operation and Mintenance             Soils and Plant Nutrition    -Pres and Publicity                     Mapping   |airie  Officea |orticuLture   7
-|OSfice M gerent|                   Agronomy end Seed               4istrict Offices                    gBgineering Geology|0                  Rural Veterinary Stations               Sile and Water  es| 8|
{; ional Offices   l           _ Land and Water Ure ]                                               {i boratories  |                                                              -| Centr-l Chemical Laboratory   2
3                                                            {    9    3                                                              | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* The Institute has 41 staff
Farms, Stationr and                                                                                        J   at~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~embere engaged Sn
4 3   _  Nurseries                                          <  Palaeontologicall                                                      | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~scientific week.
Source:  Dlinietry of Agriculture
Pcbrutry 8, 1977



ANNEX 9
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Market Prospects
I. Irrigated Crops
1.        Deciduous Fruits.  Deciduous fruits include apples, pears, apricots
(including kaisha), cherries, peaches, quinces, plums, loquats, pomegranates,
and figs. It is estimated that of the 4,935 ha under deciduous fruit trees
in Cyprus, about 1,067 ha (22%) are in the Pitsilia Region. The most im-
portant trees are apples, which account for more than 46% of the trees in
Pitsilia, followed by peaches and plums. The proportion of cherry, apricot
and pear trees in Pitsilia is relatively low.
2.        Pitsilia is estimated to produce acout 24% of the total Cyprus
output of the main deciduous crops, and it is anticipated that by 1981 this
proportion will probably remain the same. The relative importance of the
Region as a producer of pears, peaches and plums will decline; but it will,
however, become a more important producer of cherries and apricots, while
maintaining its share of apple production.
3.        The main aspects of marketing deciduous fruit in Cyprus are the
following:
-    Deciduous fruit is mainly consumed as fresh fruit.  Between
1961 and 1971, there was a tremendous expansion of deciduous
planting in Cyprus; the most notable development was a nine-
fold increase in the number of pear trees with substantial
increases in apricot, peach and plum trees.
-    Prices for deciduous fruits have been fairly stable over the
last few years, although fluctuating in response to changes
in annual output. Reduced output in 1974 caused sharp price
increases. In 1975 the return to more normal production levels
within a reduced market led to extraordinary price reductions
(see Table 1).
-    Break-even analysis (with cost including own labor) suggests
that deciduous fruit prices would have to fall from 33% to 50%
before production would become unprofitable.
-    The promotion of early and late varieties (later than August)
of fruit is more profitable because of the reduced competition
from substitute fruits.



ANNn >,
Page 2
4.        The Cypriot Pitsilia Project team prepared a supply-and-demand
analysis of deciduous fruit up to 1(9~   The analysis of supply was based
upon the age structure of trees, actuai yield levels of existing and potential
yield levels of new trees. The anal'!. 3s of demand was based on past trends;
however, the projected per capita cu.umption levels in Cyprus were kept com-
parable to European per capita cons> .-ption levels.  The projected consumption
levels were based upon the present price changes. The conclusions from the
supply/demand analysis for each type of crop are as follows:
(a) Apples. The expansion of the area under apples must be
restricted to improved varieties of superior taste and
appearance that can keep well in cold stores.
(b) Pears. There should be no expansion of the area under
pears unless studies prove that it would pay farmers to
produce varieties suitable for canning.
(c) Apricots. As the market situation appears to be in balance,
there is a limited scope for the planting of improved
varieties.
(d) Cherries. The market situation appears to be promising
if exports could be properly organized.
(e) Peaches. There are prospects for expansion and for
diversification into new improved varieties.
(f) Plums. Limited prospects. Since plums are mainly consumed
in July and August, any new plantings should relate to early
or late varieties which in recent years have maintained
higher price levels.
(g) Quinces, Loquats, Pomegranates and Figs. There has been
reduced interest in these crops during the last few years,
though there may be some scattered plantings. Loquats have
the advantage of being a relatively early crop but prospects
are limited.
5.        Nuts.  On the world market, nuts are generally marketed through
different channels than fruits and vegetables and are normally handled by
importers/wholesalers of grocery items or spices. Consumption is generally
growing, particularly since these products are on the more expensive side of
groceries and are consequently affected by improvements in spendable income.
There should be no marketing problems for the relatively small quantities of
nuts that may become exportable from Cyprus as a result of the implantation
of almonds, pecan walnuts, hazelnuts and pistachio nuts. Annual production
of almonds in Cyprus is usually between 3 to 4 thousand tons (Table 2) of
which about 20% is exported. Export prices have been bullish and no export
problems are anticipated as long as the expansion program is based on the
improved varieties demanded in the export markets.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
6.        Citrus.  The citrus component of the Project would consist of
mandarins and lemons as these have the least marketing problems. Table 3
indicates the importance of citrus in the Cyprus commodity export structure.
Only a small part of the incremental citrus production would be exported.
7.        Irrigated Table Olives.  There is substantial scope for the expan-
sion of the area under irrigated varieties of table olives in order to replace
imported sources. Imports of table olives reached 750 tons in 1975 and the
quantity demanded is rapidly increasing. Prices have increased sharply since
1973. It is proposed to give priority to the Pitsilia Region in the cultiva-
tion of this crop and to monitor the number of plantings in order to ensure
that a balance between demand and supply is maintained.
8.        Potatoes.  The Pitsilia Region is a traditional producer of high-
quality potatoes with the crop being marketed when the spring lowland crop is
finished and before the autumn lowland crop is available. No problems are
envisaged with the additional quantities (an increase in output of less than
5%) to be provided through the Pitsilia Project. The Potato Marketing Board,
which controls planting and sales, would guard against the possibility of
overproduction.
9.        Other Vegetables.  The general tendency in Cyprus over the last
ten years has been for a steady rise in fresh vegetable consumption accompa-
nied by a rise in average prices. The consumption of vegetables (including
potatoes) and dry legumes in Cyprus rose from 112 in 1960 to 186 kilos per
head in 1973. It is considered that the per capita consumption would increase
to 230 kilos (or 188 kilos excluding potatoes) by 1985. Since the Pitsilia
project would add less than 4% to production over a five-year period, and
since there is considerable flexibility of choice between the various types
of crops, it is anticipated that the additional output can be marketed at
remunerative prices. The summer vegetables of Pitsilia are generally of
superior quality to the vegetables produced in the plains. It is envisaged
that the main crops to be grown would be carrots, tomatoes, cucumber, cabbage,
squashes, onions, eggplants, peppers and legumes.
II. Dryland Crops
10.       Oil Olives.  Olive trees can grow in areas that are unsuitable for
almost any other crop and produce a higher return per ha than most dryland
crops. Though olive production varies considerably from year to year, it
appears that the underlying trend is for production to remain relatively
stable. About 60% of the olives harvested are processed into olive oil and
the remaining olives are preserved. The Government's objective is to in-
crease production so as to eliminate imports of olive oil and to increase
exports (mainly destined for Cypriots residing in the United Kingdom). In
general, the proposals for Pitsilia are consistent with consumption trends
and would involve only a small increase in the Island's output.



ANNEX 9
Page 4
11.       Vine Products.  The market for vine products consists of a number
of separate markets that call upon the same production source. The main vine
products of Cyprus are wines, Commandaria, eau-de-vie-de-vin, raisins and
fresh grapes.
(a) Wines. There is uncertainty in world wine markets due to
annual crop fluctuations which cause sharp price movements,
but the outlook is considered to be better for moderately
priced quality wines. In value terms, wine exports have
increased every year since 1966. During 1975, prices
stabilized at a little below 1974 prices and exports fell,
although in value they remained above the 1972 level.
Cyprus wines have generally faired well because of the
dependence on sherry and the United Kingdom market. The
Government desires diversification (i) into new markets to
reduce the dependence on the United Kingdom market; (ii) of
wine exports in order to reduce dependence on sherry; and
(iii) into bottled wine exports.
(b) Commandaria. This is a dessert wine made solely in Cyprus.
Three cooperative wineries in Pitsilia produce 35-40% of the
Commandaria output in Cyprus. Exports in bottled form have
been increasing but bulk exports have been erratic. In
1974 bottled exports were worth twice the value of bulk
exports.
(c) Eau-de-vie-de-vin. A large proportion of the Pitsilia grape
output goes for production of zivania, a spirit, which is
further processed into eau-de-vie-de-vin. A drought in 1973
led to a severe reduction in its production, but it is anti-
cipated that it may take two years to return to previous output
levels. No marketing problems are envisaged.
(d) Raisins. It appears that, in spite of the grape surpluses in
recent years, the market for raisins is still satisfactory.
(e) Table Grapes of the verico variety are grown in Pitsilia and
sold late in the year. In addition, a significant part of the
wine making varieties from Pitsilia are also sold as fresh grapes.
12.       Appendix A gives additional background about wine products.



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Ex-Farm Prices of Principal Crops
1966       1967       1968       1969       1970       1971       1972       1973       1974        1975
------------------------------ (CO /m ton) ----------------------------------------
Mandarins                --         --         --         --         --         --         --          81         102        100
Grapes                    18         18         20         22         23         24         24         42          41         36
Apples                    92         92         96         80        100         56         68         97          88         57
Pears                    104        112        132        140        140        141        104        158         123        --
Peaches                   52         36         24         52         52         68         54         94          89         76
Cherries                  88         92         88        140         72        128        116        143         281        138
Plums                     48         48         44         60         56         81         60        100         112         64
Strawberries              80         80        120        140        136        178        152        162        228         --
Almonds                  104        108        109        150        160        130        156        200         140        142
Olives                   120        100        104         88        152        160        180        280        320         295
Potatoes                  27         31         26         34         31         25         29         31          30         72
Carrots                   22         22         22         35         21         22         34         38          26
Tomatoes                  32         32         38         36         36         52         54         83          89         58
Cucumbers                 44         42         42         44         44         53         56         89          82         60
Haricot Beans            112        112        136        140        140        152        157        224         280         72
Cabbages                  48         52         18         28         24         37         43         46          42         57
Onions                    24         26         27         48         44         30         41         48          48         77
Squashes                  32         32         36         40         44         54         55         85          68         61
Eggplant                  44         44         34         32         36         47         52         68          87
Peppers                   45         48         52         44         68         68         70        137         125
Dry Beans                                                                                             221         276        276
0z
Source:  Agricultural Research Institute                                                                                        - t
February 8, 1977



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Production of Principal Crops
1966       1967       1968       1969        1970       1971       1972        1973       1974        1975
---------------------------------- (Thousand Metric Tons) ------------------------------------
Mandarins                --          --         --         --         --          --         --           4.6        3           3.4
Grapes                  140        145         166        200        180         182        165          95        145         173
Apples                    8         10           8          8           7         11         10           9          8           9.1
Pears                     0.4        0.6         0.7        0.4        0.6         0.7        1           0.9        1          --
Peaches                   1          2           2          2          2.5         3.5        4           3.3        2.'         2.5
Cherries                  1.4         1.6        1.8        1          2.5         1.5        2           2          1.          1.6
Plums                     0.8         1          1.1        0.8        1.2         1.3        1.5         1.6        1           1.5
Strawberries              0.4        0.4         0.3        0.4        0.4         0.5        0.5         0.6        0.5         --
Almonds                   3.5        4           5          4          4           4          4           1          3.5         3
Olives                   17         30          15         18          7.5        15         20           2          8          13
Potatoes                130        170         173        160        205         175        172         160        150         1.12
Carrots                   9         20          16         23         18          15         17          12         15          19
Tomatoes                 18         19          20         22         23          25         24          23         17          12
Cucumbers                 9          12         12         11         12          14         13          13         11          --
Haricot Beans             1           1          1          1          0.8         0.9        0.7         0.4        0.5         2.2
Cabbages                  3.3        3.5         4          4.2        4.5         4.8        4.9         5          4           2.8
Onions                    3.3        3           2.5        2          2.2         2.6        2.7         2.3        2           1.7
Squashes                  3.5        4.2         4.5        4          3.8         4.3        4.3         4.5        4           3
Eggplant                  2          2.3         2.2        2.5        2.5         2.5        2.5         2.6        2          --
Peppers                   0.5        0.5         0.9        0.5        0.5         0.6        0.6         0.5        0.4        --
Dry Beans                --         --          --         - -        --           -         --           0.4        0.5         0.8
Source:  Agricultural Research Institute
February 8, 1977



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Commodity Exports 1/ and Direction of Export Trade
1970          1971           1972            1973           1974           1975
(US$ Million)
A. Commodity Exports
Food                                                    46.1           57.8           69.6           92.4           63.1           51.0
Citrus                                            (17.3)         (30.5)         (32.6)         (46.3)         (29.4)         (14.1)
Potatoes                                          (15.6)         (11.0)         (18.5)         (24.6)         (14.0)         (20.9)
Grapes                                            (2.9)          (4.3)          (3.4)          (2.9)          (2.7)          (6.3)
Beverages and Tobacco                                    8.9           10.6           12.8           16.0           17.0           14.9
Minerals (Copper, Iron Pyrites, Asbestos)               33.6           22.6           22.4           28.0            26.1           22.7
Manufactured Goods                                       4.3            7.0            8.3           11.7            16.7           24.7
Others                                                   3.1            3.1            3.4            6.3            5.2            19.0
TOTAL:                                  96.0          101.0          116.5          154.5           128.1          132.3
B.  Director of Exports (F.O.B.)
Total Exports                                          102.5          108.7          130.4          171.7          151.7           151.8
United Kingdom                                          41.8           47.3           55.3           69.2           57.9            53.0
Germany                                                 19.4           13.4            8.3           12.9             9.1            2.6
Italy                                                    6.2            4.1            3.6            4.6            3.3             3.3
Netherlands                                              3.4            4.6            3.1            7.7             3.3            3.7
France                                                   2.9            5.0            3.9            4.0             1.4            1.3
Other EEC Members                                        0.7            0.5            0.8            3.1             0.5            0.8
Rest of the World                                       28.1           33.8           55.3           70.1            76.3           87.1
1/  Excluding re-exports.
Source:  Cyprus - Country Economic Memorandum, May 20, 1976
January 1977



ANNEX 9
Appendix A
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Vine Products of Cyprus
I.   Significance of the Vine Industry
II.   Vine Cultivation
III.   Grape Production and Utilization
IV.   Wines



ANNEX 9
Appendix A
Page 2
I. Significance of the Vine Industry
1.        The vine industry is very important for the Cyprus economy.  It
provides employment to about 45% of the farming population. In parts of the
Limassol and Paphos Districts many villages are dependent on vine mono-culture.
Wine exports contribute significantly to the balance of payments, and in 1975
accounted for about 8% of the total domestic exports. The wine industry is
also a major component of the manufacturing sector. In the Pitsilia Region
vines are the dominant rainfed crop and cover about 45% of the total cul-
tivated area.
II. Vine Cultivation in Cyprus
2.        The total area covered with vineyards in the whole of Cyprus was
45,800 ha or 15.6% of the total cultivated area of dry-land crops. Pitsilia
accounts for about 15% of the total area under vines; about 80% of the vine-
yards in Pitsilia have the local mavro, and about 19% have the local aspro
variety. The area under table grapes (mainly sultana) in Pitsilia is in-
significant, but the local varieties from Pitsilia are also sold as table
grapes (mainly verico and ofthalmo). This is because the Pitsilia Region
is closer to Nicosia (and to a lesser extent Limassol) than other wine-
growing areas and because the grapes are more suitable for fresh consumption
because of the climate. The altitude of the Pitsilia Region enables grapes
to be brought to the market later in the year (October, November and sometimes
December) when prices are higher.
3.        Productivity.  Productivity per ha is low in the Pitsilia Region.
This is partly due to soil conditions, altitude and cultivation practices,
but mainly because a large proportion of the vines are very old: about 65.6%
of the vineyards in Pitsilia were planted prior to 1940. During 1974, the
average output in the Commandaria-producing villages was 2.1 ton/ha and in
1975 it was 2.4 ton/ha. In other parts of Pitsilia average output was 1.6
ton/ha in 1974, and 1.8 ton/ha in 1975. During 1974 the average output per
ha for the whole Island was between 3 to 3.5 tons. Even though the produc-
tivity of vines in Pitsilia is low, the quality of Pitsilia grapes is among
the best in Cyprus for wine making.
4.        Control of Vine Planting.  The planting of vines in Cyprus is
regulated by the Vine Products Commission (VPC), in cooperation with the
Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources which provides the technical
advice, so that vine planting is related to the marketing prospects for vine
products. In view of the marketing difficulties in recent years, the VPC
restricts vine planting to the traditional vine-growing areas, where both
new planting and replanting are allowed. In the non-traditional areas, vine
planting is permitted only after uprooting active vineyards. The issuing of



ANNEX 9
Appendix A
Page 3
permits for vine planting within the traditional vine-growing areas is ex-
pected to continue in the future, unless there is a serious deterioration of
the markets for vine products. Of the 48 villages within the Project area,
35 are classitied as traditional vine-growing villages.
5.        Vine Replanting Scheme.  The quality of the wines produced from the
traditional varieties grown in Cyprus does not meet the demand of the export
market, especially that of the EEC countries. Furthermore the tastes of con-
sumers are changing, particularly in the U.K. In view of this, vine varieties
for sherry, table wines and port-type wines have been imported and compared
with local mavro (black) and aspro (white) varieties on demonstration farms.
From the results obtained so far, it appears that some of these imported
varieties give higher yields of grapes than local varieties, and the quality
of the wines produced from them is superior. Certain other varieties although
not yielding so well, produce wine of superior quality than the wine produced
from the local mavro and aspro. The successfully tested varieties will be
used in the replanting scheme in Pitsilia to replace unreproductive local
varieties. The replanting scheme is island-wide and its objective is to
replant about 15,000 ha of existing vineyards which, due to age and/or un-
suitability of terrain, yield less than 2.2 tons of grapes per ha. These
areas will be replaced by new varieties of vines.
6.        The following incentives are given by the Government to encourage
farmers to participate in the replanting scheme:
(a) free issue of cuttings of suitable varieties;
(b) loans (at 4-1/2% interest) and a 25% subsidy (in kind and
cash) for soil conservation works up to a maximum of Ch 990
per vine grower;
(c) a subsidy of Cb 26.26 per ha for five years until the new
vines start producing grapes (the fields must not be planted
for 2 years after uprooting of the old vine stock).
Despite these incentives, the response of farmers has been disappointing. Up
to 1975, only 38 ha had been replanted with new varieties. There is evidence,
however, that the farmers are showing greater interest in the project. In
addition, a further 256 ha of new vine varieties were planted by farmers that
were not eligible for assistance under the vine replanting scheme up to 1975.
7.        The new varieties of vines have not been tested at the elevation of
the Pitsilia Region. Consequently, the replanting planned will consist mostly
of the local varieties, the object being to reduce costs of production by
producing new, systematically planted hybrids.



ANNEX 9
Appendix A
Page 4
8.        Vine Subsidies and Prices.  In the past, two types of vine subsidies
have been given in Cyprus: (i) a flat rate per unit of area, and (ii) a sub-
sidy per unit of output. The per-ha subsidies were US$27, 45, 63, 63, 0, 0
for 1970, 1971, 1972, 1973, 1974 and 1975 respectively. The subsidy was
stopped in 1974 and 1975 due to the occupation of northern Cyprus. The
following table gives prices and subsidies per kg for 1970 to 1975 inclusive:
Prices and Subsidies USU/kg
Variety                          Mavro/Aspro                     Malaga
Year                    Price            Subsidy          Price         Subsidy
1970                      4.7               0.84             5.1          1.22
1971                      4.7               0.47             5.1          0.84
1972                      4.7               0.09             5.1          0.47
1973                      7.5                --              8.4            --
1974                      8.8                --              9.8            --
1975                      7.5                --              8.4            --
As the subsidy per ha was increased, the subsidy per unit of output was de-
creased, and in 1974 both subsidies were stopped.  The subsidy per unit area
was first introduced in 1969; the subsidy per unit of output was first intro-
duced in 1975. In addition, the Government introduced a non-contributory scheme
for the construction of farm roads in vine-growing villages. The objective of
this scheme is to construct fully subsidized farm roads in vine-growing areas.
III. Grape Production and Utilization
9.        The average annual output of grapes during 1969-75 was 162,000 tons.
During the drought year of 1973, annual output dropped to 95,000 tons. During
1965-75, an average of 56% of the grape output was utilized by the wine indus-
try; and about 6% was exported; the rest was consumed directly and/or wasted.
Grapes are utilized for the production of wine, zivania, grape must and raisins;
the residual is consumed fresh or preserved. Grapes are first delivered to
the wineries whose absorptive capacity is limited by storage; the output that
could not be sold to the wineries (with the exception of the table varieties
which are grown primarily for export) is then either turned into zivania or
raisins, or is sold on the local market. The production level of zivania and
raisins, therefore, is a residual depending upon the level of grape production.



ANNEX 9
Appendix A
Page 5
IV. Wines
10.       International Situation.  High world grape output resulted in high
production levels for wine during 1973, 1974 and 1975 so that prices fell
sharply and wine surpluses developed in the major producing countries. These
developments reversed the situation prior to 1973 when shortages in the supply
of wine led to sharp price increases. There is, therefore, considerable un-
certainty in the world wine market because it has become dominated by annual
crop fluctuations that cause sharp price movements. In the short term the
high levels of world production in recent years have coincided with a slowing
down of imports as a result of reduced income growth in the main consuming
countries. The longer term outlook for wine consumption is favorable but
depends upon (i) the rate of growth of disposal income in the main importing
countries, (ii) the continued growth of consumption in lion-traditional markets
such as Japan and the USSR, and (iii) the domestic production levels of the USA
and W. European producer nations. Export performance of supplying countries
will increasingly depend on quality factors. The shift in demand from ordinary
wine to better quality wines in the main consuming countries and the marked
increase in countries with hitherto limited consumption offer good prospects
for quality wines and for good standard table wines. While there will continue
to be an important growing market for wines intended for further industrial
processing, the burden of price adjustment to possible surpluses of common
wines in major markets will be borne mostly by those countries exporting base
quality common wines.
11.       The Domestic Situation.  The local market is small and unsophisti-
cated. The lack of a connoisseur class and absence of private and hotel wine
cellars give the local industry limited contact with final consumers. In fact,
Cypriots consume only about 6-1/2 to 7 litres of wine per capita, which is
very low in comparison to other wine producing countries such as Greece (36-1/2
litres), W. Germany (20 litres) and Italy (110 litres). The per capita con-
sumption of wine in Cyprus is at similar levels with such non-producer coun-
tries as Canada and Poland.
12.       Cyprus Wine Exports.  Up until 1973, Cyprus wine exports were gen-
erally increasing in both quantity and money terms. During 1974 the quantity
of wines exported decreased but the value of wine exports actually increased.
During 1975 there was a reduction in the quantity of wines exported though
the value of wine exports (excluding eau-de-vie-de-vin) was above the 1972
level. In general, the price of the main wine exports (fortified wines; mainly
sherry) has increased in every year since 1966 with the exception of 1975 when
there was a slight decrease in average price (though a relatively high price
level was still maintained). During the first 3 months of 1976, bulk exports
of wine were greatly increased over the same period during 1975, being
1,560,917 gallons at CE 946,000 in comparison to 367,680 gallons at Ch 224,031
during the same months of 1975. The average price has been maintained during
1976 at over US$1.45 per gallon.



ANNEX 9
Appendix A
Page 6
13.       Cyprus wine exports have, therefore, fared rather well in the inter-
national wine market over the last few years. This success has been due to the
fact that Cyprus wine exports are greatly dependent on fortified wines, pre-
dominantly sherry, and because Cyprus sherry is well established on the U.K.
market. Since Cyprus is a major supplier to the U.K., and output in Cyprus
was low because of the 1973 drought, it was necessary to divert exports from
more competitive markets to the U.K. In this way the average price obtained
increased, in a period during which world wine prices were falling. Owing to
the low grape crop of 1973, attention was concentrated during 1974 and 1975 on
the production of wines; consequently, the output and exports of other vine-
products, notably raisins and eau-de-vie-de-vin, were significantly reduced.
During 1975 there were some surplus wine stocks, and it is anticipated that
over the next few years production of eau-de-vie-de-vin and grape must should
rise towards the pre-1973 level.
14.       Commandaria.  Commandaria is a dessert wine made solely in Cyprus
from partially sun-dried good quality grapes, grown on the hills of certain
villages of the Limassol District. Annual average production is over 350,000
gallons. Twelve cooperative wineries for the production of Commandaria have
been established in eleven villages. The wineries are functioning under the
supervision of the Viticulture and Oenology section of the Department of Agri-
culture. Commandaria is classified into 3 categories according to the soil
conditions, prevailing tradition, means of vinification, and quality of the
wine produced. The three cooperative wineries in Pitsilia, at Kalokhorio,
Zoopiyi and Ayios Konstantinos, are the cooperatives producing the highest
quality Commandaria. These three wineries produce between 35-40% of Com-
mandaria output in Cyprus. All the Commandaria production is delivered
to the major wineries under long-term contracts. Commandaria exports in
bottle have been increasing, though bulk exports are somewhat erratic.
Though smaller in quantity, bottled Commandaria exports in 1974 were worth
twice the value of bulk exports.
15.       Structure of the Industry.  The wine industry of Cyprus is dominated
by four large wine producing companies, Hadjipavlou (and its ETKO subsidiary);
KEO (one cooperative company); SODAP and LOEL. These companies produce almost
all the wines of Cyprus and over 80% of the alcoholic beverages (excluding
beer). There are a number of small companies that mainly produce brandy for
the local market. Each of the four major wineries rely almost entirely upon
institutional distribution through breweries and their subsidiaries in the
U.K. These firms distribute the wine via pub chains and, to a lesser extent,
via supermarkets and speciality stores. However, since in most western coun-
tries an increasing proportion of wine consumption is taking place at home,
food and department stores are becoming increasingly important.



ANNEX 10
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Quarterly Disbursement Schedule
Bank Fiscal Year                     Cumulative Disbursement By
and Quarter                              End of Quarter
(US$1,000)
1977/78      September 30, 1977
December 31, 1977                            20
March 31, 1978                              150
June 30, 1978                               500
1978/79      September 30, 1978                        1,000
December 31, 1978                         1,420
March 31, 1979                            2,010
June 30, 1979                             2,650
1979/80      September 30, 1979                        3,250
December 31, 1979                         3,820
March 31, 1980                            4,500
June 30, 1980                             5,180
1980/81      September 30, 1980                        5,920
December 31, 1980                         6,480
March 31, 1981                            7,000
June 30, 1981                             7,600
1981/82      September 30, 1981                        8,080
December 31, 1981                         8,550
March 31, 1982                            8,900
June 30, 1982                             9,250
1982/83      September 30, 1982                        9,750
December 31, 1982                        10,000



ANNEX 11
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Financial and Economic Analysis
1.        This annex combines the financial and economic analysis of the proj-
ect as the two aspects are specially interwoven. The reasons are that: (i)
the project environment is difficult, and that makes the costs of development
inherently high; and (ii) the project area population is poor, and that makes
financial cost sharing a necessity. Analysis, therefore, essentially involves
(a) establishing that the project investments are economically viable; (b)
assessing the financial implications for farmers (rate of return, repayment
ability) of Government's present financing policies (proportions given as
grant, and loan; interest rate; repayment period); and (c) analyzing the
financial implications of alternative policies to devise an alternative
financing package which provides acceptable financial incentives.
2.        Since virtually all of the project beneficiaries belong to the lowest
third of the Cypriot income spectrum, the softness of the financing terms is
not a key issue; but, Government policies provide enough latitude for devising
a package which minimizes the allocation inefficiencies that could result from
soft financing terms. The main avenue used for reducing allocation ineffi-
ciencies is the introduction of strong "technical" inputs in the project com-
ponent designs, i.e., the "technology" is chosen independent of the softness
of the financing. Given that the "technology choice" is efficient, the major
remaining effect of soft financing terms is on the sharing of the cost between
the Government and the farmers. "Distribution" of benefits is desirable as
the project beneficiaries are very poor; the extent of the "distribution" has
to be determined through assessing the fiscal ability of the Government to
finance the burden of distribution. The above is the essential sequence of
the financial and economic analysis. The main results from the analysis are
discussed in the text.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
3.        The references to the various aspects of analysis are facilitated by
the table list below:
Table Number                     Table Title
1               Crop Yields
2               Annual Gross Revenue
3               Operating Costs
4               Operating Cost Breakdown
5               Background Financial and Economic
Analysis Parameters
6               Farm Budgets
7               Net Revenue Per Donum, New Irrigated Areas
8               Farmers' Ability to Pay Under Present Policies
9               Cost and Returns of Village Roads
10               Cost Recovery of Project Investments Under
Present Policies
11               Beneficiaries of the Project Cost and Subsidy
Under Present Policies
12               Cost Recovery of Project Investments Under
Proposed Policies
13               Sensitivity Analysis of Farmers' Ability to
Pay Under Present Policies
14               Sensitivity Analysis of Farmers' Ability to
Pay Under Proposed Policies
15               Economic and Financial Rates of Return
16               Economic Rate of Return
17               Interest Rates of the Cooperative Central Bank



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Crop Yields
Before                                               Year
Project     1     2      3     4     5     6      7     8     9      10     11     12      13    1l4      Full Development
--------------------------------------(tons/donum) ---------------------------------------------------
Irrigated
Perennials
Cherries                       1.00                                          .30   .60   .90   1.40   1.90   2.40                          2.40
Apples                          .68                              .20   .40   .70  1.10  1.80   2.50   3.00   3.20                           3.20
Almonds                         .08                       .20   .35   .52   .68   .85  1.01   1.18   1.34   1.50                            1.50
Peaches & Apricots              .90           .20   .60  1.20  1.80  2.40  3.00                                                            3.00
Plums                           .90                       .20   .60  1.20  1.80  2.40  3.00                                                 3.00
Table olives                                        .25   .50   .75  1.00  1.25  1.50  1.75   2.00   2.25   2.50                            2.50
Citrus                         1.00                       .20   .50  1.00  2.00  3.00  4.00   5.00                                          5.00
Table grapes                                        .10   .50   .70   .90  1.25  1.75  2.25   2.75   3.00   3.00                            3.00
Annuals
Fodder (full crop and as              4.00  3.50  3.00  2.00  1.00   .50                                                                    5.00
intercrop)
Vegetables (full crop and      1.00   2.40  2.10  1.80  1.20   .60   .30                                                                    3.00
as intercrop)
Potatoes (full crop and        1.20   2.40  2.10  1.80  1.20   .60   .30                                                                    3.00
as intercrop)
Rainfed
Rainfed almonds                 .08                              .20   .25   .30   .40   .50    .60    .70    .80    .90                     .90
Vineyards - grapes              .24                 .10   .20   .28   .36   .44   .52   .60    .68    .76    .84    .92   1.00              1.00
Olives                          .08                              .20   .25   .30   .40   .50    .60    .70    .80    .90   1.00             1.00
Rehabilitation
Peaches                        0.90          1.30  1.50  1.80  1.80
Table grapes                   1.50   1.70  1.70  1.90  2.00  2.00
Source: Mission estimates, Government of Cyprus.
March 1977



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVEWRLENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Annual Gross Revenue From Crops
----------------------------------------------------------------  Year   -----------
1         2         3          4         5          6         7          8         9          10         11        12        13         14
-------------------~~---------------,-------------------------- (CE/donum) ------------------_----_--______________________________________
IrriRated
Perennials
Cherries                                                                            46.5      93        139.5     217        372
Apples                                                         18        36         63        99        162       225        270       288
Almonds                                             30         52.5      78        102       127.5      150       180        201       225
Peaches and
Apricots                      15         45        90        135       180        225
Plums                                     18.8      37.5       56.3      75         93.8     112.5      131.3     150        168.8      187.5
Table Olives                              50       100        150       200        250       300        350       400        450        500
Citrus                                              15         37.5      75        150       225        300        375
Table Grapes                              10        50         70        90        125       175        225        275       300        300
Annuals
Fodder
(a)  Full Crop      24
(b)  Intercrop       19        16.8       14.4       9.6        4.8       2.4
Vegetables
(a)  Full Crop      180
(b)  Intercrop      144       126        108        72         36        18
Potatoes
(a)  Full Crop      120
(b)  Intercrop       96        84         72        48         24        12
Potato Seed
Rainfed
Rainfed Almonds                                                30         37.5      45         60         75        90        105        120       135
Vineyards-Grapes                           7.5       15        21         27        33         39        45         51         57        63         69         75
Olives                                                         30         37.5      45         60         75        90        105       120.       135        150
1/ Based on Tables 1 and 5.
Source:  Mission Estimates, Government of Cyprus.
March 1977



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Operating Costa
Year
1       2       3      ,4       5        6       7       8       9      10       11      12+     13 -    14+
----------------------------------------------(CT/donum)--------------------------------------------------
Irrigated
Perennials
Cherries                35.1   32.1   31.9    34.1   36.6   39.6    41.8   51.5    57.7   66.9   76.4   86.4
Apples                  40.7   32.8    35.5    41.3    47.2    50.2    57.8   66.6    73.9   87.8    90.8   98.6
Almonds                 18.7   16.5    17.5    20.2   28.0    32.9   39.5    42.2    46.8    51.6   56.2   60.6
Peaches & Apricots      42.6    34.9    40.8    50.9    59.6    68.3   76.5   76.5    76.5   76.5    76.5    76.5
Plums                   35.9   29.6    32.9    37.7    42.0    52.0   59.1   66.3    73.4    73.4    73.4    73.4
Table olives            37.7   27.7    29.7    45.8    54.9    63.8    73.6   82.5    91.6  100.0   112.4  117.14
Citrus                  50.4    27.9    29.1    33.4    36.9    45.5    53.7   63.0    72.4    81.6    81.6   81.6
Table grapes            47.0   20.8    20.7    23.0   30.5    35.0   39.5    44.o    48.5    50.0    51.0    51.0
Annuals 2
Fodder - full crop      10.6
intercrop.      8.5     7.4     6.4      4.3     2.1     1.1
Vegetables - full crop  51.8
intercrok. 41.4   36.2   31.1   20.7   10o.4         5.2
Potatoes - full crop    72.9
intercropLa  50.4    41.6    34.5    23.8    11.9      6.o
Potato seed
Rainfed
Perennials
Wine grapes             18.4    13.8    13.9    14.9    15.3    15.9    16.4   17.1    17.5    18.0   18.6    19.1   19.8    20.2
Almonds                 20.1      9.4     9.8    10.5    15.3    17.1    20.0    21.8    24.5    27.3    30.1    32.8    35.0    35.0
Olives                  31.5      9.0     8.2     8.4    17.6    21.6    25.5    29.5    33.4    37.6    41.8    45.9    50.0    51.0
1  Excludes Family Labor Cost.                                                                                                             F9
2  Average of barley, maize, berseem, sudan and legume.
3  Intercrop 80% of full crop year 1; 70% year 2; 60% year 3; 40% year 4; 20% year 5 and 10% year 6.                                        X
Source:  Mission estimates, Government of Cyprus.



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INRATiD RURAL DEViOEPY3T PROJECT
CYPRUS
Operating Cost of Producing Crops
Cherriesout               AppesAlmonds                                              Peacheo & Aprlootu                  Plumeo                     T*ble Olives                       citro
Without  Yesr  Yesr  Fuut    Yithout  Year  Year  Pull    Without  Year  Year  Full    Without  Year Ye-   Full1    Without  Ye.r  Year  pull    Without  Ye.r  Ye r  Full    With Ct  Y
Project    1      3                                                                   ev. Projeot    1  3  .    Pev.  jt  3                   3                               3ev           Project    1    3    De,.
Transplants                       9.0                            15.0                            3.5                            15.0                           12.0                           12.5                            25.0
Seeds
Pertili.er                        1.1   3.3   9.8       10.0      1.1   3.9  20.0                1.1   2.4   8.4       10.0      1.1  5.7  15.0       10.0      1.1   3.9  u1.8                1.1   3.0  11.3        7.0      1.0  2.5   7.9
Manure                            2.0   2.9   6.6                 2.0   2.9   7.0                                                2.1  3.5   6.6                 2.0   3.1   6.6                2.0   2.9   6.6                 2.0  3.1   6.6
Chealcal.                                3.2   7.5      10.0            5.0  22.6                              2.8     10.0           5.1  14.3       10.0            3.9  10.8                       2.2   5.5       3.0            1.3   3.3
Irrigation                        4.0   5.0  11.0       10.0      4.0   6.o  L4.o                2.0   2.4   4.o       10.0      5.0  7.0  11.0       10.0      4.o   6.o  12,0                4.0   4.0   8.0       15.0      4.0  6.o  16.o
Machioe costs                    16.0  16.o  i6.8        6.o    15.6  16.3  22.0                10.1  11.2  16.1        6.o    16.3  17.7  20.0        6.o    13.8  14.4  16.1                16.1  i6.1  17.0        6.o    16.4  14.5  17.3
Hired labor                                    31.7                           10.0                            26.4      3.0                  2.0       3.0                  13.2                            66.o      10.0                 27.5
Other costs                      3..Q   .12 n..          -       ..Q    1.5   3S 0               _.0     1.6 3 .0 _6   3.0 - L         18 3.0          _-       -   1.  7                             1.6  _.0       _. .0  1.7  _.12
Total Operating Costs         35.1  31.9  86.4       36.o    40.7  35.5  98.6                       17.6  6o.6      39.0           4o.8  76.5      39.0           32.9  73.4                      29.7  117.4      41.o          29.1  81.6
Other onrestaenote               115                             115                             115                            115                            115                             115                             115
Panily labor                     26.2  26.2  62.8                23.2  23.3  40.0               17.6  18.7  50.1                23.2  38.8  6o.i               23.2  25.9  4o.4                23.6  39.5  io6.o               23.2  26.4  59.7
Table Grapes                 Rainted vineyards               Rainted Almonds                 Raifed Olives              Potatos          eitsblssL           FPdder
Without  Year  Year  Full    Without  Year  Year  Pull    Without  Year  Year  Full    Without  Year Year  Full    Without  -Fl                                   Without  Fu.l
Project    1     3    Lev.    Project    1       3    Dev.    ProJect   1       3    Dev.    Project    1    3    Dev.    Project  CroP    ProJect  Crop    project  Crap
------------------------------------------ - - - - - - -                           (Cd-c) -----------------------------------------
Transplanta                      23.0                                                             3.5                           10.0
Seeds                                                                                                                                                  10.0    34.0       5.0      5.3                .8
Pertilizer                        8.o   2.1   4.o        1.8      6.7   2.0   3.2        3.0      6.6   2.0   6.6        2.0     6.5          6.5       5.0     8.7       6.o      5.7               4.8
Maoure
Chemicals                         1.0   1.5   5.0        0.2              .2   1.0       2.0                   2.8       2.0                  4.5       5.0      5.5      6.o      5.5
Irrigstion                        2.0   2.5   6.o                                                                                                       8.o     4.o      13.0      5.0               2.0
Machine coats                    11.0  13.0  20.0        2.0    10.7  10.7  10.7         3.0      7.0   7.0   7.0                12.0  7.0   7.0        6.o    13.4       4.o    13.4                3.0
Hired labor                                    13.0      1.5                    3.3                           15.6       2.0                 30.0       2.0      5.3      3.0    14.8
Other conti                       3.0   1.6   3.0                 1.0   1.0   2.0                 3.0    .8   3.0                 3.0  1.2   3.0                 2.0               2.0
Total Operating Costs                20.7  51.0       5.5    18.4  13.9  20.2         8.o    20.1   9.8  35.0         6.o    31.5  8.2  51.0        36.o    72.9      37.0    51.8               io.6
Other invesitente               1U5                              115                             115                             ll5
Famlly labor                     40.0  10.0  25.0                33.0   9.5  12.1                16.o  10.0  31.6                45,0  5.0  45.0                24.30             40.0                4.8                                    ii
/1 Without project operating coot for producing vegetables for teaitoes.
2 Since significant time input of the farmer .ould be necessary to initiate a project, 40% of the ftaily off-farm income is assumed to be invested in addition ti the identified itens.
Source: Ydssion estimates, Sociceconaoic survey of Pitailia.
Marh 1977



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I              CYPRUS
Background Financial and Economic Analysis Parameters
Full      Appraisal                                        Net            Historical                Col. P   100
Revenue     Report        Gross        Net      Water    Revenue             Price        Average   Col. A
Crop               Yield       Price       Revenue    Revenue       Use     per m3             Range        of Range          %
Tons/donum    CE-/-ton        C- CE                                                 3 C-   CE/ton ---- …
Column A                                                                       Column B
Cherries             2.4           155        372        223        550      0.41             141-277          209        +34.8
Apples               3.2            90        288        150        700      0.21              54- 95           75        -17
Almonds              1.5           150        225        115        200      0.58             138-197          168        +12
Peaches              3              75       225          88        550      0.16              76- 93           85        +13
Plum                 3              75        225        111        550      0.2               64-110           87        +16
Table Olives         2.5           200       500         277        400      0.69             275-315          295        +48
Citrus               5              75        375        225        800       0.28             81-102           92        +22
Table Grapes         3             100        300        224        300       0.75
Summer
Vegetables         3              68       204          94        600      0.16              63- 69           66          -3
Potatoes             3              40        120         23        400       0.06             30- 72           51         +28
Source:  Planning Bureau
February 25, 1977



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Farm Budgets
15 donum farm; medium high zone       15 donum farm; high croppirng           30 donum farm; low cropping             20 donum farm; medium high
Irrigated  5 donumsi1                 zone.  Irrigated 5 donums S             zone.  Irrigated  15 donums/7           cropping zone.
Rainfed   10 donums72                        Rainfed  10 donums /6                   Rainfed    15 donums             RaPifed  20 donums,e                   2 donum farm; rehabilitatedLlo
uross       Operat,ing    Net         Gross        Operating       Net    G ross           Operating       Net         Gross       Operating      Net        GrOss      Operating    Net
Year      RevenueL       CostL.      Income      RevenueL3      CostL4       Income     RevenueZ3       CostL4       Income      RevenueL3      Cost/4      Income      Revenue       Cost       income
0           0             0          0            0             0            0             0             0           0            0             9            0          168          61         107
1           432          494          -62         708          280           428           996         1,178       -182           0            377          -377        168          61         107
2           398          351           47         672          301           371           996           813         183          0            254          -254        220          80         1i0
3           459          347          112         685          448           237         1,161           822         339          113          258          -145        273          95         178
4           597          347          250         662          391           271         1,410           900         510          225          276           -51        335         110         225
5           745          371          374         733          445           288         1,829         1,055         774          465          306           159        335         110         z?5
6            913         392          521         762          451           311         2,567         1,164       1,403          593          324           269
7         1,076          419          657         885          458           427         3,138         1,281      1,857           710          346           364
8         1,302          442          860       1,o69          488           581         3,823         1,393       2,430          885          366           519
9         1,523          469        1,054       1,254          513           741         4,505         1,511       2,994        1,050          385           665
10         1,756          490        1,266       1,500          544           956         5,196         1,629       3,567        1,215          407           808
11         1,925          512        1,413       1,647          576         1,071         5,607         1,734       3,873        1,380          430           950
12         2,047          530        1,517       2,023          609         1,414         6,021         1,783       4,238        1,545          450         1,095
13         2,130           540       1,590       2,092          621         1,471         6,246         1,813       4,433        1,710          472         1,238
14         2,175           544       1,631       2,127          624         1,503         6,358         1,824       4,534        1,800          478         1,322
15+        2,175           544       1,631       2,127          624         1,503         6,358         1,824       4,534        1,800          478         1,322        335         110         225
1 Irrigated almonds 1.7 donums (d); peaches 1.3 d; table grapes 2 d; vegetable intercrop 3 d.
Wine grapes 7.5 d; rainfed almonds 2.5 d.
Z,   From table 2.
From table 3.
Cherries 2 d; potatoes 2 d; vegetables 1 d.
Almonds 3.5 d; vines 6.5 d.
7   Citrus 3.6 d; table olives 3.3 d; almonds 1 d; potatoes 4.7 d; vegetables 2.4 d.
Almonds 7.5 d; olives 7.5 d.                                                                                                                                                                       a
j  Wine grapes 15 d; almonds 5 d.
10  1 donum peaches; 1 donum table grapes.  Crop yields are differenct from those used in New Irrigation (i.e., the other three budgets above).  For peaches the first year
yield is 0.9 tons/donum increasing to 1.8 tons/donum in four years.  For table grapes, 1.5 tons/donurm in year 1 increasing to 2 tons/donum by year 4.
March 1977



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Net Revenue Per Dons ~
(New Irrigated Areas)
Table                               Table        Sumser
Cherries    Apples    Almonds    Peach    Flum        Olives    Tangerines    Lemons    Grapes    VeRetables    Potatoes
___                                                        Intercrop 2-                                Minus 100% of       "inus 50%o
Weighted S_           Inter.ropj!         Intercrop
Cropping                                                                                                                                             Samaer
Pattern                                                                                                                                             Vegetables + Potatoes                         ------ CL -----------------------
X                12         2.1          9         5        2         10.3                       5          4            21          23.3                55.37
Col. A                 Col. B
Year
I                -181        -184       -157       -186      -179       -182       -195           -184      -208        +144          +26                 +71                     -25.3                  -96.3                -60.8
2                 -59          -58       -35        -43       -55        -52        -53            -56       -41        +144          +26                 +63                     +4.3.6                 -19.4               +12.1
3                 -58          -59       -36        -35       -59        -19        -56            -58       -21        +144          +26                 +55                     +43.4                  -11.6                +15.9
4                 -61         -67         -17          -.1    -50        +13        -48           -57        +15        +144          +26                 +36                     +41.2                   +5.2                +23.2
5                 -64          -57         -1.5     +29       -29        +46         -33           -56       +23        +144          +26                 +18                     +39.6                  +21.6                +30.6
6                 -67          -44       +16        +59        +6        +79          -5           -44       +36        +i44          +26                  +9                     +43.9                  +34.9                +39.4
7                 -32          -27       +32        +89       +41      +111         +56            -24       +65        +144          +26                  +0                       56.4                  56.4                 56.4
8                  +5           -2         49        89        76        144         115            -2        108       +144          +26                  +0                       73.5                  73.5                 73.5
9                +40            51         65        89       111        177         174          +24         152       +144          +26                  +0                       91.1                  91.1                 91.1
10               +61            98        82         89       111        210         234            50        200       +144          +26                                         106.5                  106.5                106.5
11              +162           139         98        89       111        237         234            76        224       +144          +26                                          125.9                 125.9                125.9
12-30           +223           150        114        89       111        277         234           129        224       +144          +26                                          141.7                 141.7                141.7
PV-7t l0%         725                    526                 619
1/  Based on Tables I to 6.
2/  Sua of areas under perennials, i.e. cherries, apples,           table grapes.
3/  Net benefits weighted by the cropping pattern percentages
4/  Present value at 1072 discount rate
6   This is Col. B minus  Col. A,  i.e.,  no inter5roppine  benefits.
6/ This is Col. B minus 50%. of Col. A, i.e., 507. benefits from intercropping,



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Farmers' Ability to Pay
Under Present Policies
Terms of Loan
-- Government ---          -------   Repayment   ------
Supply     Distribotion    Total                                   Interest   Repayment   Grace
Works_         System        Cost       Grant         Loan           Rate       Period      Period      Remarks
-------------(CB)------------------(Years) --
I.    Investment Cost Per Donum
Xyliatos Dae                                                                      272             92            364         0 2/         364 1/       9            40           0        NaiJr Project
Pond Storage                                                                      472             85            557         373          184          6            20           2        Minor Project
Borehole                                                                          152             85            231         159-          78          6            20            2       Minos
Rehabilitation                                                                    138             _             138          92 -1        46          5.75          15           2       Minor
Soil ConeervatiorN On Dryland                                                      -              -              68          17 -g6       51          4.5           10           2       Minor
On-farn System !1                                                                                                56           8           48          4.5           10           2       Minor
Soil Conservation 10/                                                                                            52          13-          39          4.5           10           2       Minor
Approximate         Total Cost Per    Debt Burden
Population Siee         Population        Per Popula-      Total
Affected                unit            tion Unit       Cost       Grant         Loan
(CK)              (CB)         ------(CB)------
Col. A                 -/A                C/A          Col. B                   Col. C
II.   Total Investment Cost For
Village Water Supply                                  10,349                   17.4               8.7         180,000    99,000 -    90,000            6            20           0        17 V4lldgcs
School Buildings                                       3,648                  54.3               16.2         198,000   139,000        59.000          4.5          20           0        11 Villages
Health Fecilfties                                      7,898                    6.7               0.8          53,000    47.000Q        6,000          5            10           0        6 Villages
Village Streets                                       19,879                    7.9               3.9         156,000    78,000 1/   78,000            5            10           0       47 Villages
Farm Roads                                              -                       -                 -           435,000   375,000-    30,000             4.5           8           0
Soil                    Village                    Health
Rehabili-    Conser-    On-farm       Water         School       Facili-    Village       Farn
Year       Dam      Pond      Borehole      jati n       vation      Svstee      Supolv        Buildina    ties          Streets      Roads
--------------------------- (CB Per Don- -)- ----------- --r-    --------- (Cl Par Year for Entire Project) ----------
8/
III.  ReDa-ment and Income Stremoe of                 1       33.8 -    11          4.7          2.64          4.0        2.16       7,846          4,538          777.      10,101       4,549
Above Inveotments Based on Loan                2        33.8       11        4.7           2.64          4.0       2.16
Tems Whicfi are Presently AvPplicable          3                   17         7.           4.97         13.5        7.8          ZvX\4  4
4~~~~~~~~
10         ,                                4. 97        13 65       7.28       7,646           4,538         777       10,101         0
11-15     33.8       17         7.2          4.97           0          0         7, 46           4,538          0          0            0
16-20     33.8       17         7.2           0             0          0         7,846           4,538          0          0            0
21-40     33.8       0           0            0             0          0            0              0            0          0            0
1/   The dam would be a major project so that it vill be folly financed by the Government.  The Government cost would be recovered by   water charge.  Government policy is to recover about
50% of the weighted average coat of all Govermnent financed dam.  The water charge, under present rules, cannot emceed 20 mils/n.   The cost recovery calculation uses 9% interest
and a 40-year life for the dam, and is applicable to only the Supply Works nd the Distribution Systes.
2/   677 grant and 3371 loan.
3/   25% grant, 75% loan. 
4/   507. grant, 50% loan.
5/   70% grant, 307. loan.
6/   Health Centers 100% grant; Health Sub-centers 507 grant, 50% loan.                                                                                                                                          r.
7/   For vine-Iroeing areas, 100. graeo; for other areas including land consolidation, 507. is loan, the balance is contributed by the farmers.
8/   For 680 m /donu-, this amounts to Mils 50 per i3.  If the interest rate Was 7%, the per r3 cost would be Mils 40.
9/   Essentially ioveatmento for water use improvements; 157. grant, 857. loan.
Lo/  Soil Conservation works on irrigated land.
IV   All Soil Conservation.
Sorce:  Mission Estimates; Government Policies.
March 1977



APPRAISAL Of
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPFENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Cost and Returns of Village Roeds
Average AnnuaI               Average Operating          Average Operating                Savings in
Daily Traffic Io                    Cost In                   SPeed On                  Opening Year In
Construction                                                                  Emi.ti.g   Future                      4/                         First Year           Bstimated geanmOc -
Road Link                              Lnthl          Cost        1976   Openine Ye.r  ~   1976                                  loeairg3 Y     ad  Read    Overatine Cost   Tioe       Total      Return %             Rate of Retur_ -
(I-     (CE *.OOO)       (7ehicles P                        peDae  CMI. r 7)lel. MRieL) - l"  per Sour)         (.E)                                    Tet-l Savinm
1.6 14   -~~~~~~~~~~~   --              ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                                     -- ~~xCo-struttiss
1.6 X 4~               ~     ~           X3             Xi             X2                  X7         X              --                __         __           Cost
Nio..is Sub-region
1.  Alone - Agros                              7          79             31      50 (1981)         28.5           24.5                  10         20            770            3.384        4,154           5.2                   6.5
2.  Xyliatos - Lxgo-dhera                     13         112              54     90 (1982)          29            25.0                  15         25          2,600            5,120        7,729           6.9                   9.5
3.  Lagoudhera - Polystipos                    2.9        32             54      90 (1982)         30.5           26.5                  15         25            600               615       1,215           3.8                   4.0
Lio.s*so 1 Sb-region
4.  Ayios loannis - Ayios Theodoroe            2.4        20              58     90 (1980)          35            29                    15         35             625            1,720       2,345          11.7                  15
5.  Arakapas - Dhiieron                        4          39              27    106 (1982)          36            29                    10         20           1,325            3 179 6/   4.504 6/        11.6 6/
6.  Eptagonia - Melini                         1.6        13.5           41      63 (1980)          30            26                    15         30             520            1,046 -     1,566 -         4.6 -                 5
7.  Akapon. - Eptagonia                       3.2         28              20     32 (1981)          35            29                    15         35             300              775       1,075           3.8                   4
B.  Sykopetra - Arakapas                       7.2        64.6            38     66 (1983)          32            26                    15         25           1,300            1,577       2,877           4.5                   5
Larnar. Snb-region
9.  Ore - Xhirokitia                          20          53             116    186 (1981)         Minor Inprovement                    20         30          5,93061           5          11. 6 36/       21                    23
10. Eptagoni. - Mellini                        2          20.3           41      63 (1980)          30            26                    15         30            --  -            --  - 6       _  -        _        
Total:                             63.3       461.4          480    836
1/  Based on a 4% per anSm.   secular growth rate in traffir, en induced trffio com.ponent of 207. on opening sod   delopoent trffic cmponent of 107 subsequent to  pening (A-ssmptione of Cyprus Roads Departeient).
2/  Of this, only 20'. or Ch 10,600 is included in the Project cost estimates.
3/  Based on inforoation on hi;torical operating costa in Cyprus.
4/  C-opoted as follows:  Savings in operating coa t in CE  -             1000    1    2 3)  4) +(          k(X2) (X3)(X 4]
X   =Operating cst on existing surfacs  (Mils/Vehicle oils)
X2 - Operating cost on gravel surface (Mils/Vehicle mile)
X - Number of oars per day on the road in future
X3  Length of read in miles
X4 - Savings ratio from  sphlting, i.. Asphalted toedn In this analysia, it is taboo as 1.3 for speeda of 30 v.p.h. (Sotue:  Iinfrey, R. "Econo=ic Anelysis for Highways", Page 727)
5                                            Crav 1rad
5/  Time costs per hour are based on average cage rote and the purpose of the trip.  Based on studies done in Cyprus amd using thu rul -t v-la   for Pitei.  the  e-lues of tine saved per hour for ears, buse.,,va. snd
lorries are Mils 543, 2380, 415, sod 415 respertively.  The per hour cost depends on the composition of traffic.  The value of tine savings  .es computed as follows:  Using the variables defined in "footnote 4/' and X6
speed of vehicle on asphalt surface, X  - overage speed on ecisting surface, the saving in Cb =                  -gag  value of time saved per hourJ (14) (X  - X)
6/  This .onbioes the Vptegonia-Mehlini links in the two regions, i.e., combinee road links 6 snd 10 above.
2/  Appro-tmeted by using internal rates of retur-  tables developed by Victor Wouters' Mimeograph 1967 (-u-rce avsilable on request).  Traffic growth rate assomed st 67, per ansum.  The economic life is 20 years.
March 1977



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Cost Recovery of Proiect Investments
under Present Policies
Present Value at 10% Discount Rate of the Repayment Streams -/ for the Various Investments ir Pitsilia
Village
Village1,                                4/                                                   Soil           on-farm            Water        School       Health      Village   Farm
Year          Roads       Rehabilitation          Dam               Ponds            Borsholes         Conservation       Systemas            Supply    Building   Facilities   Streets   Roads
(1,160 donmss)   (1,870 donms)   (2,900 donuma)   (3,000 donums)   (20,770 donums)(7,770 donums)
1             0              3,062             18,887              31,900             14,100            43,575           16,783             7,846        4,538         777        10,101       4,54`
2             0              3,062             18,887              31,900             14,100            43,575           16,783
3             0              59765             18,887              49,300             21,600           146,410           56,565
4I 
5II
9                                                                                                                                                                                              4, 5494
10                             5,765                                                                    14   10           56,565                                         777       10,101          0
11-15                           5,765                                49 300              21 600              0                0                7,846       4,538          0           0             0
16-20                            0                18,887             49,300              21.600              0                0                7,846       4,538          0           0             0
21-40           0                0                18,887                0                  0                 0                0                 0           0             0           0             0
A.  Present Value of Repayments (CE)
at 10`                            0             39,152             184,695            344,737             151,255           721,270          278,570            66,797      38,631        4,773       62,060       24,264
B.  Estimated Expenditure - (CL)         419,000          160,080            680,680           1,615,300            711,000         1,288,040          435,120           180,000      198,000      53,000       156,000    432,000
C. Recovery Percentage
AxO 100  at 17.                   0               24                 27                  21                 21                56               64                37          20             9            40           6
D.  Subsidy
(B-A)     at 107. (ci,)         419,000         120,928            495,985           1,270,563            559,745           566,770           156,550           113,203     159,369       48,227       93,940    407,736
1/ All Government financed.
7/  Fros  Table 8, Annex 11.
3/  only the 40 los for the land consolidation area.  It is assumed that since Pitailia is vine-growing the non-contributory scheme for farn roads would be applicable.
4/  Assumes that the maximum water charge of 20 mils/m3 (of which about 5.2 mile/a3 is O & M) would be charged.  The capital recovery part is 14.8 mil/m3 or CB 10.1/donum.
This is the number used in the above table. The repayments for the water sources are estimated by multiplying the per donum repayment streams in Table 8, Annex ll by
the areas that would be irrigated.
5/  Computed from the per donum costs used in the calculation of the repayment streams.  For example, for the dam, the actual expenditure is CE 364 x 1,870 = CE 680,680.
June 1977



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Beneficiaries of the Project
Cost and Subsidy
Under Present Policies
Village
Village                                                                       On-farm    Water         School         Health       Village
Roads    Rehabilitation    Dam    Ponds   Boreholes   Conservation   Systems   Supply                Buildinrs   Facilities   Streets    Farm Roads
1.   Cost Per Beneficiary
Estimated Expenditure (CE 10 )                       419 1/       160             681   1,615         711         1,288           435         180          1984/            53          156 6/       43  2/
Estimated Number of Beneficiaries                100,000 -        ----------------------------- 3,500 -   -----------------------   5,000 -                  - -        10,000 5-  10,000 6        3,500 -
Cost Per Beneficiary (CL)                            4.2          …---------------------------- 1,520 ----------------…---------               36            -             5.3         15.6          7/
(U8$)                        10…_-___________  _                            3,650 ----------------                     86            -            12.7         37.4           7/
1I. Subsidy Per Beneficiary
Total
Subsidy at 107% Discount Rate (CE 10 )               419          121             496   1,271         560            567          156         113          159              48           94          408
Per Beneficiary (CE)
At 10% Discount Rate                                 4.2          ----------------------------- 1,022 --------------------------               23            -             4.8          9.4           7/
(US$)
At 10% Discount Rate                                 10           ----------------------------- 2,454 --------------------------               54            -             11.5        22.6           7/
1/  The estimated average daily traffic in 1980 is 836 vehicles per day.  Assuming an average of 2 persons per vehicle, the annual number of beneficiaries would by 836 x 2 x 150 = 250,000.
Conservatively put, it is almost sure that about 100,000 commuters would gain from the village roads per year.
2/  According to the Pitailia Agro-economic survey, the average size of an operated farm unit is about 24 donums (3.2 ha); of this, about 20.5 donums are dryland and about 3.5 donums
are irrigated. The newly + rehabilitated irrigated area is estimated to be about 9,000 donums. The dryland area is about 13,000 donums. The number of beneficiaries for the two
investment categories   would be 9.000 - 2,571 and 13,000 , 634 or a total of 3,200.  However, if (as the Pitsilia survey shows) we exclude the "irrigable but not irrigated"
3.5                 20.5
area from the 3.5 donums of irrigated land, the average irrigated unit is 2.7 donums and the number of beneficiaries from  investments in irrigation would be about 3,330.  In
view of the predominance of small (7 donums) as compared to large (60 donums) sized farm units, the beneficiaries number is rounded to 3,500.  This refers to farmers only;
that is, if family members are included as beneficiaries (which they are), the number of beneficiaries would be 7,000 or more.
3/  About 17 villages would benefit from the water supply component.  The population of these 17 villages is 10,000.  It is believed that about ) of these would have some benefits
accruing to them from this investment.
4/  About 11 villages would benefit.  The affected child population attending these schools is about 500 pupils.  The village population is about 3,500.
5/  Six villages would be directly involved and their population totals 8,000.  The beneficiaries, however, would cover the entire Pitsilia region whose population is about 20,000.
Conservatively estimated, at least ? of the population is expected to receive benefits.
6/  About 47 villages (i.e. almost all) would benefit, so at least k the regional population should benefit.                                                                                                      ,
7/  Included in the productive agricultural investments.
Source: Based on data in Tables 8 and 10, Annex 11.
March 1977



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Cost Recovery of Project Investments Under Proposed Policies '
Soil Conservation                 On-farm
Year          Ponds             Borehole                    Irrigated                      Systems
(2,900onums)    (3,000 donums)                (7,770 donums)                (7,770 donums)
1                0                  0                           O                             0
2                0                  0                           0                             0
3                0                  0                           0                             0
4                0                  0                           0                             0
5                0                  0                           0                             0
6              62,234             27,306                      34,499                        41,803
7II
10
1U-15                              I .                        314,199                       11,803
16-25          62,234             27,306                        0                             0
A. Present Value of Repayments at 10% (CT)                      328,969            144,340                     131,786                       159,687
B. Estimated Expenditure (CO)                                 1,615,300            711,000                   1,288,040                      4135,120
A
C.  Recovery Percentage (B  x 100) at 10%                         20                 20                         32                             37
D.  Subsidy (B-A) at 10% (CL)                                 1,286,331            566,660                     871,703                       275,433
i Only those activities are included for which proposed policies are changed. Interest capitalized. See Table 10
June 1977



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Sensitivity Analysis of Farmers' AbilitY to Pay
Under Present Policies
(Newly irrieated Area Only)
----------Water Supply Source   DM Dr----------                               ------Water Supply Source    Pond -------                      -----Water Supply Source -Borehol                  … ----
Maxinec  21                                                                                            Lend                                                            Land
Average Net   Water Charge                                                                                             Terracing                                                       Terracinog
Income          (Supply and                                                                                            and                                                             and
With 100%. I   Distribution    0 & M         Land        On-farm    Total         Wet        Supply end 3-   0& M   On-farm           Total      Net         Supply and    0 & M4   On-farm          Total.      Net
Yeat   Intercrop -   System)             cost    Terraedine    System       Coat        Income-1   Distribution   Cost    System              Cost    Incos.e-2   Distribution   Cost    SYstem              Cost      laco.-
A                                                                B1         A -Bl                                                 32        A -B2                                                 83       A -3
I.   Basic
Parameters   1            -25             13.6            3.5       1. 76        2.16      21.02        -46.02            11         10.9        3.92         26         -51            4.7          14.6        3.92         23         4
2           44                                       1.76         2.16      21.02         22.98            11                     3.92         26        +18             4.7                      3.92        23          it
3           44                Ij                     5.91         7.28      30.29         13.71            17                    13.19         41          +3            7.2                     13.19        35           9
5           40                                                                              9.71                                                                                                                           5
6           44                              I13.71                                                                                                                                                                         9 
7           56                                                                            25.71                                                            152
6           74                                                                            43.71                                                            33                                                             21
10         107             13.6            3.5       5.91         72        3O 9          76.71            j                                   41          66             I1                     13.19         35         72
11-15      126             13.6           3.5         --                    17.1         108.9                                     028                     98            .LI0                                  22        104
16-20      142             13.6           3.5         --                    17.1         124.9                                     0           28         114            7r2                       02                     2
21-40      142             13.6           3.5         --                     17.1        124.9              -          10.9        0           11         131             -14.6                    0           15        127
Sass Net Ineome with 100%.                       Alternative I:  Net Income                           Alternative II:  Net Income                    Alternative III;  For Pond Only.  Net Incomes For
Intercrop (Prom Above)                            Minus 50% of Intercrop                               Minus 100% of Intercrop
Net Income                                          Net Income
A-I       AB2A -B        3            AI   Al          -     A   -B2    AI  -B3          Al           All:i    AUI&I  -82   All -B3           Table Olives       Cherries end   Tangerines end    Table Grm.s
X=i    flm        22ual    Borehol                          DM       EA         Borehole                         OeM       Zp                         and Itro             Itrco               Intercrop    ~ 4kn& UE
--- -   - --  - - -  -- - -  - --  - - -  -- -/d---       - -  - --  - - -  -n--    - --o- C            md n ) - -- - - - -- - ---- -    - - --  - -  - --  - - -  - -- -  - -  -- -  - - --  - -  - -- -  - - -
II. Sensitivity
Analysis       1        -46      -51         -48            -61            -82       -82          -84           -96            -117        -122         -119               -133             -132               -146                 -159
2         23      +18          21             12             -9      -14          -11           -19              -40         -45          -42               -17               -24                -18                   -6
3         14       +3           9             16            -14      -25          -19           -12              -42         -53          -47                 -8              -47                -45                  -10
4         11        0           6             23             -7       -18         -12              5             -25         -36          -30                  4              -69                -56                     7
5         10       -l           5             31             +1      -10           -4             22              -8         -19          -13                 20              -90                -59                    -3
6         14        3           9             39              9        -2            4           35                5          -6            0                 44             -102                -40                     1
7         26       15          21             56             26        15          21            56               26          15           21                 67              -76                  12                   21
8         44       33          39             74             44        33          39             74              44          33           39                100              -39                 71                    64
9         61       50          56             91             61        50          56             91              61          50           56                133               -4                130                   108
10        77       66          72            107             77        66           72           107              77          66           72                166               17                190                   156
11-15   109        98         104            126            109        98         104           126              109          98          104                206              1.31               203                  193
16-20    125      114         120            142            125       114         120            142             125         114          120                253              212                223                   213
21-40   125       131         127            142            125       131         127           142              125         131          127                270              229                240                   230
I/  Prom Table 7, Annex 11.                                                                                                                                                                                                       3
2/This is Milo 20/n5. Assoming 680 m3/donum, this amounts to C6 13.6 per donum, The full cost recovery price at 9%. internest over 40 years (see Table 8) is C6b 33.8 per donum or 14i1s 50 por m.
This price does not include operation and Maintenence Cost.                                                                                                                                                                               I
3/ Repayment according to existintg finmec-iel terms. See.Table 8. Annex 11.
March 1977



APPRAISAL OF
FIlIILIA INTEGBA1BPD RURAL DIVELOPMINT PR012ZT
CYFTRUI
SeOsitivity Al.ysi.s Of FOrmers'  ,4lity
to Fey under ProTposed TFlie0ZeaL
Avernge                               Ttnd                                                       BorehPle                                                              Borehle
tet Intone                              Soil       Total                                             Boil       Totel                   Incore    Net ln-sre       inome    Net Tn-m.e           Net Income
with 100%    BoPply sOd      OhM    COnrvatioa   Cost        et Cnoore     3pply 1Ad  ___    Co___oti,   coot   Nat 1om.   Minus 50    Mnus ICo   mines 50%   BOne 100%   mtnue 50%   MA--a l00
Year           On~~~~Iterorop    Distributioo   Cost   ,- On-fhm     93.     A-BI       PMstotbutlof    Coat   _h-Fete,  ~ 2             A-B2        lateroo     ~    r3         6eo                     31   to
I . Baslo PSoametersr2
1                    -25              0        10.9         0         10.9       -35.9             0        14.6         0         14.6      -39.6         -71.9        -106.9       _75.6       -41.6            -61          -96
2                     44              0                    0          10.9        33.1            0           I         0          14.6       29.4           1.1         -29.9       -2.6 .        33.6            12          -19
3                     44              0                     0         10.9        33.1             0                    0          14.6       29.4           5.1         -22.9        1.4         -26.6            16          -12
4                     41              0                     0         10.9        30.1            0                     0          14.6       26.4          12.1          _5.9        8.4          -9.6            23            5
5                     40              0                     0         10.9        29.1             0                    0          14.6        25.4         20.1          11,1        16.4          7.4            31           22
6                     44            21.5                   9.8        42.2         1.8            9.1                  9.8         33.5        10,5          -3.2         -7.2         5.5           1.5           39           35
7                     56                                                          13.8                                                         22 5          3.38         13.8        22.5         24205           56           56
B                     '4-                                                                                               i4: 31.6                0.                        31.6        4o.5         4c.5            74           7J5
9   91                                            1        46.6                                   I                     57.5          48.3         46.6       ' 57.5         57.5.          91           91
l0                    107                                    ,                     64.8                                                         73.5         64.8          64.8        73.5         73.5           107          107
I1(15                  126                                   9.           22         33.8           J.93                             33.        342.2 6;3.3              .   3.6        92.5          92.3          126          126
16-25                  142            21.5                    0          314       109'.6           93                    9  0       23.7       016.3         109.6      '193.         116.3         116,3          142          142
26-40                  142              0)       10.9         0         10.9       131.1             0        14.6         0         1.4.6      127.4        131.1         131.1       127.4        327.4           1442         142
Same as Table 13 (-nder Present Polities), but olly those variables FOr which different policies are proposed.
Interest CaPitali..d
Orame Period    Repayment Period'    Interet Rate*        durtng Grace Period
5               25; 15             6.5; 5.75                Yes
-me nubers after the seBIoolto  refer to Boll conservation plus on-farm works; those before refer to pond end birehole..
June 1977



to H g,  fri .               -                   
00004           99      e                      >     
nc                                                                                 '.0CC 
_  X                 0 |9                        0                    0              0
G                 i I| *| 
e    a        + o      It j0 |, ooz                                        iIoc
a~ ~ ~~ 4 50° 0        {    H|                                                 1a 
S  s  o.                  I ta oII                                                                
*~~~~                  Ia n000  _st                                      l>    
°o  n                      '.11                                              ;             n |       1 
n  0 0  5fin           .     0 0 1e 
00                     l_      ;00>    °                         C  
C. 1-                     l      1           Co  H--C-. ---v   iC .101:
.~~~~~~~~~~~I ..4 !000.0                                         i 0°                   n
o~~~~~~~~~0 ~                           0wo ,En          M  il 
o~~~~~~~~~~~tOOFO i. 001
*~~~ ~~~~~~ C  0.4S                                 r 0e0                   e
B ~   ~        ~       ~        £$gs=; 00'                     I



APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVEWPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Economic Rate of Return,
Productive Inve t,ents -/
----- Incremental Value of Production-  ----         ----------------------- Incremental Investment -  and Other Costs ----------------------
--- Operation and Maintenance Cost Xi ------------       Incr_ntal
New          Irrigation      Rainfed                 New          Irrigation      Rainfed        New                                   5/              Return from
Year    Irrigation   Rehabilitation    Land        Total      Irrisation   Rehabilitation    Land        Irrigation   Rehabilitation   Rainfed-    Total           the Project
Net Area at Full Development (donums):                  7,750            1,160        13.000
A                                                                                                   B I.._
---------------------------(C------------k--------------------------- CE 1,000) __________________________--
I.    Basic Data
1           0               0                0         0         787.4            40             276         0               0              0           1,103.4    -1,103.4
2           0              -15.6           -57       -72.6       787.4            40             276         16.6            0.4            1.5         1,121.9    -1,194.5
3           -38.8          -15.6           -96       -150.4    1,181.1             40            276         33.1            0.8            3.0         1,534.0    -1,684.4
4            29.5          -11.0          -117       -98.5    1,181.1              40            276         57.9            1.2            4.5         1,560.7    -1,659.2
5            76.7           -1.0          -126       -50.3         -               -             276         82.8            1.6            6.0           366.4       -416.7
6           174.4         +31.6           -102      +104.0         -               -              -          82.8            1.6            7.5            91.9          12.1
7          327.8           48.4             -6       370.2                                                   82.8            1.6            7.5            91.9        278.3
8          325.5            60.6           +87       473.1                                                                                                             381.2
9          343.3            67.3           186       596.6                                                                                                             504.7
11         488.3            67.3           390       945.6                                                                                                              853.7
12         609.2            67.3           495     1,171.5                                                                                                           1,079.6
13         744.8            67.3           606     1,418.1                                                                                                           1,326.2
14         875.8            67.3           714     1,657.1                                                                                                           1.565,2
15         981.9            67.3           813     1,862.2                                                                                                           1,770.3
16       1,063.3            67.3           891     2,021.5                                                                                                           1,929.6
17       1,100.5            67.3           945     2,112.8                                                                                                           2,020.9
18       1,100.5           67.3            978     2,145.8                                                                                                           2,053.9
19       1,100.5            67.3           990     2,157.8                                                                                                           2,065.9
20-30    1,100.5            67.3           990     2,157.8                                                   82.8            1.6             7.5            91.9     2,065.9
II.   Summary of Reaults
Project Rate of Return (ROR) %           9l13%
New Irrigation ROR                        e12%
Rehabilitation ROR                          1 8%
Rainfed ROR                               1l87.
III. Sensitivity AnalYsie
Project Cost Increased by 10%               12%
Project Benefits Decreased by 10% 7         127.
New Irrigation Costs Increased by 107, = 10. 77.
New Irrigation Costs Increased by 20%  > 107,
I/ Water Supply, conveyance system; on-farm investments; soil conservation; farm roads; 0 & M expenditures; and incremental working capital.
2/ Except for rehabilitation, all project investments would develop new land resources. These values are derived from phasing the project developments in accordance with Chart I in Annex 5.
3/ For water development, weighted average costs have been used - weights are the areas developed by the three water sources.
4/ Includes replacement.
5/  Estimated at CE 0.5/donum per annum.  The 0 & M costs for the water systems are in Table 10, Annex 5.
March 1977



ANNEX 11
Table 17
APPRAISAL OF
PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
Interest Rates of the Cooperative Central Bank
Interest Rate
Per Annum
I. Deposits in the Bank
Current Accounts
. On call                                                 3
. Savings book                                            5
. 7 days notice of withdrawal                             5-1/4
. 30 days notice of withdrawal                            5-1/2
. 90 days notice of withdrawal                            6
Fixed Deposits
. For six months                                          6-1/2
F For twelve months                                       7-1/2
II. Loans by Bank
. Basic rate                                              7
. Cooperative societies which act as savings
bank or credit society:
- Short-term loans                         7-1/2
- Long-term loans                          8
. Cooperative societies mainly engaged in
processing and/or marketing:
- Short-term loans                         8
- Long-term loans                          8-1/2
Source: Cooperative Central Bank



T                                    . . SYRIA  .  -  ::. .  .  ._
CYPRUS
LIBYA k   l-    t       ,    2 O'-"    _ PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT  f'
A.    R.   E.  \   .
qo~~ J
L   V      j     =  L 4r                f <S RCPO     YO !~~Y     L 
-  ', ', -S ''
I/T                                                                            t*ft  A 9oo 3$ o 
;t-~~~~~ 0i t~*
>0ve2bFoC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VNVf   k-. btw
- ft M*,OWdo  ftTd
r  R~~~~~~i   ooi ^o-
er  itJr  t irr ,.................sEs7>  t m !Z t'  A N E A   znN E A      ri   
~   ii                 Mtt)!1~P~AN~ _A/ 3r7A   p;4r 4 __ 3r I10 o






S0                                                    , ,, ,0 0         X                X               M       IRD 19O
CYPRUS
50100000                                                                                   i PITSILIA  INTEGRATED  RURAL
0..OU                        DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT AREA
Prot-1 Area Rnndary
0 X X X A A ~0*   Villages... 
V  ,,                                                                             Pa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D,oeRod
K  io,o,c                                             .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cZ  Rea~~~~~,1..Rs .d
E,,l--     Raisringorigation Dams
"~Eihg K0gpr,-nn Storag Pond
HA                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pro-teo Works
X   <                f         /             tfff)             Z                               1t  PHIKAIDL3UX                                E 7,F77,t Xytiros Storag Dam -nd Irrigr-on Scheme
Nroi-t Roads
S0 ~ ~ ~ ~   ]GH5UDHEEA    ;J_   /!                     |         t>O<LAi ANIA                 /                     \   Irrsg:tion Reh:billto on~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IngoronRnhbiiraio
j th^/R,:,0 i --5 3f t. , S              _, 
>;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1V j,,.i'n'                           -                                                                            Otors
2    o~~~~~~~o
PAIEKH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(
DHI.~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~0~ O0c                                                                                       r~~TKk<so
G,o,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~no*aBP
ml 1. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ti                                                                  o ~
E1.T.G0.1A    - - -k-0,  -






PITSILIA INTEGRATED RU RAL. DEV/ELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
- ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ -- 0                                                  ,*
Photograph 1
Photograph 2                     Terraces on the mountainiside in Pitsilia.






PITSILIA INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CYPRUS
r
-       r~~~~~ 
Photograph 3
Undulating terrain around a village in Pitsilia.



