CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 586 SO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Mogadiscio Port Extension Project)
BETWEEN
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED OCTOBER 15, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 586 SO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Mogadiscio Port Extension Project)
BETWEEN
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED OCTOBER 15, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 15, 1975, between SOMALI DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC     (hereinafter  called  the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) By a development credit agreement (Detailed Engineering
and Accounting Assistance Project) dated March 3, 1969 between the Borrower
and the Association, the Association granted to the Borrower a credit in various
currencies equivalent to five hundred fifty thousand dollars ($550,000) to assist
in the financing of detailed engineering of Mogadiscio/Ras Sif Port works and the
establishment of commercial accounting procedures for the Somali Port Authority;
(B)   By an agreement dated December 22, 1972, the Borrower has received
a grant of Somali shillings 86,648,000 from the European Development Fund to
assist the Borrower in the modernization of the port of Mogadiscio;
(C)   By a development credit agreement (Mogadiscio Port Project) dated
March 15, 1973 between the Borrower and the Association (hereinafter called the
1973 Credit Agreement), the Association granted to the Borrower a credit in various
currencies equivalent to twelve million nine hundred fifty thousand dollars
($12,950,000) to assist in the modernization of the port of Mogadiscio;
(D)   The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the financing
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending the Credit
as hereinafter provided;
(E)   The Borrower will relend to Somali Port Authority funds equivalent
to the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(F)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and Somali Port Authority;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the


﻿4
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "SPA" means Somali Port Authority, a public agency established and
operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and SPA of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time;
and
(c)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and SPA pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to five million two hundred thousand
dollars ($5,200,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the plroceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. txcept as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of international
competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972.


﻿5
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1977 or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June 1 and
December I in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1 commencing
December 1, 1985 and ending June 1, 2025, each installment to and including
the installment payable on June 1, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1'%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2w) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United S)t.es of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall, on behalf of SPA, carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative,
financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause SPA to perform
in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable SPA to perform such obligations,
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(c)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to SPA Under
a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and SPA
Under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association which shall include, inter
alia, the provisions corresponding to those set forth in Sections 2.05, 2.06 and
2.07 of this Agreement.


﻿6
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed, engineering consultants
acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 3.03. In carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ, or cause to be employed, contractors acceptable to the Association
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall issue promptly as needed import licenses,
visas, work permits and other necessary documents and take any other action
required to facilitate the import by the contractors and consultants of the goods
required for the Project.
(b)   The Borrower undertakes to make adequate provision for the insurance
of the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place
of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in
a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(c)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for the Project,
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower () shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and to disclose
the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives
to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information


﻿7
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall, as and when each of the facilities included
in the Project is completed, deliver each such facility to SPA for operation by
SPA, such delivery to be made free and clear of all encumbrances on the title
thereto.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all reasonable
measures to ensure that the execution and operation of the Project are carried
out with due regard to ecological and environmental factors.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, (a) the
Borrower shall:
(i)         inform  the Association of any intention to modify its Law
No. 58 of 1972 relating to Finances of Public Enterprises and
Agencies in such manner as to materially and adversely affect
the ability of SPA to meet its obligations under the Project
Agreement in sufficient time to afford the Association a
reasonable opportunity to express its views thereon;
(ii)        promptly provide the Association with copies of all regulations
or rules relating to the affairs of SPA issued by the Ministry
of Finance, or any other authority having jurisdiction thereon;
(iii)       ensure that before SPA enters into any planned centralized
capital investments as defined in Law No. 58 of the Borrower,
the Association is informed of such proposed investment in
sufficient time to enable the Association to express its views
thereon; and
(iv)        inform the Association of any intention to modify its Law No. I
of January 7, 1973 relating to the operations of SPA in
sufficient  time  to  afford  the  Association  a  reasonable
opportunity to express its views thereon.


﻿8
.Section 4.04. The Borrower undertakes to make necessary arrangements to
allow SPA to retain, commencing in 1977, sufficient funds from SPA's annual
surplus earnings to meet its debt service requirements.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a)   SPA shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement or obligation
under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(b)   a default shall have occurred under the 1973 Credit Agreement on
the part of the Borrower, or under any other agreement pursuant to the 1973
Credit Agreement on the part of the Borrower or SPA, other than in respect of
the payment by the Borrower of principal, interest, service charges or any other
payment required thereunder;
(c)   the Borrower shall have amended its Law No. 58 of 1.972 in such
manner as to reduce SPA's financial obligation to the Borrower under said law;
(d)   Law No. I of January 7, 1973 of the Borrower shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially
and adversely affect the ability of SPA to carry out the covenants, agreements
and obligations set forth in the Project Agreement;
(e)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of SPA or for the suspension
of its operations; and
(f)   an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that SPA will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a)   any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower and SPA; and


﻿9
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) or (e) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of SPA
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action;
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and SPA, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary corporate and governmental action; and
(c)   the consultants referred to in Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement
have been appointed.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, SPA and is legally binding upon SPA
in accordance with its terms; and
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and SPA and
is legally binding upon the Borrower and SPA in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date January 15, 1976, is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.03 of this
Agreement and the provisions of paragraph (b) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement
shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date thirty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.


﻿10
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary of State for Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary of State for Finance
Government of the Somali Democratic
Republic
Mogadiscio
Somali Democratic Republic
Cable address:
SECMINFIN
Mogadiscio
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 1-1 Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the      parties hereto, acting through  theh
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿11
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
By /s / Abdullahi Ahmed Addou
Autliorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)   Civil works                   3,550,000           80%
(2)   Consultant                      250,000            100%
services
(3)   Unallocated                   1,400,000
TOTAL         5,200,000
2.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases,
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to be consistent
with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.    Notwithstanding  the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated


﻿13
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures,
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
5.   If tne Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
0


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of expansion of facilities to handle cargo at the port
of Mogadiscio. It includes the following parts:
A.    Construction of a 180 meters long and 12 meters deep general cargo berth
in line with two 160 meters long and 10 meters deep general cargo berths
being financed under the 1973 Credit Agreement.
B.    Construction of a 180 meters straight-line extension of the 770 meters
breakwater being financed under the 1973 Credit Agreement.
C.    Utiliza*ion of consultant services for supervision of construction for Parts
A and B above and detailed design for a slipway and berths for tugs and
lighters.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1976.


