Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AMI 3 s a                       / - ,VZ
Report No. 8954-UNI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL WATER REHABILITATION PROJECT
APRIL 25, 1991
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department IV
Africa Region
Tb s document ha a reicted dJbutIo_  ad may be used by redpwsn oniy in the performee of
dther olc  duies Its cents may no otbewise be dslosed         Word Bank authorion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of July 31, 1990)
Currency Unit              Naira (N) = 100 Kobo (k)
US$1               m       N8.0
Naira (N)          =       tS$0.122
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
Metric System (SI Units)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DWSQC      -       Department of Water Supply and Quality Control
ERR        -       Economic Rate of Return
FCT        -       Federal Capital Territory
FGN        -       Federal Government of Nigeria
FMWR       -       Federal Ministry of Water Resources
lcd        -       liters per capita per day
NEPA       -       National Electric Power Authority
NTCWR      -       National Technical Committee on Water Resources
NWRP       -       National Water Rehabilitation Project
NWRI       -       National Water Resources Institute
PMC        -       Project Management Consultant
RBDA       -       River Basin Development Authority
RC         -       Regional Consultant
SOE        -       Statement of Expenditures
SWA        -       State Water Agency
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL WATER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ....................  .......... .                     - ii
I.   INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND ..............................                   1
II. THE SECTOR. ....                                                              1
A. Vater Resources                           . . ..1
B. Sector Organization.. ..                                                 2
C. State Water Agencies.. ..                                                3
D.  National Sector Institutions. .                                         3
E. Levels of Service. . ..    4
F. Manpower and Training                         .... 4
G.   Operation and Maintenance of Water Systems                  . .        5
H.   The Bank's Involvement in the Urban Water Supply
Sub-Sector                         ....5
I. Sector Strategy. ...                                                     5
J.  Rationale for Bank Involvement                . . .                     6
1TI. THE PROJECT                            . .... . 6
A. Project Objectives                         . . ...6
B. Project Description                        ..... 6
C. Project Implementation                       .. ...7
D. Project Costs and Financing                     ..... 9
E. Financing Plan                          ..... 9
F. Procurement                           .....10
G.   Disbursements           ......................................        12
H.  Project Accounting and Auditing                 .....                  14
I.   Project Monitoring and Supervision                .....              14
J. Environmental Aspects                    .....                         14
IV. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS                            ..15
A.   Financial Performance of State Water Agencies .15
B.  Tariffs, Billing and Collection .17
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Nigeria in May 1990, comprising Mmes. Elaine Patterson (Mission Leader and
Sr. Financial Analyst) and Anita Artaza (Operations Assistant) and Messrs.
David Henley (Sanitary Engineer), Uche Mbanefo (Sr. Financial Analyst),
Iraj Talai (Consultant Economist) and Peter Ware (Consultant Engineer).
Mr. Alfred Heron (Financial Advisor) was the peer reviewer for the
financial aspects of the operation. Mmes. Dawn Jones, Mary Fisher and
Elizabeth Novatny provided secretarial support in the preparation of the
%report. Mr. James Wright, Jr. and Mr. Edwin Lim are the managing Division
Chief and the Department Director, respectively for the operation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



V.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ................ .. .......................    18
A.   Project Justification and Benefits .........  ...........   18
B.  Poverty Xmpact ...................................................   is
C.  Economic Rate of Return   ... ..*................. ...   19
D.  Project Risks .................................................   19
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .....................   20
A.   Agreements Reached .......... .. .......................   20
B.   Conditions of Loan Effectiveness *...................    20
C.   Conditions of Disbursement ...........................   21
D.   Recommendation ........... ......................................   21
ANNEXES
3-1 List of Investments Eligible for Financing
3-2 Description of a Typical Sub-project (Gongola State)
3-3 Manpower and Training
3-4 Project Management Consultancy - Outline Terms of
Reference
3-5  Criteria of State Eligibility for Sub-Loans
3-6  Sample Letter of Commitment (Benue State)
3-7  Implementation Schedule
3-8  Project Cost Profile
3-9  Loan Disbursement Profile
3-10 State Water Agency Performance Indicators
3-11 Supervision Plan
4-1 State Water Agencies - Analysis of Operating Cash Flows
4-2 Water Tariffs
5-1  Economic Analysis
6-1  Documents Available in the Project File
Mapt IBRD No. 20709R



PEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL WATER REA2BILITATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers                 Federal Government of Nigeria (VON)
Beneficiaries:            Federal Ministry of Water Resources (PMWR) and
Water Agencies (SWAs) of State Governments and
the Federal Capital Territory (FCT)
Amounts                   US$256 million equivalent
Term8s                    Twenty years, including a five-year grace period,
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Onlending Tenms:          The Federal Government of Nigeria will onlend up
to US$220 million to participating states at the
standard IBRD variable interest rate. Maturities
and grace period would be the same as applicable
to the IBRD loan. Participating state
governments and the Federal Capital Territory
would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project Descriptions      The National Water Rehabilitation Project will
provide a source of credit to finance state level
sub-projects to address the highest priority
rehabilitation needs of urban water supply
systems. Sub-projects will focus on
rehabilitating existing facilities, leakage
detection and repair and institutional
strengthening to improve operation and
maintenance as well as financial, personnel and
stores management of the participating SWAs. The
Project would also support measures to strengthen
the PMWR to fulfill its role as an advisory and
coordinating agency for the water supply sector.
Proiect Benefits and      By increasing the supply of potable water, the
Risks:                    Project will have a positive impact on the
quality of life of the population in a large
number of urban and semi-urban centers throughout
Nigeria. Institutional strengthening will enable
the SWAs to sustain the higher level of water
supply service achieved after rehabilitating the
systems, and it will also reduce the SWAs'
dependence on state governments for recurrent
operating subvention. Project risks relate
primarily to FMWR's ability to manage an
operation of this size and to the state
governments' ability and covditment to provide
adequate counterpart funds to support their sub-
projects and to comply with the Bank's



- Li -
procurement guidelines. The role and
responsibilities of a project management
consultant, to assist PMWR in administering the
Project, have been carefully defined to minjj  ze
the risks associated with project management and
procurement. Participating states will authorize
deduction at source from the Federation Account
of their counterpart fund contributions.
Economic Rate of Returns 22Z (for a sample of 5 sub-projects)
Maps                      IBRD No. 20709R



- iii -
X of Total
Estimated Project Cost:  a/   Local      ForeiRn   Total      Base Costs
------- US$ Million------
Equipment and Materials         23.0      70.6       93.6           47
Civil and Building Works        16.5      36.7       53.2          26
Operational Support              1.0      16.9       17.9            9
Project Management               0.9       5.2        6.1           3
Engineering, Studies and
Technical Assistance            9.6      20.1       29.7          1S
Refinancing of PPF Advance        -        0.4        0.4            -
Total Base Costs           51.0     149.9     200.9          100
Physical Contingencies           7.3      20.9       28.2
Price Contingencies             19.4      41.7       61.1
Subtotal                        77.7     212.5      290.2
Duties                          16.5       -         16.5
Total Costs                94.2     212.5     306.7
Financing Plan:
State Governments               38.8 bl    -         38.8          13
FGN                              7.4       -          7.4           2
Government of Japan              0.5       4.0        4.5           1
IBRD                            47.5     208.5      256.0          84
Total                      94.2     212.5      306.7         100
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD Fiscal Year      92      93     94      95     96      97     98     99
-------------------…US$ millionn--------------------
Annual                8.7   24.1   45.0    56.5   50.9  38.3   23.3    9.2
Cumulative            8.7  32.8  77.8  134.3  185.2  223.5  246.8  256.0
a/   Columns may not add due to rounding.
bl   Of this amount, an estimated US$16.5 million equivalent is for duties
and taxes.



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL WATER REBILITATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND
1.01      With a population of around 117 million, Nigeria is the most
populous country in Africa. The form of government is a federation
comprising 21 states plus the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) of Abuja.
Under the Constitution, provision of potable vater supply is the
responsibility of the state governments. Within each state, responsibility
for providing potable water in urban and semi-urban areas is usually
assigned to a water board or corporation.
1.02       Over the last ten years, the states have made substantial
investments in water supply infrastructure. However, the absence of a
maintenance culture coupled with economic constraints has led to severe
deterioration of even relatively new systems. The recent depreciation of
the Naira relative to other world currencies has resulted in difficulties
in servicing foreign loans for water supply projects incurred before the
devaluation, in implementing new projects, and in importing the necessary
spare parts and replacement equipment to keep existing public water supply
systems in good order.
1.03      A study (the  lNationwide Study") was carried out in 1987 on
behalf of the then Federal Department of Water Resources to assess the
scope of the need for rehabilitation of urban water supply works
nationwide 1/. This study concluded that the total cost of rehabilitating
all existing urban and semi-urban systems, together with technical
assistance to improve manpower planning and development as well as
financial management, would amount to about US$814 million (at December
1987 prices). The Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) has requested IBRD's
assistance to undertake an operation to support a program for
rehabilitating selected water supply systems throughout the Federation.
II. THE SECTOR
A. Water Resources
2.01      Nigeria is located between latitudes 4°N and 13°N and has an
area of approximately 925,000 km2. The climate varies between semi-arid in
the north and humld in the south. In the north, the terrain is flat with
sparse natural vegetation; across the center, there are hills and granite
outcrops with savannah type vegetation; in the south, the terrain is
11 Nationwide Water SuPglV and Sanitation Rehabilitation Study -
Final Report, Diyam Consultants in association with Binnis and
Partners and British Water International, 1988.



generally flat with tropical forest vegetation. Average rainfall over the
country ranges from about 500 am/year in the northern areas to over 2,000
mn/year in the south. Most rainfall occurs in wvel defined rainy seasons
of four to five months (tMay - September) in the north and six to seven
months (April - October) in the south and is typically concentrated in
storms with high intensity rainfall and runoff rates.
2.02      The main rivers (Benue and Niger) and their major tributaries
are perennial, as are other rivers in the south of the country. Some
rivers in the northern states draining into the Benue/Niger system and into
the Chad Basin are seasonal, and often do not have any significant flow in
years of low rainfall. In these northern areas the exploitation of surface
water for water supply and irrigation relies on the construction of
impounding reservoirs. Because of the prevailing high temperatures,
evaporation losses are high. In the central and southern areas of the
country, major perennial rivers are frequently exploited for water supply
by direct abstraction. The wide variations in rates of flow and water
level, and the meandering low flow channels in many places, tend to
increase the costs of construction of water intake works. High intensity
rainstorms cause soil erosion, and the resulting highly turbid water
results in high treatment costs. Use of surface water for drinking water
supply always requizes full treatment which usually includes clarification,
rapid sand filtration and disinfection.
2.03      Parts of the country are underlain by sedimentary deposits
containing aquifers, which are tapped by boreholes for water supply. Some
of these are capable of sustaining high yields, although over-abstraction
in places is causing water levels to decline. Crystalline rock formations
occur in other parts of the country and fracture zones in these formations
can be exploited by boreholes with relatively low yields suitable for rural
and semi-urban supplies. Although some of the larger towns and cities have
been supplied from boreholes in the past, most major cities will be
dependent on surface water sources, possibly supplemented by groundwater,
within the next few years. Groundwater usually requires only disinfection;
however, in some places, groundwater is very corrosive and has a high iron
content, necessitating additional treatment.
B.   Sector Organization
2.04      Under Nigeria's federal system of government, the 21 individual
states (IBRD Map No. 20709R) have the primary responsibility for the
development of water supplies in both urban and rural areas. However, the
Federal Government through the Federal Ministry of Water Resources (FMW)
is responsible for national and international aspects of water resource
allocation and for approving large water resource development projects.
PMWR oversees the activities of the 11 River Basin Development Authorities
(RBDAs), created in 1976 by Federal Decree (as amended in River Basin
Development Authorities Decree 1987 No. 35), and is responsible for the
planning and development of water resources at the national level.



C.  State Water ARencles
2.05       In each of the 21 states and the FCT, responsibility for all
potable water supply is assigned either to a state water board or
corporation or to a public utilities board which is also responsible for
rural electrification. State water agencies (SWAs) have, however, for the
most part concentrated on urban snd semi-urban areas. Each SWA is
controlled by a Board comprising a number of members appointed by the state
government, one of whom is designated chairman, and a number of ex-officio
members designated by title (e.g.. Commissioner, State Ministry of
Finance). The chief executive is normally given the title of General
Manager and is usually a professionally qualified engineer.
2.06      The SWAs are responsible to their state governments, generally
through the Ministries of Worics or Water Resources, although in a few
states they report through a Commissioner for Parastatals or Special Duties
or other special assistant to the Military Governor. The SWAs have, in
general, been established under well conceived legislation to develop and
manage water supply facilities within their respective states, and to meet
sound financial objectives. However, all SWAs depend on subvention from
the state government to cover at least part of their recurrent operating
costs. In addition, all SWAs are dependent on funds for any major new
construction work, either from state government sources or from external
lending agencies channeled through the state government system. Thus, most
SWAs have little autonomy to decide on vital policy matters affecting their
financial position, such as staffing levels, staff compensation, tariffs
and procurement.
D. National Sector Institutions
2.07      The Federal Minist r  of Water Resources (FMWR) is the technical
and professional arm of the Federal Government that advises on all aspects
of water resources development in Nigeria. It has eight departments, each
of which is headed by a Directors (i) hydrology and hydrogeology; (ii)
irrigation and drainage; (iii) water supply and quality control; (iv) dams
and reservoirs; (v) flood and erosion control; (vi) planning, research and
statistics; (vii) finance and supplies; and (viii) personnel management.
The Department of Water Supply and Quality Control (DWSQC) has been
established to carry out advisory and monitoring functions in connection
with water supply, sanitation and water quality control.
2.08      FMWR is responsible for overseeing the 11 RBD&s and the National
Water Resources Institute in Kaduna. It is also responsible for monitoring
both the hydrological networks throughout the country and water use
activities of SWAs, the National Electric Power Authority (NEPA), the
Inland Waterway and others.
2.09      The National-Technical Committee on Water Resources (NTCWR) is
the main link between organizations involved in water resources development
and urban water supply. The Committee which meets about four times a year,
is chaired by the Director General of the FMWR and members of the Committee
are representatives of SWAs, RBDAs, NEPA, Nigerian universities with water
resources facilities, the meteorological services, Inland Waterways
Department and the Nigerian Society of Engineers. Inputs to the NTCWR are



- 4 -
provided by five working level sub-committees, namelys irrigation and
drainage; manpower development; hydrology and hydrogeology; water supply
and sanitations and dame. The NTCWR advises the National Council on Water
Resources, which is chaired by the Minister of Water Resources.
2.10      The River Basin Develooment Authorities (RBDAs) were established
during the 1970s to develop water resources for multi-purpose use within
their respective river catchment areas and to enhance agricultural
production. In 1985, the Federal Government decided that the role of the
RBDAs would be limited to water resource development and irrigation works.
RBDAs are also responsible for the collection of relevant hydrological,
hydrogeological and meteorological data. The main involvement of the RBDAs
in the water supply sector has been the construction of multi-purpose dams
which provide water for irrigation as well as for some of the major urban
water systems.
2.11      The National Water Resources Institute (NWRI), which is under
the direction of FMWR, was established to train middle level manpower
involved in the fields of water resources development, irrigation, water
supply and related activities. The qualifications conferred by the
Institute are recognized by the education authorities of Nigeria. The
curricula of the Institute should be designed to satisfy an increasing need
for training in practical skills at the middle management level.
E. Levels of Service
2.12      Although accurate data are not available, it is clear from
observation of the areas receiving piped water and from inspection of works
in operation, that most of the existing urban water supply systems are not
capable of meeting normally accepted requirements. Due to failure of
pumps, generators or other equipment, fewer than 10 percent of all water
supply systems are reported to be capable of operating at their design
capacities. In addition, the output of some systems is limited by fuel
shortages as a result of insufficient funds. In general, it appears that
the average piped water supply to urban and semi-urban populations is in
the range of 10-40 lcd. Many semi-urban communities do not have access to
any public water supply. It is estimated that only aboutt 50? of the urban
and semi-urban population have access to reliable water supplies of
acceptable quality.
F. Manpower and Training
2.13      In the aggregate, the SWAs account for employment of some 25,000
staff nationwide. In general, the staffing patterns of SWAs are
characterized by too many low level staff with minimal or no qualifications
(high rates of illiteracy in these cadres are reported In some states), and
too few technically or professionally qualified persomnel. There is a low
level of management awareness on the part of midile and higher management,
with little emphasis on management training for technical specialists who
enter and move up the management ranks. Many of the staff who are
academically well qualified have not had the opportunity to gain work
experience in a supervised professional environment and may, therefore, be
unable to provide appropriate technical support to the SWAs. The
supervisory skills of line managers are often weak, with significant impact



on operating practices and the state of maintenance of water supply
facilities.
2.14      Urgent review of staffing profiles and training needs is
required in most SWAs to define where staff need to be recruited or
retrained, and where shedding of unskilled and unqualified staff is
required to improve SWA management, supervision and operation and
maintenance efficiency. In addition, state governments need to free SWAs
from civil service regulations regarding staff grading, promotion and
remuneration to enable them to compete effectively in the open market in
recruiting qualified, experienced and skilled staff for management,
supervision and technical duties.
G. Operation and Maintenance of Water Systems
2.15      Most water treatment works are unreliable due to frequent
failures of mechanical and electrical equipment. The quality of water
delivered to consumers is, in most cases, unlikely to comply with World
Health Organization (WHO) guidelines, although sampling and testing are
seldom carried out to determine actual water quality. The performance of
water supply works and systems operated by SWAs is generally unsatisfactory
resulting in inadequate supplies and in many cases, a poor quality product,
for which consumers are reluctant to pay. This is the result of inadequate
resources in terms of finance, personnel and equipment, as well as poor
management.
H. The Bank's Involvement in the Urban Water Supply Sub-Sector
2.16      Past assistance by the World Bank to the SWAs has been mainly
directed toward the provision of funding for major new water supply
systems, usually for state capitals, and associated technical assistance
for project planning and institution strengthening. The Bank has been
involved in lending for four major urban water supply projects, three of
which, Anambra, Borno and Lagos, are in the process of execution and one of
which, Kaduna, has been completed. Lessons learned frcm the Kaduna Water
Supply Project (PCR No. 8961), particularly with respect to the need to
insure a reliable flow of counterpart funds, to clearly define technical
assistance needs and to provide support for programs to reduce unaccounted
for water, have been taken into account in designing the Project.
I. Sector Stratezy
2.17      In common with most sectors of Nigeria's economy, the imediate
needs in the water supply and sanitation sector, particularly in urban and
semi-urban areas, are the rehabilitation of existing systems and associated
improvements in operation and maintenance arrangements. These measures
would inevitably provide the highest economic return. Rehabilitation would
logically be followed by programs of carefully planned expansion and
improvement of existing systems, to provide acceptable levels of service to
a rapidly increasing population. Such programs, if accompanied by
effective Institutional strengthening and revenue collection improvements,
would enable higher levels of service to be sustained in the longer term.
The proposed project would be the first in a series of operations in line
with the sector strategy to rehabilitate existing systems and provide for



- 6 -
institutional improvements. This operation, which targets a comparatively
large area, would be complemented by multi-state operations which are able
to deal in greater depth with institutional reforms.
J.  Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.18      The ability to provide an adequate supply of safe water at
affordable rates is essential to maintaining an acceptable standard of
living for the population. In addition, provision of reliable public
infrastructure and services is fundamental to economic and industrial
development. SWAs are responsible for all large public water supplies in
Nigeria, and, therefore, have a pervasive impact on human well-being and
economic development in general. Because the provision of potable water
supply is a state-level responsibility in Nigeria, there are as many
variations as there are states. However, the most severe sector problems
recur in varying degrees throughout most, if not all, states. Tha
experience gained on previous state-specific water supply projects (para
2.16) can be generalized to address sector issues on a broader basis. In
the medium term, through its sector lending operations, the Bank will
encourage commercialization of the SWAs, as well as improved operational
efficiency and rational investment planning. In addition, through its
contacts with other donor agencies, the Bank can assist in mobilizing and
coordinating support from the donor community.
_II. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Obiectives
3.01      The National Water Rehabilitation Project (NWRP) will provide a
mechanism for financing sub-projects in individual states. The objective
of each sub-project will be to improve the level of water supply service in
selected urban and semi-urban areas by meeting the highest priority
rehabilitation needs. Another major objective is to begin to address the
most significant institutional weaknesses of the SWAs in order to improve
their capability to efficiently operate and maintain water supply systems.
D. Proiect Descrintion
3.02      Under the auspices of FMWR (para 3.04), the Project will provide
a source of financing for the highest priority rehabilitation needs of
state water supply systems. Each of the 21 states and the FCT are eligible
to apply for a sub-loan of up to US$10 million equivalent for this purpose.
The physical components of each sub-project will focus on rehabilitating
existing facilities by repair or replacement of civil works, plant and
equipment with the objective of restoring the output of water supply
systems to their original design capacities, wherever possible. Neither
expansion of existing systems nor construction of new systems will be
eligible for financing. A proposed list of investments eligible for
financing under NWRP was agreed during loan negotiations (para 6.01 (a)),
sad is presented in Annex 3-1. In addition to the physical rehabilitation
components, in order to sustain the physical improvements realized under
the program, each state sub-project would comprise a leakage detection and



- 7 -
repair program and institutional strengthening components to improve
operation and maintenance, financial management, staffing and stores
management of the participating SWAs. A description of a typical sub-
project for Gongola State is presented in Annex 3-2.
3.03      To provide better support to the SWAs, the Project will Also
include a component for strengthening the Department of Water Supt   and
Quality Control (DWSQC) of PMWR. This component would comprise:
(a) developing policy guidelines for design and maintenance of water
supply systems, water quality standards, equipment
standardization, standards for water treatment chemicals,
improved tariff structures and cost recovery, and manpower
development;
(b) establishing and maintaining a data base to monitor key
performance indicators of SWAs;
(c) establishing and maintaining a water resources and water quality
data base for both surface and groundwater sources used for
domestic and industrial purposes;
(d) identifying the most critical training needs in the sector and
assessing the capability of local training institutions to meet
those needs (Annex 3-3); and
(e) carrying out special studies of general interest to the sector,
such as pollution and water quality studies, review of tariff
structures, fixed assets valuations, etc.
C. Project Implementation
3.04      FMWR, through DWSQC, will be responsible for project
implementation. Since project implementation is not a recurrent function
of DWSQC, FMWR has appointed a Project Management Consultant (PMC) to act
as its agent to manage project implementation. This will involve four
major areas of activity: (i) overall management of the Project; (ii)
monitoring sub-project implementation; (iii) institutional development of
participating SWAs; and (iv) support to FMWR to enable DWSQC to more
effectively fulfill its role in providing sector policy advice to PGN and
technical advice and guidelines to the SWAs. The PMC will also be
responsible for day-to-day operation of a Special Account (para 3.17) and
maintaining project accounting records (para 3.18). The overall success of
NWRP is heavily dependent on the performance of the PMC, whose outline
terms of reference are presented in Annex 3-4. Staff from FMWR will be
seconded to the PMC to be trained in the various areas of project
management. Counterpart staff will be assigned to the PMC as soon as PMC's
mobilization is complete; such assignment will be a condition of loan
effectiveness (para 6.02 (a)).
3.05      The states through their SWAs will be responsible for
implementing sub-projects financed under NWRP. Although in principle all
21 states and FCT are eligible to participate, in order to qualify for a
sub-loan, each state/SWA must enter into a sub-loan agreement which



- 8- 
confirms its commitment to carry out programs of operational and
institutional reforms and annual tariff increases (pars 4.03). Proposed
conditions for state participation in NWRP were atroed during loan
negotiations (pars 6.01 (a)) and are outlined in Annex 3-5.
3.06      Engineering consultants working under the direction of FMR have
assisted the states to identify suitable components for funding under the
guideline that funds would be used to bring maximum benefits to the most
people (para 3.10). This sub-project identification in the field has been
completed and the resulting reports reviewed during pre-appraisal and
appraisal. In order to further assist the states in preparing sub-
projects, FMWR will appoint up to seven Regional Consultants (RCs) tos (i)
carry out detailed engineering design for identified sub-projects; (ii)
prepare procurement documents; (lit) provide site supervision for
rehabilitation works; (iv) prepare and supervise leakage detection programs
for water supply systems which are being rehabilitated; (v) prepare a
program for safety inspection and environmental assessment of all dams and
reservoirs involved in the sub-projects; and (vi) provide assistance in
implementing improved stores management procedures. Each RC will work in
up to three states. All proposals for the regional engineering
consultancies ".ave been received and are being evaluated. PMWR's signing
of at least two of the contracts with Regional Consultants will be a
condition of loan effectiveness (para 6.02 (b)).
3.07      States' participation in NWRP is voluntary.  All 21 states and
PCT have now submitted formal letters of commitment, a sample of which is
included as Annex 3-6, indicating their interest in participating and their
endorsement of the Project's objectives.
3.08      Each participating state will be eligible for a sub-loan of up
to US$10 million equivalent. If, however, some states should choose not to
participate in NWRP, any loan funds which remain unallocated as of January
1, 1994, will be re-allocated to states which make appropriate requests and
which have: (i) committed 75 percent of the funds allocated; (ii) made all
required counterpart fund payments; (iii) achieved an acceptable level of
coverage of cash operating costs out of internally generated revenues 2/;
and (iv) undertaken effective leakage detection and repair programs. Each
state may qualify for an additional allocation of up to US$10 million
equivalent if sufficient funds are available. During negotiations
agreement was reached that by December 31, 1991, FMWR will inform the
participating states of the specific evaluation criteria that will be used
to determine their eligibility for additional funding (para 6.01 (b)).
These criteria would have been discussed and agreed in advance with the
Bank. To ensure adequate time for implementing approved sub-projects,
during negotiations it was also aLreed that June 30, 1994 would be the
terminal date for approval of sub-loans under NWRP (para 6.01(c)).
3.09      Annex 3-7 presents the project implementation program for NWRP.
Sub-projects to be initially funded, are scheduled for completion by
2/   Since cost recovery levels vary widely from state to state,
acceptable levels will be evaluated on a case by case basis.



December 31, 1996. Vhere states qualify for additional funding, these sub-
projects are scheduled for completion by December 31, 1998. The proposed
loan closing date is June 30, 1999.
D. Proiect Costs and Financing
3.10      The total cost of the FMWR component and all state level sub-
projects is estimated at US$290.2 million equivalent, exclusive of customs
duties and taxes, of which the foreign exchange component is US$212.5
million (73? of the total). Utilizing groat financing provided by the
Overseas Development Administration (ODA - U.K.), FM(R has appointed a
consultant to assist SWAs to identify sub-projects which could be
considered for financing under NWRP. The consultant's field inspections of
the components to be rehabilitated, and identification of further studies
required to select optimum rehabilitation methods, form a basis for the
cost estimates which are based on July 1990 prices and exchange rates and
include physical and price contingencies. Physical contingencies are based
on the followings rehabilitation and leakage detection and repair - 152;
operational support, billing and collection - 102; project management and
training - 5?. Price contingencies have been calculated as follows:
Local         Foreign
Year                  2               a
July-December 1990        12.5            2.5
1991 - 1995             10.0            4.9
1996 - 1998             10.0            3.7
The project cost profile, presented in Annex 3-8, has been developed on the
assumption that 15 states would qualify to undertake sub-projects to be
funded initially under the project, and the remaining US$70 million
equivalent of IBRD loan funds would be allocated subsequently, based on the
performance of project states (para 3.08).
E. Financina Plan
3.11      An IBRD loan of US$256 million equivalent to FGN is proposed at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate for 20 years including five
years of grace with a commitment charge of 0.75?. Up to US$220 million
equivalent of the loan would be onlent to participating states for approved
sub-projects. During negotiations, agreement was reached that onlending
would be on the same terms as the IBRD loan, and participating states would
bear the foreign exchange risk (para 6.01(d)). There will be a sub-loan
agreement between FGN and each participating state which will specify
conditions for state participation in NWRP. Signing of at least two sub-
loan agreements will be a condition of effectiveness of the IBRD loan (para
6.02 tc)). The Government of Japan has provided a grant of Yen 675 million
(US$4.5 million equivalent) to assist with project management and
preparation of sub-projects for financing under NWRP.



w 10 .
Financing Plan
(in US$ million equivalent)
Z of
Local     Foreign       Total     Total
State governments -
counterpart funds              38.8 a/       --          38.8      13
FGN - counterpart funds            7.4         --           7.4       2
Government of Japan               0.5          4.0          4.5       1
IBRD                             47.5        208.5        256.0      84
94.2       212.5        306.7     100
a/   Of this amount, an estimated US$16.5 million equivalent is for
customs duties and taxes.
F. Procurement
3.12      Procurement of goods and services for the F MR-implemented
components will be the responsibility of FMWR, with assistance from PMC in
preparing requests for consultants' proposals and bidding documents and in
evaluating proposals and bids. SWAs will be responsible for procurement
related to individual state sub-projects, but all procurement will be
reviewed by the PMC to ensure compliance with the World Bank guidelines.
The PMC will prepare standard pre-qualification and bidding documents for
use by SWAs. Prior to their being issued to the SWAs, these standard
procurement documents will be reviewed for compliance with World Bank
Guidelines for procurement of goods and civil works. The Regional
Consultant will assist the SWAs in bid evaluation. The final bid
evaluation report and recommendations for awards will be submitted to the
PMC for review. Prior Bank review of advertisements, bidding documents,
evaluations and recommendations for awards will be required for all FMWR
and SWA implemented contracts above US$200,000 equivalent. Preliminary
estimates indicate that about 85 percent of procurement financed under NWRP
would be subject to prior Bank review.  Projected procurement arrangements
are summarized in the table on page 11.
3.13      Rehabilitation works, which include civil works and items of
replacement plant and equipment, will be grouped into procurement packages
by state and procured under international competitive bidding (ICB) using
standard prequalification and bidding documents prepared in accordance with
World Bank Guidelines. For contracts subject to ICB procedures, a domestic
preference of 15? or duties (whichever is less) will apply for the
procurement of goods. A preference of 7.52 will apply for civil works
contracts. Where ICB will not be practical, (i) goods costing not more
than US$25,000 equivalent per contract with an aggregate not to exceed
US$2,500,000 equivalent could be procured by local shopping by obtaining at
least three price quotations from reputable suppliers; and (ii) goods
costing not more than US$100,000 equivalent per contract with an aggregate
not to exceed US$9,500,000 equivalent could be procured by international
shopping by obtaining at least three price quotations from reputable
suppliers from at least two different countries.



- 11 -
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS a/ hi
(US$ million)
ICB     LCE        Other     N.A.      Total
Equipment and Materials
(a) Water Treatment Systems    40.9        1.7       4.0                 46.6
(34.9)    (1.4)     (3.4)               (39.7)
(b) Pumping Plant               23.8       1.0       4.0                 28.8
(22.0)    (0.9)    (3.6)                (26.5)
(c) Electrical Plant and        56.8       2.3      4.0                  63.1
Equipment                  (52.2)    (2.1)    (3.6)                 (57.9)
Civil and Building Works
(a) Water Source Works          22.9                                    22.9
(18.9)                                  (18.9)
(b) Leakage Repairs             25.2      25.2                          50.4
(22.7)   (22.7)                         (45.4)
(c) Building Repairs             2.5       2.3                           4.8
(1.8)    (1.7)                          (3.5)
Services
(a) Project Management                               7.8                 7.8
(6.9)               (6.9)
(b) Engineering and Leakage                         36.7                36.7
Detection                                       (30.2)              (30.2)
'c) Training                                         2.3                 2.3
(0.8)               (0.8)
(d) Billing and Collection                           1.4                 1.4
Improvements                                    (1.4)                (1.4)
(e) Studies and Project                              0.6                 0.6
Preparation                                     (0.6)                (0.6)
Operational Support              19.4     5.0                            24.4
(19.0)   (4.8)                          (23.8)
Refinancing of PPF Advance                                      0.4       0.4
1(0.4)    (0.4)
Total                          191.5    37.5         60.8       0.4    290.2
(171.5)  (33.6)      (50.5)     (0.4)  (256.0)
______________________
a/   Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IBRD.
bI   Columns may not add due to rounding.



- 12 -
3.14      Some relatively small contracts, such as for leakage or building
repairs, supplying small lots of equipment, or operational support items
such as vehicles, tools and office equipment, will not be of interest to
foreign contractors and suppliers not already established in Nigeria and
may be procured on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB), locally
advertised, and conducted in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Bank, including appropriate advertisement, public bid opening, and award to
the lowest evaluated responsive bidder based on evaluation criteria
specified in the bid documents. Foreign contractors and suppliers, if
interested, would not be precluded from participating. LCB will be
permitted only by those SWAs vhich have submitted documentation of the
state's procurement regulations in sufficient detail to enable the Bank to
confirm that the essential elements cited above are, in fact, present in
local procurement practices. The first LCB document of each participating
SWA would be reviewed and cleared by the Bank before being released to
bidders. Approximately 50 contracts would be awarded under LCB, with the
value of individual contracts estimated at between US$100,000 and US$1
million equivalent. The aggregate value of LCB for procurement of goods is
expected to be US$10 million and US$27.5 million equivalent for procurement
of works, i.e., less than US$2 million equivalent per participating state.
3.15      Consultants for project management were appointed under advanced
contracting arrangements and in accordance with World Bank Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants. The amount of advanced contracting is US$7,000,000
equivalent. Other consultancy contracts will be awarded in accordance with
Bank guidelines. Proposals for seven engineering services (Regional
Consultants) contracts (approximate value US$5 million each) are being
evaluated by FMWR with the assistance of the PMC.
3.16      Engineering consultants, working under the direction of FMWR,
have assisted the states to identify components for funding under the
project. Regional consultants will carry out detailed surveys of the
rehabilitation needs of these components, study alternative options for
repairs and replacements and complete detailed designs and bid documents.
It is envisaged that the works will be grouped into two or three large
contracts per state. However, only after part of this detailed work is
completed, will it be possible to estimate the number, value or scheduling
of these rehabilitation contracts.
G. Disbursements
3.17      The proposed IBRD loan would be disbursed over seven and a half
years, on the following basist



- 13 -
Allocation and Disbursement of ILRD Loan
Category                       Amount          X to Be Disbursed
CUSS million)          from IBRD Loan
1.  Equipment and materials          130.0     10O1 of foreign and 60S of
(including installation)                   local expenditures
2.  Civil works                       65.0     1002 of foreign and 602 of
local expenditures
3.  Consultants' services,            35.6     1002 of foreign and 402 of
training, studies                          local expenditures
and engineering
4.  Refunding of project               0.4
preparation advance
S.  Unallocated                       25.0
Total     256.0
S=CW
Disbursements would be completed by June 30, 1999. The project
disbursement profile is presented in Annex 3-9. Cost overruns including
any extra costs associated with extension of the implementation schedule
would be borne by the implementing agencies, FMWR or SWAs, or their state
governments. A Special Account in foreign currency of US$10 million
equivalent (estimated to finance four months' eligible expenditures) will
be established in a commercial bank on terms and conditions acceptable to
IBRD. The Special Account would be used for disbursements against all
eligible expenditures and it will be replenishable on application by PMWR.
All disbursements from the Special Account will be processed by the PMC and
signed by two authorized signatories from FMWR. Applications for the
withdrawal of IBRD loan proceeds to replenish the Special Account can only
be authorized by the Minister of FMWR. Project Accounts in local currency
will be opened for FMWR and each participating SWA. Disbursements from the
project accounts for FMWR and the states would be processed by PMC with all
disbursements authorized by a designated official in FMWR. Disbursement of
the IBRD loan would be fully documented except under contracts of less than
US$50,000 equivalent which may be disbursed against Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs). Supporting documents for the SOEs would be retained
by FMWR for review during IBRD supervision missions. As conditions of
disbursement for project states: (i) a sub-loan agreement must be entered
into on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) for the
rehabilitation of water supply systems, a contract must be entered into
that adequately provides for a leakage detection and repair program (para
6.03).



- 14 -
H. Proiect Accountin_ and Auditini
3.18      The PMC will, on behalf of FMWR, establish separate accounts in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, to record all
project expenditures and to maintain records on commitments, reimbursements
and the status of project funds. During negotiations, agreement was
reached that, by June 30 each year, FMWR will submit to IBRD the financial
statements of the Special Account, Project Accounts and SOEs for the
preceding calendar year (para 6.01 (e)), audited by an independent
accountant acceptable to the Bank. Audited annual financial statements of
participating SWAs would be submitted to FMWR (para 4.06) by September 30
of the following year.
I. Project Monitoring_and Supervision
3.19      Because of its broad geographic coverage and the large number of
agencies involved in sub-project implementation, NWRP will require
extensive supervision. Even with substantial inputs from the PMC in
monitoring procurement, sub-project implementation and operating
performance of the participating SWAs (Annex 3-10), it is estimated that
the Bank will have to provide approximately double the normal level of
supervision required to monitor a specific investment water supply project
in a single state in Nigeria. The PMC will prepare comprehensive quarterly
progress reports for review by FMWR and IBRD.  The PMC will also organize
annual reviews of sub-project implementation in the form of a
seminar/workshop to be attended by FMWR and all participating SWAs
(Annex 3-4). IBRD participation in these annual reviews would be a major
element of the project supervision plan (Annex 3-11). During negotiations,
aareement was reached on the agenda, timing and format for a mid-term
review of project implementation (para 6.01(f)). The mid-term review would
cover inter alia SWA performance as measured by the monitoring indicators
as well as progress on physical implementation of sub-projects.
J. Environmental Aspects
3.20      While providing opportunities for improved health and hygiene,
restoring the production and distribution capacities of the water supply
systems will also moderately increase the volumes of wastewater discharged
by domestic, commercial, institutional and industrial consumers. Although
in some areas facilities for the disposal of wastewater are inadequate, no
significant detrimental environmental impact is anticipated by the
discharge of these increased quantities. Since a large part of the country
is arid or semi-arid, much of the wastewater from bathing, washing clothes
and cooking will infiltrate or evaporate; some will be discharged to
natural water courses by way of road side drains. No increase in other
wastes would result from the project, and there is, therefore, little risk
of more seriouo pollution of surface or groundwater than at present. These
comments do not imply that the need for safe disposal of wastewater is in
any way diminished. To the contrary, health aspects of living in urban and
semi-urban areas would be greatly enhanced by the provision of acceptable
sanitation systems for all members of the community. Such programs would
warrant high priority in competition with other urban infrastructure needs.



- 15 -
3.21      Some of the water systems to be rehabilitated may be supplied
from existing dam and reservoir sources. Planning and engineering design
of the works to be rehabilitated will be the responsibility of Regional
Consultants (para 3.06) whose terms of reference for these assignments
include environmental assessments for those dams and reservoirs associated
with works to be rehabilitated.
3.22      Regular inspection and maintenance of some of these dams and
reservoirs have not been carried out in recent years due to lack of both
manpower and financial resources. With resources made available under the
Project, FMWR and SWAs have agreed to cause the dams and reservoirs
associated with water supply systems to be rehabilitated under NWRP and
such other dams as FMWR or SWAs may designate, to be periodically inspected
and maintained in accordance with sound engineering practice, and under
arrangements acceptable to the Bank, in order to determine whether there
are deficiencies in the condition of such structures, or in the quality and
adequacy of maintenance or method of operation of the same which may
endanger their safety or constitute a risk to environmental health
(Annex 3-5). Based on the findings of these inspections, FMWR and SWAs
shall formulate and implement dam and reservoir maintenance programs,
acceptable to the Bank, to ensure the safety of the structures on a
continuous basis and the environmental integrity of the reservoirs and
their environments.
IV. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Financial Performance of State Water Agencies
4.01      Because of their status as parastatals wholly-owned by their
state governments, the financial performance of SWAs, which has never been
good, has further worsened as a by-product of structural adjustment. SWAs
no longer have preferential access to the foreign exchange needed to
support their operations. The effect of exchange rate liberali:at4nn has
been particularly pronounced because water supply is a capital intensive
sector, heavily dependent on imported equipment. Operation of large water
supply systems is also import intensive, as most supplies of water
treatment chemicals and spare parts are imported. Therefore, both capital
and operating costs have risen precipitously since 1986. Furthermore,
because of the highly visible social impact of structural adjustment, state
governments, the owners of the SWAs, are reluctant to compound the
hardships already being suffered by the population by levying increased
charges for water, even though the operating costs of SiAs have increased
dramatically. In addition, a long overdue increase in electricity tariffs
finally implemented in 1989 has resulted in a six- to twelve-fold
(depending on the level of consumption) increase in the cost of power
supplied by NEPA to the SWAs.
4.02      Consequently, all SiAs are dependent on external financing for
any major new construction work, whether from state government sources or
from external lending agencies channeled through the Federal or state
government. In addition, SWAs depend on subvention from the state
governments to cover at least part of their recurrent operating costs. As



- 16 -
a result, SWAs generally have little autonomy to decide on vital policy
matters affecting their financial position, such as staffing levels, staff
remuneration, tariff levels or procurement matters.
4.03      While all 21 states have indicated their commitment to
participate in NWRP, at the time of appraisal (May 1990), only 12 SWAs were
able to provide consolidated accounts for 1988, and only nine of the 12 had
been audited. Although the information available is limited, and income
and expenditure levels and composition (Annex 4-1) vary from state to
state, some very alarming patterns clearly emerge. In recent years, state
governments have, on average, provided 40 to 50 percent of SWAs' operating
cash flows in the form of recurrent subvention. This dependency on state
governments militates heavily against operational autonomy for the SWAs and
creates a tenuous situation where abrupt withdrawal of subvention could
cause water supply operations in major urban areas to collapse. One of the
conditions for states to participate in NWRP is to implement a program of
phased tariff increases which would eliminate the need for recurrent
subvention within five years (Annex 3-5).
4.04      Whereas it might be argued that five years is too long and that
tariff conditionality based only on operating cash flow considerations does
not give sufficient regard to conceptually sound cost recovery principles,
the enormous gap between the SWAs' current financial performance and the
ideal must be recognized and dealt with pragmatically. SWAs in Nigeria are
currently living a very hand-to-mouth existence. The level of operations
and the amount of water supplied are limited not only by the poor physical
condition of their systems, but also by the amount of cash available to
SiAs to defray operating costs. It is, therefore, reasonable, perhaps even
ambitious, that, in the first phase of financial recovery, SWAs concentrate
on fully meeting cash operating costs through internally generated
revenues.
4.05      On the expenditure side, personnel costs represent the largest
single item of cash expenditure, accounting for anywhere from 25 to 70
percent of total operating expenditures, with an average around 50 percent.
Reducing personnel expenditures, or making them more efficient by employing
fewer, but better qualified staff, will also be addressed under the
manpower development component (Annex 3-3) of NWRP.
4.06      Improving financial management within the SWAs will be
difficult, if not impossible, unless the quality and timeliness of
financial information are considerably improved. For that reason,
conditions for state participation in NWRP require maintenance of separate
accounts for water supply activities by those utilities boards which
provide public services other than water supply and timely submission of
audited annual financial statements of all SWAs' water supply accounts to
FMWR (Annex 3-5).
4.07      SWA accounts often do not include either interest or capital
repayments on foreign loans for new works or technical assistance,
negotiated either by the Federal Ministry of Finance or state governments.
Due to the continued depreciation of the Naira relative to other world
currencies, it is clearly beyond the SWAB' abilities to generate sufficient
additional income from consumers to cover all such costs in the short term.



- 17 -
As an initial step in recapitalizing the SWAs, it will be necessary for
these to continue to be met by subvention from general state revenues until
service to consumers improves and more realistic charges can be made.
However, in order that the overall financial position of SWAs can be
assessed, such foreign loan payments and subventions should be included and
clearly identified in the SWAs' accounts.
4.08      While most SWAs do make a provision for depreciation in their
accounts (Annex 4-1), in most cases the amounts are meaningless, as fixed
assets have generally not been revalued to reflect the actual replacement
value in current Naira terms. If assets were properly revalued, it is
estimated that depreciation might account for as much as 50 percent of
total operating costs. Given the dire financial situation of the SWAs and
the virtual impossibility of their achieving full cost recovery in the
short term, a major program to revalue fixed assets is outside the scope of
NWRP and should be deferred until accounting systems have been sufficiently
improved so that the revalued fixed asset data base can be maintained and
appropriately updated.
B. Tariffs. Billing and Collection
4.09      Tariff structures and rates vary considerably from state to
state (Annex 4-2). Because of the political sensitivity of charging for a
service provided by the government, rates are reviewed infrequently and
bear little relationship to the cost of providing service, with the result
that the disparity between production costs and tariffs grows with the
passage of time. SWAs which participate in NWRP will, therefore, be
required to effect annual tariff adjustments (Annex 3-5) so that, once
acceptable tariff levels have been reached, SWAs can sustain cost recovery
by modest but regular tariff increases.
4.10      The SWAs' poor financial performance also stems from their
failure to fully collect revenue which is due for service provided, as a
result of inefficient billing systems and procedures, inadequate consumer
records, numerous illegal connections, nearly universal flat rate billing,
and generally poor supervision of billing and collection staff. Under
NWRP, SWAs, with the assistance of local consultants, will be required to
implement efficient billing and collection systems (Annex 3-5). While
increased production and consumer metering will be encouraged and meters
could be financed under the Project (Annex 3-1), expanded consumer metering
will be encouraged, but will not be required for participation in NWRP, as
this would greatly increase the complexity of sub-projects, would not be
appropriate in some areas and may be beyond the operation and maintenance
capability of some SWAs.
4.11      The SWAs' inferior performance in providing a reliable supply of
water in sufficient quantity also contributes significantly to poor
collection performance and leads to inadequate income generation to meet
operating costs and improve standards of maintenance and works operation.
These, in turn, are followed by ever greater consumer resistance to paying
assessed water tariffs. Unless the chain can be broken, the financial
position of most SWAs in respect of recurrent operating losses is unlikely
to improve. State governments will, therefore, need to continue to support



- 18 -
their SWAs by subvention until water supply services are seen to improve in
quantity, quality and reliability.
V. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Project Justification and Benefits
5.01      NWRP is expected to have a positive impact on the quality of
life of the population in a large number of urban and semi-urban centers
throughout Nigeria. The Project would provide a source of financing to
enable SWAs to address their highest priority, most urgently required
rehabilitation needs. The definition of investments eligible for financing
under the Project (Annex 3-1) ensures a least-cost approach to restoring
existing urban and semi-urban water supply systems to their original design
capacity, as well as to improving the quality and reliability of water
supplied to consumers.
5.02      Direct project benefits, therefore, comprise increasing the
quantity, quality and reliability of water supplied, thereby reducing water
shortages and improving the SWAs' image and performance, a pre-requisite to
eliciting consumer co-operation in paying for water supply (para 4.12).
Indirect benefits include improved health profiles of the population served
by systems rehabilitated under the Project and reduced dependence on state
governments to provide financial support to SWAs as a result of the
institutional strengthening components of the sub-projects. Another
indirect benefit would be reduction of those constraints on economic
development in general, and industrial development in particular, usually
ascribed to inadequate public infrastructure.
B. Poverty Impact
5.03      Although up-to-date demographic data for Nigeria are generally
unavailable, there is no doubt that improving the overall availability of
public water supply Will have a noticeable beneficial impact on the quality
of life of all but those at the highest income levels, for whom the high
cost of vendor-supplied water is not a major constraint. By eliminating
certain anomalies in the economy, the Structural Adjustment Program has
resulted in a disproportionate reduction of the incones of urban dwellers
relative to their rural counterparts. Fifty percent of the urban
population are estimated to fall within the poverty group. Therefore, the
poverty group in areas in which vater systems are to be rehabilitated,
comprising 50 percent of the population of those areas, would benefit from
IWRP. The lower income segment of the urban population who use public taps
would receive maximum benefits from the rehabilitation works since water
quality, pressure, reliability and hours of service would all be improved
at no extra cost to these consumers and with considerably reduced reliance
on the more expensive service by private vendors.



- 19 -
C. Economic Rate of Return
5.04      The findings of the economic analysis are summarized in
Annex 5-1. The economic rate of return (ERR) was calculated for five
representative state level sub-projects which had been identified at the
time of pre-appraisal and for which there were sufficient data to compute
an ERR. Using estimated tariffs as a proxy for economic benefits, the ERR
was calculated based on incremental costs and benefits. This is an
extremely conservative approach which does not capture consumers' surplus,
which is difficult to estimate based on the limited data available. The
overall weighted average ERR for the five sub-projects is 22 percent.
Sensitivity analysis to assess the downside risk indicates that ERR is most
sensitive to reduction in benefits (either incremental quantities of water
distributed to consumers or lower than expected water tAriffs); a 10
percent reduction in estimated benefits results in an ERR of 13 percent.
ERR is less sensitive to increases in investment and operating costs.
Increases of 10 percent in each of these result in ERRs of 19 and 16
percent, respectively. Only in a worst-case scenario, where a 10 percent
reduction in benefits is accompanied by a 10 percent increase in both
capital and operating costs would the weighted average ERR decline to 6
percent.
5.05      Given the type of operation that is proposed, these ERR
calculations cannot be considered conclusive, but serve to indicate that
the nature of investments to be financed under NWRP are justified on an
economic basis and will produce acceptable rates of return.
D. Project Risks
5.06      Although simple in concept, NWRP may be complicated by the large
number of implementing agencies likely to participate in the Project. As
indicated previously, the PMC (para 3.04) will play a crucial role in
assisting PMWR to achieve the objectives of NWRP (para 3.01) and in aiding
SWAs to implement sub-projects successfully. FMWR has already awarded and
signed the project management consultancy contract. During negotiations,
agreement was reached that PNWR would continue to employ a PMC acceptable
to the Bank throughout the period of project 5.t.lementation (para 6.01
(g)).
5.07      Other significant risks relate to giar.ric problems which have
tended to adversely affect project implementation in Nigeria in recent
times, in particular unsatisfactory procurement practices and failure to
provide adequate counterpart funding. With respect to the former, the PMC
would assist PMWR in ensuring compliance with the Bank's procurement
guidelines (para 3.12), which should substantially reduce delays caused by
inappropriate procurement practices. on the issue of counterpart funds,
during loan negotiations aSreement was reached that the conditions for
state participation in NWRP would include each participating state making
an initial deposit of Ml million into its Project Account and making
monthly counterpart fund payments of M300,000 thereafter. Participating
states would authorize counterpart funds to be provided by direct deduction
at source from the Pederation Account should counterpart fund payments fall
two months in arrears. These provisions would be included in the
applicable sub-loan agreements (Annex 3-5).



- 20 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements Reached
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Federal
Government of Nigeria that it would:
(a) approve loans for sub-projects only in accordance with the
agreed list of eligible investments (para 3.02 and Annex 3-1)
and only to states which meet the agreed conditions for
participating in the Project, including inter alia action plans
and programs of annual tariff increases to allow the SWAs to
meet all cash operating costs from revenues within five years
(paras 3.05 and 4.03 and Annex 3-5);
(b) by December 31, 1991, inform states participating in NWRP of the
criteria that will be applied in determining eligibility for
additional funding (para 3.08);
(c) finalize processing of all NWRP sub-loans by June 30, 1994 (para
3.08);
Cd) onlend NWRP funds to participating states on the same terms as
the IBRD loan with participating states bearing the foreign
exchange risk (para 3.11);
(e) submit to IBRD annually audited financial statements of the
Special Account, Project Accounts, and SOEs by June 30 of the
following year (para 3.18);
(f) conduct a mid-term review of project implementation by December
31, 1993 (para 3.19); and
(g) employ a PMC acceptable to the Bank throughout the period of
implementation of the Project (para 5.06).
B. Conditions of Loan Effectiveness
6.02      The following are conditions of loan effectiveness:
(a)  assignment of counterpart staff to the PMC (para 3.04);
(b) signing of at least two regional engineering consultancy
contracts (para 3.06); and
(c) signing of at least two sub-loan agreements
(para 3.11).



- 21 -
C. Conditions o& Disbursement
6.03      The following are conditions of disbursement for project states
(pars 3.1?):
(a) a sub-loan agreement must be entered into on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bankg and
(b) for the rehabilitation of water supply systems, a contract must
be entered into that adequately provides for a leakage detection
and repair program.
D. Recommendation
6.04      Subject to agreement on the above, the proposed National Water
Rehabilitation Project is suitable for an IBRD loan of US$256 million
equivalent to the Federal Republic of Nigeria.
An4Ny
January 1991



- 22 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 1 of 2
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL WATER REHABILITATION PROJECT
List of Investments Elisible for Financing
1.        The underlying objective of the Project is to increase the
supply of potable water throughout the Federation by rehabilitating
existing water supply systems to restore them to design capacity and to
sustain the increased water supply through institutional strengthening of
the participating state water boards/corporations. Institutional
strengthening would emphasize improving staffing, financial management,
operation and maintenance and stores management.
2.        Initially a maximum of up to US$10 million equivalent of loan
funds will be made available to qualifying states to finance high priority
investments such as:
(a) repair or replacement of:
Mi) weirs, intakes, boreholes;
(ii) pumping units;
(iii) electrical equipment and generator sets;
(iv) chemical preparation and dosing equipment;
(v) clarifiers and filters;
(vi) concretelsteel storage tanks;
(vii) rising mains; and
(viii)  leaking transmission or distribution mains.
(b) minor building works, such as replacement of roofs, construction
of generator houses, etc.
(c)  leakage detection and reduction programs;
(d)  spare parts (not to exceed two years' requirements);
(e)  connection of water supply systems to the NEPA grid;
(f) studies to assess communications and vehicle requirements and
opportunities to increase private sector involvement in water
supply activities;



- 23 -
AN=X 3-1
Page 2 of 2
(g) consultant services to assist in Implementing programs for
customer enumeration, upgrading financial systems and
establishing manpower development and trainingg
(h) production and consumer meters;
(i) voltage and lightning protection equipment;
(j) stand-by generator capacity, where water supply systems depend
on diesel generators;
(k) workshop tools and equipment;
(1) laboratory equipment;
(m) service vehicles; and
(n) essential communications equipment.
3.        Subsequently, any unallocated loan funds could be allocated to
states which have performed well under the project. Qualified states could
receive an additional allocation of not more than US$10 million equivalent
to finance more investments of the type eligible for financing outlined in
para. 2 above. In addition, the following investments could also be
considered:
(a) communications equipment;
(b) vehicles;
5C) additional spare parts;
(d) consultant services to assist in preparing a medium-term
investment program;
(e) aerial photographylmapping; and
(f) hydrogeological investigations.
AF41N
January 1991



- 24 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 1 of 5
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL WATER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Description of a Typical Sub-project (Gongola State)
A. Implementation Procedures
1.        One of the underlying objectives of each sub-project is to
increase the supply of potable water by restoring existing water supply
systems to perform at their original design capacities. In this
connection, investments eligible for financing are listed in Annex 3-1 and
criteria under which participating states would be eligible for sub-loans,
to assist in carrying out rehabilitation works, are described in
Annex 3-5.
2.        Sub-project implementation would be monitored by the Federal
Ministry of Water Resources (FMWR) assisted by a Project Management
Consultant (PMC) in accordance with terms of reference outlined in
Annex 3-4. State water agencies (SWAs) would be directly assisted by
Regional Consultants who would provide the following services in connection
with the rehabilitation workt studies; detailed engineering design; and
supervision of construction. In addition, the Regional Consultants would
assist SWAs to improve management of existing workshops, which are used in
maintaining and operating existing water supply systems, and would
implement a pilot leakage detection and reduction program in a selected
area in each state.
3.        Seven regional consultancy contracts would be awarded, one for
each of six groups of three states and one for a group comprising three
states and the Federal Capital Territory. The rehabilitation works to be
implemented by each state have been identified as a result of two studies;
the first comprised a general survey of the condition of urban water supply
systems and the second provided schedules of rehabilitation works to be
undertaken, as agreed upon by each SWA. The program of work will deal with
only a part of the water supply rehabilitation needs of the Federation,
concentrating on those works chosen to provide the greatest impact in terms
of quantity, quality and reliability of supply to consumers. These
improvements would also enhance the opportunity for SWAs to collect
revenue.
4.        In most cases, physical components of each sub-project comprise
rehabilitation of existing facilities by overhaul, repair or replacement of
plant and equipment to restore the output of some water supply systems to
original design capacities. Provision of spare parts and improvement of
maintenance facilities have also been included. In addition to
improvements in workshop management, other activities associated with
operational support and institutional strengthening include improved



- 25 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 2 of 5
operation and maintenance, financial management, staffing and training
(Annex 3-3).
5.        The Regional Consultants will be required to reassess in detail
the rehabilitation needs of each water supply system and, in particular, to
consider, on an item by item basis, whether rehabilitation or replacement
is appropriate. The SWAs will be encouraged by means of a pilot leakage
detection and repair program (to be prepared, organized and supervised by
the Regional Consultants) to rectify deficiencies in the distribution
networks to ensure that the increased water supply reaches the consumer.
As a condition of disbursement of sub-loans, SWAs are required to enter
into contracts for leakage detection and repair in distribution networks
served by water supply systems rehabilitated under the project.
6.        Each sub-project would be implemented in three stages
comprising: i) preparation studies and plinning; ii) detailed engineering
designs, further studies (if needed) and prequalification of contractors;
and iii) bidding, contract award and construction. The contents of these
stages are summarized as follows2
Stage I
-    Formulation of detailed work program.
-    Detailed study of rehabilitation needs.
-    Definition of the extent and nature of each work item.
-    Formulation of design criteria and approval by PMC.
-    Implementation of engineering, physical and hydrological
surveys to permit selection of economic methods for
rehabilitation or replacement of systems or components.
-    Preparation of outline drawings.
-    Inspection of dams and reservoirs (where applicable) and
review of procedures for periodic inspection of dams and
environmental effects of reservoirs.
-    Inspection and testing of mechanical and electrical plant
and equipment.
-    Completion of studies and selection of preferred solutions
from optional alternatives.
-    Preparation of schedules and justifications for provision
of operational support facilities such as vehicles,
workshop equipment and tools and laboratory equipment.
-    Preparation of a Stage I system planning report and
submission to FMWR and PMC.
State II
(On approval of recommendations in the State I planning report)
-    Completion of detailed engineering design and cost
estimates of those items requiring no additional studies.
-    Completion of further studies and investigations including
exploratory drilling and pump tests, where needed, and
completion of detailed engineering designs and cost
estimates.



- 26 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 3 of 5
Preparation of suvuary reports containing recomunndations
for all rehabilitation works and submLssion to PMIR/PMC for
approval.
Prequalification of contractors for the rehabilitation
works and preparation of bid documents (to World Bank
guidelines) based on a ?4odel Bid Document (prepared during
project preparation).
Implementation of a pilot program of pipeline mapping, leak
detection and repair and an associated on-the-job training
program of SWA operatives.
Stage III
-    Execution of contracts for leakage detection and repair.
-    Evaluation of bids for rehabilitation works and award of
contracts.
-    Supervision of construction of rehabilitation works.
B.  Works Included in a TYical Sub-2roject
7.        Water supply systems in each state have been developed to meet
the water needs of individual urban areas, exploiting to the best advantage
the water resources of each area. All of the systems have unique
characteristics and rehabilitation needs. There are, however, certain
similarities between systems and the proposed works in Gonsola State have
been selected as forming a typical sub-project.
8.        High priority works proposed under this sub-project have a total
estimated base cost of about US$7.4 million and comprise surface water
systems serving four urban centers, a groundwater system serving one urban
center and operational support in the form of service vehicles. However,
lower priority works have also been identified to qualify for an additional
allocation of funds in the event that any loan funds remain unallocated at
a later stage in the project. These lower priority works would include
rehabilitation of three groundwater systems, total estimated cost US$2.7
million.
9.        The first of the surface water systems, Jimeta was built in
1977, design capacity 22.7 Mld, and extended to 29.5 Mld in 1983. At
present its output is 9.1 Mld. Since new works to serve Jimeta are
planned, rehabilitation of the existing works will be limited to items
essential to keeping the plant in service for a limited period. Such items
will primarily comprise the rehabilitation or replacement of mechanical and
electrical plant and equipment (pumps, diesel generators, air compressors,
clarifiers and filters, chemical feed equipment, mixers). Much of this
equipment may be transferred to other works when this system is phased out.
Benefits realized by these works would be increased reliability and water
quality and an increase in the supply to about 19.0 Mld.
10.       The second surface water system Yola was completed in 1988,
capacity 22.7 Mld. The source is the Benue River and water is treated at a
conventional rapid gravity plant. Partly due to a recently completed dam



- 27 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 4 of 5
upstream of the works, difficulty is experienced in obtaining sufficient
water at the water intake. A study and river training works are proposed
to overcome this difficulty. In addition, electrical works are needed to
modify the system to permit use of the newly provided NEPA power supply.
Studies are also needed to identify the cause of poor operation of the
clariiiers and to identify suitable remedial measures. Several minor
modifications to the works are necessary in addition to the provision of
additional spare parts. Benefits will include a more secure water supply,
reduced maintenance requirements, better quality water and savings in the
use of chemicals.
11.       The third surface water source, Gembu, is a small (2.25 MUd)
"package" or prefabricated unit completed in 1979 as a temporary measure.
A study is now needed to determine future water needs of the commmnity and
to improve the design of some components of the system. Rehabilitation
works would includes improvement of the river water intake structure and
pumping plant; repair of the filters and sedimentation system; repair of
the chemical feed and electrical systems; provision of new power generators
and laboratory equipment; replacement or repair of a booster pumping
station; and miscellaneous pipeline and building repairs. Benefits will
include a more secure water supply, and improved water quality.
12.       The fourth surface water source, Numan, is a comparatively new
system completed in 1988 with a capacity of 13.4 Mld. Water is drawn from
the Benue River and treated in a relatively conventional rapid gravity
treatment plant. To reduce operation and maintenence costs the plant would
be converted to operate on the NEPA power supply which has only recently
been extended to the area. This would also allow operation on a 24-hour
basis. Studies will be made to identify the cause of ineffective
performance of the clarifier system and remedial measures will be taken.
Additional spare parts will also be made available. On completion of these
improvements the output of the system will be secured, reliability will be
improved and maintenance requirements reduced. The 24-hour working regime
and improvement of the clarifier performance will improve water quality and
reduce chemical use.
13.       The groundwater system serving the town of Takum comprises some
35 boreholes drilled in 1975, of which some 19 were put into use. At
present, only 4 boreholes are in working order. Proposed works under the
project include:
-    Inspection, testing and rehabilitation of the boreholes,
with additional redrilling where necessary.
-    Provision of borehole pumps, pipes, flowmeters and valves.
-    Repair and replacement of power generators.
-    Provision of chlorination systems.
-    Repair of pipelines, buildings and storage tanks.
Benefits will include a considerable increase in the quantity of water
available and improvements in quality and reliabilit.



- 28 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 5 of S
C.  Operational SuDDort and Institutional Strenathening
14.       Although the Gongola SWA has not requested assistance to Improve
workshop facilities other than staff training, under the project the
Regional Consultants will review workshops, operating procedures and
training needs and will make recommendations for review by the SWA, PMR
and PMC.
15.       Service vehicles would be provided to supplement the present
fleet which is old and depleted. Transport related difficulties are
particularly acute in Gongola which is one of the largest states in Nigeria
with widely scattered centers of population.
16.       Laboratory facilities would be improved by future provision of a
central laboratory in conjunction with the expansion of the Yola works. In
the meantime the laboratories at treatment plants (Yola, Jimeta, Numan and
others), which have limited capability, would continue to be used
supplemented by Yola hospital laboratory. Training needs of laboratory
staff would be reviewed by the Regional Consultant.
17.       Monthly billing and revenue collection at local offices using
manual billing procedures is reasonably efficient although, because of
inadequacies of the water supply, consumers are reluctant to pay for the
service. Under the project, FMWR with the assistance of PMC would appoint
local consultants to study the billing and collection procedures with the
objective of improving revenue collection and would assist the SWA to
implement the study recommendations.
18.       FMWR. with the assistance of PMC, would also assist SWA to
implement a manpower audit and a trainina needs analysis and to implement
manpower improvement and training programs resulting from these studies.
Under the project, the SWA would be required to appoint a manager in charge
of human resources development.
AP4IN
January 1991



- 29 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 1 of 3
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL WATER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Manpower and Trainint
1.        Any attempt to analyze the reasons why State Water Agencies
(SWAs) in Nigeria have come to operate so much below their design capacity
will, without any doubt, find that "lack of trained personnel' is
identified as one of the main causes. Without ignoring that there are
several other reasons such as lack of spare parts, inappropriate staffing
patterns, and low staff motivation due to low salaries and poor
professional incentives, it must be acknowledged that many deficiencies and
much of the deterioration could have been prevented if adequately trained
personnel had been in place to operate and maintain the water supply
systems.
2.        One of the objectives of the National Water Rehabilitation
Project (NWRP) is to rehabilitate the water supply systems to restore them
to be operated at their design capacity level. An equally important
objective is to strengthen the SWAs' capacity to sustain the achievements
realized under this project. It would not be acceptable for the
rehabilitated systems to continue to be operated and maintained at the same
low standards that had brought them to the present state of deterioration.
To help achieve this objective, a manpower plan and training and
development program will be prepared.
3.        To reinforce the importance that trained personnel have in
sustaining the rehabilitation effort, NWRP will assist in establis;'=g
Human Resources Development Units within FMWR and in each SWA to provide
coordination for training activities and staff development.
4.        Funding will be made available under the Project to implement
the training program and training related activities described below.
(a) Man wower Audit and Training Needs Analysis. As recommended
by the "Nationwide Study" of 1988 an "urgent review of
staffing profiles and training needs is required in most
SWAs to establish a meaningful manpower reform and an
effective training program." To this end, under the
supervision of FMWR, consultants will conduct a manpower
audit and training needs analysis in each of the
participating SWAs, following terms of reference prepared
by the PMC. These consultants will also assist in
developing meaningful curricula and courses and will define
a preferred staffing profile and an action program to help
SWAs bring their staffing into conformity with such
profile. It has been proposed that this study should be
done under a single contract to ensure uniform criteria are



- 30 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 2 of 3
employed in analyzing and developing recommendations which
are consistent and applicable to SWAs in most states.
(b) Training Courses. Although the detailed training program
will not be fully defined until the manpower audits and
training needs analyses are completed, funds have been
allocated to finance approximately 1,000 trainee-weeks for
each participating SWA. Taking into consideration that the
average number of personnel per SWA is 1,100, the number of
employees that the training program intends to reach is
quite ambitious. On average, each SWA should be able to
organize some 24 courses, each to train 20 people for two
weeks throughout the implementation period of NWRP.
(c)  Supoort to National Rater Resources Institute (NWRI).  NWRI
was established to train middle level manpower involved in
the fields of water resources, irrigation, water supply and
related activities. Lately, the work of the Institute has
tended to move away from the initial focus, so their
programs now tend to duplicate those offered by
polytechnice and universities, whereas there is an
increasing need for training in practical skills at the low
and middle level personnel. Assistance to be provided
under NWRP will enable NWRT to better meet this need.
(d) Support to MGM1K. NWRP will provide assistance to PMWR to
strengthen its advisory capacity to help SWAs deliver their
water supply services more efficiently by assuming a
leading role in the effort to sustain the improvements
effected under NWRP financing. With respect to training,
1MWR should assume the on-going responsibility for
advising, supporting and coordinating SWA training
activities. To leave all training initiatives exclusively
in the hands of each individual state could become
inefficient and wasteful, and PHUR can help satisfy SWAs'
common training needs in a more efficient manner.
Furthermore, because of the nature of its functions, FMWR
may have better access to information and better means of
communication with all SKAs and be able to help formulate
nationwide training policies, preferred staff profiles, and
manpower development targets.  PMWR can organize activities
such as seminars, surveys, systems evaluation, data bank
Implementation, coordination vith training institutions and
universities, etc.
S.        Training will be given to staff at all levels, from operators to
managers, and emphasis will be placed ons (i) ensuring course relevance
in connection with the training objectives; (ii) enforcing the application
of rigorous selection criteria to make sure that training is given to the
staff that really need and deserve it; and (iii) using effective methods of
evaluation to verify whether the intended objectives are being met and to
apply corrective measures when necessary.



- 31 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 3 of 3
6.        In pursuing the maximum use of local training capability and
resources, the National Water Resources Institute (NMI) and the
Industrial Training Fund (ITF) are expected to actively participate in
organizing courses at their facilities as well as at the job sites. The
training programs to be orgaaized under NWRP will rely to a large extent on
NWRI capability to provide effective training to SWA staff, especially in
the areas of equipment operation and preventive maintenance. Projects will
be allocated to strengthen NWRI in developing training courses and
acquiring teaching materials and equipment needed to train operators in
activities such as leakage detection, pump and water meter installation,
operation and repair, maintenance of electrical systems, cperation and
maintenance of dams, etc.
7.        Training Component Cost Estimate.  The estimated total base cost
of the training component is US$1.9 million equivalent, and it has been
allocated as followst
Local          Foreign         Total
------------ US$ Thousands --------
Manpower Audits and Training  150              150               300
Needs Analyses
Staff Training                 990             110             1,100
Support to NWRI                 36              84               120
Support to PMWR               _ 36             324               360
Total                        1,212             668             1.880
AP4IN
December 1990



- 32 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 1 of 2
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL WATER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Proiect Management Consultancl - Outline Terms of Reference
1.        The Project Management Consultant (PWC) will act as the Federal
Ministry of Water Resources' (FKWR's) agent for overall management of the
National Water Rehabilitation Project (NWRP) and for monitoring the
implementation of state level sub-projects. The PMC will be involved in
four major areas of activities as followss
(a) Overall management of NWRP, comprising:
si)     developing and operating an accounting system for the
Project and the sub-projects financed thereunder;
(iU)     preparing terms of reference for the annual audit of
all NWRP accounts and statements of expenditures
(SOEs);
(iii)     processing all applications for disbursement of
project funds, including disbursements from the
Special Account 1/, counterpart fund project accounts,
and withdrawal applications for direct disbursements
to contractors and suppliers; and
(iv)      preparing the project completion report.
(b) Monitoring sub-project implementation, comprisingt
(i)     developing and maintaining a sub-project monitoring
system, including a system for monitoring contracts
financed under NWI?;
(ii)     issuing standard procurement documents to be adapted
by Regional Consultants (RCs);
(iii)     overseeing the work of RCs, including review of
technical engineering specifications and procurement
documents;
(iv)     reviewing all procurement decisions for compliance
with World Bank guidelines; and
11   The Minister, FMWR, will be the signatory for the withdrawal of Bank
funds used to replenish the account.



- 33 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 2 of 2
(v)     organizing and participating in the annual and mid-
term sub-project implementation reviews;
(c) Institutional development of participating SWAs, comprising:
(i)     assistance in preparing an action program for
implementing tariff reviews and manpower development
programs and achieving revenue and expenditure
targets;
(iU)     collecting and analyzing data on performance
indicators and reviewing performance against the
action program;
(iii)     developing guidelines for leakage detection and
preventive maintenance;
(iv)     developing a standardized water utility billing and
collection system, including terms of reference for
consultants to assist in its implementation and
overseeing the technical assistance provided by the
consultants;
(v)     developing standardized accounting and budgeting
systems and stores procedures for water utilities; and
(vi)     preparing terms of reference for manpower audits and
training needs analyses of all SWAs.
(d) Support to FMW, comprisings
Ci)     developing sector policy and technical guidelines for
Federal and State Governments In such areas as: water
quality and effluent standardst design criteria;
equipment standardization; water treatment chemical
standards; tariffos and human resources development;
(it)     creating and maintaining a water resources and water
quality data bases
(iii)     advising on sector training needs and capabilities of
local training institutions;
(iv)     preparing tenms of reference for special studies in
such areas as pollution/water quality; tariffs; and
fixed assets valuation; and
(v)     developing a training program and providing on-the-
job training in project management for P1WR
counterpart staff.
AF4IJ
December 1990



- 34 -
AIMEX 3-5
Page 1 of 2
PEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL WATER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Criteria of State Eligibility for Sub-Loans
1.        Each participating State will enter into a sub-loan *areement
with PGN the terms of which would provide that the State/State Water Agency
(SWA) would undertake tos
(a) implement leakage detection and repair program for all water
supply systems to be rehabilitated under the Project;
(b) cause all state owned dams and reservoirs associated with water
supply systems to be rehabilitated under NWRP to be periodically
inspected and maintained in accordance with sound engineering
and environmental practice;
(C) implement preventive maintenance and adequate stores procedures;
(d) develop a comprehensive training program for SWA staff;
(e) maintain separate accounts for water supply activities,
including appropriate allocation of overheads;
(f) implement a program of phased tariff increases which would be
based on annual tariff adjustments sufficient to enable the SWA
to meet all cash operating costs from Internally generated
revenue within a five-year periodt
(g) implement an efficient billing and collection system with the
assistance of local consultants;
(h) make adequate budgetary provisions for maintenance of lts water
supply facilities and training for its staff;
(i) submit to PMWR SWA's audited financial statements and management
reports for each year by September 30 of the following year;
(j) submit to FMWR monitoring data on a timely basis as requested;
and
Ck) submit to FMWR annually the SWA's rolling three-year investment
program, including identification of sources of financitg.
2.        In additLon, each particLpating SWA  ould notify PHiR of the
liaison officer responsible for coordinating its participation in NWM?.
Each participating SWA would also assign one civil and one



- 35 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 2 of 2
mechanicallelectrical engineer as counterpart staff to work with their
Regional Consultant.
3.        Furthermore, each State would agree to make monthly counterpart
fund payments of approximatoly N300,000 into a project account administered
by PMWR. At any time when at least two monthly payments are in arrears,
direct deduction at source (from the Federation Account) of the counterpart
fund contribution would be effected as authorized by the State Ministry of
Finance in the sub-loan agreement.
4.        The conditions of disbursement of the sub-loans would bet
(a)  submission of the SWA's audited financial statements for 1989;
(b)  submissioz  of an action plan with target dates for achieving
agreed operational, financial and manpower development targets;
(c) appointment of a manager in charge of human resources
development for the SWA; and
(d) establishment of the state's project account with an initial
deposit of N1,000,000.
5.        A special condition precedent to disbursing funds for
rehabilitation of water supply systems would be the signing of a leakage
repair contract.
6.        The action plan (para 4(b)) would take the form of a side letter
to the sub-loan agreement, and noncompliance with the action plan would
constitute a condition for suspension of-disbursements by IGN.
AF4IN
October 1990



- 36 -                             ANNEX 3-6
Page I of 2
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL WATER RENABILITATION PROJECT
Sample Letter of Comitment
SELKET
GOVESNMVt.f Wq  ji UtAU 'W  NU
1Mf1SmY OF FINA           AND ^ ICOt4OMC KAMM
Ad.4..t..! 6'A IPl. ..............
.4f    ________ISMP. N.                             n.         an
...........   .. !!.t|.......
The Hnourable Minister,
Federal Ninistry of Water ResoLrces,
Department of water Resources,
PJ5. 135,
kVEA 11 aakl - Abuja,
AJa - iNigeria.
PARTICIFATICh CF 3; lE STATE In THE
hAT WhAL WAT. REHABI3LJiT'TC-N FU1O
Please refer to your letter Ref.No.FDkRMW S.173.3/
VGl.V of 1st September, 1laS in connection with the abowve
subject uetter, and the decisicns taken at the  sqnt
workshoF nelcd on the Fund between 23rd and 26th Gctobr, 19.
2. 1 am happy to inform you that Benue State has decided
to participate in the FunC an.'. to this effect, I wish to confirm
the followir. as rec*uired:
(t)    Tnet the Benue State has nrAorsed the objectti
of the ieationol '..ater 'Ab1ilitaticn Fund;
(11)   That we prco =iltted to the State Public Utilities
Board's recovery of all tee opmtini costs thoh
more efficient oner2tioos, including approprie
water tariffs, efficient billit.. tPao collection,
improved utilisetion of anpowr, preventive
maintenance, leakece detection and reduction;
(iii) Thet as the introduction of econoitc triffs will
I W



- 37 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 2 of 2
be phased ovr a period of time, adectupte operating
subvention will be notified in advance end provided
to the Sttts 'ater Utility until fell racovery of
operting costs can be achieved;
(iv) That adequate counterpart funds will be provided
throughout project implewetation (UO,O pop month
over 3642 mnths);
tv)   That provision will oe made for sprat acc ts to
be mintained for the water spply function;
(vi)  That specified deta requested by FDI throuhout project
iuplntation period will be proided ona tiaely
bais; and
(vii) The undrstand1nc that conditions for assessing ;;...F
will cver areas sai a tariffs, investmnt programe,
operating procedures,  unor planning and developmet,t
3. Also enclosed in this letter of intunt, as  ttportry
mesure, is t  my of the st?tebet of 4sets and Liabilities of ow
State Public Utilities Bowa  as at 31st Leetooa, 1988. Efforts re
hower being made to produce t;e audited or unaudited accounts of
the ioard for final submission to you later. The process for the
selection of the consultants to be considered as Regional Consultants
is in progress and it is hoped thAt our list           itted to you
soon for consideration alone with others se.o,
C /
hoourable CoWssioner for Finance
and Ecomic Planning.



FEDERAL REPUBUC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL WATER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Catens Yeaw  1990    19     12       99     19      1Q      19      17    199"
____JIL   LI IL LI  I LE lI Yllllll JIt0-r  r- rT LL-
ffi s r M _ [                                      rI
PROIECT MANAGEMENT                  ~mgu
CONSULANT
ENEERMRT BY REG1OM     _    _  _               .m _ __                   M_
CONSULANTS
REHABIITATION OF
SYSTEMS:
INITIAL     TION _
SECOND ALLOCATION                                   8. 4 . *r"". .*.._,   _t -t -t_-m
sUNG  COLLECTION _
LEAKAGEDETECTION                                                                                                     E
INIIAL  TALATION                 -  _m   __         __   _
SECOND ALLocTION                                                       - =n
NTES:                                   LEGEND
* PROJECT EFFECTWE AUG 1 1991             *g ..*  ,*.,...i*     _ t. r..  P  9r   &
* SECUO  ALLOCATION SECINS JANUARY 1094                                M-__  313 
o SUB-LOAN CONITMENT CUTOFF                                    EqsSW*y ad _oason
DATE JUNE4530.1994                                                     te
* WORtKS COMPLETI OEC 31.1098 
e lOA4 CLOSESJUNIE30JtOim                                      MabSona    ts Pm
EVW47491



- 39 -
ANNEX 3-8
ImI  P-lw    UbI    Lint   -w    Tsui  Vt gm
PAW I Itat1ai ls4m                  On id ellfla   -        l llfla) 
wxtsbw ft   WN                6*3    L.0    3.        OA    71.   23.         6
**o Tea*"                    11o=.1    IL1   u.2      Om    23.0   28        a
Puplfv Pis*                   Lo    2I.0      .5      3.2   29.1  23*        5
ElIstri  Pie* ad SPPA         LS    3*A    4.0       NA5   a".       LI.     a
SaI 1Id.W PAPfro              2O   1.1        L. b.1                  .
tillleB10-                       -S 11-         -    -i dl-
S.AotI                         U*     1*2.0 W57. W1             *  1,13.?      15
Xtst1amg S     nw   &                 L       IL      M
-Ja  b,T                      0.       .       .1     7.2   4.    # 
Tqink                         1.2     0.7     1.9     8A    LS        .0      I
elI I to W ICMh ot'laromot~   0.0     0       Li.      Ls5   2.1    I*
Ibdiat ad PiMist PrqauWJ.     0.2     0*      0.A     1*      2.     4.0      0
Qlamdi Smwtps.t               1.0    I.0    V7        7.7  INS    16*         0
Mobl                           21      4.1     U.S    SLY   23.4   4W*         v
W  lt"flsWeo                   0.0      0.4     0.      0.0    8.      8       0
Total Be" c*                    MA0   146.0    mu.   4W*0 1.23*  10w5.         10
PI0plel C.ut1.n                 7*     as    3.2       S.i    W      23.
Prsia Cut1nle                  16.4    4.?    6.1    N.I  m".  aus0
utntZ                       a77.7    2.5   go"       0.  2,4.  20            S
Dil.                            NJ       0.0    5.      23.7    0.0   19.7
T6l C&                          Su     au        LT    mi  Ima  km
Total ___               PU     32.5    10.?    38*_2,1_3* _   ,_3_
a/cow  NWMt sdoto X, *,"
AF4IN4
May 1990



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OP NIGERIA
NATIONAL WATER ttI3ILITATION PRO3ECT
Loan Disbursefhnt Profile
0.01   SW
F- ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~o
-0.41
_   e.4~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
6.0                           M
m              .~~~~~~X0.
A_                                         20
__           3.         o 
F-           w           -i   4                                            /      
^~~m                Sm                                                                                  0 1
fw~~~w
JAW
_~~~~~~~~~~d Slo 1.lo
#  _*0b_S30*        13
f4lZ~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 41 -
MMNE 3-10
Page I of 2
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NATIOMAL WATER REHABILITATION PROJECT
State Water AMencv Performance Indicators
Each SWA will be required to supply the following information to
FMWR throughout the project implementation period.
Unit
1.   Te al Number of Water
I stems in SWA                                    number
2.   Number of Water Systems to be
Rehabilitated Under NWRP                          number
3.   Vater Production Per Year in                      thousand cubic
Systems Rehabilitated Under NWRP                  meters
4.   Water Production Per Year in All                  thousand cubic
Urban and Semi-urban Systems                      meters
5.  Water Sales Per Year in Systems                    thousand cubic
Rehabilitated Under NMMP                          meters
6.   Water Sales Per Year in All                       thousand e:''c
Urban and Semi-urban Systems                      meters
7.  Non-revenue Water in Systems
Rehabilitated Under NWRP                                2
8.   Non-Revenue Water in
All Urban and Semi-urban Systems                        X
9.   Revenue Per Year from All Urban                   Naira million
and Semi-urban Systems
10.  Collections per Year in All                       Naira million
Urban and Semi-urban Systems
11.  Collectionstrevenue                                    2
12. Months Revenue Outstanding                         months
13. Cash Operating Ratio                                    2



- 42 -
ANNEK 3-10
Page 2 of 2
Unit
15. Leakage Surveys Implemented
(as percentage of distribution area)                    X
16.  Number of SWA Employees                            number
17.  Number of SWA Professional Technical
Adminstration Employees                            number
18.  Number of Consumer Connections                     thousands
19.  Number of Employees per 1000 Connections           number
20.  Cumulative Disbursements Under NWRP                haira thousands
21. Total Number of Water Systems
Operating Under Preventive
Maintenance Programs                               number
22.  Cumulative Number of Weeks of Staff
training Under Formal Programs                    sumber
AF4IN
August 1990



- 43 -
amNBX 3-11
Page 1 of 3
FEDEAI. REPUBLIC OF N16ERIA
NATIONAL WATER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Supervision Plan
1.        Bank Suvervision Input into Key Activities.  The staff input
indicated in the table below is in addition to regular supervision needs
for the review of progress reports, procurement actions, correspondence,
etc. (estimated for the Project to require 12 staff-weeks during the first
project year, 16 staff-weeks per year during the following three project
years, and eight staff-weeks per year thereafter).
2.        Borrower's Contribution to Su_ervision.
(a) The Borrower has agreed to appoint a Project Management
Consultant (PMC) acceptable to the Bank vho will be primarily
responsible for overall project management monitoring and
coordination. The PMC mobilized in early 1991 in order to
assist interested states to meet the conditions for
participating in the Project and to oversee the award of the
contracts for Regional Consultants.
(b) The PWC will prepare quarterly progress reports which will be
submitted to the Bank by the end of the month following the end
of each calendar quarter, i.e., January, April, July and
October. The fonm and content of the quarterly progress reports
will be agreed during the initial Bank supervision mission.
(c) The PMC will organize annual sub-project Implementation reviews
in the form of a seminariworkshop to be attended by the Federal
Ministry of Water Resources (PMWR) and all participating State
Water Agencies (SiAs) which will normally be held in June/July.
In addition, the PMC will arrange to mest individually with
representatives of each participating SWA at least once each
year, normally in January/Pebruary, and more often if project
implementation considerations so dictate.
(d) The Department of Water Supply and Quality Control (DWSQC) of
VMWR will be responsible for coordinating arrangements for Bank
supervision missions. Staff of the PMC would be made available
as needed to accompany supervision missions on field visits to
participating states.
Ie) Mission briefing meetings on arrival will normally be chaired by
the Director, DWSQC, and wrap-up meetings by the Director
General, FMR.  All such meetings would be attended by the PMC
and, as and if necessary, representatives of SWAs.



- 44 -
AE  3-11
Page 2 of 3
BanX Subervision InPut into Ket Activities
Approximate
Dates
input                                    Expected Skill              Staff
(molvr)        Activitv                  Requirements            (Staff Weeks)
6191           Spervision Mission        Task Manager, Engineer,        9.0
(Project Launch          Accounting/Financial
Workshop)                Reporting, Procurement,
Training Specialists
11191          Review of FMWR proposed  Task Manager, Engineer,         3.0
criteria for SWAs to     Financial Analyst
qualify for Phase II
12/91          Review of SWA manpower   ManpowerlTraining               2.0
audits and training      Specialist
needs analyses
2192           Supervision Mission       Task Manager, Engineer,        6.0
(to coincide with        Financial Analyst
selected PMCISWA
project review
meetings)
3-4192         Review of dam safety      Engineer, Dam Expert           4.0
inspections
6-7J92         Supervision Mission       Task Manager, Engineer,        8.0
(to coincide with        Financial Analyst,
annual project           Training Specialist
implementation workshop)
1993           Two Supervision           Task Manager, Engineer,       18.0
Missions (one to         Financial Analyst,
coincide with mid-term   Training Specialist
project review)



- 45 -
ANNEX 3-lI
Page 3 of 3
1994           Two Supervision            Task Manager, Engineer        16.0
Missions (one to review  Financial Analyst,
SWAs' eligibility for    Training Specialist
additional funding and
one to coincide with
annual project
implementation workshop)
1995-98        Two Supervision            Task Manager and Other        16.0
Missions (one to          Specialists as Needed
coincide with annual
implementation
workshop)
1999           Two Supervision            Task Manager and Other         6.0
Missions (including       Specialists as Needed
one to prepare PCR)
AP4IN
January 1991



MAIIU  AuSm AOCaMs
OMM-    -  - M    -   mM M iMA 36 W WM ENS                                  OMWMa  OM OM  Go fIAtL MM a    Taft
_m  aim    "   -     a      ao    am     am    am no         gm m     am   no    ae  alow    9m.   "ass   ao           m    $SW
WARS            ~~    ~~     ~~~A  U     A  a £   U      A      A     a      55        A          A      A      A      a      A      A 
tbpes              Isane   t.  sa_   tsm   ama  It  aim   sueecan   554555  t_ siam a                                   t  asi  eini  saic   t_a  aasa
*#    a      a      a      a      a     a      a      a      a      a     I       a      a      a     a.     I      c      a     a        a
am""            I U    I SW I OM  S_V    I SM I NO I MilO I SW I 14111I 941111 I1N    I SW I    Ilt IS             01 101 IM 1 174? I tlT I I t41t4  I
-         a        s       s           I       S I  I  I                        I     I                           I S  S  S  *  a            .      s        a
ftoem"0           I* v a        IM t 5 mI  me  Iia    4*1  WUIO0               a m i   4*1 TM   I *1110111 l    I1O M        141t  I    t55  I  we 5   441 11  M *  I 
_c .              I m11    -0   see   sassiss   -I                              I _s  m     a IsIb            mit   wsaOu.I  ---I  -- a  BUM I  M  mI
N~s_.w a           a  im     r a    Me  Ms  Ms  no I  as I am  I se  t am I   sDeas                  a  ese,      I asi  I gift a  We      Ms a= I  lm,l
i- tsa....         amout U#e  Msu  Iuans ISal  sot  weS .I Sucl   asm   4w* sasa   I  a"  soe  a 1 _-ieee   MO    ewe  t"stt  am" I
__l pO is.sd      a  *a   Sl  Ms  mtlgm$menaimut   Mt gm I us                          Iu8ee amsIa   I gam  ass   I as   s t        er s  n4t  gs I  Spt  asIa
*     am         a         amI1111In INoIwI Ms    a      a      a I   amI *110      aM ai  I  di    amIn   I nu I               
dstr.             tp ft  _t_  s   w M 456   mis1 i1iIs M l MS I  eM  0    45I A15 aMiI  11U  $141M   I IM S     St15I OM t         NDa    s a u    a   i a  mo
_~~~~ S_                   S         1   S      S      5     a  Sa         a      *F   I  t            a    l             2S           *  a  a  a  e  a  aS              5      Xttg 
I_AOSk      4_  .0 tl oel Ic GMt I9W MS             SW     MI           US I  Ittil  4  f Wtt 1 741  ts    I  MOt I s t SW t 110              M    M  
~~~~~~~~ I                 I'  I'  I            I     I      I      a  -I'  I           I       I      I     I-I                 ''' t         I
~~~~~~~~Iat_ 0  4    n 1  m 0  4" 1  1111 I, a I-on I-g     Ul  I tM I -w   I am MM   Ih am I -                                I  me I i    I gm I  a"I
S.1554fr.. .-b.  a                     .as   .sa    .rn  .a aeu a  as.  .si  me   m .  .mi           .      .ases    a  .  .u   .      .      . 51   ee 1675S
t_ a2 An* **    b I          St * t               a             a   I   it        Ia            a  4a  e  I    a              so        a        
bsftnu"l   *smm.  t    me   465   wa   ae   usc  -e  ae            aa-ueam   -ese    sX oew                      s eume-sse  seas  use   sia    m
"M   ~ ~    s     a       a 91 o e      50  So    So       a       a i   a   as   as           a   S  a    I    a         e 4    s     a      e   I 
;s.b5.I               as    sa    ma    et   aa   st           a    so    ira   isa        a   ut se t iE        5t se  t          sos   ma    us        s
"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -
~~~~~~~~ af   4I   to   05                      I O S      t5  a    5   S I       5     5       5 I SS Sl       0                 5 v61 I1    1        5   is    i
*  s   a      a      a~~~~~~~o    a I a   so    a       a I   te   .le     e I        of      a I o  6I 21          I   ga       isa
~~u..s's~~~~~~.s  g   Sao lo    lot Sit           I S     5      a    o   a tc       o  I  I   O       s          5 0   af   4        #   To       of
1111_ 1allw a" ft
PSN              a   45       S    u        s u          o    c       a      a    ec ea*   a  __m                     s    et sc wa              s       s
*   e.p            a    s       s     as    s      s       a     s     s       c      5 as 6J5            esks           o Ct        o      o      s       e



|t~~~~~  III |     ]1W3l 
gll    -------;------;----- 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
----------------
lt     ____________;__'
t  --------;----------
I~~    j   I I B              u
-----   ---
-  -  -   - -   - -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -i      
.~~ 1s
--------
1-          ----------
p.                  I 8 U.  I | 
iiU          .8e    ii 8
* u       ~~~S a1
t_9                      aL_   .11



- 48 -
ANNEX 5-1
Page 1 of 4
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL WATER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Introduction
1.        The NWRP is expected to overcome the shortfalls created by lack
of maintenance of the existing water supply systems in urban and semi-
urban areas in Nigeria. Although the data are incomplete and unreliable,
it is generally accepted that the average water delivery by SYAs in the
areas visited by the appraisal team and/or consultants, is very low (as low
as 16 lcd in som areas), and considerable quantities of water are sold by
private vendors at prohibitive prices. Because of the population increase
and deterioration in the systems, if no rehabilitation is implemented
within a reasonable time, this quantity will drop to unacceptable levels
(possibly as low as 8 lcd). NVRP is expected to improve the safety,
quality, and reliability, as well as to increase the quantity of water
produced to the level of design capacities, in participating states. As
part of the conditions for eligibility, the participating states will be
required to reduce water losses through leakage detection and repair. The
rehabilitation program together with leakage detection and repair will,
therefore, have a relatively high economic return and social benefits.
Since information on willingness to pay, cost of production and other
required data are either unavailable or unreliable, in this analysis
extremely conservative assumptions and approach have been used. The
analysis is based on sub-projects for five representative states. In
addition to the costs and benefits of sub-projects, the economic analysis
also considers: (i) tariffs and willingness to pay; (ii) affordability;
(iii) ERRs; and (iv) risks.
Costs
2.        The investment cost of the studied representative states
presjtpd in Table 1 -ae in July 1990 j,oa4er prices.  For the purpose of           V
economic analysis, these figures exclude the cost of improvements for
billing and collections as well as duties, taxes and other direct
transfers. Local costs are converted into border prices using a standard
conversion factor of 0.85 and imported components are in CIF prices.



- 49 -
ANNEX 5-1
Page 2 of 4
Table 1 InvestMent Cost
(in US$'000)
Financial Costs           Economic Costs
Anambra                  7,799                     7,549
Cross River              7,899                     7,509
Imo                      6,689                     6,392
Kano                     6,818                     6,636
Sokoto                  10.288                     9.886
Total                39,493                    37,972
3.        Available data are not sufficient to accurately estimate
incremental operating cost. The current average cost per unit of
production, vhich includes fixed overheads and is, therefore, higher than
the cost at the margin, has been conservatively chosen as a substitute for
the incremental cost of production. This implies that the incremental
operating cost stream is directly proportionate to the incremental water
production for each year. For conversion of financial into economic
values, a similar approach to that used to convert investment costs (para
2) has been used.
Benefits
4.        In the water sector, calculation of the benefits is usually
based on incremental revenues from water sales and the consumers' surplus
benefits. Only the incremental revenues arising from additional water
delivered to consumers are considered to represent economic benefits;
improved billing and collections, although generating additional revenue,
are excluded in computing economic benefits. Due to insufficiency of data,
this economic analysis excludes consumers' surplus benefits and only
quantifies the additional water delivered resulting from the proposed sub-
projects (Table 2).
'""rable 2:  Incr*mettal Water Delivered (in 000  m3ffav}
Year 5
Year .   Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    and after
Anambra               6.6       24.4       32.4      33.6      33.6
Cross River           2.4        8.0       17.6      24.4     24.4
Imo                   3.5        9.9      19.2       24.6     24.6
Kano                  7.9       32.4       62.3      83.1     97.5
Sokoto                2.1        6.2      11.9       14.8     17.1
Total            22.5        80.9     143.4      180.5    197.2



- 50 -
ANNEX 5-1
Page 3 of 4
5.        Although operating costs have drastically increased in recent
years, tariffs have not been reviewed regularly and bear no relation to the
cost of production. Under NWRP, the participating SWAs are required to
adjust the tariffs to fully recover recurrent costs (Annex 3-5). To
calculate the expected average tariff rate, recurrent cash costs per unit
of delivered water in 1986 have been inflated in order to obtain the July
1990 figure. Even though such tariff is still below the cost of
alternative sources of water in those areas (see paras 11 and 12), the
additional water supply has been valued at this estimated average rate.
Economic Rate of Return
6.        Economic rate of return (ERR) calculations for the sub-projects
evaluated are based on incremental costs and revenues. In situations
similar to the Nigerian water supply and demand, it is generally assumed
that the additional water produced and delivered will substitute for the
most expensive (similar quality) water from other sources of supply and,
therefore, generates economic benefits for consumers (see para 11). Since
reliable data are not available to calculate the consumers' surplus
(arising from the difference between the suggested tariffs and the private
vendors prices), these benefits have not been included in the computation
of ERRs.
7.        ERRs are estimated to range between 16 and 372 for four states
and 62 for the sub-project involving the smallest systems. This low rate
is due to diseconomies of scale as well as difficulty in quantification of
benefits in smaller systems.
8.        The costs and benefits of the sub-projects base case are
presented in Tables 3 and 4. The previously mentioned assumptions have
been taken into account and operating cost and benefits have been built up
in proportion to the production increase. The production increase is, with
one year lag, directly related to percentage of completion of leakage
detection and repair and rehabilitation works. The table below presents
the summary of costs and benefits, at a 122 discount rate, and the
aggregate rate of return estimated at 22S.
-O  US**000
PV capital cost           25,115
PV operating cost         71,901
Total cost           97,016
PV of benefits           109,740
NPV at 122                12,724
Benefit I cost ratio      1132
ERR                        222



- 51 -
ANOU% 5-1
Page 4 of 4
Sensitvlity Analysis
9.        The ERR for sub-projects is more sensitive to changes in
benefits. A reduction of 10X in benefits will reduce the aggregate rate of
return to 132. An increase of 102 in investment costs or operating costs
will reduce this rate to 192 and 162, respectively. Assuming a
simultaneous reduction of 10X in benefits and a 102 increase in costs, the
ERR vill be reduced to 62.
Affordability
10.       In the present situation most of the urban dwellers are forced
to either devote a considerable amount of time or to pay prohibitive prices
to private vendors to obtain vater for their basic needs. There is no
doubt that improving the overall availability of public water supply will
have a beneficial impact on the quality of life as well as a reduction in
spending for water in families' budgets. It is expected that the
quantitative and qualitative improvements will reduce the use of
alternative sources by consumers (purchase of water from vendors) and,
therefore, generate economic benefits for consumers.
11.       Except for Lagos and two cities in Anambra state, there is no
study available on willingness to pay and vendors prices. However, these
studies and team/consultants' observations confirm the economic benefits of
sub-projects and affordability of suggested tariffs. The Anambra study
also revealed that:
(a) the population was paying vendor prices of as high as 391m3 in
dry season and M71m3 in rainy season;
(b) considerable quantities of water were sold by vendors; and
(c) at least 702 of the interviewed population is willing to pay up
to 32 to 32.51.3 if SWAs provide reliable service.
12.       Considering the above mentioned points and taking into account
that only 60 to 802 of the estimated population of the five states under
analysis are served with water, it is apparent that the expected average
tariff used for computation of benefits (para 5) is considerably lower than
the willingness to pay and the cost of alternative sources of water.
13.       The risks of the project relate not to its economic desirability
but to constraints that may be placed on SWAs by State Government
interventions which could adversely impact sustainability of the
improvements achieved under the project.  Such constraints could reduce
revenues, through tariff controls, and increase costs through
implementation delays. However, all of the unquantified benefits, such as
health improvements and alleviation of hardship of many urban and semi-
urban dwellers throughout Nigeria would still be realized.
A741N
January 1991



TAKE a.  sawc CAnTAL Cast                                                                                    (ci USS0oo)
3       I 01*A   STATIE   C.1r1V  STATE   VA SAUT                             n    STATE.   Sso     STATE       TaTAL
Local  foelp  Loeal Folgp  Local  rftnp    Lo"$l F.lp  LoAal Fatip  Lcal F..l                        r
~~~ - - -
1100-16                07.4  M01.1  104.0    2.0    70.6  224.0    400   30.5   1.4  8.5  40.5                 85.8        134.*
1068-16 111.1  114.4  404.2  1162.3   16.4  IOS.0   223.5  12M.0  60.2 1 .0 10.4                               4.          032.0
I100-1                406.6  1141.   M.1  1061.0   60.7  140.1    M.*  160.0   0.     26.4  0.1   105.6                   aM.?
106-son               4W.4 1O .?  670.1  1"1.0         1.7  1440.7   81.8  15.t   M.5 1 .5 260.1   s01.1                  10.2
-_  - -_  -  -                         _ -    -                    -                   
1020.6  SM.? SM.& 400.0  1SU.? 486.4   040.0 $18.0 n116.7  70.1  76.1   219.6                       sm.0
go TOTAL                     00.t           06.0            66.1             8126.4         9 1.0            "077.0
PCUT TO  AT L                 18i    u1      26      713     34  1             0i   3on      to      "S    1o           M         low
PUS1T 10 TOTAL                     to              1               1                13             s6o 1a0.
1)L53 1066 SKUlh RATN EhTIWI AT M30.0 a US I1.
2)UMUD1  t, omm                   , UWMm
&)TRAM5 on3 DeILlIS AT 533t MICS.
4)WAE OF  _1AO  MS CWMUU  DllO 133  PRICES USDIO51STAM     CUlJIW FAT  OF 0.0  .
S)EMU. UIIT  CST PO Ur06    OF *ILLM  AND CQLKTIU.
it~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rt



ANONEX 5-,
-53 -                              Table 4
TABLE 4. AGGEGAT¢E ECOWMIC CASH-FLOW
(in U56'000)
Agr"ogt lre.m"  AIl  convore.  itersssta I         H
MID YEA TO  D YEAR        Iveet.  water before feter   ocon  recurp  Ecenoet
coot     WJS  cesvres        benefIts cost SeeefIt
1161-1998            1604.6    6.2   2.81   0.68    2000    6ao    e486
1968-1994            68T7.9   29.    1.8t   0.."    7t47   47"    -5047
1004-1995           18168.7   62.4   1.61    0."    1216    6515   e923
t1"-166            11601.2   05.1   2.81   0.65    1t610   10469   -Sao
1990-1997                      72.0   1.81   0.65    17676  11714    5962
1097-1990                      72.0   2.81    0.65    17670  11714    5962
1990-199                       7n.0   1.81   0.46   17676  11714    $962
1090-000                       71.0   1.81    0.65    17676  11714    5062
2000-2001                      71.0   1.81    O."    17076  11714    5962
2001-2002                      72.0   1.81   60.6    17670  11714    6061
2001-2008                      72.0   2.81    0.6"    17676  11714    5062
008-1004                       71.0   1.01   0.65    1T767   11714    9602
1004-2006                      71.0   1.81   0.65    17676  11714    5906
2005-2006                      72.0   2.81    0.36    17607   11714    5982
1o00-lo7                       71.0   1.81   0.66    17676  11714    5661
2007-toot             ~~71.0   2.61   0.66    17676  11714    5061
1006-2000                      72.0   2.81   0.65    17676  11714    6962
12000-110                      71.0   2.`1   0."    17676  11714    f806
010-ol1                         1.0   2.81    0.65    17676  11714    5061
1011-2012                      72.0   1.81   0.65    17676  11714   $502
1011-2018                      71.0   1.sl   0.65   17076  11714   6g0t
1018-1014                      71.0   2.81   0.95   17676  11714    5962
1014-2016                      71.0   1.81    0.65   17676  11714    5061
-=-_------_--------- -   -----------------  .   ..._._.__...._ .___ _... _..
Present value at as discount   2171                            154087  101601   15210
Praeat valuse *t 0s5 dIscunt   46447                           129507  04076   16S
Present volue at 123 discount   25115                         1o0040  71001   11274
SENSITIVITY ANALYSISt
1) 103 tIEAS  IN INVETEN  CT                                                       1is
2) 10 INCEAE IN OPERATING COST                                                     lox
S) 0x REDUCTION tN BENEFITS                                                       1ax
4) COMBINATION OF 10o INCREAS IN 9EEITS AND ON AND TWO                             121
5) ONE, TWO AND THRE TOOIEI T62



- 54 -
ANNEX 6-1
Page 1 of 5
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL WATER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Documents Available in the Proiect File
A.  Institution and Sector                                  Document No.
1.  Federal Republic of Nigeria, (Draft) Water Supply       B271UNI
Sector Memorandum (February 1990)
2.  Nationwide Water Supply and Sanitation                  D36146
Rehabilitation Study, Diyam Consultants in
association with Binnie and Partners and British
Water International (Final Report 1988)
3. Reports and Studies Related to the Prolect
1.  Proposed Water Supply Rehabilitation Fund Project in   D42625
Nigeria, Study of the Appropriate Role for the
Federal Department of Water Resources, Sshwed
Associates (March 1988)
2.  Draft Report of the Workshop on the National Water      D42626
Rehabilitation Fund geld in Abuja, October 23 - 26,
1989, Federal Department of Water Resources
(December 1989)
3. Natlonal Water Rehabilitation Fund, Pre-Engineering
Study, Final Report (June 1990) on
Akwa Ibom State                                   D36785
Anambra State                                     D36793
Bauchi State                                      D36725
Bendel State                                      D42627
Benue State                                       D36792
Bormo State                                       D36723
Cross River State                                 D36791
Federal Capital Territory                         D36786
Gongola State                                     D36724
Imo State                                         D36789
Kaduna State                                      D42629
Kano State                                        D36784
Katsina State                                     D42630
Rwara State                                       D42631
Lagos State                                       D42633
Niger State                                       D36787
Ogun State                                        D42634



- 55 -
ANNEX 6-1
Page 2 of 5
Ondo State                                         D42635
Oyo State                                          D42637
Plateau State                                      D36726
Rivers State                                       D36790
Sokoto State                                       D36788
4. National Water Rehabilitation Fund, Pre-Engineering
Study, Final Report State Summaries (June 1990)
5.  National Water Rehabilitation Fund, Pre-Engineering    D42638
Study, Final Report (June 1990)
6.  National Water Rehabilitation Fund, (Draft) Standard   D42639
Bid Documents for Execution Contracts (June 1990)
7.  National Water Rehabilitation Fund, Request for          D42641
Proposals for Consulting Services for Engineering
Design and Supervision of Construction
8.  Federal Republic of Nigeria, Ministry of Water           D42642
Resources, National Water Rehabilitation Fund,
Fund Management Consultancy, ?echnical Proposal
and Financial Proposal (2 volumes), Lavalin
International in association with Sshwed Associates
(March 1990)
9.  Letter to the Federal Ministry of Water Resources        D42671
re: National Water Rehabilitation Fund, Proposal
for Fund Management Consultancy, Lavalin Inter-
national (June 1990)
10. Federal Republic of Nigeria, National Water              D42672
Rehabilitation Project, Supervision Plan, A1411
(August 1990)
C. Financial and Economic Analysis
1.  Akwa lbom State Water Corporation                        D42673
Draft Accounts for the Year Ended 31st
December, 1989 (unaudited)
Accounts for the Year Ended 31st December,
1988, Robert Obot & Co., Chartered Accountants
2.  Anambra State Water Corporation, Accounts for the        D42674
Year Ended 31st December, 1988, Obiora Monu & Co.,
Chartered Accountants (March 1990)



- 56 -
ANNEX 6-1
Page 3 of 5
3.  Bauchi State Planning and Urban Utilities Board,         D42676
(Draft Audited) Accounts for the Year Ended 31st
December, 1987
4.  Bendel State Public Utilities Board, Statement of        D42677
Accounts for the Year Ended 31st December, 1987,
V. Okia-Anie & Co., Chartered Accountants
(March 1989)
5.  Benue State Public Utilities Board                       D42678
Accounts for the Year Ended 31st December,
1988, lyornumbe Ime & Co., Chartered
Accountants (June 1990)
Accounts for the Year Ended 31st December,
1987, lyornumbe Ine & Co., Chartered
Accountants (June 1990)
6.  Borno State Water Board                                  D42679
Draft Accounts for the Year Ended 31st
December, 1988
Accounts for the Year Ended 31st December,
1987, Patrick Uwakwe & Co., Chartered
Accountants (March 1989)
7.  Gongola State Utilities Board                            D42680
(Draft Audited) Accounts for the Year Ended
31st December, 1988, Onwufuju, Giva-Osagie & Co.
Chartered Accountants
(Draft AudLted) Accounts for the Year Ended 31st
December, 1987, Onwufuju, Giva-Osagie & Co.,
Chartered Accountants
8.  lmo State Water Board                                    D42681
Audited Statements of Account for the Year
Ended 31St December, 1988, Ray Okoroh,
Uchegbu & Co., Chartered Accountants
(August 1989)
Audited Statements of Account for the Year
Ended 31st December, 1987, Ray Okoroh, Uchegbu
& Co., Chartered Accountants (July 1988)
9.  Kaduna State Water Board, Draft Accounts for the         D42682
Yaer Ended 31st December, 1988



- 57 -
ANE   -1
Page 4 of 5
10. Kano State Water Resources and Construction Agency,    D42684
Draft Accounts for the Year Ended 31st December 1987
11. Katsina State Water Board, (Draft Audited) Accounts    D42685
for the Year Ended 31st December, 1988, Mu'Allahyidi
& Co., Chartered Accountants
12. Kwara State Utility Board                               D42686
(Draft Audited) Balance Sheet and Accounts,
Year Ended 31st December, 1988, Adebowale
Oyawoye & Co., Chartered Accountants
(November 1989) -
Balance Sheet and Accounts, Year Ended
Slat December, 1987, Adebowale Oyawvye &
Co., Chartered Accountants (September 1988)
13. Lagos State Water Corporation, Accounts, 31st           D42687
December, 1986, Coopers & Lybrand, Chartered
Accountants (December 1989)
14. Niger State Water Board                                 D42688
Audited Accounts for the Year Ended 31st
December, 1988, Olusola Adekanola & Co.,
Chartered Accountants (October 1989)
Audited Accounts for the Year Ended 31st
December, 1987, Olusola Adekanola & Co.,
Chartered Accountants (November 1988)
15. Ogun State Water Corporation, (Draft Audited)           D42689
Accounts for the Year Ended 31st December, 1987,
Akinmade and Company, Chartered Accountants
(August 1989)
16. Ondo State Water Corporation                            D42690
Accounts for the Year Ended 31st December,
1988, Adebisi Oguneye, Chartered Accountants
(September 1989)
Accounts for the Year Ended 31st December,
1987, Adebisi Oguneye, Chartered Accountants
(June 1989)
17. Water Corporation of Oyo State                          D42691
Accounts for the Year Ended 31st December,
1988 Olagunju Adesakin & Co. and Rafunke



- 58 -
mmEF 6-1
Page 5 of 5
Ajose-Adeogun & Co., Chartered Accountants
(March 1990)
Accounts for the Year Ended 31st December,
1987 Olagunju Adesakin & Co. and Bafunke
Ajose-Adeogun & Co., Chartered Accountants
(March 1990)
18. Plateau Utilities Board                                  D42693
(Draft) Statement of Accounts for the Year
Ended December 31st, 1988
Annual Report, Balance Sheet and Accounts as
at 31 December, 1987, Pannell Kerr Forster,
Chartered Accountants
19. Rivers State Utilities Board, Accounts for the Year    D42695
Ended 31st December, 1987, Harold Danajumbo & Co.,
Chartered Accountants (July 1989)
20. Sokoto State Water Board, Audited Accounts for the       D42696
Year Ended 31St December, 1987, Olusola Adekanola &
Chartered Accountants (November 1988)
21. Memos to Piles, Nigeria National Water                   D42698
Rehabilitation Project, Economic Analysis -
Assumptions and Methodology, AF41I (August 1990)
AP41N
October 1990



NIIGERIA                             CHAD
ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISIONS
t. BURKINA  (    -  T           N I G E R                            t
BUR OINA                                  NI'R
FASO)
K'-,            SOKOTO       KA '-A
B P (* N           9 0   MAIDUGURI
,~ ~ ~ BRN00
BENIN                          KAUN^)A 
r K asXitNIGEF   0 ADUNA'    ~            BAUCHI
I--/  @m_    <  1 MtNNA  W    },           @  t    4   \
4<  (  110RIN   {FCTg   pLATEa\% j   ffi        YOtA      0        )
PLATEAU
i-_<A '(-)N('3> /G(I)NGOL
f    XgUEz7    t VtABAR       Cm'    - State BouJndaries
QGulf of Guinea                        0w 0^  IntertionI al
k  R A                            G f) Nt ,0 40 LA     120 10
9                          ~~~~~~~~~~~AK'\VAIAJPf;A.  s4tso 20) *0 0 b00 ic



