Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER TF094193 
 
World Bank Iraq Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement 
 
(Emergency Banking Sector Reform Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
acting as administrator of the World Bank Iraq Trust Fund 
 
and 
 
CENTRAL BANK OF IRAQ 
 
Dated April 17, 2009 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER TF094193 
 
WORLD BANK IRAQ TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated April 17, 2009, entered into between: 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“World Bank”), acting as 
administrator of grant funds (“Grant Funds”) contributed by various donors (collectively 
“Donors”)
1
to the World Bank Iraq Trust Fund (“ITF”); and 
 
CENTRAL BANK OF IRAQ (“Recipient”). 
 
The Recipient and the World Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
Article I 
Standard Conditions; Definitions 
 
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of Various 
Funds, dated July 1, 2008 (“Standard Conditions”), with the modifications set 
forth below, constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 4.02(d) is modified to read in its entirety as follows: 
“(d) 
Cross Suspension.
 IBRD or IDA has suspended in whole or in part the 
right of the Recipient (or of the Member Country if the Recipient is not the Member 
Country) or of any other recipient of grant funds contributed by various donors to the 
World Bank Iraq Trust Fund to make withdrawals under any agreement with IBRD or with 
IDA because of a failure by the Recipient (or by the Member Country) or by such other 
recipient to perform any of its obligations under such agreement or any other agreement 
with IBRD or IDA.” 
 
(b) 
A new Section 4.02(k) is added after Section 4.02(j), to read in its 
entirety as follows, and the existing Section 4.02(k) is re-lettered as Section 4.02(l): 
 
“(k) 
Payment Failure. The Member Country has failed to make payment 
(notwithstanding the fact that such payment may have been made by a third party) 
of principal, interest, service charge or any other amount due to IBRD or IDA: (i) 
under any agreement between the Member Country and IBRD; or (ii) under any 
agreement between the Member Country and IDA; or (iii) in consequence of any 
1
The following donors have provided contributions to the World Bank Iraq Trust Fund: Australia, 
Canada, European Community, Finland, Iceland, India, Japan, Republic of Korea, Kuwait, 
Netherlands, Norway, Qatar, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, United Kingdom, and United States. 
Page  3
2
guarantee extended or other financial obligation of any kind assumed by IBRD or 
IDA to any third party with the agreement of the Member Country.” 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in 
this Agreement and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“CBI” means the Central Bank of Iraq. 
(b) 
“Executive Steering Committee” means the inter-ministerial committee 
established by the Government of Iraq for overall Project coordination 
and supervision and referred to in paragraph 1 of Part A of Section I of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
(c) 
“Operating Costs” means incremental operating costs incurred by the 
PMU on account of Project implementation, management and 
monitoring, including maintenance of office and office equipment; office 
supplies and utilities, translation and interpretation, printing and 
advertising, including production of bidding documents, communication 
costs, commercial bank charges, transportation and travel, including per 
diem allowance for PMU staff in travel status to attend supervision 
missions, and any other miscellaneous costs directly associated with the 
Project implementation all based on periodic budgets acceptable to the 
World Bank. 
(d) 
“PMU” means the project management unit established by the CBI for 
day-to-day Project management, coordination, monitoring and evaluation 
pursuant to Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement and referred to in 
paragraph 2 of Part A of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
(e) 
 “Participating Banks” means Rafidain Bank and Rasheed Bank of Iraq 
or any successors to these banks. 
(f) 
 “Project Implementation Manual” means the manual adopted by the CBI 
pursuant to Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement and setting forth the 
operational requirements, criteria, institutional arrangements and 
operational procedures for the implementation of the Project, including, 
inter alia
,
procurement, financial management, disbursement, 
accounting, audit requirements and monitoring and evaluation 
arrangements. 
Page  4
3
(g) 
“Training” means Project related study tours, training courses, seminars, 
workshops and other training activities, not included under goods or 
service providers’ contracts, including costs of training materials, space 
and equipment rental, travel, accommodation and per diem costs of 
trainees and trainers, trainers’ fees, and other training related 
miscellaneous costs. 
Article II 
The Project 
 
2.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).  To this end, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article II of the 
Standard Conditions. 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Article III 
The Grant 
 
3.01. 
The World Bank agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equal to ten 
million United States Dollars ($10,000,000) (“Grant”) to assist in financing the 
Project.  
3.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
3.03. 
The Grant is funded out of the above-mentioned trust fund for which the World 
Bank receives periodic contributions.  In accordance with Section 3.02 of the 
Standard Conditions, the Recipient may withdraw the Grant proceeds subject to the 
availability of such funds. 
Article IV 
Recipient’s Representative; Addresses 
 
4.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative referred to in Section 7.02 of the Standard 
Conditions is the Governor of the CBI. 
Page  5
4
4.02. 
The Recipient’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
 
10 Rasheed Street 
Shorja 
Baghdad 
Republic of Iraq 
 
Facsimile:  
 
009 641 8166-802 
 
4.03. 
The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  6
5
AGREED at Amman, The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
 
ASSOCIATION 
 
acting as administrator of World Bank Iraq Trust Fund 
 
By /s/ Ziad Badr 
Authorized Representative 
 
CENTRAL BANK OF IRAQ 
 
By /s/ Ahmad S. Mohamad 
Authorized Representative 
 
IRAQI STRATEGIC REVIEW BOARD 
 
By /s/ Huda Malik 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the supervisory framework for 
financial intermediation and to build capacity of Iraqi financial institutions to support 
implementation of Phase I of the Iraq Banking Reform Strategy. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part A
:
Institutional and Operational Restructuring of the Participating Banks
Provision of technical assistance for institutional and operational restructuring of 
the Participating Banks focusing on the following areas: (i) organizational structure, 
processes, procedures, and policies; (ii) capacity building of human resources; (iii) 
finance and accounting;
 
(iv) information technology and management of information 
systems; (v) risk management; and (vi) internal auditing policies and procedures as well 
as compliance with rules and regulations. 
Part B
:
Financial Restructuring of the Participating Banks
Provision of technical assistance to the Participating Banks to help them to 
restore their ability to comply with minimum capital adequacy and other prudential 
requirements of the CBI, and to restore their full credibility with their business 
counterparts.  
Part C
:
Strengthening the Regulatory and Supervisory Functions of the CBI
Provision of technical assistance and goods to strengthen the regulatory and 
supervisory functions of the CBI. 
Part D
:
Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
Strengthening the capacity of the PMU for Project management, monitoring and 
evaluation through the provision of goods, consultant services, including Project audit 
and Training, and financing of Operating Costs. 
 
Page  8
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements 
1. 
The Recipient shall make sure that the Project Executive Steering Committee 
with a composition, resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the World 
Bank is maintained at all times during the implementation of the Project. 
2. 
Throughout the duration of the Project the Recipient shall maintain the PMU 
responsible for overall management, coordination, monitoring and evaluation of 
the Project with a composition, staff, resources and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the World Bank.  
3. 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Manual and shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive 
said Manual or any provision of it without the prior approval of the World Bank.
 
B
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the 
“Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and 
Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, 
dated October 15, 2006 (“Anti-Corruption Guidelines”).
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. 
Project Reports; Completion Report 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.06 of the 
Standard Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the World 
Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and 
shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than one month after the end of 
the period covered by such report. 
2. 
The Recipient shall prepare the Completion Report in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions.  The Completion Report 
shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date. 
 
Page  9
8
B. 
Financial Management; Financial Reports; Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that a financial management system is maintained in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard Conditions. 
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
are prepared and furnished to the World Bank as part of the Project Report not 
later than one month after the end of each calendar quarter, covering the quarter, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements for the Project audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the Standard Conditions.  
Each such audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal 
year of the Recipient.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period 
shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six months after the end of 
such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Procurement and Consultant Guidelines.  
All goods and services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured 
in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in: 
(a) 
Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the World Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 (“Procurement Guidelines”) in the case of goods, and 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the World Bank in 
May 2004 and revised in October 2006 (“Consultant Guidelines”) in the 
case of consultants’ services; and 
(b) 
the provisions of this Section III, as the same shall be elaborated in the 
procurement plan prepared and updated from time to time by the 
Recipient for the Project in accordance with paragraph 1.16 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines 
(“Procurement Plan”). 
2.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Page  10
9
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods 
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods.  
The following methods, other than 
International Competitive Bidding, may be used for procurement of goods for 
those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) National Competitive 
Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth in the Annex to this 
Schedule 2; (b) Shopping; and (c) Direct Contracting. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following 
methods, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for 
procurement of consultants’ services for those assignments which are specified in 
the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality-based Selection; (b) Least Cost Selection; (c) 
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications; (d) Single-source Selection; (e) 
Selection of Individual Consultants; and (f) Sole Source Procedures for the 
Selection of Individual Consultants. 
 
D. Operating 
Costs 
 
Incremental expenditures included in the Operating Costs category can be 
procured in accordance with established administrative procedures of the 
Recipient which have been found acceptable to the World Bank. 
 
E. 
Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
World Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the World Bank. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the 
provisions of: (a) Article III of the Standard Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c) 
such additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the 
Page  11
10
Recipient (including 
the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” 
dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.   
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category 
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated  
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
 
(1) Goods  
 
350,000 
100% 
(2) Consultants’ services 
and Training 
 8,900,000 
100% 
(3) Operating Costs 
 
250,000 
100% 
(4) Unallocated 
 
500,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 10,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.  
2. 
The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06 (c) of the Standard Conditions is 
October 31, 2010. 
Page  12
11
ANNEX to Schedule 2 
 
Additional Provisions Applicable to  
National Competitive Bidding 
 
1. 
Standard bidding documents approved by the World Bank shall be
 
used. 
 
2. 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national 
daily newspaper and bidding documents shall be made available to prospective 
bidders, at least twenty-eight (28) days prior to the deadline for the submission of 
bids. 
 
3. 
Bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount over the 
estimated cost. 
 
4. 
Bidding documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who are 
willing to pay the required fee. 
 
5. 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of any 
kind shall be given to national bidders. 
 
6. 
Qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not carried out) shall be 
stated in the bidding documents, and if a registration process is required, a 
foreign firm determined to be the lowest evaluated bidder shall be given 
reasonable opportunity of registering, without any hindrance i.e. no non-
registration status should be considered as a non-eligibility-to-bid criterion. 
 
7. 
Bidders may deliver bids, at their option, either in person or by courier service or 
by mail. 
 
8. 
Bids shall be opened in public in one place preferably immediately, but no later 
than one (1) hour, after the deadline for submission of bids. 
 
9. 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria disclosed in the 
bidding documents, in a format, and within the specified period, agreed with the 
World Bank. 
 
10. 
Bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an official 
estimate without the prior concurrence of the World Bank. 
 
11. 
Split award or lottery in award of contracts shall not be carried out. When two or 
more bidders quote the same price, an investigation shall be made to determine 
any evidence of collusion, following which: (A) if collusion is determined, the 
parties involved shall be disqualified and the award shall then be made to the 
next lowest evaluated and qualified bidder; and (B) if no evidence of collusion 
Page  13
12
can be confirmed, then fresh bids shall be invited after receiving the concurrence 
of the World Bank. 
 
12. 
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders within the initial 
period of bid validity so that extensions are not necessary. Extension of bid 
validity may be sought only under exceptional circumstances. 
 
13. 
Extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior concurrence of 
the World Bank: (A) for the first request for extension if it is longer than eight (8) 
weeks; and (B) for all subsequent requests for extensions irrespective of the 
period. 
 
14. 
Negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other bidders. 
 
15. 
Re-bidding shall not be carried out without the World Bank
’s prior concurrence. 
 
16. 
All contractors or suppliers shall provide performance security as indicated in the 
contract documents. A contractor’s or a supplier’s performance security shall 
apply to a specific contract under which it was furnished. 
 
17. 
A provision shall be included in bidding documents and in contracts financed by 
the Grant requiring bidders, suppliers and contractors to permit the World Bank 
to inspect their accounts and records and other documents relating to the bid 
submission and contract performance and to have them audited by auditors 
appointed by the World Bank. 
 
