                                  Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                      Report No. ICR3025




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT



                           ON A FINANCING GRANT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$10 MILLION

                                    TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF IRAQ

                            FOR THE EMERGENCY


                    BANKING SECTOR REFORM PROJECT




                                December 16, 2013




Finance and Private Sector Development
Middle East and North Africa Region
                              GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1–December 31

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                   (Exchange Rate Effective as of December 1, 2013)

                          Currency Unit= Iraqi Dinar (IQD)
                               US$1.00= IQD 1,163


                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ALM     Asset and Liability Management
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CBI     Central Bank of Iraq
CFP     Country Financing Parameters
CQ      Consultants Qualifications
E&Y     Ernst and Young
FMA     Fiduciary Monitoring Agent
FM      Financial Management
FSVC    Financial Services Volunteer Corps
FX      Foreign Exchange
FY      Fiscal Year
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
ICR     Implementation Completion and Results Report
IMF     International Monetary Fund
IQD     Iraqi Dinar
IRFFI   International Reconstruction Fund Facility for Iraq
IRSB    Iraqi Strategic Review Board
ISN     Interim Strategy Note
IT      Information Technology
ITF     Iraq Trust Fund (administered by the World Bank)
JMAP    Joint Management Action Plan
MIM     Master Implementation Manual
MIS     Management of Information Systems
MOU     Memorandum of Understanding
NPLs    Non-performing Loans
OP      Operational Policies
PIM     Project Implementation Manual
PMT     Project Management Team
PMU     Project Management Unit
QBS     Quality Based Selection
QCBS    Quality and Cost-Based Selection
RFP     Request for Proposal
ROC     Restructuring Oversight Committee
RTGS    real time gross settlement
SBA     Stand-by Agreement
SOEs    State-owned Enterprises
SOE     Statement of Expenditure
US$     United States Dollar
USAID   United States Agency for Development


                         Vice President:      Inger Andersen
                       Country Director:      Ferid Belhaj
                         Sector Director:     Loic Chiquier
                        Sector Manager:       Simon C. Bell
                      Task Team Leader:       Sahar Nasr
                                                           REPUBLIC OF IRAQ
                                               Banking Sector Reform Project

                                                           Table of Contents




Data Sheet
  A. Basic Information ................................................................................................................... ii
  B. Key Dates ................................................................................................................................ ii
  C. Ratings Summary .................................................................................................................... ii
  D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................................ ii
  E. Bank Staff............................................................................................................................... iii
  F. Results Framework Analysis .................................................................................................. iii
  G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs ............................................................................... v
  H. Restructuring........................................................................................................................... v

Report Table of Content

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................................ 2
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ......................................................... 10
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ....................................................................................................... 14
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................... 18
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .................................................................. 18
  6. Lessons Learned .................................................................................................................... 21
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower, Implementing Agencies, Partners ...................... 22

Annexes

  Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing....................................................................................... 23
  Annex 2: Out puts by Component ............................................................................................. 24
  Annex 3: Monitoring Indicators, Baseline and Expected Outcomes ......................................... 29
  Annex 4: Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.................... 30
  Annex 5: Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .................................. 31
  Annex 6: Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .................................... 34
  Annex 7: Detailed Terms of Reference (TORs) for Project Activities...................................... 35
  Annex 8: Financial Sector Review–Action Plan Matrix ........................................................... 56
  Annex 9: Iraq Banking Reform Strategy—Action Plan ............................................................ 75
  Annex 10: Organizational Structures Action Plans for Rafidain Bank and Rasheed Bank ...... 87




                                                                          i
DATA SHEET

A. Basic Information
Country:                   Iraq                          Project Name:                 Banking Sector Reform Project
Project ID                 P113337                       L/C/TF Number(s):             TF094193
ICR Date:                  October 2013                  ICR Type:                     Core ICR
Lending Instrument:        Financing Grant               Borrower:                     Republic of Iraq
Original Total             USD 10 million                Disbursed Amount:             USD 10 million
Commitment:
Implementing Agencies: Central Bank of Iraq
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: US Treasury, USAID, IMF, IFC

B. Key Dates
      Process                 Date                  Process              Original Date        Revised / Actual Date(s)
Concept Review:           09/15/2008         Effectiveness:               04/17/2009                 04/17/2009
Appraisal:                11/21/2008         Restructuring(s):               NA              07/14/2010 and 07/27/2012
Approval:                  04/14/2009        Mid-term Review:                NA                            NA
                                             Closing:                     10/31/2010                06/30/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                                Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                             Substantial
Bank Performance:                                        Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                    Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
           Bank                     Ratings                 Borrower                   Ratings
Quality at Entry:         Satisfactory           Government:                   Moderately Satisfactory
Quality of Supervision:   Satisfactory           Implementing Agency/Agencies: Moderately Satisfactory
Overall Bank
                          Satisfactory           Overall Borrower Performance: Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
                                                                        QAG Assessments (if
      Implementation Performance                   Indicators                                              Rating:
                                                                              any)
Potential Problem Program at any time                   No                      NA                              NA
(Yes/No):
Problem Program at any time (Yes/No):                   No                      NA                              NA
DO rating before Closing/Inactive status:    Moderately Satisfactory                                            NA

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                                Original                   Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Banking                                                                            100                    100

                                                        ii
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
State-owned enterprise restructuring and privatization                           Primary                 Primary
Other financial and private sector development                                  Primary                 Primary
Regulation and competition policy                                               Secondary               Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                               At ICR                                     At Approval
Vice President:               Inger Andersen                               Daniela Gressani
Country Director:             Ferid Belhaj                                 Hedi Larbi
Sector Director:              Loic Chiquier                                Ritva S. Reinikka
Sector Manager:               Simon C. Bell                                Zoubida Allaoua
Task Team Leader:             Sahar Nasr                                   Sahar Nasr
ICR Team Leader:              Sahar Nasr                                   NA
F. Results Framework Analysis
(a) PDO Indicator(s):
The Project Development Objective (PDO) is to strengthen the supervisory framework for financial
intermediation and build capacity of financial institutions to support implementation of Phase I of the Iraq
Banking Reform Strategy.
                       Baseline Value      Original Target       Formally Revised        Actual Values Achieved
                                               Values              Target Values        at Completion or Target
                                           (from approval                                        Years
                                             documents)
PDO [GEO]            Development of new organizational structures for the two state-owned banks
Indicator 1:
Value                None                    New organizational    Organizational          Organizational structures
(Qualitative)                                structures approved   structures              adopted by June 30, 2013
                                             and adopted by        adopted by June 30,
                                             October 2010          2013

Date achieved        06/30/2006              10/31/2010            06/30/2013              06/30/2013
Comments
                     There were several major developments - the Restructuring Oversight Committee (ROC) made
(incl. %             several key decisions on April 8, 2012 regarding the settlement of the remaining non-performing
achievement)         loans (NPLs); and the endorsement, in principle, of the overall financial restructuring of Rasheed
                     Bank and Rafidain Bank, as well as the new organizational structures of these two state-owned
                     banks which seek to improve their governance structure and overall performance. These were
                     significant milestones towards the implementation of the banking reform program. Full
                     implementation of the new organizational structure awaits appointment of new Executive Boards
                     for the two banks.




                                                         iii
PDO [GEO]              Number of staff trained to do bank operations
Indicator 2:           (both banks)

Value                  0                      100                    200                    682
(Quantitative)

Date achieved          06/30/2006              10/31/2010              06/30/2013            06/30/2013
Comments               Capacity building and on-the-job training have been provided extensively through the
(incl. %               lifetime of the operation to a number of staff, exceeding the original target.
achievement)
PDO [GEO]              State-owned commercial banks improved their capital adequacy ratio
Indicator 3:           (reserves-to-NPLs ratios)

Value                  10                     Reserves-to-NPLs       Reserves-to-NPLs       Reserves-to-NPLs
(Quantitative)                                ratios reaching 20%    ratios reaching 20%    ratios reaching 20%

Date achieved          06/30/2006             10/31/2010              06/30/2013            06/30/2013
Comments               There has been an improved portfolio quality of the two state-owned commercial banks,
(incl. %               evident in the reserves-to-NPLs ratios, rising from 10 percent in June 2006 to 20 percent at
achievement)           closing date.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s) - from Project Appraisal Document
Baseline Values from Project Outcome Indicators/Date of Value (from approval documents)
                       Baseline        Original Target          Formally         Actual Values Achieved
                        Value               Values          Revised Target      at Completion or Target
                                       (from approval            Values                  Years
                                         documents)
 IO Indicator 1:    Loan-to-GDP ratio (banking sector)
Value               4%              6%                      6.2%              9%
(Quantitative)


Date achieved          06/30/2006        10/31/2010              06/30/2013         06/30/2013
Comments               Iraqi authorities have made good progress in meeting the project's objectives, as evidenced
(incl. %               by the achievement of various monitoring indicators stipulated in the Emergency Project
achievement)           Paper, especially the rise in loan-to-GDP ratio from a baseline of 4 percent to 9 percent by
                       closing date, exceeding the project end target of 6.2 percent.
IO Indicator 2:        Reserves-to-NPLs ratios (both banks)
Value                  10%                   20%                  20 1%               20%
(Quantitative)

Date achieved          06/30/2006          10/31/2010           06/30/2013          06/30/2013
Comments               There has been an improved portfolio quality of the two state-owned commercial banks, as
(incl. %               evidenced by the reserves-to-NPLs ratios, rising from 10 percent in June 2006 to 20 percent
achievement)           at closing date.
IO Indicator 3:        Capital adequacy ratio (both banks)
Value                  0                4%                      4%                 4%
(Quantitative)




1
    This figure has been corrected.


                                                         iv
Date achieved      06/30/2006        10/31/2010              06/30/2013         06/30/2013
Comments           The capital adequacy ratio has increased from zero to 4 percent, already meeting the project
(incl. %           end target value of 4 percent.
achievement)

IO Indicator 4:    Number of qualified staff in the Project Management Unit (PMU)
Value              0                  4                      4                  4
(Quantitative)

Date achieved      06/30/2006         10/31/2010             06/30/2013      06/30/2013
Comments           The PMU has been adequately staffed, and well equipped to perform its mandate to support
(incl. %           the Iraqi authorities in implementing their banking reform program. Staff hired are
achievement)       qualified and capable of effectively managing the project and ensuring compliance with
                   Bank’s rules and guidelines (in terms of procurement and FM arrangements). Workshops
                   were held to train PMU staff on procurement and FM issues, along with supervision
                   missions to ensure all fiduciary requirements are met.
IO Indicator 5:    Timely disbursement of grant (US$ million)
Value              0                      6                  1.2                10
(Quantitative)

Date achieved      06/30/2006          10/31/2010            06/30/2013          06/30/2013
Comments           At the beginning of the operation, there were delays in implementation and slower than
(incl. %           anticipated disbursement due to the complex situation on the ground. However, the PMU
achievement)       gradually made progress in the implementation of the four components of the project, and
                   disbursement picked up significantly, especially after the extension of the originally agreed
                   upon closing date to permit full disbursement of the funds.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

       No.            Date ISR                DO                 IP              Actual Disbursements
                      Archived
 1                Sep. 2, 2009        Moderately         Satisfactory     0
                                      Satisfactory
 2                Apr. 7, 2010        Moderately         Moderately       US$ 0.15 million
                                      Satisfactory       Satisfactory
 3                Oct. 16, 2010       Moderately         Moderately       US$ 0.45 million
                                      Satisfactory       Satisfactory
 4                Oct. 12, 2011       Moderately         Satisfactory     US$ 3.06 million
                                      Satisfactory
 5                Apr. 23, 2012       Satisfactory       Satisfactory     US$ 6.25 million

 6                Nov. 7, 2012        Satisfactory       Satisfactory     US$ 8.17 million

 7                Dec 21, 2012        Satisfactory       Satisfactory     US$ 8.27 million

 8                June 6, 2013        Moderately         Moderately       US$ 9.384 million
                                      Satisfactory       Satisfactory

H. Restructuring
Level II Restructuring took place twice during the lifetime of the operation: (i) extension of
the Closing Date from October 31, 2010 to June 30, 2013, approved on July 14, 2010; and (ii)
reallocation of proceeds among the different components approved on July 27, 2012.



                                                     v
1.      Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1.    Context at Appraisal
Country Context
1.     The Republic of Iraq has been adversely impacted by internal and external shocks. A
series of wars, international sanctions and misdirected economic policies have left the
country’s economy, and especially its financial sector, weak and underdeveloped. Iraq’s
economy remains dominated by the oil sector, which provides about 95 percent of foreign
exchange earnings. Real gross domestic product (GDP) growth was largely driven by the
ongoing expansion of oil output. Violence in Iraq has impeded economic recovery and
reconstruction. At the time of appraisal of this Banking Sector Reform Project in 2009,
macroeconomic performance had witnessed some improvements. Tight monetary policies,
sound fiscal policy, and under-spending of the capital budget have kept the fiscal balance in
check. As a result, inflation was brought down. The Central Bank of Iraq (CBI) has
maintained a prudent monetary stance in order to stave off inflationary pressures.
2.      Notwithstanding a challenging political and security environment, Iraq has achieved
some progress toward macroeconomic stability. It has achieved single-digit inflation, and
economic growth has resumed. The fiscal balance and current account balance have
improved (after having deteriorated in the wake of the global financial crisis). In addition,
Iraq’s debt-to-GDP ratio has been on a downward trajectory thanks to the debt restructuring
with the Paris Club and other creditors. Iraq’s economic growth prospects are favorable due
to rising oil prices. However, the lack of economic diversification makes Iraq’s economic
growth vulnerable to oil price and volume shocks and undermines its ability to conduct fiscal
policy with a medium-term orientation. The Iraqi government must meet the twin challenges
of creating jobs and promoting stable income-creating opportunities for a majority of the
Iraqi population.
Financial Sector Overview
3.      Overall, the financial sector in Iraq is
underdeveloped, and plays a limited role in financial
intermediation. The banking system is still by far the most
important part of the Iraqi financial system, accounting for
more than 75 percent of its assets. The banking system is
dominated by state ownership where Rashid Bank and
Rafidain Bank account for more than 70 percent of the
banking system (Figure 1). Non-bank financial institutions
and markets are small and underdeveloped, but have the
potential to provide access to sources of finance, if given a
more level playing field across the sector.
                                                                         Source: MNA Knowledge and Learning Fast Brief,
4.      Political economy considerations are critical when Enhancing the Role of the Iraqi Financial Sector for
                                                               Sustainable Economic Development, 2013
assessing Iraq’s financial system. The difficult security
situation imposes costs and constraints; the complex political situation impedes decisive
policy action; governance and transparency issues linger; inadequate implementation capacity
hinders reforms; and the legacy of prevailing state intervention has not been fully addressed.




                                                      1
5.       The banking system in Iraq is small - the assets-to-GDP ratio is equivalent to 73
percent compared to an average of 130 percent for Middle East and North Africa (MENA)
countries. Seven state-owned banks dominate the banking system. Private banks are generally
quite small, accounting for only 11 percent of the system, and many have been established
relatively recently. Seven of the 36 private banks have foreign participation, and eight operate
according to Islamic principles. While the strength and business expertise of the small private
banks appears to be improving, staff skills are often weak, the range of services provided by
many banks is still limited, and loans are mainly short-term and related to wholesale and
retail trade. Furthermore, because of their small size, private banks are not yet able to finance
large projects, as syndication is not yet used. Foreign banks have shown increasing interest in
conducting business in Iraq. Despite their current orientation towards oil and related activities,
it is expected that, over time, the presence of foreign banks should help improve the overall
banking climate and stimulate the development of the financial sector.
6.       Private and foreign banks operate on an uneven playing field. State banks benefit
from the perception of a de facto deposit guarantee and from restrictions imposed on the
operations of the private banks. Government agencies and state-owned enterprises are not
allowed to place deposits with private banks, nor can state-owned enterprises receive loans
from private banks. Payments to the government cannot be effected by checks drawn on
private banks. Private banks have limited permission for letters of credit—an activity that is
strictly controlled by the Trade Bank of Iraq. State banks are de facto exempted from meeting
prudential requirements, and some of them would otherwise fail because of low capital.
Furthermore, there is a shortage of qualified experts who understand Islamic banking
practices and Shari’a-compliant products, not only in the banks but also in CBI.
7.      On the overall performance of the banking system in Iraq, banks may be weaker than
they appear, as accounting and auditing standards are lax, and banking supervision is not in
all cases fully effective. However, given its small size, the banking system does not appear to
give rise to significant macro-prudential risk at present. The state-owned banks, Rafidain
Bank and Rasheed Bank, clearly require recapitalization, although they are still highly liquid,
with cash deposits at the CBI and foreign assets covering 97 percent of private deposits.
While private banks are small, they are highly liquid, and have strong prudential indicators.
Overall, however, financial intermediation is weak in Iraq, and access to credit is low. Credit
expansion is very low at less than 10 percent of GDP, compared to the 55 percent average for
MENA countries, with assets to GDP at 73 percent. However, it is worth noting that it has
been growing fast, at a 40 percent average over the last three years. Broad money-to-GDP is
also low at 57 percent, compared to 75 percent in MENA countries. Moreover, half of the
money supply is in cash, indicating a largely cash based economy.
Rationale for Bank Assistance
8.      Enhancing the performance of the banking system, and improving its capacity to
provide sound and efficient financial services will make a critical contribution to Iraq’s
economic growth and prosperity and poverty reduction. As empirical evidence has shown, a
sound banking system is critical to economic growth and macroeconomic stability. For these
reasons, building sound, efficient and inclusive financial systems that work for all members
of society is a key development objective for Iraq. In that context, the main objective of the
operation was to being work to strengthen the supervisory framework for financial
intermediation and build the capacity of financial institutions, in support of the
implementation of Phase I of the Iraq Banking Reform Strategy. In February 2009, the
Government of Iraq embarked on a comprehensive two-phase Banking Sector Reform
Strategy (2008-2012), with the objective of modernizing its banking system. This was a

                                                2
 benchmark of the IMF’s Stand-by Arrangement with the Government of Iraq. The design of
 the operation was highly aligned with the country’s priorities and World Bank strategies.
 Table 1 outlines the various phases of the reform program, indicating what would be
 achieved every year. Also, Annex 9 gives an overview on the whole reform program.
                          Table 1: Phasing of the Iraq Banking Sector Reform Project*
                          PHASE I**                                                                PHASE II
       First Year                       Second Year                            Third Year                       Fourth Year
          2009                              2010                                   2011                             2012
Organizational                     Capacity Building                     Organizational                    Capacity Building
Structure                                                                Structure
                                    Training of staff based on                                             Improve HR process
 Business unit                    a detailed training plan               Governance, control and
organization                                                             support units
Finance and Accounting             Finance and Accounting                Finance and Accounting            Finance and Accounting
 Restructuring the balance         Put in place an accounting           Capital adequacy                 Cost recovery pricing of
sheets                             system                                 Comprehensive reporting         financial products
                                                                         system of financial results        Budgeting, planning and
                                                                                                           performance management
IT Infrastructure                  IT Infrastructure                     Internal Audit and                Internal Audit and
                                                                         Compliance                        Compliance
 Connectivity to branches          IT platform covering all
and CBI                            operational aspects                    Process, audit framework,
                                    Security system of                  methodology, and
                                                                                                            Internal audit and
                                   information                                                             compliance
                                                                         effectiveness of internal audit
                                    Management of
                                   information systems
Risk Management                    Risk Management                       Risk Management                   Risk Management
 Credit risk management            Credit risk management               Non credit risk                  Non credit risk
                                                                         management                        management
Strengthening the                  Strengthening the                     Strengthening the                 Strengthening the
Banking Supervision                Banking Supervision                   Banking Supervision               Banking Supervision
and Regulatory                     and Regulatory                        and Regulatory                    and Regulatory
Authority                          Authority                             Authority                         Authority
 Review of banking                 Update and enforce a set             Make new recruitments            Make new recruitments
supervision process                of regulations in line with           and develop training              and develop training
                                   international standards
 * Based on the Iraq Banking Reform Strategy—Action Plan (2008-2012).
 **This World Bank Banking Sector Reform project supports the first phase of the Government of Iraq Banking Reform Strategy, covering
 the period of 2009-2010. Additional funding, such as local government funding and donors’ financial support, will be considered to support
 the second phase, covering the period of 2011-2012.

 9.      This operation set out to begin a process of financial sector reforms.—Given the
 broad nature of the project’s name and the low level of resources available under this project,
 however, expectations for what this project could achieve may have been higher than what
 the project could realistically have delivered.. The project’s aim was to initiate a dialogue
 with the Iraqi authorities in support of their efforts to build a sound and efficient banking
 system which would be able to provide, in the medium-term, efficient financial services
 competitively. This in turn would ensure efficient mobilization of funds and their allocation
 to the most productive investments, thereby promoting private sector development. Of
 primary importance was to build the capacity of the two largest state-owned commercial
 banks—Rafidain Bank and Rasheed Bank—because of their huge branch network which
 accounted for more than 70 percent of the banking system. These institutions played, and
 continue to play, a necessary role in financial intermediation, and were seen to be able to
 provide the resources needed for Iraq’s growth. They also offered good deposit and payment
 systems for the business and household sectors which was expected to, at a later stage, allow
 private banks to also contribute to the financing of Iraq’s development. In parallel with the

                                                                     3
modernization of the state-owned banks, it was also key to strengthen the regulatory and
supervisory capacity of the central bank, in particular with regard to these institutions.
10.       The operation’s main components were: (i) institutional and operational restructuring
of the two state-owned banks; (ii) financial restructuring of the two state-owned banks; and
(iii) strengthening the regulatory and supervisory functions of CBI. These components were
closely linked with the objectives of the third Interim Strategy Note (ISN) for Iraq, namely its
three thematic areas of engagement: (i) continuing to support ongoing reconstruction and
socio-economic recovery; (ii) improving governance and the management of public resources,
including human, natural and financial; and (iii) supporting policies and institutions that
promote broad-based, private-sector-led growth, with the goal of revitalizing the private
sector and facilitating job creation. This operation ultimately supported private-sector-led
growth through broader access to finance and financial services, as well as through
strengthening the financial system (third thematic area). It also contributed to ongoing socio-
economic recovery efforts (as per the first thematic area), as well as public resource
management improvements (as per the second thematic area).
11.     The project was also aligned with the more recently approved World Bank Group
Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Iraq covering FY13-FY16(the first CPS for Iraq),
which was presented to the World Bank's Board of Executive Directors on December 18,
2012. The CPS aims to support government efforts to implement the National Development
Plan, building on stakeholder feedback and lessons learned and is built around three pillars:
(i) improving governance; (ii) supporting economic diversification for broadly shared
prosperity; and (iii) improving social inclusion and reducing poverty. Thus, the project was in
full consistency with the Bank’s engagement strategies in Iraq, which included state-owned
bank restructuring as a priority area.
12.     The rationale for Bank support to banking sector reforms was based on a number of
factors. The banking sector is an engine for growth, and improving the performance of banks
could ensure that resources were allocated to their most productive investments—especially
since the state-owned banks in Iraq dominated the scene with their huge branch network. In
addition, the donor community (especially the IMF and the US Treasury) had been playing a
vital role in restructuring the banking sector in Iraq and the World Bank project was
complementary and reinforcing to the efforts of other development partners. Moreover, the
project was timely, as the independent financial and operational audits of the two state-owned
commercial banks were conducted in early 2006 and completed in July 2008 by an
international audit firm—Ernst and Young (E&Y)—according to terms of reference (TOR) to
which the World Bank contributed in preparing. Although the audits were affected by the loss
of information on branch loans and credit files during the war, and by limited access to
documentation from branches outside Baghdad, they still provided an adequate basis for
developing restructuring action plans for both banks. Through this operation, the CBI was
empowered, as its capacity to supervise and regulate was strengthened. Also, the authorities
became more aware of the need for a level playing field and for removing discrimination
among private banks.
1.2.   Original Project Development Objectives (PDO), Project Components, and Key
Indicators
13.    The Project Development Objective (PDO) was to strengthen the supervisory
framework for financial intermediation and to build the capacity of financial institutions to
support implementation of Phase I of the Iraq Banking Reform Strategy.
14.    To this effect, the four components of the World Bank operation were: (i) institutional

                                               4
and operational restructuring of the two state-owned commercial banks—Rafidain Bank and
Rasheed Bank; (ii) financial restructuring of the two state-owned commercial banks;
(iii) strengthening of the regulatory and supervisory functions of the CBI; and (iv) project
management, monitoring and evaluation. The expected outcomes under each project
component were as follows:
        Institutional and operational restructuring of the two state-owned commercial
       banks: Expected outcomes under the first component included: (i) in-depth
       improvement of the functioning of the two state-owned banks, as evident in the
       capacity building of staff; and (ii) the two state-owned commercial banks resuming
       lending and taking deposits (as evident in the loan-to-GDP ratio, which is a proxy for
       assessing financial intermediation and improvements in access to finance).
           Financial restructuring of the two state-owned commercial banks: Expected
       outcomes included: (i) implementation of audit recommendations inter-alia regarding
       a build-up in provision levels at state-owned commercial banks and reducing NPLs;
       (ii) balance sheets reflect bank net asset values and financial position; and
       (iii) recapitalization of the two state-owned commercial banks by the government to
       the extent to which the government agrees and given fiscal constraints. The quality of
       the portfolio is assessed through monitoring the reserves-to-NPLs ratio.
         Strengthening the regulatory and supervisory functions of CBI: This component
       would be achieved through: (i) capacity building granted to the supervisory and
       regulatory functions of the CBI; and (ii) strengthening the effectiveness of the CBI’s
       supervisory apparatus. Capital adequacy ratios reflect adherence to banking
       supervision.
          Project management, monitoring and evaluation: Expected outcomes under this
       component were as follows: (i) recruitment of qualified staff capable of effectively
       managing the project; (ii) capacity building granted to the Executive Steering
       Committee, supporting the reform program; and (iii) efficient and smooth execution
       of the project.
15.    In support of Phase I of the Government’s Banking Sector Reform Strategy and its
Action Plan, all of the expected outcomes under each component have been achieved. Further
elaboration is provided in subsequent sections (para. 19–39). Monitoring indicators are
summarized in Annex 3.
1.3.   Revised PDO and Key Indicators
16.     The PDO and the key indicators have remained the same throughout the lifetime of
the operation. While he PDO was fully achieved, the name of the project may have raised
expectations among stakeholders regarding its scope, and how much it could achieve with a
grant of US$ 10 million.
1.4.   Main Beneficiaries
17.     The main beneficiaries of the operation were the staff who directly participated in the
capacity building and on-the-job training provided under this operation: staff from the CBI,
the two state-owned commercial banks—Rafidain Bank and Rasheed Bank, the Board of
Supreme Audit (BSA), and the Ministry of Finance. In addition, the institutions as a whole
benefitted from the restructuring processes—CBI, BSA, the Ministry of Finance, Rafidain
Bank, and Rasheed Bank. The operation aimed at being an entry point to support the Iraqi
authorities to commence the implementation of reforms in the financial sector, which would
ultimately have potential salutary effects on Iraq's growth and future economic development,

                                              5
including via the private sector.
1.5.   Original Components
18.   As previously mentioned, the project’s PDO was achieved through the
implementation of the project’s main components, as follows:
Component I: Institutional and Operational Restructuring of the Two State-owned
Commercial Banks
19.     Under institutional and operational restructuring, the project built the capacity of the
staff of the two state-owned banks—Rasheed Bank and Rafidain Bank. This component has
been fully completed, and achievements are as follows:
(i) Development of new organizational structures of the state-owned banks.
The development and execution of a new organizational structure, which the Banking
Restructuring Oversight Committee (ROC) endorsed in April 2012, aimed at improving their
governance structure, and overall performance. This included the establishment of new
departments, such as Risk Management Department and IT Department. Detailed TORs were
developed for all positions, with clear responsibilities and reporting lines. This improved
governance and accountabilities for both banks.
(ii) Capacity building for improving human resource management. A human resource (HR)
management system has been put in place in both banks to meet current and future human
resource requirements. In that context, the required training for improving HR processes was
completed in July 2011 for 20 people from both state-owned commercial banks. As a result,
the banks’ immediate needs for building critical skills and efficiently deploying the work
force to staff its new organization were addressed. The project also supported the two banks
in the execution of their strategies and business plans. The banks’ medium-term needs for
developing and managing its human resources were achieved. This system consisted of: (i) a
training needs analysis; (ii) a training and development master plan; (iii) a performance
appraisal system; and (iv) a staffing program, which entailed effective matching of people to
jobs in the revised organizational structure. Improving HR processes included, putting a
system in place, which ensured staff have clear and transparent terms of reference (TOR), and
that salary increases are based on performance rather than solely on seniority.
(iii) Capacity building for banks’ staff in conducting risk management, both credit and
non-credit risk management. As an outcome of implementing the new organizational
structures, risk management units have been established in both banks. As a result, a risk
control department was also set up, the risk management units were adequately managed and
completely staffed, and manuals for risk management were developed. This also entailed
amendments to existing credit approval procedures on the basis of accepted best practices;
and improved measuring and monitoring capabilities, which enabled the banks to produce
comprehensive and accurate reports on a bank-wide basis, to identify “single obligors” and to
aggregate such exposures; and training in human resource management. Under this
component, representatives from BSA, Rafidain Bank, and Rasheed Bank have received
training at the Egyptian Banking Institute (EBI) on risk management, Letters of Credit,
finance and accounting, and internal audit.
(iv) Capacity building for IT training. This covered capacity building and on-the-job
training on all operational aspects, security system of information and management of
information systems. This training was completed for ten professional programs during the
period from May 15–August 10, 2011, for 98 trainees from the two state-owned commercial
banks. The overall number of staff trained in the two state-owned banks has exceeded the

                                               6
 project end target of 200. This produced a well-equipped staff, capable of using advanced
 technology in doing their daily duties, improving their efficiency and productivity. The
 capacity building program trained 243 staff from Rafidain Bank and 240 from Rasheed Bank.
 20.     Overall, the institutional and operational restructuring of the two state-owned banks
 led to an improvement in their performance and their role in financial intermediation, as
 evident in the rise in the loan-to-GDP ratio. As a result of the capacity building, banks’
 branch staff were able to handle basic deposit-taking transactions using computers, which
 helped in developing their client base, as evident in the rise in deposits in both Rasheed and
 Rafidain Bank from 10.6 ID trillion in 2010 to 20.5 ID trillion in 2012 and 21.8 ID trillion in
 2010 to 32.1 ID trillion in 2012 respectively (Table 2). Loan officers’ capacity to assess
 credit risk was developed, and this was reflected in the increase in loan-to-GDP from 4
 percent in baseline 2006 to 9 percent in 2012. This training was deemed critical to ensure that
 staff be able to handle deposits and make sound loans, thereby attracting depositors and
 beginning the process to finance private sector growth.


Table 2: Illustrative Adjusted Balance Sheet Items (2009-2010/2010-2011)                (in Trillions ID)
                           Total Assets             Credits to the economy              Deposits


                   2009    2010   2011    2012    2009   2010   2011    2012   2009   2010    2011     2012

 Rafidain Bank     23.6    25.9   28.4    31.2    1.7    3.4     6.8    13.6   18.0   21.8    26.4     32.1
 Rasheed Bank       8.5    13.5   21.4    33.9    0.7    2.0     5.7    16.3   7.5    10.6    14.8     20.5
 ITB               16.7    17.8   18.9    20.1    0.4    0.3     0.3     0.4   14.4   15.5    16.9     18.4
 Other State-       2.6    3.1     3.7     4.4    0.6    0.8     1.1     1.4   1.2    1.2      1.4     1.5
 owned Banks

 Total State-      51.4    60.4   72.4    89.6    3.4    6.5    13.9    30.7   41.4   49.2    59.5     72.6
 owned Banks

 Private Banks      8.1    9.7    11.6    13.9    1.9    2.9     4.4     6.7   4.9    5.8      7.1     8.6

 Total           59.5      70.1   84.0    103.5   5.3    9.4    18.3    37.4   46.0   55.0    66.6     81.2


Source: Staff estimates.



 Component II: Financial Restructuring of the Two State-owned Commercial Banks
 21.     Financial restructuring helped state-owned banks to restore their ability to comply
 with minimum capital adequacy and other prudential requirements of CBI, and to restore
 their full credibility with their business counterparts—the Ministry of Finance (being the
 owner of the state-owned banks) played a leading role in achieving this. The decisions made
 by the Banking ROC on April 8, 2012 regarding the settlement of the remaining NPLs, and
 the endorsement of the overall financial restructuring of Rasheed Bank and Rafidain Bank
 were major developments. The project also focused on capacity building and training in the
 following areas: (i) finance and accounting—restructuring the balance sheets of these two
 banks and developing their accounting systems; and (ii) internal audit and compliance,
 focusing on the process, audit framework, methodology, and effectiveness of internal audit.
 22.     Cleaning the balance sheets of the two state-owned commercial banks. The
 authorities moved off-balance sheet those items that cannot be reconciled quickly and written
 off. As of November 2012, the external debt for Rasheed Bank was US$ 1.13 billion, of

                                                           7
which US$ 356 million was settled by the Ministry of Finance. Rafidain Bank’s external debt
reached US$ 17.75 billion, of which US$ 12.85 billion was settled by the Ministry of Finance.
23.    The project provided technical assistance on the best means of addressing the problem
of NPLs by sharing the experience of other developing and developed countries in cleaning
up the balance sheets of their state-owned banks, and also guided the Iraqi authorities in
choosing the most suitable approach to the Iraqi circumstances. There has been an
improvement in portfolio quality of the two state-owned commercial banks, evident in the
reserves-to-NPLs ratios, rising from 10 percent in June 2006 to 20 percent in June 2013. The
technical assistance and advisory services that were provided have contributed to: (i) the
settlement of US$ 356 million of Rasheed Bank’s US$ 1.13 billion external debt during the
reform program by the Ministry of Finance; and (ii) the settlement of US$ 12.85 billion of
Rafidain Bank’s external debt by the Ministry of Finance over the same period to reach
US$ 17.75 billion. The decision was also made by the Government to eliminate errors
associated with foreign exchange revaluation losses. As a result, the balance sheet of Rafidain
Bank has shrunk to ID 64 trillion at the end of 2012 (based on unaudited numbers).
24.     Restructuring of internal audit and compliance units at Rasheed Bank and
Rafidain Bank, state-owned commercial banks. Through training the banks’ staff on the new
accounting systems in the areas of finance, accounting, internal audit and compliance, they
were able to prepare balance sheets that are more reflective of net asset values and the banks'
financial position. Restructuring of internal audit and compliance units at Rasheed Bank and
Rafidain Bank were also one of the main achievements of the project, with the objective of
improving the effectiveness of the internal audit function for the purpose of strengthening
internal control environment at both banks, as well as enhancing compliance with rules, laws
and regulations. Under the project the following was completed: (i) organizational structure
for the internal audit and compliance units; (ii) charters for the audit committee and internal
audit function; (iii) assessment report of the current internal audit function and gaps from the
Internal Audit Standards; (iv) internal audit policies and procedures; and (v) risk assessment
and proposed audit plan.
25.     Setting up new and modern accounting systems. New and modern accounting
systems have been set up. Consulting services on the revision of the accounting rules by
Pricewaterhouse Coopers (PwC) has been fully completed by July 2012. The two banks took
actions to implement the recommendations for restructuring the internal audit and compliance
units, as per the above mentioned deliverables, including: (i) selecting a new structure
(functional) that needs Ministry of Finance approval prior to application; (ii) applying the
new internal audit policies and procedures, and (iii) approving the Charters for the audit
Committee and internal audit function, approving the risk assessment and performing internal
auditing using the new audit development plan. 2
Component III: Strengthening the Regulatory and Supervisory Functions of the CBI
26.     The project supported CBI in enhancing its supervisory and regulatory authorities—
mainly, reviewing the existing banking supervision process, assessing the effectiveness of its
supervisory apparatus and its adherence to international codes and standards, and preparing a
detailed action plan to address any deficient gaps and needs in coordination with the IMF.
Based on the assessment, training was provided to 191 staff members of the supervision
department at CBI, which included setting up the underpinnings of a strengthened regulatory


2
  The consultancy firm performed with 10 staff from each bank pilot audit on two operations (credit and current
accounts), using the new audit development plan.

                                                      8
and supervisory framework, focusing on on-site and off-site processes. CBI worked on
implementing corrective actions required to bridge the gap between existing practices at CBI
and internationally accepted best practices. Also, it focused on developing and implementing
appropriate supervisory tools and methodologies. Given that the BSA will continue to play a
key role in auditing and fiduciary oversight of the two state-owned commercial banks, the
project also provided support to 25 BSA staff members on its auditing role over banks. An
international resident expert at CBI was hired under the project to work on the restructuring
of the banking supervision department.
27.     Capacity building on enhancing supervisory and regulatory functions. In that
context, staff members from the CBI and BSA have participated in courses, focusing on
interpretation and application of the new prudential standards. It is also worth noting that CBI
also been receiving advisory services from E&Y for capacity building and on-the-job training
for CBI staff, and for Rafidain Bank staff, and Rasheed Bank staff on banking regulations
and international standards. Moreover, CBI staff were trained on how to use XBRL, a data
management software, which provided significant benefits to the off-site analysis of the
banks and the banking sector. Also, a needs-assessment for the Banking Supervision
Department of CBI has been conducted, based on achieving a higher level of compliance
with Basel Core Principles in due course. After completion of the current project, this needs
assessment can form a robust basis for further capacity building and training of CBI staff.
These reforms have contributed to raising the capital adequacy ratio from zero in June 2006
to 4 percent in July 2012, already meeting the project end target value of 4 percent.
28.     Legislative reforms. The project has also contributed to strengthening the legal and
regulatory framework for Islamic finance. A new regulation on Islamic banking had been
promulgated in 2012. The budget law had required that some legal basis be provided for
supervision of Islamic banks. Under this project, a study tour has been conducted to Malaysia
in the context of South-South Cooperation.
Component IV: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
29.     This component of the project covered all costs related to the management,
monitoring and evaluation of the project. The PMU has been adequately staffed, and well
equipped to perform its mandate to support the Iraqi authorities in implementing their
banking reform program. Staff hired were qualified and capable of effectively managing the
project and ensuring compliance with Bank’s rules and guidelines (in terms of procurement
and FM arrangements). Workshops were held to train PMU staff on procurement and FM
issues, along with supervision missions to ensure all fiduciary requirements are met.
30.     The PMU was staffed with four key positions, namely the PMU Director, FM Officer,
Procurement Officer and Program Assistant. The PMU was responsible for the day to day
implementation of the Project, such as Project management responsibilities for procurement,
financial management, disbursement and reporting activities under the Project. The PMU also
acted as the Technical Secretariat of the Executive Steering Committee, which is chaired by
CBI Deputy Governor. The PMU staff salaries and operating costs were financed from the
proceeds of the Grant and its office was located within the CBI. The Bank worked closely
with the PMU to help it build capacity to implement the Project in accordance with Bank's
guidelines and procedures. In addition, the Bank's Baghdad-based Fiduciary Monitoring
Agent, Etiman Consulting, was monitoring the project's implementation, procurement and
FM performance, and overall compliance with the required World Bank guidelines.
1.6.   Revised Components
31.    The project components have remained the same throughout the lifetime of the

                                               9
operation.
1.7    Other Significant Changes
32.     Level II Restructuring took place twice during the lifetime of the operation, namely:
(i) extension of Closing Date from October 31, 2010 to June 30, 2013, approved on July 14,
2010; and (ii) reallocation of proceeds approved on July 27, 2012.
2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1    Project Preparation, Design, Quality at Entry
Adequacy of Government’s Commitment
33.     The extensive consultations with the different stakeholders helped to build consensus
and ownership of reforms. However, there were issues that took a lengthy time to reach
agreement on, such as the size of NPLs, where there were differences between the figures of
CBI, BSA, and the Ministry of Finance. The effective policy dialogue helped to build a
strong partnership between the Bank and the Iraqi authorities over the past years through an
integrated financial sector work program, focusing on financial sector development. The team
executing the program had a strong and professional policy dialogue with the Iraqi main
counterpart, namely the CBI, and the two largest state-owned banks, as well as the Ministry
of Finance, and the BSA. The Bank team has also worked closely with the Ministry of
Planning and International Cooperation, the Cabinet of Ministers, and banks, as well as the
Parliament, in order to push forward policy reforms. It is worth mentioning that coordination
problems exist among the different Iraqi authorities, and it was a major challenge for the team
to get the different stakeholders together, and reach agreements on certain issues. Another
challenging issue was the change in management of CBI, as well as the change of the
Minister of Finance (owner of state-owned banks) three times throughout the lifetime of the
operation. More elaboration is available in subsequent sections.
Soundness of Background Analysis
34.      The design and implementation of the operation was significantly enhanced by the
analytical work carried out, specifically the Iraq Financial Sector Review (2010). This was
the first comprehensive assessment conducted for the financial sector in Iraq, covering
banking, insurance, capital markets and the central bank. It put forward a detailed action plan
with a time line, showing clearly the responsible entities (Annex 8). In addition, the growing
technical capacity of the Bank’s Iraqi counterparts supported the analytical effort. This
operation had also been underpinned by other World Bank work, such as the Iraq Emergency
Private Sector Development Project (US$65 million; FY05), which aimed to help Iraq
strengthen its institutional capacity and build essential communications infrastructure to help
foster the development of the private and financial sectors, and increase investment and
economic growth. The financial restructuring of the state-owned banks in Iraq benefited from
the Egypt Financial Sector Reform Development Policy Loan (DPL), as well as its program
documents and ICR, in terms of not moving with the pooling of NPLs of the two banks in a
"bad bank" model, but proceeding with the restructuring of each bank separately. However, it
is critical to note that the impact of the three Financial Sector Reform DPLs in Egypt,
amounting to US$ 1.5 billion cannot be compared with the outcomes of a grant, amounting to
US$ 10 million, and expectations of the latter needs to be fairly and realistically measured.
Assessment of the Operation’s Design
35.    The design of the operation was appropriate. The operation came as a response to the
request made by the Government of Iraq to the World Bank to support the implementation of
the Iraq Banking Reform Strategy—Action Plan (2008-2012). While relatively small, the

                                              10
project was designed to quickly support key priorities in the banking sector. The project,
which amounts to US$ 10 million, is provided through the Iraq Trust Fund (ITF) to finance
the costs and activities associated with the restructuring of the banking sector in Iraq.
Specifically, it supported the restructuring of the two state-owned banks (Rasheed Bank and
Rafidain Bank) and developed their activities in parallel with on-going efforts to strengthen
the banking sector’s regulatory and supervisory framework in line with international
standards. The Government of Iraq has requested that the project be financed from ITF. The
Second ISN for Iraq stipulated the use of OP/BP 8.50 for all ITF-funded projects. OP/BP 8.00
(Rapid Response to Crisis and Emergencies), issued March 2007, now replaces OP/BP 8.50.
The Banking Sector Reform Project was fully consistent with OP 8.00 criteria. It is worth
noting that the launch of the Iraq Financial Sector Report, with its comprehensive and
detailed Action Plan raised expectations regarding what could be achieved under the US $10
million project.
Relevance of Risks Identified
36.     The Emergency Project Paper (EPP) stated clearly that this project was subject to
substantial risks that could hinder the effective implementation of the Banking Reform
Strategy, and in turn, the execution of the Banking Sector Reform Project and the timely
disbursement of the grant. These risks included those resulting from security issues in Iraq,
operational governance, and political and security risks. Also, the overall operating
environment did not favor a strong implementation and procurement performance. In fact, an
attack targeting the CBI took place in June 2010 which caused damages to most of the office
equipment and construction works at CBI and the PMU. This led to an extension of the
Closing Date, as well as additional funding allocated to support the CBI in restoring its
business operations as quickly as possible. This funding was drawn from funds initially
allocated to Component IV of the Emergency Banking Sector Reform Project, which covered
all costs related to the management, monitoring and evaluation of the project.
2.2.   Implementation
37.     Monitoring of the implementation of the operation was done regularly, and provided
an important channel through which the World Bank team was able to continue to support
and advise the government on next steps. The program was jointly implemented by CBI,
BSA, the two state-owned commercial banks—Rafidain Bank and Rasheed Bank, and the
Banking ROC. Also, missions were equipped with high-level international experts. These
missions provided a continued policy dialogue and technical advice to the authorities. In
addition, the team was responsive to clients' needs and changes in the market, especially after
the attacks on CBI and PMU in June 2010. The team also shared their expertise with
authorities to mitigate unexpected implementation risks. Substantial progress was made
towards achieving the goals of the operation; however, there is clearly a long way to go given
the very difficult circumstances that exist in Iraq.
38.     Change in management: There were several changes in management and heads of
authorities during the lifetime of the operation, which had some implications on the reform
program. It is worth noting that the current Minister of Finance is committed to the reform
program, and is keen on moving forward with the restructuring of the state-owned banks. On
October 14, 2012, an Iraqi judiciary issued an arrest warrant against the former Governor of
CBI. At the same time more than a dozen other officials at the institution were being
investigated for misleading monetary policies, as well as alleged improprieties involving
capital requirements for local banks and foreign-currency auctions overseen by the central
bank. Subsequently, the Iraqi government appointed the head of the BSA, as the Governor of
CBI while maintaining his initial position at BSA, after the court ruling ordered the removal

                                              11
of the former Governor from his post to face the charges. The World Bank has received an
official letter, notifying management of this change, since the CBI is the implementing entity
of this project. The current Governor has put banking sector reform as his top priority. In that
context, he meets with all stakeholders on regular basis to address challenges hindering
reform implementation. The Iraqi authorities confirmed to the Bank team that concrete results
are expected to be achieved over the coming months. Thus, continuity in implementation of
the project was secured.
39.      There have also been changes at the Ministry of Finance. The Minister of Finance has
changed three times over the lifespan of the project. This has had its implications on the
operation, as the Ministry of Finance acts as the owner of the state-owned banks in Iraq and
hence, was in charge of implementing two key components, specifically the operational and
institutional, as well as, the financial restructuring of the two banks.
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation
40.      Throughout the lifetime of the operation, the Bank team was continuously engaged
with the Iraqi authorities. Although the team was not located in Iraq, and despite challenges
regarding having missions there in the field, the team made full use of video conferencing
facilities to communicate frequently with PMU and Iraqi officials. The team also met on
regular basis through supervision missions with the different stakeholders in Baghdad, as
well as in neighboring countries—depending on the security situation. The team worked
closely with resident donors in the field, such as the US Treasury, and the IMF. On the FM
front, a resident FMA closely monitored the PMU fiduciary performance, as mentioned in the
FM section in more detail.
41.     Monitoring indicators and targets have been agreed upon with the Iraqi authorities to
help in assessing progress made (Annex 3). Indicators measuring the performance of the
central bank, as well as that of the two state-owned banks and the effective implementation of
their operational, institutional, as well as financial restructuring, were revised over the longer
timespan of the project, as a result of the extension of the Closing Date. The baseline figures
for the monitoring indicators were for the year 2006, the same year of the financial statements
based on which the independent audit of the two state-owned banks was conducted by E&Y.
2.4    Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
42.     Environmental and Social Aspects. The project is rated as a category “C”. This
operation did not have significant effects on the country’s environment, forests and other
natural resources. There were no expected adverse social or environmental effects, since the
upgrading of the state-owned banks network was implemented on existing sites and made use
of existing buildings—as confirmed by the Iraq Telecommunications and Post Company
(ITPC).
43.     Financial Management. PMU performance is rated as satisfactory. The Project
implementation was managed by a PMU established at CBI and financed by the Grant. As
part of this PMU, a competent Financial Officer was hired on full time basis, from the early
stages of the Project. The Financial Officer has managed the Project’s financial management
and disbursement functions in a satisfactory manner without any major complications. From
a financial management point of view, establishing a PMU, financed fully by the Grant and
dedicated only for the Project implementation, has significantly contributed to the success of
Project’s implementation, including financial management.
44.    In 2010, the CBI was the victim of an attack that resulted in the destruction of most of
the PMU’s records and assets. As a result, all FM related documents were burned and
destroyed, including the accounting records, financial reports, assets register, all copies of
                                               12
withdrawal applications with the supporting documentation, bank statements, etc. In support
of the retrieval of these destroyed documents, the World Bank, in collaboration with the Loan
Department, provided the PMU with electronic copies of all withdrawal applications as well
as the attached supporting documents (invoices, contracts, summary sheets, bank statements,
etc.). The copies provided by the World Bank represent the majority of the lost documents.
45.      Furthermore, the attack resulted in the destruction of most of the PMU’s physical
assets, including office furniture, computers, printers, scanners, network, and other assets.
The Fiduciary Monitoring Agent (FMA) has visited CBI and confirmed the destruction of all
PMU’s assets. All destroyed assets were written off from the PMU records and the Grant
financed the cost of new assets. Due to these significant losses, the World Bank team and the
PMU agreed on specific mitigation measures for the risk of losing the Project’s data again in
the future, such as: i) performing regular backup of Project’s data on weekly basis using
external hard drives with very high capacity and kept offsite, ii) maintaining electronic copies
of all the Project’s hard documents, and keeping all documents in fire proof cabinets.
46.     The Interim Un-audited Financial Reports (IFRs) were prepared in accordance with
International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) and submitted in a timely manner.
The Project’s accounts were subject to annual audit performed by an international audit firm
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with acceptable Terms of Reference (TORs) to the
Bank. All audit reports have been regularly submitted to the Bank without delays. The auditor
issued unqualified “clean” opinions on all issued audited financial statements. The next and
last audit report will cover the period from January 1, 2013 until closing date June 30, 2013,
due by October 30, 2013.
47.      The FMA that was hired by the Bank for fiduciary purposes was effective. The FMA
staff visited the PMU two to three times per month on average to: (i) review the PMUs’ IFRs
and reconcile the PMUs records to the Bank records; (ii) monitor unclaimed expenditures;
(iii) verify disbursement plan updates; and (iv) provide on-the-job training in FM matters.
The FMA included the PMU-prepared IFRs in their quarterly reports, as well as the adjusted
IFRs (with their review comments and recommendations for the PMU IFRs). The FMA also
conducted, on a sample basis, pre-screening and post- review of withdrawal applications for
direct payments and reimbursements.
48.      At the beginning of the operation, all activities were financed through either direct
payment by the World Bank to consultants/suppliers or reimbursement of the CBI for
activities financed through its own budget. In 2010, the World Bank approved the opening of
a Designated Account (DA) to all Iraq Projects. A DA was opened for this Project and
managed by the PMU. This resulted in the acceleration of payments to consultants/suppliers
and the project’s overall disbursements. Also, the World Bank introduced the e-Disbursement
feature for all projects in all countries including Iraq. Under e-Disbursement, all transactions
are conducted, and associated supporting documents are scanned and transmitted online
through the World Bank’s Client Connection System. The Project used this e-Disbursement
function, which reduced the time and cost of sending WAs to the Bank, and expediting the
Bank’s processing of disbursement requests.
49.     Procurement Arrangements. The project was prepared under the OP. 8.0. Rapid
Response to Crises and Emergencies, and hence the Bank’s approach had been flexible in
terms of design to permit a quick response to a changing security environment. The operation
relied on a PMU with a small number of full-time Iraqi staff and consultants located in
Baghdad including a competent procurement officer. The PMU ensured smooth and effective
implementation of the project. The PMU received capacity building with the other Iraq PMTs


                                              13
in procurement, financial, disbursement, contract management, and anti-corruption to allow
implementing the project according to World Bank procedures.
50.     The legal frameworks governing public procurement in Iraq was one of the
procurement risks inherited to the following: (i) clear legal framework governing public
procurement in Iraq is lacking; the legal framework does not as a practical matter have a
procurement law. CPA Order 87, imposed by the transitional authority, is not generally
regarded as applicable and is for the most part ignored by practitioners leaving the system
without the pinnacle hierarchical legislative instrument found in a normal legal framework
for public procurement, (ii) standard bidding documentation not used by procurement
practitioners. Due to lack of clarity of the legal framework and absence of standard bidding
documents, a Master Implementation Manual (MIM) was prepared for all Bank-financed
projects in Iraq, which are in accordance with World Bank guidelines, to Iraqi officials. The
MIM provided practical tools for Bank-financed project preparation and implementation and
contained standard bidding documents for procurement, model forms of contract, general
conditions of contract and examples of special conditions of contract.
51.      Regarding the selection and recruitment of consultants, there were implementation
challenges in attracting good and qualified consultants (firms/individuals) as years of
conflicts and lack of security in the country led to: (i) weak capacity of local consultants;
(ii) lack of interest of international consultants to work in the country; and (iii) high fees for
consultants to cover the security cost broadly in line with those fees in conflict-affected
situation.
52.     The security situation in Iraq, the attack on the CBI and the destruction of all the
project’s records led to delays in implementation and extension of the Closing Date for the
project. The PMU relied on the archived copies of signed contracts, RFP and evaluation
reports to acquire new original signed documentations.
2.4    Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
53.     In terms of next steps, the World Bank is keen on supporting the financial sector
reforms in Iraq, provided there is serious commitment from the authorities’ side at the highest
political level, to the implementation of the Action Plan agreed upon earlier as part of the
2011 Iraq Financial Sector Review Report (Annex 8). The Bank would be pleased to provide
the required assistance, and continue the policy dialogue with the Iraqi authorities about
possible future support to this important sector. In due course, an assessment of the Iraqi
system for banking supervision on the basis of the Basel Core Principles for effective banking
supervision would be necessary, to establish an agenda for further reforms and to inform
foreign jurisdictions about the quality of Iraqi banking supervision, relative to other
jurisdictions. This will be needed as Iraq expands its relations with the global financial
community, as well as to increase the domestic population’s trust in the Iraqi banking system.
While a self-assessment of compliance with the BCP had been recommended in the context
of the project, no evidence was found of it having been performed. Also, the Iraqi authorities
need to firmly address the issue of directed lending (more elaboration mentioned below) that
state-owned banks are involved in.
3.     Assessment of Outcomes
3.1.   Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
54.      The main objective of the operation, as previously mentioned, was to strengthen the
supervisory framework for financial intermediation and build the capacity of financial
institutions to support the implementation of Phase I of the Iraq Banking Reform Strategy.
The objectives continued to be relevant at ICR preparation as follows. Sustainability of the
                                               14
reform program is critical; the Government needs to proceed with Phase II, and to implement
the recommendations of the 2011 sector review. While progress has been made in reforming
the two key state-owned commercial banks, and the setting of the new organizational
structure, new Boards of Directors will need to be appointed to improve its governance and
accountability. Further strengthening of the banking supervision continues to be an important
element in a broader financial sector strategy.
55.     The design of the operation was highly aligned with the country’s priorities and
World Bank strategies. It was designed in a participatory way through frequent meetings and
workshops with all key stakeholders and technical counterparts from the government, state-
owned financial enterprises, private sector, academia, Parliament, and regulatory bodies,
which ensured ownership and commitment. However, the title of the project may have raised
expectations that a US $10 million grant would achieve more. These expectations were raised
further following the launch of the comprehensive Financial Sector Review, which went
beyond CBI and the two state-owned banks, and led to the misperception that the action plan
it developed would be implemented under this operation, although it was prepared after the
project. Beyond the PDOs of the current project, for the balanced and sound growth of the
banking sector, implementation of the recommendations in the action plan in the Bank’s 2011
Financial Sector Review is of key importance.
3.2.   Achievement of Program Development Objectives
Achievement of Program Development Objectives is considered moderately satisfactory
56.     The project has seen success in meeting program development objectives, as outlined
in the different sections of this ICR. This has been evident in progress regarding addressing
the balance sheet problems of the state owned banks, and adoption of new organizational
structures. In addition, new departments were established at the two banks, namely Risk
Management and HR Departments. Also, training of staff of CBI, as well as Rafidain Bank
and Rasheed Bank has been progressing well, with 682 staff trained. Moreover the level of
provisions against NPLs in the two banks has approached 20 percent, according to the
financial statements of the two institutions. By the second year of the project, lending to the
private sector-to-GDP had already increased from 4 percent to 6 percent—a 50 percent
increase. The current level of lending to the private sector stands at approximately 9 percent,
which is an important achievement.
57.     Based on reports from the CBI, capital adequacy ratios of the two banks had already
risen during the second year of the project, from a nearly zero level, to 4 percent in 2012 of
risk weighted assets. Nevertheless, for the future, and under evolving international standards,
in particular Basel III, bank capital adequacy will need to increase to 11-12 percent of risk
weighted assets, and a minimum ratio of core capital-to-total assets will need to be at least
three percent. Significant additional effort therefore needs to be undertaken to raise the level
of capitalization to internationally acceptable levels. Stronger capitalization is especially
necessary to be able to increase lending to the private sector. Only then will the Iraqi banking
sector be able to fully perform its function in the intermediation system of a growing
economy.
58.     However, the cleaning up process of the state-owned banks is never fully complete
with the existence of an issue such as directed lending (more elaboration below). Under
political and social pressures, state-owned banks are required to finance national mega
projects such as those of low-income housing. At times, as a result of workers’
demonstrations, state-owned banks are required to pay staff salaries of non-performing state-
owned enterprises. Also, there still exists a culture of resistance to change among a number of

                                              15
government officials due to conflict of interest issues, especially regarding the settlements of
NPLs. Hence, the “moderately satisfactory” rating.
3.3.   Efficiency
59.      The project contributed to improving the performance of the banking sector, by
improving the capacity of staff at Rafidain Bank and Rasheed Bank, who are currently able to
better handle basic banking transactions using computers. Also, loan officers’ capacity to
assess risks was improved—reflected in an increase in loan-to-GDP ratio. As mentioned
earlier in more detail, the adoption of the new organizational structures has paved the way for
the establishment of risk management units. The project has also enhanced the supervisory
capacity of CBI.
60.    All this was achieved at minimal costs, in an efficient manner, as most capacity
building activities were conducted outside Iraq. Due to the security situation, it is extremely
expensive to hold capacity building activities in the field. Also, due to limitations on number
of Bank staff joining the missions, as well as limitations regarding time spent in Red Zone in
Baghdad, and major costs related to security and safety; most missions were held outside
Baghdad, where all stakeholders met and there were more opportunities for lengthy debates
and policy discussions. This is a common practice in fragile countries where the Bank
operates.
61.     On fiduciary aspects, the project's financial management (FM) arrangements were
consistently found to be “Satisfactory". The Project implementation was managed by a PMU
established at CBI and financed by the Grant. As part of this PMU, a competent Financial
Officer was hired, on full time basis, from the early stages of the Project. The Financial
Officer has managed the Project’s financial management and disbursement functions in a
satisfactory manner without any major complications. From a financial management point of
view, establishing a PMU, financed fully by the Grant and dedicated only for the Project
implementation, has significantly contributed to the success of the Project’s implementation,
including financial management. More details in the financial management section above.
3.4    Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
62.      The overall outcome rating for the operation is “moderately satisfactory” based on
meeting its key development objectives, in making all the achievements listed in Section 3.2,
and more broadly avoiding a systemic financial crisis—although force majeure events took
place. One of the primary achievements was to bring together all stakeholders–CBI (the
supervisor and regulator), the Ministry of Finance (the owner of the state-owned banks); the
two state-owned banks—Rashid Bank and Rafidain Bank, and the BSA (the auditor of state
institutions) to reach consensus on the size of the external debt and NPLs of the state-owned
banks. In addition to the financial restructuring, the two banks went through operational and
institutional restructuring. A new organizational structure was put in place. An HR system
that is more performance based is being implemented. Clear TORs were drafted for better
governance and accountability. The project provided capacity building to the CBI to enhance
its supervisory architecture, specifically support was provided in reviewing the existing
banking supervision process, assessing effectiveness of its supervisory apparatus and its
adherence to international codes and standards, in addition to addressing any deficient gaps
and needs. For the first time, Risk Management Departments were established and staff was
trained to undertake the required duties.



                                              16
3.6.   Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
Poverty Impacts and Social Development
63.      It is key to the further development of the Iraqi system for financial intermediation
that the banking system constitutes a larger part of GDP than is currently the case. A well-
developed banking system is critical to the growth of other sectors of the economy, and to
poverty reduction. The financial sector can also contribute directly to GDP growth as a
source of high value employment, and the development of high level expertise. Reliable and
sufficiently large commercial banks can help open up Iraq to foreign investment, especially
outside the oil sector. It is essential for the confidence in the financial system and for the
proper allocation of savings to the most productive areas, that loans are allocated only on
strictly commercial and economic grounds, based on robust risk assessment rather than on
political or personal network considerations.
Institutional Change/Strengthening
64.    The two-state owned banks witnessed major organizational and restructuring reforms.
HR, Risk Management and IT departments were established, which helped in improving the
HR process, where the staff had clear TORs, in addition to a clear system for salary increases.
The two state-owned banks’ Risk Management department assists in conducting both credit
and non-credit risk management. Moreover, the IT department infrastructure helped staff to
perform their tasks more efficiently and productively.
65.     The effectiveness of the CBI’s enforcement actions with regard to the privately held
commercial banks has improved. It remains necessary, however, that the large state-owned
banks also be brought under the full rigor of CBI supervision. While CBI effectiveness has
increased, this applies only to the small banks, while the largest part of the system has not felt
this higher degree of effectiveness. This will not be achieved without explicit empowerment
of the CBI to use the full extent of its powers, based on rigorous application of the CBI’s
prudential standards and, as needed, use of its corrective action tools.
3.7.   Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
66.     Throughout the lifespan of the project, several consultations took place with all
relevant stakeholders. During the stakeholder workshop held in Istanbul in 2011, broad
agreement was reached with Iraqi officials, including the Minister of Finance and the
Governor of the CBI, on a comprehensive and ambitious set of recommendations, comprised
in an action plan covering a wide range of areas necessary to the development of a robust and
reliable financial system. The action plan laid out concise, clear objectives, differentiated
between short term and medium term tasks, and specified which Iraqi authority would be
responsible for implementation. Areas included in the action plan are macroeconomic policy,
banking and Islamic banking, capital markets, banking supervision and regulatory framework
including anti-money-laundering, financial infrastructure. It is crucial that the authorities
continue the implementation of this action plan.
67.     For development of the financial sector, but also the real sector, it is particularly
important that rapid progress is made in adopting a revised financial reporting system for
banks and all other companies above a certain minimum size, based on international financial
reporting standards (IFRS) and International Accounting Standards (IAS). This will have a
strongly positive impact on confidence of domestic, as well as foreign trading partners, and
will provide a better basis for sound risk assessment by banks. In the banking area, it will also
help provide more reliable and internationally comparable financial data, and lay the basis for
improved prudential reporting by banks to the CBI, and for financial policy making in
general. Without this, developing strong financial connections outside Iraq will prove to be
                                               17
very challenging.
4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
       Rating: Substantial
68.      As mentioned earlier, at the time of appraisal, the Emergency Project Paper (EPP)
stated clearly that this project is subject to substantial risks that could hinder the effective
implementation of the Banking Reform Strategy, and in turn the execution of the Banking
Sector Reform Project and the timely disbursement of the grant. These risks included those
emanating from security issues in Iraq, operational governance, and political and security
risks. Also, the overall operating environment is not conducive to smooth implementation and
procurement performance. In fact, an attack that took place in June 2010 on the CBI affected
most of the office equipment and construction works at CBI and the PMU, which caused an
extension of the Closing Date, as well as additional funding allocated to support the CBI in
restoring its business operations as quickly as possible. This funding was drawn from funds
initially allocated to Component IV of the Emergency Banking Sector Reform Project, which
covers all costs related to the management, monitoring and evaluation of the project. Also, a
major unforeseen risk that slowed down the reform program was the change in management
of CBI (both Governor and Deputy Governors) in addition to Head of the Supervision
Department—the main counterpart of the project, and the change in the Ministers of Finance,
as well as, the recent appointment of the head of BSA as the Acting Governor of CBI.
5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1.   Bank Performance
Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
       Rating: Satisfactory
69.     Bank performance at entry is rated as satisfactory, as the project team paid particular
attention to ensuring high quality at entry for this operation, and has also conducted sound
preparatory work, strong policy dialogue with government counterparts and solid analytical
work, and the independent audit (E&Y) that underpinned the design of the project. The Bank
team also had a high level of consultation with stakeholders and with market participants that
helped with the design of this operation. Prior to negotiation, the World Bank held a
consultation workshop in 2008, chaired by the Governor of CBI and Deputy Minister of
Finance, attended by the two banks and the BSA, to discuss and agree on all project
components, commitments and ownership. The Bank team was keen on close coordination
with the donors and development partners (IMF and US Treasury), which ensured synergy
that helped the authorities build the necessary capacity to implement the project.
70.      The project design and preparation benefitted from triggering OP 8.00, especially in
terms of financial management and procurement. Regarding financial management, the
project has benefitted from simplified fiduciary arrangements with more reliance on post
requirements as additional fiduciary controls, such as, and not limited to: (i) 100 percent
financing; (ii) using excel sheets for capturing financial transactions and generating the
quarterly financial reports; (iii) extensive use of direct payment and reimbursement
disbursement methods; (iv) PIM based on a previously prepared MIM; (v) hiring a fiduciary
monitoring agent, performing pre-screening and post review of withdrawal applications and
site visits; and (vi) procuring a regional private independent audit firm with expanded scope.
71.    Regarding procurement, the project has benefitted from the OP 8.0 facility in
preparation activities, such as preparing TORs, short lists, recruiting, and management of
PMU staff. Also, it was used to facilitate the bank's rapid response using simplified

                                              18
procurement processes and clearances using simplified arrangements by using the MIM
standard documents. Moreover, this facility helped in preparing rapid capacity assessments
during project preparation.
Quality of Supervision
       Rating: Satisfactory
72.     Bank supervisory performance is rated as satisfactory. The supervision missions have
gone beyond the regular oversight of the project implementation. Despite the security
situation and change in the main counterparts at CBI, the World Bank managed to
successfully supervise and disbursed fully. An integral part of this project was the
establishment of a PMU at CBI, which supported and monitored the day-to-day activities
under the operation. The Bank team provided guidance and support to the PMU on means of
following the Bank guidelines and rules in Procurement and FM, which ensured smooth
implementation and full disbursement of the project. This arrangement allowed for regular
supervision from the field, and adequate monitoring. A resident internal advisor was also
appointed at CBI for six months to undertake the needs assessment of the supervision
department. At the two state-owned banks, four international experts were resident, two in
each bank to undertake the assessment, as well as the execution of the new organization
structure, allocation of staff and compliance. All this on-the-ground support was
accompanied by periodic supervision by the World Bank, where Joint US Treasury and IMF
missions were held in Baghdad and outside, depending on the security situation.
73.     The Bank also provided advisory services and guidance to the government on how to
deal with the unforeseen risks associated with the unexpected attacks on CBI and PMU and
how to set about improving supervision. Monitoring of the implementation of the operation
was performed regularly from the field, in addition to conducting missions comprising high
level international experts. These missions provided sound and timely technical advice to the
authorities. Therefore, the supervision provided a crucial channel through which the World
Bank team was able to continue to support and advise the government on the next steps.
Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
       Rating: Satisfactory
74.      The rating of satisfactory is based on the following considerations: (i) the project was
very well designed, its PDO was in line with the country’s and the Bank’s priorities, the
intermediate indicators were relevant and, helped focus the supervision; (ii) the Bank was
aware of the challenges involved in addressing the restructuring of major financial
institutions, so it adopted a flexible results based framework and a risk mitigating strategy, in
consultation with the authorities, who remained committed to the implementation of the
reforms despite the attendant high political risks; (iii) from identification to closing, the team
was extensively involved in a policy dialogue with the authorities and independent
counterparts, collaborating to ensure that strengthening the enabling environment for
financial intermediation, resource mobilization and risk management, and increasing the
private sector role and participation in the provision of financial services, would be achieved;
and (iv) the project team and the country office developed a high level of cooperation that
played a key role in the success of the operation.
75.     Improvements in monitoring indicators (Annex 3) of the project provide sufficient
justification of the rating (for instance, capital adequacy ratios reached 4 percent, from a
baseline of zero). Also, the team was responsive to client’s needs when a needs assessment
for the Banking Supervision Department at CBI was conducted in compliance with Basel
Core Principles, based on which capacity building and training of CBI staff has started since
                                               19
October 2010. Loan officers’ capacity to assess credit risks was developed, and this was
reflected in the increase in loan-to-GDP from 4 percent baseline in 2006 to 9 percent in 2012.
The project also pushed for the RTGS to be operationalized, as evident in the increase in
number of subscribers from 16 banks to reach 44—a reflection of the enhanced access to
financial services. In an attempt to improve governance and enhance transparency, the project
helped the CBI to develop its website. In addition, the project contributed in developing the
regulatory framework for Islamic Finance, enhancing the supervisory and regulatory
environment for Sharia compliant financial products.
5.2.   Borrower Performance
Government Performance
       Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
76.     From the design to implementation stage, the government was in the “driver seat” of
seeking advice from the Bank where needed to implement its strategic reform agenda. The
authorities remained focused on the success of the financial development objective as they
recognized its important contribution to economic growth and improving living standards. In
this context, the Government took the initiative to seek support from other donors according
to their respective comparative advantage, and was keen on ensuring good coordination
between the various partners. The Bank was requested to play a lead role with the
development partners, and succeeded in getting the best out of each donor’s support and
avoided duplication of efforts or inefficient utilization of resources that comes from unclear
donors mandate and overlap. The donors coordinating committee, chaired by the Bank, also
helped the Government address key financial sector issues on a timely and priority basis.
However, with the change in management of CBI and the change of the Minister of Finance
several times—the project’s main counterparts—the pace of reforms in the financial sector
has slowed down and varied.
77.      It is worth noting that Iraq was in isolation from the international arena for many
years, which has negatively affected Iraqi authorities and institutions, and has led to lack of
capacity and knowledge among government officials. This was among the main reasons that
led, at times, to a lack of political commitment at the highest levels. In addition, conflict of
interest issues were another obstacle that created resistance to reforms—especially those
related to NPL reform and financial restructuring. Although progress has been made
regarding financial restructuring, directed lending is still present especially during times of
election. Under political and social pressures, state-owned banks are required to finance
national mega projects such as those of low-income housing. At times, as a result of workers’
demonstrations, state-owned banks are required to pay staff salaries of non-performing state-
owned enterprises.
Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
       Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
78.     The CBI performance varied over the life span of the project, putting the overall
rating at moderately satisfactory. During the initial stages of the project, CBI cooperation
during the missions was very good. However, the change in management disrupted
implementation at some stage, and then later picked up. Also, the external factors, such as
bombing of the premises did also contribute in delaying implementation of the project at its
early stage. Implementations were delayed in some cases despite the commitment of CBI and
the banks, in cases such as setting external debts which required approval at higher levels.

                                              20
The ROC did not meet on regular basis, which also impeded the endorsement of some of the
reforms, taking a longer time to endorse the organizational structure.
       Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
79.      The rating of moderately satisfactory is justified by the following. Although the
authorities’ stated commitment to the reform program remained even with the change in
management in CBI—the main counterpart, an up to date assessment of full achievement of
the PDOs remained challenging. From the side of the two state owned banks, staff were
selected for training, and sent to attend courses on banking and banking supervision. The two
institutions cooperated with the efforts to clean up their balance sheets and to implement
financial and operational restructuring. However, it has proved very difficult to assess the
actual effectiveness of the programs, due to lack of access to the institutions, made difficult
also by the severe logistical challenges of working in Iraq.
6.     Lessons Learned
80.     Strong analytic underpinning and building on other operations. A number of World
Bank operations in Iraq and other fragile states and crisis countries created a credible
blueprint for the design of this project. An example is the choice to have a PMU rather than
PMT to ensure effective management, and adequate compliance with Bank's guidelines. In
other ITF projects, where there was a PMT, the standard government remuneration has often
been cited as insufficient for the type and amount of work done, and has been a disincentive
to do more for Bank projects. In fact the project was subject to INT investigation and was
cleared.
81.     Consultations with stakeholders. Reforms have been undertaken after a process of
close and continuous consultation with all stakeholders, which is critical for building
consensus. Politically sensitive issues, such as settling external debt, require commitment at
the highest political level.
82.    Effective cooperation with development practices. The Bank team worked in
partnership with a number of donors and development partners, such as the US Treasury, and
the IMF. The respective responsibilities of the different donors and development partners
were clearly defined, which ensured good coordination, and leveraging in pushing reforms.
83.     Strong and sustained partnership. Initially, the close working relationship with the
Iraqi authorities and implementing entities demonstrated that significant reforms were
implemented, backed by a strong leadership and political commitment. Reliable and
comprehensive data are still not available to the extent necessary for a well based plan for
further economic, banking and financial development in Iraq. It is key that on the Iraqi side,
there be more opportunity to work at a more technical level with Iraqi officials, to be able to
assess the real progress made, and to provide more immediate technical assistance. Political
will to make key decisions is crucial in bringing financial sector reform forward.
84.     Difficulties in finding international experts to travel to Baghdad because of the
security situation and in identifying appropriate external experts willing to undertake work in
Iraq.
85.     Productive and effective supervision missions. The security situation and,
consequently, the limited ability to hold conventional field visits and supervision missions,
highlighted the importance of a combination of on-site and off-site missions for operations in
conflict countries. On the one hand, more team members were able to participate in missions
that were held outside Baghdad and allowed for full day discussion with all stakeholders on
one table to reach consensus and closure on key issues. On the other hand, on-site missions

                                              21
had the added benefit of more interaction and undertaking assessment on the ground of the
banks, and dialogue with stakeholders, such as the Parliamentarians that can influence
reforms.
7.     Comments on Issues Raised by the Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
86.    The government and the implementing entity, the CBI, were appreciative of the
support provided by the World Bank. The authorities rated the World Bank's performance
during the operation as overall highly satisfactory as indicated in Annex 6. The operation
witnessed close coordination and communication with the implementing entity and the
relevant officials, and they acknowledged that the day-to-day support as well as close
supervision of the operation from the field has helped in ensuring successful delivery. The
government’s request for potential financing is not only for the funding, but also for the
technical assistance and advisory services packaged with the loan.
87.    Moreover, various donors, development partners, and international institutions have
been providing support for the implementation of the government’s overall financial sector
reform program through the provision of technical assistance, and analytical work on
reforming and restructuring the financial sector in Iraq. This required effective coordination,
which the Bank took leadership in. This cooperation led to mutual design and agreement of
conditionality issues that all donors agreed were essential for financial sector reform. In
addition, donors were able to do a much better job of leveraging resources, both loan and
technical assistance, when coordination is effective. The most effective and successful
coordination was with the US Treasury and IMF which provided tremendous support to
enhancing the financial sector in Iraq.




                                              22
                                                Annex 1
                                          Costs and Financing
   (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                                     Actual/Latest
                                              Appraisal Estimate                          Percentage of
              Components                                             Estimate (USD
                                               (USD millions)                              Appraisal
                                                                        millions)
Institutional and Operational Restructuring          5.00                 4.32                86%
of the two State-owned Commercial Banks
Financial Restructuring of the Two State-            1.00                 1.92               192%
owned Commercial Banks
Strengthening the Regulatory and                     2.75                 2.18                80%
Supervisory Functions of CBI
The establishment of PMU                             0.75                 0.97               129%
Unallocated                                          0.50                 0.00                0%
                    Total Baseline Costs             10.00                9.39               93.9%
Physical Contingencies
                                                     0.00                 0.00                0.00
Price Contingencies
                                                     0.00                 0.00                0.00
                    Total Project Costs              10.00                9.39
Project Preparation Costs                            0.68                 0.67                99%
                                                     0.00                 0.00                0.00
             Total Financing Required                0.00                 0.00                0.00


   (b) Financing
                                                                 Appraisal    Actual/Latest
                                                   Type of        Estimate       Estimate   Percentage of
              Source of Funds
                                                 Cofinancing       (USD            (USD      Appraisal
                                                                  millions)      millions)
Iraq Reconstruction Trust Fund                  NA             10.00          9.39             93.9%




                                                        23
                                     Annex 2
                               Outputs by Component
Component I: Institutional and Operational Restructuring of the Two State-owned
Commercial Banks
Under institutional and operational restructuring, the project aimed at providing capacity
building and training to the two state-owned banks staff—Rasheed Bank and Rafidain Bank,
including: (i) reorganizing the organizational structure and implementing the changes;
(ii) improving HR processes; (iii) conducting risk management, both credit and non-credit risk
management; and (iv) IT infrastructure, covering all operational aspects, security system of
information and management of information systems. Under this capacity building program,
243 staff were from Rafidain Bank and 240 were from Rasheed Bank. As a result of such
capacity building, banks’ branch staff were able to handle basic deposit-taking transactions,
using computers, which helped in developing the client base. Loan officers’ capacity to assess
credit risks was developed, and this was reflected in the increase in private credit-to-GDP.
This training was deemed critical to ensure that the basic staff can handle deposits and start
making sound loans, thereby attracting depositors and beginning to finance private sector
growth. This component has been fully completed, and achievements are as follows:

Development of new organizational structures of the state-owned banks. This has been
delivered despite delays, in part because of difficulties in identifying appropriate external
experts willing to undertake work in Iraq. After the fielding of two international experts at the
banks in the first half of 2011, progress accelerated. After intensive consultations with
stakeholders, the experts drew up recommendations for the organizational and operational
restructuring specific to each of the two banks, aiming at improving their governance
structure, and their overall performance. These plans were considered at a workshop in July
2011 with the participation of relevant stakeholders (Ministry of Finance, CBI, BSA, and the
two state-owned commercial banks). The Banking ROC endorsed the structures in April 2012.
A crucial step, moving forward, will be the selection of new Boards of Directors to carry
through the implementation of the action plan.

Capacity building for banks’ staff in conducting risk management, both credit and non-
credit risk management. As an outcome of implementing the new organizational structures,
risk management units have been established in both banks. As a result, a risk control
department was set up, the risk management units were adequately managed and completely
staffed, and manuals for risk management were developed. This also entailed amendments to
existing credit approval procedures on the basis of accepted best practices; improved
measuring and monitoring capabilities that enabled the banks to produce comprehensive and
accurate reports on a bank-wide basis, including the ability to identify “single obligors” and
aggregate such exposures; and training in human resource management. Under this
component, representatives from BSA, Rafidain Bank, and Rasheed Bank have received
training at the Egyptian Banking Institute (EBI) on risk management, Letter of Credit, finance
and accounting, and internal audit.

Capacity building for improving human resource management. A human resource
management system has been put in place in both banks to meet current and future human
resource requirements. In that context, the required training for improving HR processes was
completed in July 2011 for 20 people from both state-owned commercial banks. The
following issues were addressed: (i) the banks’ immediate needs for building critical skills
                                              24
and efficiently deploying the work force to staff its new organization, and support the
execution of its strategy and business plan; and (ii) the banks’ medium-term needs for
developing and managing its human resources. This system consisted of: (i) a training needs
analysis; (ii) a training and development master plan; (iii) a performance appraisal system;
and (iv) a staffing program which entailed effective matching of people to jobs in the revised
organization structure.

Capacity building for IT training. This covered capacity building and on-the-job training on
all operational aspects, security system of information and management of information
systems. This training was completed for ten professional programs during the period May
15–August 10, 2011, for 98 trainees from the two state-owned commercial banks. The overall
number of staff trained in the two state-owned banks has exceeded the project end target of
200.

Component II: Financial Restructuring of the Two State-owned Commercial Banks

Financial restructuring helps state-owned banks to restore their ability to comply with
minimum capital adequacy and other prudential requirements of CBI, and to restore their full
credibility with their business counterparts—the Ministry of Finance (being the owner of the
state-owned banks) played a leading role in achieving this. Accordingly, the project focused
on capacity building and training in the following areas: (i) finance and accounting—
restructuring the balance sheets of these two banks and developing the accounting systems;
and (ii) internal audit and compliance, focusing on the process, audit framework,
methodology, and effectiveness of internal audit. The project supported in organizing
workshops and provided technical assistance on the best means of addressing the problem of
NPLs by sharing the experience of other developing and developed countries in cleaning up
the balance sheets of their state-owned banks, and also guided the Iraqi authorities in choosing
the most suitable approach to the Iraqi circumstances.

In addition, the project ensured that the new accounting systems lead to balance sheets that
reflect net asset values and the banks' financial position, through capacity building in the area
of finance, accounting, internal audit and compliance. The financial restructuring process
aimed at entailing two steps:(i) the government’s cleaning up of the institutions’ foreign
liabilities (taking over the borrowings made at the behests of the former government), and the
State-owned enterprises (SOE’s) NPLs; (ii) meeting the needed regulatory capital
requirements. A major development was the decisions made by the Banking ROC on April 8,
2012 regarding the settlement of the remaining NPLs, and the endorsement of the overall
financial restructuring of Rasheed Bank and Rafidain Bank.

Cleaning the balance sheets of the two state-owned commercial banks. The authorities have
decided not to use a “good bank-bad bank” approach but instead move off-balance sheet those
items that cannot be reconciled quickly and written off. As of November 2012, the external
debt for Rasheed Bank was US$ 1.13 billion, of which US$ 356 million were settled by the
Ministry of Finance. Rafidain Bank’s external debt reached US$ 17.75 billion, of which
US$ 12.85 billion were settled by the Ministry of Finance.

There has been an improved portfolio quality of the two state-owned commercial banks,
evident in the reserves-to-NPLs ratios, rising from 10 percent in June 2006 to 20 percent in
June 2013. Technical assistance and advisory services provided have contributed to: (i) the
                                               25
settlement of US$ 356 million of Rasheed Bank’s external debt during the reform program by
the Ministry of Finance of the US$ 1.13 billion; and (ii) the settlement of US$ 12.85 billion of
Rafidain Bank’s external debt by the Ministry of Finance over the same period to reach
US$ 17.75 billion. Decision was also made by the Government to eliminate errors associated
with foreign exchange revaluation losses. As a result, the balance sheet of Rafidain Bank has
shrunk to ID 64 trillion at the end of 2012 (based on unaudited numbers).

Restructuring of internal audit and compliance units at Rasheed Bank and Rafidain Bank,
state-owned commercial banks. Restructuring of internal audit and compliance units at
Rasheed Bank and Rafidain Bank, state-owned commercial banks were also one of the main
achievements of the project, with the objective of improving the effectiveness of the internal
audit function for the purpose of strengthening internal control environment at both banks, as
well as enhancing compliance with rules, laws and regulations. Under the project the
following was completed: (i) organizational structure for the internal audit and compliance
units; (ii) charters for the audit committee and internal audit function; (iii) assessment report
of the current internal audit function and gaps from the Internal Audit Standards; (iv) internal
audit policies and procedures; and (v) risk assessment and proposed audit plan.

Setting up new and modern accounting systems. New and modern accounting systems have
been set up. Consulting services on the revision of the accounting rules by Pricewaterhouse
Coopers (PwC) has been fully completed, and a workshop has been held in that context in
July 2012. The two banks took actions on implementing the recommendations on
restructuring the internal audit and compliance units as per the above mentioned deliverables,
including (i) selecting a new structure (functional) that needs Ministry of Finance approval
prior to application; (ii) starting to apply the new internal audit policies and procedures, (iii)
approving the Charters for the audit Committee and internal audit function, approving the risk
assessment and perform internal auditing using the new developed audit plan, and (iv)
approving the proposed performance indicators but currently could not be implemented due to
the lack of core banking system at both banks. The consultancy firm performed with 10 staff
from each bank pilot audit on two operations (credit and current accounts) using the new audit
development plan. However, the two banks need to have in place a plan to bridge the gaps
between the internal audit standards currently applied by the internal audit units and the
international internal audit standards issued by the Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA),
including applying fully standards 1000 through 1300, and 2000 through 2600.

The consultancy firm submitted a report on May 25, 2012 charting the way forward for
internal audit and compliance functions in the two banks laying down the results of Gap
Analysis, recommending the most appropriate organizational structure for internal audit and
compliance units at the two banks and implementation guidelines for applying International
standards and best practices. Also, the consultancy firm provided a two-day workshop (two
days for each state-owned bank) inside Iraq in May 2012. The main objective of the workshop
was to discuss the preliminary structure, mandate and strategy, required staffing, roles, and
required qualifications, as well as the inter-linkages between different units.

Component III: Strengthening the Regulatory and Supervisory Functions of the CBI

The project provided capacity building to CBI to enhance its supervisory and regulatory
authorities—mainly, reviewing the existing banking supervision process, assessing the
effectiveness of its supervisory apparatus to the adherence to international codes and
                                               26
standards, and preparing a detailed action plan to address any deficient gaps and needs in
coordination with the IMF. Capacity building and training of 191 staff of the supervision
department at CBI included setting up the underpinnings of a strengthened regulatory and
supervisory framework, focusing on on-site and off-site processes. CBI worked on
implementing corrective actions required to close the gap between existing practices at CBI
and international accepted best practices. Also, it focused on developing and implementing
appropriate supervisory tools and methodologies. Given that the BSA will continue to play a
key role in auditing and fiduciary oversight of the two state-owned commercial banks, the
project also provided support to 25 BSA staff on its auditing role over banks. The project has
also hired an international resident expert at CBI to continue the work on restructuring the
banking supervision department. He stayed for four months at CBI.

Capacity building on enhancing supervisory and regulatory functions. In that context,
capacity building of staff from the CBI and BSA, have participated in courses, focusing on
interpretation and application of the new prudential standards. It is also worth noting that CBI
has signed a one-year contract with E&Y for capacity building and on-the-job training for
CBI staff, Rafidain Bank’s staff, and Rasheed Bank’s staff on banking regulations and
international standards.

XBRL. Training of 9 staff in the use of XBRL, a data management software, provided
significant benefits to the off-site analysis of the banks and the banking sector. This training
has been completed in April 2012.

Legislative issues. A new regulation on Islamic banking had been promulgated in 2012. The
budget law had required that some legal basis be provided for supervision of Islamic banks.
Under this project, a study tour has already been conducted to Malaysia in the context of
South-South Cooperation.

Monitoring indicators. Iraqi authorities have made good progress in meeting the project's
objectives, as evident in achievement of various monitoring indicators stipulated in the
Emergency Project Paper, namely the rise in the reserves-to-NPLs ratios from 10 percent in
June 2006 to 20 percent; the capital adequacy ratio has increased from zero to 4 percent,
already meeting the project end target value of 4 percent; rise on loan-to-GDP ratio from 4
percent to 9 percent during the same period, exceeding the project end target of 6.2 percent.

Also, a needs-assessment for the Banking Supervision Department of CBI has been conducted,
based on achieving a higher level of compliance with Basel Core Principles in due course.
After completion of the current project, this needs assessment can form a robust basis for
further capacity building and training of CBI staff.

Component IV: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation

This component of the project covered all costs related to the management, monitoring and
evaluation of the project. The PMU has been adequately staffed, and well equipped to
perform its mandate to support the Iraqi authorities in implementing their banking reform
program. Staff hired were qualified and capable of effectively managing the project and
ensuring compliance with Bank’s rules and guidelines (in terms of procurement and FM
arrangements). Workshops were held to train PMU staff on procurement and FM issues, along
with supervision missions to ensure all fiduciary requirements are met.
                                              27
The PMU was staffed with four key positions consisting of the PMU Director, FM Officer,
Procurement Officer and Program Assistant. It was responsible for the day to day
implementation of the Project such as Project management responsibilities for procurement,
financial management, disbursement and reporting activities under the Project. The PMU also
acted as the Technical Secretariat of the Executive Steering Committee, which is chaired by
CBI Deputy Governor. The PMU staff salaries and operating costs were financed from the
proceeds of the Grant and its office was located within the CBI. The Bank worked closely
with the PMU to help it build capacity to implement the Project in accordance with Bank's
guidelines and procedures. In addition, the Bank's Baghdad-based Fiduciary Monitoring
Agent, Etiman Consulting, was monitoring the project's implementation, procurement and FM
performance and overall compliance with the required WB guidelines.




                                            28
                                                                          Annex 3
                                                   Monitoring Indicators, Baseline, and Expected Outcomes

                               Baseline
                             (June 2006)                                                                                             Frequency       Data Collection     Responsibility for
    Results indicators                       July 2009/2010           July 2010/2011         July 2011/2012        July 2012/2013
                                                                                                                                    and Reports       Instrument          Data Collection
                               percent
PDO                                        Projected       Actual   Projected     Actual   Projected      Actual       Actual
Development of new                               Plans for          New organizational
                                                                                              organizational       organizational
organizational structures                  development of new       structures approved                                                                CBI Annual
                               None                                                             structures           structures       Annually                                  CBI
for the two state-owned                        organizational          and adopted by                                                                    Report
                                                                                                 adopted              adopted
banks                                      structures completed         October 2010
Number of staff trained to
do bank operation
                                 0                     0                     12                     490                 682         Semi-annually         PMU                  PMU
(both banks)

                                                                                                                                                         Financial
State-own commercial                                                                                                                                 statements of the
                                                                                                                    Reserves-to-
bank’s improved their                                                Reserves-to-NPLs       Reserves-to-NPLs                                         two state-owned
                                                                                                                    NPLs ratios       Annually                                  CBI
capital adequacy ratio                                              ratios reaching 10%    ratios reaching 15%                                        banks (Rasheed
                                                                                                                   reaching 20%
(reserves-to-NPLs ratios)                                                                                                                           Bank and Rafidain
                                                                                                                                                          Bank)
Components

Loan-to-GDP ratio
                                4%          4.9%           4.2%       5%          5.6%      5.5%          6.0%          9%            Annually         CBI reports              CBI
(banking sector)

Reserves-to-NPLs ratios
                                10%          15%           13%        20%         18%        20%          20%          20%            Annually         CBI reports              CBI
(both banks)

Capital adequacy ratio
                                 0           2%             3%        2.5%        3.2%       2%            4%           4%            Annually         CBI reports              CBI
(both banks)

Number of qualified
                                 0            4              4         4            4         4             4            4          Semi-annually    PMU database              PMU
staff in PMU

Timely disbursement of
                                 0           1.7           0.216      4.6         2.292     1.979         5.068        1.807        Semi-annually    PMU database              PMU
grant (US$ million)



                                                                                               29
                                      Annex 4
          Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


       a) Task Team Members
                                                                             Responsibility/Specialt
       Names                                                         Unit
                                            Title                                      y
Lending and Supervision
Sahar Nasr                 Lead Financial Economist                MNSF1      Task Team Leader
Nikolai Soubbotin          Lead Counsel                            LEGAM Legal

Hassine Hedda              Senior Finance Officer                  CTRLA      Loan
                           Senior Financial Management
Jad Mazahreh                                                       MNAFM Financial Management
                           Specialist
Nazaneen Ali               Senior Procurement Specialist           MNAPC Procurement

Laila Abdelkader           Financial Sector Specialist             MNSFP      Financial Sector
Steve W. Wan Yan           Operations Analyst                      MNSF1      Operations
Lun
Arne Petersen              Banking Sector Consultant               MNSF1      Banking

Jan Van der Vossen         Basel Core Principle Consultant         MNSF1      Banking
Didier Debals              Senior Banking Supervision Expert       MNSF1      Banking Supervision

Amira Zaky                 Program Assistant                       MNCEG Administrative

       b) Staff Time and Cost
Stage of Project Cycle                   Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget and Trust Fund)
                                                                      USD Thousands (including travel
                           No. of staff weeks
                                                                      and consultant costs)
Lending

FY09                              30.42                                      208,925

FY10                              2.18                                       7,800

                  Total:          32.6                                       216, 725

Supervision/ICR

FY10                              15.09                                      100,165

FY11                              19.43                                      156,100

FY12                              9.34                                       89,600

FY13                              18.87                                      106,500

FY14                              2.18                                       10,000 (estimate)

                  Total:          64.91                                      462,365

                                                    30
                                    Annex 5
                            Summary of Borrower's ICR



A. Introduction
The Government of Iraq in February 2009 embarked on a comprehensive two-phase
Banking Sector Reform Strategy (2008-2012), endorsed at the highest political level,
with the objective of modernizing its banking system. The strategy has received the
support of the World Bank and other international partners. Financial sector work in
Iraq has thus far focused on strengthening the two state-owned banks and on
improving the overall regulatory framework. The Iraqi government, the Ministry of
Finance, and the Central Bank of Iraq have been keen on the effective implementation
of this strategy, and significant progress has already been made, evident in continued
work on the financial and operational restructuring of the state-owned banks. Efforts
have been undertaken to strengthen supervisory and regulatory authority, and several
measures to improve the banks’ governance have been taken. Also, improvements
have been made in the regulations regarding risk management, and the basic elements
for banking supervision are in place. On the non-bank front, the Iraq Stock Exchange
provides a good foundation for capital market development, and more attention would
be given to the insurance and pension sectors. The progress and pace of the reforms,
viewed against a difficult security and political situation, have been commended by
donors and the international community. However, we are aware that we still have
some way to go to fully reform the sector and address its main challenges. The
Government of Iraq will continue to foster efforts on enhancing the financial system,
and ensuring economic growth.

B.     Assessment of the operation's objectives, design, implementation, and
operational experience
The project development objective is to strengthen the supervisory framework for
financial intermediation and build capacity of financial institutions. This was
successfully achieved through the institutional and operational restructuring, and the
financial restructuring of the two state-owned commercial banks, as well as the
strengthening of the regulatory and supervisory functions of the CBI. The first two
components were the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance as the owner of the
state-owned banks. The third component is the responsibility of CBI. The
operational and financial restructuring of the state-owned commercial banks that
account for more than 90 percent of the system’s assets and the vast majority of the
branch network, is essential for building the capacity of the financial institutions. This
was accompanied by strengthening the supervisory framework to ensure that banks
are prudently regulated and supervised, thus enhancing sustainability and soundness.

C.     Assessment of the outcome of the operation against the agreed objectives:
The project objectives were satisfactorily met, even though the political and security
environments were extremely challenging. The reforms implemented have yielded
some of the most impressive results Iraq has seen in the financial sector. These have
included:



                                           31
      The development of new organizational structures of the state-owned banks.
       Progress was made in this area, although there were difficulties in identifying
       appropriate external experts willing to undertake work in Iraq.
      Capacity building for banks’ staff in conducting risk management, both credit
       and non-credit risk management. Training in the area of risk management,
       both credit and non-credit risk management, was provided to 200 branch
       managers from Rasheed Bank and Rafidian Bank in March, 2012, and Risk
       Management Units have been established in both banks.
      Capacity building for improving human resource management.
      Capacity building for IT training. This covers capacity building and on-the-
       job training on all operational aspects, security system of information and
       management of information systems.
      There has been an improved portfolio quality of the two state-owned
       commercial banks, evident in the reserves-to-NPLs ratios, rising from
       10 percent in June 2006 to 20 percent in 2013.
      Considerable progress has been made in setting up new and modern
       accounting systems. Consulting services on the revision of the accounting
       rules by Pricewaterhouse Coopers (PwC) has been fully completed, and a
       workshop has been held in that context in July 2012.

D.    Evaluation of the borrower's own performance during the preparation
and implementation of the operation, with special emphasis on lessons learned
that may be helpful in the future
The operation witnessed a series of reform measures that focused on developing the
banking sector as well as strengthening the supervisory architecture. The majority of
the concluded reforms were thoroughly discussed with the World Bank on various
occasions.

E.     Evaluation of the performance of the Bank, any co-financiers, or of other
partners during the preparation and implementation of the operation,
including the effectiveness of their relationships, with special emphasis on
lessons learned
The World Bank's performance during the operation was overall highly satisfactory.
The operation witnessed close coordination and communication with the relevant
bank officials, and special acknowledgment should be given to the efforts of the team,
especially the Task Team Leader during the preparation and supervision.
The team was responsive to clients' needs and changes in the market in numerous
incidents. The team showed a remarkable deal of diligence and technical support for
the responsible authorities throughout the operation. The presence of the team in
Baghdad on the ground during supervision provided effective communication and
ensured all required and expected outcomes where duly met.
The World Bank also conducted close coordination efforts with other donors and
development partners who are actively involved in financial sector development in
Iraq.




                                         32
F.     Description of the proposed arrangements for future operation of the
project
The government of Iraq is committed to ensure the sustainability and irreversibility of
reforms. As a result of the successful cooperation with the World Bank in the
preparation for and disbursement of the Iraq Banking Sector Reform Project, the
Government of Iraq would consider follow-up operations.




                                          33
                              Annex 6
       Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


Various donors, development partners, and international institutions have been
providing support for developing Iraq’s financial sector through the provision of
technical and financial assistance. This required effective coordination, which the
Bank took leadership in. A Financial Sector Donors Subgroup, chaired by the World
Bank was formed to coordinate efforts related to both technical and financial support
provided to the government and to ensure that borrowed funds are used in the most
effective manner. This cooperation led to mutual design and agreement of
conditionality issues that all donors agreed were essential for financial sector reform.
In addition, donors were able to do a much better job of leveraging resources, both
loan and technical assistance, when coordination is effective.
Major stakeholders that have been working closely with the Bank throughout the
different phases of the Iraq Banking Sector Reform Project are the US Treasury and
IMF. Together with the US Treasury and the IMF, the Bank provided technical
support across a range of areas but in particular in defining the priorty areas of reform.
Joint missions were conducted throughout the lifetime of the operation. Also, the
recommendations put forward by the Iraq Financial Sector Review were shared
jointly with the government officials at high-level workshops. Overall, the US
Treasury and the IMF have commended the Bank’s efforts in moving forward with
the implementation of the banking sector reform strategy.
From the IMF and US Treasury perspective, the strong relationship with the Bank was
unique in that it was mutually reinforcing. They acknowledge such close cooperation
that helped them in designing assistance strategies to effectively respond to the needs
of Iraq at the financial sector front. They appreciated the sharing of information and
the close contact to advance in addressing major constraints. This close working
relationship helped to ensure that activities of respective organizations did not conflict
with each other. All parties had a common objective to support the government of
Iraq’s efforts to implement financial sector reforms. Donors and development
partners continue their efforts to support the financial sector in Iraq.




                                           34
                                      Annex 7
              Detailed Terms of Reference (TORs) for Project Activities

I. TORs for Project Activities under Component One: Institutional and
Operational Restructuring of the Two State-owned Commercial Banks

A.      Organization Structure
1. Overview
Project Understanding. To establish an Organization and Job Profiling Platform
where it came to identify the following project objectives: (i) supporting the bank’s
business reform strategies; (ii) paving the way for the implementation of the bank's
job profiles including families and levels; and (iii) facilitating working relationships
between various divisions.

Execution Overview. A High Level Organization Structure exercise will be carried out
to achieve the required Organization and Job profiling Platform. The project is
recommended to pass through the following phases:
 Organization Baseline Study through the following: (i) study available
    documentation covering history, plans, and reports; and (ii) meetings with Bank
    officials to understand the reform requirements, the current bank’s structure, the
    bank’s nature of core functions, defining key business drivers, norms of
    operations (what is working & what is not, etc…).

    Meeting with the selected bank officials to confirm the organization concepts and
     each of the banks’ fundamental areas.
    High Level Organization Charts will be developed for level 1 and level 2 in the
     bank based on EBI’s experience guided by the business strategy, reform
     requirements and driven by the best practice in the banking sector. The
     Organization Structure would reflect: (i) reporting relations within the bank; (ii)
     bank’s headcount; (iii) the different organization levels; and (iv) key results areas
     and key performance indicators.
    Upon confirmation on the outcome of the High Level Organization Structure, a
     draft       of the Job Profiles will be developed through the following job
     analysis of the different functional areas followed by approval of the draft and
     final job profiles outcome; and transfer of knowledge to the bank’s officials on
     writing and managing the job profiles. A typical job profile reflects: (i) job
     purpose; (ii) key results and corresponding duties; (iii) key performance
     indicators; (iv) required core competencies and level-specific competencies; (v)
     communication; (vi) financial responsibility; and (vii) job specifications. The
     same methodology will be applied on the rest of the organization levels in the
     banks (level 3 and level 4). Further details on the methodology and execution will
     be provided upon agreement on the project concept.
Overall Project Duration. The service duration will primarily depend on the set plan
where the overall duration is estimated to be around 100-130 days for all project
phases per each bank.

                                            35
2. Branch Managers Certificate
Training Purpose. This course will develop an understanding of the nature of strategy
and management and their relevance to organizations in the business, corporate and
international management context. Candidates will learn the principles of
management and the tools and techniques used to ensure success.
Certificate Objectives: (i) contribute positively to the strategic debate in the bank; (ii)
apply their own and the team’s knowledge and experience in order to contribute to the
achievement of the bank’s strategic objectives; (iii) define what is meant by effective
leadership and how it differs from management; (iv) describe the performance
management process; (v) determine through analysis the clear and realistic objectives
for a project and evaluate its management through the project stages; (vi) use
presentations effectively to deliver messages; (vii) prepare employees for
organizational change by providing simple ideas they can use to succeed in the new
environment; (viii) explain the differences between money laundering and the
financing of terrorism; and (ix) describe the main concepts of forgery and falsification
of documents.
Who Should Attend. This course is targeted at all functional branch managers,
deputies and assistants.
3. Course Outline

Module 1: Managerial and leadership skills for Managers
   Describe the major issues facing management
   Identify the factors and behaviors that hinder effective communication
   Analyze a situation and determine which leadership style to use, given the
     development level.
   Identify the motivational factors that increase productivity in the workplace
   Demonstrate how to coach a staff member
   Analyze a situation to determine whether to delegate responsibility
   Analyze a situation where change and the accompanying transition process
     must take place.

Module 2: Marketing for Non-marketers
   Describe different marketing principles and approaches.
   Discuss the importance of segmenting markets.
   Describe the development of new products.
   Explain the different marketing communication tools.
   Identify different advertising strategies.

Module 3: CELEMI Livon Lite™
   Describe a marketing strategy and tactical initiatives
   Explain how to optimize limited resources through strategic allocation
   Discuss ways to improve responsiveness to customer needs and preferences
   Explain the overall business impact of a decision
   Develop local (local within global) performance




                                            36
Module 4: Managing Performance and Appraisals
   Link the performance criteria for individuals to company performance criteria
   Describe the performance management process
   List and discuss the pros and cons of different appraisal methods
   Explain SMART goals
   Explain the role of competencies in the appraisal process
   Practice conducting an effective performance appraisal discussion

Module 5: Effective Presentation Skills
   Apply the steps in preparing a presentation
   Use presentation visual aids to emphasize ideas
   Learn and apply platform skills
   List presentation Do's and Don’ts

Module 6: Time and Stress Management
   Define time management
   Describe typical time wasters
   Describe the time management system

Module 7: Managing Change “Who Moved My Cheese”
   Discuss ways to accept change
   Discuss how to anticipate change
   Explain how to recognize change
   Define change
   Discuss methods to achieve change
   Demonstrate how to lead and manage change

Module 8: Problem Solving and Decision Making
   Discuss the barriers and motives to creative problem solving
   Create alternative solutions
   Think outside the box – in non-traditional ways (be creative)
Module 9: Working in Teams
   The importance of working in teams
   Team strengths
   More effective relations with team members
   Developing teamwork strategies

Module 10: Implementing Strategies through Effective Projects

Overview. This highly practical introductory module provides delegates with all the
essential skills, tools and techniques that they will need to support them in their
project management role. The programme concentrates on the practical techniques
that can be applied directly back to the workplace. Participants formulate a detailed
strategy and implementation plan initiative.

Objectives. Participants formulate a detailed strategy and implementation plan
initiative. To introduce the principles of Management and the tools and techniques
used to ensure success. Candidates will have an opportunity to analyse their own
problems and concerns about projects they currently manage or will be managing.


                                         37
Benefits. By the end of the course participants will be able to:
 Define what is meant by a project and how it differs from normal management
   tasks.
 Identify the role, skills and qualities of an effective manager.
 Set clear and realistic objectives for a project and understand the stages of the
   project life cycle.
 Confidently plan, organize and document a project in a logical manner.
 Gain and maintain the support and commitment of others and clearly identify the
   role of all team members.
 Monitor, control and adjust a project effectively and keep all relevant parties
   informed of progress.
 Predict risks and make appropriate contingency plans.
 Review and learn from strengths and weaknesses identified on completion of a
   project.

Content
 What is strategy?
 Diagnostic tools and techniques
 People management issues in relation to strategy
 Mission statements, vision and values
 Appreciation to strategic planning
 Introduction to Project Management
 The Project Life Cycle
 Project Planning, Risk and Change Management
 Implementing and Controlling Projects
 Effective Project Communication and People Management

Program Applications
 Teach the power of effective planning and generate the conviction to do it
 Demonstrate the impact of goals on teamwork and results
 Teach the power of vision and proper goal setting
 Create a vision for individual and team productivity and results

Assessment Strategy. Participants will be graded on an end of program group project
presentation and there will also be informal assessment based on class participation,
exercises, small group activities, and role play.

4. Supervisors Level

Purpose of Training. This program is designed to provide supervisors with the skills
required to be effective. As supervisors and first-line managers become more and
more overloaded with responsibilities and tasks, effective supervision is an absolute
must. It is very resourceful to comprehend the basic supervision and management
concepts and its fundamental skills to become a successful supervisor and meet the
company’s objectives. The course will cover such topics as leadership versus
management, communication skills, performance management, teamwork, motivating
people, and creative problem solving and decision making, performance management.
Who Should Attend. This course is intended for new, prospective or existing lower
and mid-level supervisors.


                                         38
Course Objectives
 Describe the characteristics of a supervisor.
 List the factors and behaviors that hinder effective communication.
 Describe the six-step performance interview model.
 Build effective, creative teams.
 Develop an action plan to maintain employee motivation, address dissatisfaction
   and bring out the best in your direct reports.
 Delegate authorities

5. Course Outline

SUPERVISING / MANAGING FUNDAMENTALS
   Definition of management
   Definition of a manager
   Characteristics of the ideal supervisor
   Primary supervisory duties
   Leader vs. manager
   Manager/supervisor roles
   Time management
   Leadership and the art of coaching


COMMUNICATION SKILLS
   Communication styles and methods
   Barriers to communication
   Listening skills
   How supervisors can ensure that subordinates fully understand their instructions
   The importance of adapting the communication style to different personalities and
    situations


MOTIVATING PEOPLE (GETTING THINGS DONE THROUGH OTHERS)
   Motivation theory
   Creating motives
   Developing the skills to motivate others
   Increase efficiency of staff
   How to achieve objectives with efficiency and effectiveness
   Motivation methods

DELEGATING WITHOUT LOSING CONTROL
 Reasons for delegation
 When to delegate and when not to delegate
 Delegating authorities


WORKING IN TEAMS
 The importance of working in teams
 Team strengths
 More effective relations with team members
                                       39
   Developing teamwork strategies


MANAGING PERFORMANCE
 Definition
 Elements of managing performance
 Different methods of performance appraisal
 Development and training

6. Human Resources Certificate

Certificate Description. This professional certificate focuses on the issue of planning,
directing and developing human resources in an organization, using the right tools
based on the job-related competencies, knowledge and skills. The ability to select,
interview and assess candidates is a key factor in ensuring that the right person is
hired for the job.

   Explain the strategic role of HR management
   Recruit and place employees
   Train and develop employees
   Pay employees for performance
   Develop a management information system for HR
   Develop stress and time management and presentation skills

Module 1: Introduction to Human Resources
 The strategic role of human resource management
 Equal employment opportunity
 Know your employment law
 Basics of leadership skills

Module 2: Recruitment and Placement
 Job analysis
 Planning and forecasting
 Employee testing and selection
 Interviewing candidates

Module 3: Employee Training and Development
 Training and developing employees
 Performance management and appraisal
 Managing careers

Module 4: Compensation
 Establishing strategic pay plans
 Pay for performance and financial incentives
 Employee benefits and services

Module 5: Management Information Systems for HR




                                           40
    Using the internet for writing job descriptions
    Succession planning systems
    Automated applicant tracking systems
    The new performance management systems
    Integrating career planning into the employer's Human Resources Information
     System (HRIS)
    Automating the compensation planning process
    Employee incentive management systems
    Benefits management systems

Module 6: Soft Skills: Stress and time management
 The sources of stress and strategies to overcome stress
 Time wasters and means of overcoming them
 Successful time management steps

Presentation skills
 Body language techniques
 Different audience styles
 Methods of presentation preparation, taking into consideration audience analysis
 Preparing for a presentation

Problem solving and decision making
 Problems, basic categories and their relation to management problems
 Applying the creative approach in problem analysis and solving
 The factors that affect the decision making process
B.       HR Consultancy TOR
     A. Background/objective
     A key initiative is to assist in undertaking the Iraq Banking Reform Strategy.

     Assistance will include providing support as requested by the management of the
     Central Bank in the following areas:

        Develop an Overall Organization Structure including the following units:
         - Business Units organization (retail, corporate and investment banking, and
            other business units)
         - Risk Management Units
         - Management Information System
         - Governance, Control and Support Units (audit, legal & compliance, anti-
            money laundering, human resources & organization, shared services,
            financial functions, risk functions)
        Forming a Dedicated Restructuring Unit Headed by a Restructuring Project
         Officer in Individual Banks

     B. Tasks
     Off Site
      Review the Bank's mission, vision and objectives
      Develop recommendations for organizational structure and skills required for
     business units and

                                           41
      Prepare training matrix for capacity building for each staff

   On Site
   Work with the Central Bank of Iraq to develop an organizational structure for all
   business unites, taking into consideration the following:
    Review the “as is” overall organization structure (hierarchical structure, roles
      and responsibilities, risk management, revenue sources) and detect the main
      current organizational issues.
    Design the bank new target model fulfilling:
      - Hierarchical structure simplification in order to speed up decision making
                      processes
      - Focus on risk, business and accountability
      - Neat separation between risk generation and risk control/monitoring
      - Neat distinction between revenue generating units and supporting/shared
                      services units
    Adopt the new organization structure.
    Create the Restructuring Units
    Identify and hire Heads for key priority functions
    Design the migration plan from the “as is” to the new organization
    Provide input into skills required to staff positions
    Meet with management to determine reporting lines
    Review banking laws and other relevant policies to identify needed units and
              hierarchy

   C. Outputs and Deliverables
    Define the roles and responsibilities of all the personnel within the
         organization.
    Establishing a hierarchical structure of authority, power and hence decision
         making
    Establish communication channels and information flows, incorporating a
      chain of command with specific rules and regulations relating to reporting
      procedures and accountability methods
    Establish control mechanism such as the degree of centralization and the span
         of control.
    Establish strategies for coordination of work practices
    Establish Decision making processes
    Establish specific operational functions and tasks


C. Credit and Risk Management Program

Target Audience. This course targeted junior and senior officers with minimum two
years of experience working in the following areas: credit, credit administration,
credit analysis, credit risk management, credit monitoring.
Program Description. During this program, participants were trained in a
comprehensive approach on all credit and risk management related topics over four
courses. These courses will provide participants with the knowledge and skills to
analyze financial statements, evaluate borrower creditworthiness, explain the asset
conversion cycle, discuss the various types of risk encountered in lending, and


                                          42
evaluate the structure of the loan which enables them to make sound financial, lending
and leasing decisions.

                            First Part (64 hrs – 8 full days)
Courses Objectives
Course (1): Financial Statement Analysis (16 hrs)
At the end of this program, the participants will be able to:
 List the financial statements and explain their structure.
 Describe how to analyze the liquidity, profitability and performance of a company
    and identify the valuation methods.
 Perform financial analysis in order to lay the groundwork for credit and
    investment decisions.

Course (2): Credit – Introduction (24 hrs)
At the end of this program, the participants will be able to:
 Explain the importance of bank credit.
 Define working capital and the asset conversion cycle.
 Describe best practices in financing methods.

Course (3): Industry Analysis for Lending Purposes – Workshop (8 hrs)
At the end of this program, the participants will be able to:
 Characterize industries by type and maturity.
 Determine the industry risk through analysis of the cost / asset structure,
    profitability and market sensitivity.
 Perform risk analysis in order to create a database used for credit and investment
    decision-making.

Course (4): Banking Information (4 hrs)
At the end of this program, the participants will be able to:
 Define banking Information.
 Describe the banking information department.
 Explain the duties and responsibilities of the banking information department

Course (5): Credit Administration Functions (12 hrs)
At the end of this program, the participants will be able to:
 Identify the role and function of credit administration.
 Describe the various types of credit facilities.
 Explain fully secured credit facilities.
 Identify types of collateral.
Course Outline
Course (1): Financial Statement Analysis (16 hrs)
Module 1: Financial Statements
Module 2: Structure and Elements of Financial Statements
Module 3: Special Case Studies

Course (2): Credit – Introduction (24 hrs)
Module 1: The Concept of Bank Lending
Module 2: Working Capital and the Asset Conversion Cycle
Module 3: Types of Bank Loans
Module 4: Types of Credit Facilities, Lending Limits and Associated Risks

                                           43
Module 5: The Credit Process in Banks
Module 6: Financial Analysis for Credit Purposes

Course (3): Industry Analysis for Lending Purposes – Workshop (8 hrs)

Module 1: The Classification of an Industry
Module 2: Introduction to Industry Risk Characteristics
Module 3: Industry Risk Analysis as a Lending Tool

Course (4): Banking Information (4 hrs)
Module 1: Introduction to Banking Information
Module 2: The Banking Information Department
Module 3: Duties and Responsibilities of the Banking Information Department

Course (5): Credit Administration Functions (12 hrs)
Module 1: The Role and Function of Credit Administration
Module 2: Types of Credit Facilities
Module 3: Fully Secured Credit Facilities
Module 4: Types of Collateral

                        Second Part (80 hrs – 10 full days)
Course Objectives
Course (1): Tools of Credit Analysis (40 hrs)
At the end of this program, the participants will be able to:
 Identify the different financial statements.
 Explain the asset conversion cycle.
 Describe asset-based lending.
 Determine historical and future cash flows.
 Describe the terms, conditions and collateral requirements in the loan agreement.

Course (2): Financing Investment Projects – Cash Flow Analysis (40 hrs)
At the end of this program, the participants will be able to:
 Explain the mechanics of cash flow.
 Describe the time value of money and cost of capital.
 Explain capital budgeting and cash flow analysis.

Course Outline
Course (1): Tools of Credit Analysis (40 hrs)
Module 1: Financial Statements
Module 2: The Asset Conversion Cycle
Module 3: Asset-based Lending
Module 4: Cash Flow
Module 5: The Loan Agreement

Course (2): Financing Investment Projects – Cash Flow Analysis (40 hrs)
Module 1: Cash Flow Analysis
Module 2: The Time Value of Money and Cost of Capital
Module 3: Capital Budgeting and Cash Flow Projection

                                         44
                             Third Part (80 hrs - 10 days)
Course Objectives
Course (1): Credit Risk Ratings and Loan Provisioning (24 hrs)
At the end of this program, the participants will be able to:
 Describe the main conceptual framework for credit risk ratings and loan
    provisioning.
 Explain the credit risk rating and loan provisioning process.
 Explain the credit risk management process.

Course (2): Credit Risk Analysis (40 hrs)
At the end of this program, the participants will be able to:
 List the various types of financial statements.
 Explain the asset conversion cycle.
 Describe the various types of risk encountered in lending.
 Evaluate the loan structure.
Course (3): Bank Risk Management (16 hrs)
At the end of this program, the participants will be able to:
   Explain the concept and function of risk management.
   Explain and measure credit risk.
   Define operations risk and methodologies for measuring it.
   Define market risk and methodologies for measuring it.
   Define liquidity and the core principles for managing it.
   Describe the Basel core principles of risk management

Course Outline
Course (1): Credit Risk Ratings and Loan Provisioning (24 hrs)
Module 1: Conceptual Framework
Module 3: Credit Risk Management
Module 2: Credit Risk Ratings and Loan Provisioning

Course (2): Credit Risk Analysis (40 hrs)
Module 1: Financial Statements
Module 2: The Asset Conversion Cycle
Module 3: Various Types of Risk
   • Determining and measuring the acceptable level of risk
   • Types of risk:
      o Inventory risk
      o Collection risk
      o Legal structure risk
      o Exchange rate risk
      o Business risk
      o Political risk
  • Asset-based financing risk
  • Practical exercises and case studies
Module 4: Evaluating the Loan Structure

Course (3): Bank Risk Management (16 hrs)
Module 1: Introduction to Risk Management
Module 2: Credit Risk
                                           45
Module 3:   Operational Risk
Module 4:   Market Risk
Module 5:   Liquidity and Other Risks
Module 6:   The Basel Core Principles of Risk Management

                         Fourth Part (52 hrs – 6.5 full days)
Course Objectives
Course (1): Detecting Falsified and Fraudulent Financial Statements (16 hrs)
At the end of this program, the participants will be able to:
 Differentiate among falsified and fraudulent statements, and errors.
 Detect falsification and fraud in the valuation of assets on the balance sheet.
 Detect falsification and fraud in provisions, revenues and expenses in the income
    statement.
 Identify emergency conditions and subsequent events.
 Define the roles of different parties in detecting falsification and fraud.

Course (2): Non-performing Loans and methods of Problem Loan Resolution (36
hrs)
At the end of this program, the participants will be able to:
 Define non-performing loans and the causes.
 Identify the indicators of non-performing loans.
 Explain the banking treatment of non-performing loans.
 Explain the banking treatment of non-performing investment projects.
 Monitor rescheduled non-performing loans.
 Manage non-performing loans.
 Explain the principles of borrower credit ratings and provisioning.
 Describe the legal aspects of working with non-performing loans.
 Identify the lessons learned from classified/non-performing loans.


Course Outline
Course (1): Detecting Falsified and Fraudulent Financial Statements (16 hrs)
Module 1: The Difference between Falsified and Fraudulent Documents
Module 2: Detecting Falsification and Fraud in Asset Valuation on the Balance Sheet
Module 3: Detecting Falsification and Fraud in Provisions, Revenues and Expenses
in the Income Statement
Module 4: Emergency Conditions and Subsequent Events to the Balance Sheet
Module 5: Parties Responsible for Detecting Falsification and Fraud in Financial
Statements

Course (3): Non-performing Loans and Methods of Problem Loan Resolution (36
hrs)
Module 1: Introduction to Non-performing loans
Module 2: The Indicators of the Non-performing Loan
Module 3: The Banking Treatment of Non-performing Loans
Module 4: The Banking Treatment of Non-Performing Investment Projects
Module 5: Monitoring Rescheduled Non-performing Loans
Module 6: Managing Non-Performing Loans
Module 7: The Principles of Borrower Credit Ratings and Provisioning
                                         46
Module 8: Legal Aspects of Working with Non-performing Loans
Module 9: Lessons Learned from Classified Loans




                                     47
II. TORs for Project Activities under Component Two: Financial Restructuring
                 of the Two State-owned Commercial Banks

A.     Accounting and Finance Program

Target Audience. This program is intended for staff of bank working in the
accounting and finance departments.

Program Description. During this course, participants will learn the latest accounting
standards used in preparing financial statements to acquire the skills needed to work
with the various components of financial statements and understand the underlying
accounting treatment and confirm their credibility.

Program Duration: 64 hrs - 8 full days

Program Objectives:
First Course: Basics of Accounting (24 hrs)
At the end of this program, the participants will be able to:
 Discuss accounting standards and their importance.
 Explain the concepts and various components of company financial statements.
 Discuss asset evaluation and its related issues.
 Explain cash flow statement.
 Describe special accounting treatment items.
Second Course: Bank Cost Accounting (16 hrs)
At the end of this program, the participants will be able to:
 Differentiate between financial and cost accounting.
 Design a cost accounting system.
 Identify the various cost elements and the related accounting treatment.
 Measure bank costs and revenues.
THIRD COURSE: FINANCIAL STATEMENT ANALYSIS (16 HRS)
At the end of this program, the participants will be able to:
 List the financial statements and explain their structure.
 Describe how to analyze the liquidity, profitability and performance of a company
    and identify the valuation methods.
 Perform financial analysis in order to lay the groundwork for credit and
    investment decisions.

FOURTH COURSE: DETECTING FALSIFIED AND FRAUDULENT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – WORKSHOP “PRACTICAL CASES” (8 HRS)
At the end of this program, the participants will be able to:
 Differentiate among falsified and fraudulent statements, and errors.
 Detect falsification and fraud in the valuation of assets on the balance sheet.
 Detect falsification and fraud in provisions, revenues and expenses in the income
    statement.
 Identify emergency conditions and subsequent events.
 Define the roles of different parties in detecting falsification and fraud.



                                         48
Course Outline:
First Course: Basics of Accounting (24 hrs)
Module 1: Introduction to Company Accounting Standards
Module 2: Cash Flow
Module 3: Inventory
Module 4: Fixed Asset Depreciation
Module 5: Special Accounting Treatment

Second Course: Bank Cost Accounting (16 hrs)
Module 1: Introduction to Cost Accounting in Banks
Module 2: Classification and Calculation of Cost Elements in Banks
Module 3: Accounting for the Cost Elements in Bank
Module 4: Cost Statements

Third Course: Financial Statement Analysis (16 hrs)
Module 1: Financial Statements.
Module 2: Structure and Elements of Financial Statements.
Module 3: Special Case Studies.

FOURTH COURSE: DETECTING FALSIFIED AND FRAUDULENT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – WORKSHOP “PRACTICAL CASES” (8 HRS)
Module 1: The Difference between Falsified and Fraudulent Documents.
Module 2: Detecting Falsification and Fraud in Asset Valuation on the Balance Sheet.
Module 3: Detecting Falsification and Fraud in Provisions, Revenues and Expenses
in the Income Statement.
Module 4: Emergency Conditions and Subsequent Events to the Balance Sheet
Module 5: Parties Responsible for Detecting Falsification and Fraud in Financial
Statements.
B. Internal Audit and Compliance Program

Target Audience. This course primarily targeted mid-level and senior internal
auditors in addition to all control staff in banks.

Program Description. During this course, participants will learn about different but
related areas that constitute a base for any internal auditor in the banking sector. In the
first part they will be able to learn the crucial role of internal audit in the banking
system and how to prepare risk-based audit reports. Also, they will learn about the
different techniques for verifying whether or not financial statements and documents
are genuine and they will learn the basics of cost accounting in bank (e.g. how to
categorize costs, how to measure bank costs and revenues, and how to design a cost
accounting system). In addition, participants will learn the basics of Basel II and its
three pillars, which cover minimum capital requirements, the supervisory review
process and market discipline. Moreover, in the second part, they are intended to gain
a comprehensive approach on all credit and risk management related topics especially
the various types of risk encountered in lending.

Program Duration: 160 hrs – 20 full days

                                            49
                           First Part (80 hrs – 10 full days)

Course (1): Bank Cost Accounting (12 hrs)
At the end of this program, the participants will be able to:
 Differentiate between financial and cost accounting.
 Design a cost accounting system.
 Identify the various cost elements and the related accounting treatment.
 Measure bank costs and revenues.


Course (2): Internal Audit - Introduction (12 hrs)

At the end of this program, the participants will be able to:
 Describe the value of internal audit.
 Explain the concept of internal audit.
 Discuss internal audit standards.
 Discuss how to plan and execute an internal audit.

Course (3): Risk-based Audit (24 hrs)
 Explain modern trends in internal audit and control.
 Describe the role of internal audit in the bank.
 Discuss internal audit standards in banks.
 Define the different types of banking risk.
 Prepare risk-based audit reports.


Course (4): Detecting Falsified and Fraudulent Financial Statements (16 hrs)
At the end of this program, the participants will be able to:
 Differentiate among falsified and fraudulent statements, and errors.
 Detect falsification and fraud in the valuation of assets on the balance sheet.
 Detect falsification and fraud in provisions, revenues and expenses in the income
    statement.
 Identify emergency conditions and subsequent events.
 Define the roles of different parties in detecting falsification and fraud.


Course (5): Basel II (The International Framework of Bank Capital Adequacy)
(16 hrs)
At the end of this program, the participants will be able to:
 Describe Basel II (credit, operations and market risk).
 Explain the First Pillar – Minimum Capital Requirements.
 Discuss the Second Pillar – Supervisory Review.
 Explain the Third Pillar – Market Discipline.
 Describe the advantages and limitations of the application of Basel II.

Courses Outline:
Course (1): - Bank cost Accounting (12 hrs)
Module 1: Introduction to Cost Accounting in Banks
Module 2: Classification and Calculation of Cost Elements in Banks
Module 3: Accounting for the Cost Elements in Bank
                                           50
Module 4: Cost Statements


Course (2): – Internal Audit - Introduction (12 hrs)

Module 1: The Importance of Internal Audit
Module 2: The Concept of Internal Audit
Module 3: Internal Audit Standards
Module 4: Planning the Internal Audit
Course (3): - Risk-based Audit (24 hrs)
Module 1: Introduction
Module 2: Internal Audit and Control
Module 3: Internal Audit Standards
Module 4: Banking Risks
Module 5: New Concepts in Internal Audit
Course (4): Detecting Falsified and Fraudulent Financial Statements (16 hrs)
Module 1: The Difference between Falsified and Fraudulent Documents
Module 2: Detecting Falsification and Fraud in Asset Valuation on the Balance Sheet
Module 3: Detecting Falsification and Fraud in Provisions, Revenues and Expenses
in the Income Statement
Module 4: Emergency Conditions and Subsequent Events to the Balance Sheet
Module 5: Parties Responsible for Detecting Falsification and Fraud in Financial
Statements

Course (5): Basel II (The International Framework of Bank Capital Adequacy)
(16 hrs)
Module 1: Introduction to Basel II
Module 2: The First Pillar – Minimum Capital Requirements
Module 3: The Second Pillar – Supervisory Review Process
Module 4: The Third Pillar – Market Discipline
Module 5: The Advantages and Limitations of the Implementation of Basel II




                                        51
    III. TORs for Project Activities under Component Three: Strengthening the
      Regulatory and Supervisory Functions of the Central Bank of Iraq (CBI)

A. Banking Supervision Program
Target Audience. This course was intended to banking supervision staff department
in the central bank (both On-site and Off-site units).
Program Duration: 200 hrs – 25 full days
Program Description. This program is designed as an intensive and comprehensive
training for the Supervision Dept. Staff which will provide the participants with the
required knowledge in all related areas in order to develop the supervisory skills
needed for monitoring and inspection activities. The program will be conducted over
three parts:
                            First Part (64 hrs – 8 full days)
Course Objectives
Course (1): Financial Statement Analysis (16 hrs)
At the end of this course, the participants will be able to:
    List the financial statements and explain their structure.
    Describe how to analyze the liquidity, profitability and performance of a company
     and identify the valuation methods.
    Perform financial analysis in order to lay the groundwork for credit and
     investment decisions.
Course (2): Credit – Introduction (24 hrs)
At the end of this course, the participants will be able to:
    Explain the importance of bank credit.
    Define working capital and the asset conversion cycle.
    Describe best practices in financing methods.
    List the types of credit facilities, their lending restrictions and associated risks.
    Collect information as part of the credit process.
    Use credit analysis as part of the lending process

Course (3): Basel II (The International Framework of Bank Capital Adequacy) –
Introduction (24 hrs)
At the end of this course, the participants will be able to:
    Describe Basel II (credit, operations and market risk).
    Explain the First Pillar – Minimum Capital Requirements.
    Discuss the Second Pillar – Supervisory Review.
    Explain the Third Pillar – Market Discipline.
    Describe the advantages and limitations of the application of Basel II.

Course Outline
Course (1): Financial Statement Analysis (16hrs)
Module 1: Financial Statements
Module 2: Structure and Elements of Financial Statements
Module 3: Special Case Studies



                                              52
Course (2): Credit – Introduction (24 hrs)
Module 1: The Concept of Bank Lending
Module 2: Working Capital and the Asset Conversion Cycle
Module 3: Types of Bank Loans
Module 4: Types of Credit Facilities, Lending Limits and Associated Risks
Module 5: The Credit Process in Banks
Module 6: Financial Analysis for Credit Purposes


Course (3): Basel II (The International Framework of Bank Capital Adequacy) –
Introduction (24 hrs)
Module 1: Introduction to Basel II
Module 2: The First Pillar – Minimum Capital Requirements
Module 3: The Second Pillar – Supervisory Review Process
Module 4: The Third Pillar – Market Discipline
Module 5: The Advantages and Limitations of the Implementation of Basel II

                        Second Part (80 hrs – 10 full days)
Course Objectives
Course (1): Credit risk Rating and Loan Provisioning (24 hrs)
At the end of this course, the participants will be able to:
 Describe the main conceptual framework for credit risk ratings and loan
    provisioning.
 Explain the credit risk rating and loan provisioning process.
 Explain the credit risk management process.

Course (2): Credit Risk Analysis (32 hrs)
At the end of this course, the participants will be able to:
 List the various types of financial statements.
 Explain the asset conversion cycle.
 Describe the various types of risk encountered in lending.
 Evaluate the loan structure.

Course (3): Non-performing Loans and Methods of Problem Loan Resolution (24
hrs)
At the end of this course, the participants will be able to:




                                         53
   Define non-performing loans and the causes.
   Identify the indicators of non-performing loans.
   Explain the banking treatment of non-performing loans.
   Explain the banking treatment of non-performing investment projects.
   Monitor rescheduled non-performing loans.
   Manage non-performing loans.
   Explain the principles of borrower credit ratings and provisioning.
   Describe the legal aspects of working with non-performing loans.
   Identify the lessons learned from classified/non-performing loans.

Course Outline
Course (1): Credit risk Rating and Loan Provisioning (24 hrs)
Module 1: Conceptual Framework
Module 3: Credit Risk Management
Module 2: Credit Risk Ratings and Loan Provisioning

Course (2): Credit Risk Analysis (32 hrs)
Module 1: Financial Statements
Module 2: The Asset Conversion Cycle
Module 3: Various Types of Risk
Module 4: Evaluating the Loan Structure
Course (3): Non-performing Loans and Methods of Problem Loan Resolution (24
hrs)
Module 1: Introduction to Non-performing loans
Module 2: The Indicators of the Non-performing Loan
Module 3: The Banking Treatment of Non-performing Loans
Module 4: The Banking Treatment of Non-Performing Investment Projects
Module 5: Monitoring Rescheduled Non-performing Loans
Module 6: Managing Non-Performing Loans
Module 7: The Principles of Borrower Credit Ratings and Provisioning
Module 8: Legal Aspects of Working with Non-performing Loans
Module 9: Lessons Learned from Classified Loans

                            Third Part (56 hrs – 7 full days)
Course Objectives
Course (1): Internal Audit – Introduction (16 hrs)
At the end of this course, the participants will be able to:
 Describe the value of internal audit.
 Explain the concept of internal audit.
 Discuss internal audit standards.
 Discuss how to plan and execute an internal audit.

Course (2): Risk-based Audit (24 hrs)
At the end of this course, the participants will be able to:



                                            54
   Explain modern trends in internal audit and control.
   Describe the role of internal audit in the bank.
   Discuss internal audit standards in banks.
   Define the different types of banking risk.
   Prepare risk-based audit reports.


Course (3): Detecting Falsified and Fraudulent Financial Statements (16 hrs)
At the end of this course, the participants will be able to:
 Differentiate among falsified and fraudulent statements, and errors.
 Detect falsification and fraud in the valuation of assets on the balance sheet.
 Detect falsification and fraud in provisions, revenues and expenses in the income
    statement.
 Identify emergency conditions and subsequent events.
 Define the roles of different parties in detecting falsification and fraud.

Course Outline
Course (1): Internal Audit – Introduction (16 hrs)
Module 1: The Importance of Internal Audit
Module 2: The Concept of Internal Audit
Module 3: Internal Audit Standards
Module 4: Planning the Internal Audit

Course (2): Risk-based Audit (24 hrs)
Module 1: Introduction
Module 2: Internal Audit and Control
Module 3: Internal Audit Standards
Module 4: Banking Risks
Module 5: New Concepts in Internal Audit
Course (3): Detecting Falsified and Fraudulent Financial Statements (16 hrs)
 Module 1: The Difference between Falsified and Fraudulent Documents
Module 2: Detecting Falsification and Fraud in Asset Valuation on the Balance Sheet
Module 3: Detecting Falsification and Fraud in Provisions, Revenues and Expenses
in the Income Statement
Module 4: Emergency Conditions and Subsequent Events to the Balance Sheet
Module 5: Parties Responsible for Detecting Falsification and Fraud in Financial
Statements




                                          55
                                                       Annex 8:Iraq Financial Sector Review
                                                               Action Plan Matrix 3

                                                                                    MEDIUM TO LONG-TERM                          COUNTERPART/
             OBJECTIVE                      SHORT-TERM TASK(S)
                                                                                          TASK(S)                            RESPONSIBLE INSTITUTION
                                                                     I. The Banking Sector

Implement MOU (2006) and the           Accelerate the financial                 Proceed with the financial,             Executive Steering Committee
Banking Sector Reform                 restructuring and the cleaning-up of      operational and institutional             ROC
Strategy for Rafidain Bank and        the balance sheet of the state-owned      restructuring of the two state-owned      Ministry of Finance
Rasheed Bank between                  commercial banks by carving out           banks.
                                                                                                                          Rafidain Bank and Rasheed Bank
Ministry of Finance and the           disputed items from their balance          Provide capacity building and
Central Bank of Iraq (CBI)’s          sheet and transferring off balance        training programs.
financial, operational and            sheet.                                     Carry out twinning with
institutional restructuring
                                       Continue the operational and            experienced international banks.
                                      institutional restructuring of the two     Fully implement Core Banking
                                      state-owned banks, and provide            System of Rafidain and Rasheed
                                      training programs.                        Banks.
                                       Adopt new organizational structure
                                      substantively in line with recently
                                      formulated proposals to be considered




3
    Matrix prepared on May 23, 2012




                                                                               56
                                                                                   MEDIUM TO LONG-TERM                         COUNTERPART/
           OBJECTIVE                     SHORT-TERM TASK(S)
                                                                                         TASK(S)                           RESPONSIBLE INSTITUTION
                                   July/August, including for structure
                                   of Executive Board.
                                    Implement Phase 1 and 2 of the
                                   Core Banking System.
Discontinue quasi-fiscal            Determine government directed              Preclude government directed           Ministry of Finance
responsibilities of the state-     lending through state-owned banks to        lending that is not included in the      Cabinet of Ministers
owned banks                        include in 2012 budget and coming           budget through issue of Ministerial
                                   years.                                      decree.
Development of comprehensive        Decide on the overall role of all          Clarify the mandate of the smaller     Ministry of Finance
strategy paper by Iraqi            state-owned banks.                          state-owned banks, and consider          Cabinet of Ministers
government in cooperation with      Decide whether Trade Bank of Iraq         consolidation and conversion into
CBI on development of the          (TBI) will end its work according to        development banks, which will not
banking system, including time-    its law or will it be allowed to stay as    take deposits.
bound perspective for the state    commercial bank. If the latter, it           Ensure state-owned banks work
owned banks (restructuring,        should be subject to relevant and           according to commercial principles
liberalization of business
                                   applicable laws and regulation of CBI       and on a level playing field. Early
according to market economic
                                   and there is no need for a special law,     corporatization of state-owned
rules; privatization), depositor
                                   other than a brief paragraph to abolish     banks should be considered a key
protection, commercially based
                                   the current special law.                    element.
relations between government
and currently state-owned           Designate working group to start           Over time the authorities should
banks                              work on discussing and developing a         consider gradual privatization of the
                                   strategy.                                   key state-owned banks.
                                    First draft presented to the
                                   Governor and Minister by an agreed




                                                                              57
                                                                                  MEDIUM TO LONG-TERM                           COUNTERPART/
           OBJECTIVE                      SHORT-TERM TASK(S)
                                                                                        TASK(S)                             RESPONSIBLE INSTITUTION
                                    upon deadline that is to be strictly
                                    enforced.
Level the playing field to create    Allow private banks to lend to, and      Implement the planned gradual            Ministry of Finance
a vibrant competitive banking       take deposits from, state enterprises.    increase in capital requirements for       CBI
sector                               Government and Ministries should        all banks, under the regulations
                                    have the ability to chose which           issued by CBI.
                                    private or state bank they wish to         Eliminate all restrictions on letters
                                    execute letters of credit (without        of credit and other banking
                                    involvement of TBI) as long as the        transactions with private banks.
                                    bank is in very good standing
                                    according to rating (CAMEL 2) and
                                    meets all prudential requirements,
                                    where it can open LCs of less than $2
                                    million and pre-announcement of
                                    timetable for eliminating restrictions
                                    on size over two years.
                                     Allow tax and other payments to be
                                    made by the available payments
                                    means drawn on private commercial
                                    banks, provided the availability of
                                    enough credit.
                                     Issue a Government decree
                                    (decision) to effect the above
                                    changes.




                                                                             58
                                                                              MEDIUM TO LONG-TERM                         COUNTERPART/
          OBJECTIVE                    SHORT-TERM TASK(S)
                                                                                    TASK(S)                           RESPONSIBLE INSTITUTION
Enhance quality of bank staff     Decision in principle on setting up     Development of curriculum and          Executive Committee composed of
and develop the capacity of      banking institute (including related     setting up banking institute            CBI, Ministry of Finance, commercial
Iraqi Universities of banking    institutions, funding sources,           according to international standards.   banks, Ministry of Higher Education
education                        governance and providing building).
                                  Develop the capacity of Iraqi
                                 Universities for banking education.


Further strengthen payment        Introducing intraday liquidity          Strengthen retail payment system       CBI
system                           facility for the RTGS system.            including through introduction of        Commercial banks
                                  Partial implement electronic check     national switch for bank cards.
                                 (sukuk) clearing system.                  Full implementation of check
                                  Partial implementation for selected    clearing system (dependent on
                                 branches for Rasheed and Rafidain        implementation of Core Banking
                                  Full implementation of the             System in Rafidain and Rasheed).
                                 remaining banks within Baghdad.



                                                                II. Islamic Banking
Adoption of the Islamic banking  Establish a committee (CBI and                                                   CBI
law and the introduction of new MINISTRY OF FINANCE) to review                                                     Ministry of Finance
Islamic products.               the two drafts of the law. To this                                                 Shura Council and Parliament
                                 effect, the committee can consult the
                                 banking union and the Islamic banks
                                 or call on experts in Islamic banking



                                                                         59
                                                                             MEDIUM TO LONG-TERM                        COUNTERPART/
          OBJECTIVE                   SHORT-TERM TASK(S)
                                                                                   TASK(S)                          RESPONSIBLE INSTITUTION
                                (Malaysia is a good case to look at).
                                 Issue the Islamic Banking Law
                                (Approval by cabinet and then Shura
                                Council and Parliament to issue the
                                law).


Implement the International      Prepare gap analysis between the        Complete and Implement the            CBI
Financial Reporting Standards   IFRS Standards and Iraqi accounting      IFRS Standards.                         Council of Supreme Audit and
(IFRS) and International        standards and develop plan to close                                             Islamic Banks
Islamic Banking Accounting      the gap.
Standards (AAOIFI)
                                 Approve the International               Implement the International           Possible support from external
                                Standards of the Accounting and          Standards of the Accounting and        accounting
                                Auditing Organization for Islamic        Auditing Organization for Islamic
                                Financial Institution (AAOIFI) after     Financial Institution (AAOIFI).
                                the approval of the Council of
                                Accounting Standards and
                                Supervision in Iraq.
Adopt International Islamic      Approve the international               Implement the international           CBI
banking standards and           regulations of the Islamic Financial     regulations of the Islamic Financial    Islamic banks
regulations                     Services Board (IFSB) (Capital           Services Board (IFSB) (Capital
                                Adequacy, Risk Management,               Adequacy, Risk Management,
                                Corporate Governance, …etc)              Corporate Governance, etc.)
                                Malaysia example can be used to
                                inform this work.



                                                                        60
                                                                                 MEDIUM TO LONG-TERM                        COUNTERPART/
          OBJECTIVE                     SHORT-TERM TASK(S)
                                                                                       TASK(S)                          RESPONSIBLE INSTITUTION
Implementing the ınternatıonal     Approve the International Banking         Implement the International           CBI
banking regulations that are      Standards and requirements issued by       Banking Standards and                   Islamic banks
consıstent wıth Islamıc fınance   Basel Committee on Banking                 requirements that issued by Basel
                                  Supervision recommendations that           Committee on Banking Supervision
                                  are consistent with the Islamic            that are consistent with the Islamic
                                  Banking rules                              Banking rules.
Strengthen Islamic banks           On-going supervision in detail the        Implement and follow-up on the        CBI
addressing weak banks             3-rated banks in CAMEL rating and          agreed action plan on regular basis.    Problem banks
                                  develop an action plan to address
                                  identified issues
Raising the employees’             Conduct specific training on all          Conduct specific training on all      CBI
efficiency                        issues related to Islamic Banking          practical issues related to Islamic     Islamic banks
                                  Industry taking the supervision issues     Banking Industry taking into
                                  into consideration.                        consideration the new regulations.


Strengthen Islamic Banking         Establish new Islamic Banking                                                    CBI
supervision                       supervision unit.



                                                III. Banking Supervision and Regulatory Framework
Ensure banking supervision is      Develop inspection plan and team          Bring state owned banks into full     CBI
exercised over state owned        with Rafidain and Rasheed, based on        and lasting compliance with             Ministry of Finance
banks, in full accordance with    the guidelines issued by the BI for the    prudential standards, including         Rafidain and Rasheed banks
2006 MOU, and to the full         conduct of on-site inspections, for        capital adequacy, and safe and


                                                                            61
                                                                                 MEDIUM TO LONG-TERM                        COUNTERPART/
          OBJECTIVE                     SHORT-TERM TASK(S)
                                                                                       TASK(S)                          RESPONSIBLE INSTITUTION
extent of law and regulations     immediate commencement of work.            sound banking practices, in
                                   Finalize report                          particular with regard to credit
                                   Schedule of remedial action              policies
                                                                              Remuneration for services
                                                                             provided to the state.
                                                                              Withdrawal of de facto state
                                                                             guarantee


Strengthen enforcement of          Determine breaches of prudential          Establish lasting environment of      CBI
prudential standards, over all    standards and of safe and sound            routine compliance with standards       Ministry of Finance (with regard to
banks, state owned, private, as   banking practices.                         and application of safe and sound      state owned banks)
well as Islamic                    Develop bank by bank program for         banking practices                       Private banks including Islamic banks
                                  corrective action, and follow-up, after
                                  consultation with the banks
                                  concerned.
Verify compliance and safety       Prepare rigorous off-site review          Complete full review and              CBI
and soundness of all CAMELS-      and on-site inspection program, in         corrective action program to address
3 rated banks. Internationally,   particular with regard to asset quality    non-compliance with prudential
CAMELS 3 banks are                and capital adequacy, but also             standards and non-observance of
considered to require close       including corporate governance,            safe and sound banking practices.
scrutiny                          internal control and audit and              Strict follow-up and post-
                                  financial disclosure.                      corrective monitoring
Combat money laundering,           Design awareness campaign                 Building recognition for Iraq as a    CBI
laundering of corruption           One-on-one interaction between           reliable financial partner in due       Ministry of Finance



                                                                            62
                                                                               MEDIUM TO LONG-TERM                       COUNTERPART/
          OBJECTIVE                   SHORT-TERM TASK(S)
                                                                                     TASK(S)                         RESPONSIBLE INSTITUTION
proceeds and the financing of   CBI and individual banks                   course.                                Ministry of the Interior
terrorism in all Iraqi           Enforce existing rules and                                                      Ministry of Justice
governorates including KRG      regulations, and banks’
                                implementation of KYC rules
                                 Review adequacy and effectiveness
                                of the CBI, the Money Laundering
                                Reporting Office and of the
                                prosecuting authorities.
Bringing Iraq into close         Study Basel Assessment                    Periodically (every five years)      CBI, backed by Ministry of Finance
compliance with Basel           Methodology, Basel self-assessment         review compliance with
Committee international         guidelines and develop plan to             international standards. Bring Iraq
prudential standards            prepare self- assessment (time,            to an FSAP-level of compliance.
                                staffing, format of report (ROSC)
                                 Designate team for the self-
                                assessment, start work filling in self-
                                assessment template.
                                 Preparation of a full expert assisted
                                Basel Core Principles self-assessment
                                applying the full rigor of the
                                assessment criteria of the 2006
                                assessment methodology, with more
                                information on actual implementation
                                and enforcement of prudential
                                standards.
                                 A review of required technical



                                                                          63
                                                                                  MEDIUM TO LONG-TERM                       COUNTERPART/
           OBJECTIVE                       SHORT-TERM TASK(S)
                                                                                        TASK(S)                         RESPONSIBLE INSTITUTION
                                     improvements in the regulations and
                                     supervisory practices (some of which
                                     are mentioned below).
                                      Discuss outcome with stakeholders
                                     and design plan to bring Iraq into
                                     compliance.
Assure consistency of Iraqi           Recalculate banks’ capital and          Increase confidence in the           CBI
definition of bank capital with      capital adequacy. To be done in          banking system through rigorous        Bankers’ Association
all elements of the definition in    conjunction with introduction of         capital requirements.
Basel III                            IFRS
                                      Consider issuing correction to the
                                     capital adequacy directive in
                                     conjunction with capital increase
                                     requirement
                                      Prepare a quantitative impact study
                                     of the effect of both these measures
                                     combined.
Assure adequate provisioning          Amend CBI’s loan classification         Ongoing checks to assure that        CBI
practices:                           and provisioning regulation which is     banks are not under-provisioned and    Bankers’ Association
  Introduce tighter loan            based on the Banking Law.                calculate profits and capital
   classification and provisioning    Training staff in the use of the       appropriately.
   for “average” loans; a zero       regulations.
   provision seems inadequate;
   this will produce more accurate




                                                                             64
                                                                                MEDIUM TO LONG-TERM                      COUNTERPART/
           OBJECTIVE                     SHORT-TERM TASK(S)
                                                                                      TASK(S)                        RESPONSIBLE INSTITUTION
  capital calculation for banks.
  Loan classification and
   provisioning are key
   supervisory tools
Achieve better internal control     Review the basis for a more             Achieve a lasting improvement in    CBI
and audit functions in banks       binding regulation in the banking law    banks’ internal controls and audit    Bankers’ Association
                                   and CBI law.                             rules
                                    Draft amendment of the law, as
                                   needed to form a basis for a more
                                   prescriptive regulation.
                                    Issuance of more prescriptive
                                   regulations on internal audit and
                                   internal controls.


Strict supervision on               Amend laws and regulations where        Enhance system for licensing of     CBI
implementing financial             needed to support stricter               banks, when necessary.
information requirements of        requirements
licensing applicants. Audited       Implement licensing requirements
financial statement by auditors    according to the established
of foreign banks will be           regulations
required.
Achieve stronger powers for the     Review legal basis for introducing      Stricter rules on the quality of    CBI
CBI to force banks to divest       stricter powers for the CBI to remove    banks’ shareholders, as important     Bankers’ Association
shareholders who have become       unsuitable shareholders from banks       factors in bank governance.           Registrar of Companies
unsuitable over time or


                                                                           65
                                                                                 MEDIUM TO LONG-TERM                      COUNTERPART/
          OBJECTIVE                       SHORT-TERM TASK(S)
                                                                                       TASK(S)                        RESPONSIBLE INSTITUTION
otherwise assure that they shall     Draft amendments to the                                                      Securities Commission
not influence bank policies and     law/regulations as appropriate.
practices; current rules only
address approval at the
acquisition phase
Issue regulation on                  Study IFRS and international            Include review of consolidated      CBI
consolidation of accounts and       practice on consolidation of accounts    accounts in the on-site inspection    Bankers’ Association
banking supervision on a            and                                      manual, and implement during on-
consolidated basis; to be done in    Draft regulation on this.              site work.
conjunction with introduction
of IFRS
Training of supervisors in           Design training program for             Implement training program’         CBI
interpretation and                  banking supervision staff, also to       build expertise of banking            Bankers’ Association
implementation of the CBI’s         familiarize them with the pending        supervision staff and bank staff.
regulations and their legal basis   new rules and regulations, i.e. based
(possibly together with             on this action plan.
commercial bank compliance
staff)


                                                  IV. Banking Supervision and Regulatory Framework

Update legislation and               Enact the permanent Securities          Finalize, consult on and            Cabinet of Minister
associated regulations              Law including to amendments              implement regulations as              Parliament
                                    proposed in the Iraq Financial           required by the permanent             Ministry of Commerce
                                    Sector Review which include              Securities Law



                                                                            66
                                                                       MEDIUM TO LONG-TERM                        COUNTERPART/
          OBJECTIVE                SHORT-TERM TASK(S)
                                                                                 TASK(S)                      RESPONSIBLE INSTITUTION
                              reinforcing the independence of        Draft, consult on and
                              the ISC.                              implement comprehensive
                                                                    Prospectus and Takeover
                                                                    regulations.
                                                                    • Implement regulations providing
                                                                    for cooperation with foreign
                                                                    regulators and remove any legal
                                                                    obstacles.
Accelerate the transit to a    Resolve the legal and practical                                            Ministries of Finance
market economy                issues around transferring                                                   Ministry of Industry
                              ownership of companies from the                                              Ministry of Tourism
                              state to private shareholders and                                            Ministry of Transport
                              move to the decision phase
                                                                                                           ISC
Improve and expand ISX         Prepare a study for the optimal                                            ISC
operations                    automated settlement of the cash                                             CBI
                              side of securities trades                                                    ISX
                               Develop a plan to                                                          World Bank
                              encourage/persuade suitably                                                  Ministry of Commerce
                              qualified joint stock companies to
                              list on ISX.
Improve capital market                                               Remove legal procedures            Ministry of Finance
financing facilities                                                which hinder protection of           Ministry of Justice



                                                                   67
                                                                             MEDIUM TO LONG-TERM                      COUNTERPART/
          OBJECTIVE                     SHORT-TERM TASK(S)
                                                                                      TASK(S)                    RESPONSIBLE INSTITUTION
                                                                         lending by the banks                 CBI
                                                                                                              Bankers’ Association
Strengthen broker dealer                                                  Introduce a risk based capital     ISC
regulation                                                               regime for brokers and dealers       ISX
                                                                          Strengthen the rules of
                                                                         business of brokers and dealers
                                                                         when providing services to
                                                                         clients
                                                                          Strengthen rules concerning
                                                                         the insolvency of a broker dealer



                                                        V. Insurance and Pension Sectors
Strengthen the legal framework      Conduct a self assessment of the     Make amendments to the             The Insurance Supervisor
for the insurance sector so it     Insurance Business Regulation Act     Insurance Business Regulation
strike the right balance between   compared against the IAIS             Act so it complies with the IAIS
proper regulation while at the
same time allowing the business    Insurance Core Principles (using      Insurance Core Principles;
freedom and predictability they    the methodology developed by          including in particular ensuring
need to grow                       IAIS).                                the independence of the
                                                                         Insurance Supervisor and allow
                                                                         for the supervisor to move out of
                                                                         the Ministry of Finance.



                                                                        68
                                                                                MEDIUM TO LONG-TERM                     COUNTERPART/
          OBJECTIVE                      SHORT-TERM TASK(S)
                                                                                         TASK(S)                    RESPONSIBLE INSTITUTION
                                                                             Draft a Policy Paper discussing
                                                                            the need for a law on mandatory
                                                                            car insurance.
Strengthen the supervision of       Commence off-site supervision           Commence on-site inspections       The Insurance Supervisor
the insurance sector so it can     of the state and private insurance       of insurance companies as soon
find its proper role and conduct   companies based on current legal         as the revised legal framework
its supervisory operations as
anticipated in the (IAIS) ICP      framework (insurers are required         provides proper legal basis for
                                   by the insurance act to report on        such inspections.
                                   their financial position and the          Increase staffing, but not
                                   risks they are facing (article 38) so    indiscriminately - the focus
                                   these requirements should be             should be on a small but highly
                                   enforced)                                skilled set of personnel.
                                    Conduct visits to the insurance         Provide training to staff by
                                   companies to learn about the             participate in international
                                   business                                 insurance conference (such as
                                                                            IAIS) training seminars.
                                                                             Consider training seminars
                                                                            with the other financial
                                                                            supervisor on common issues
                                                                            such as licensing, on-site
                                                                            inspections.
                                                                             Consider establishing a
                                                                            twinning arrangement with


                                                                           69
                                                                              MEDIUM TO LONG-TERM                        COUNTERPART/
          OBJECTIVE                     SHORT-TERM TASK(S)
                                                                                      TASK(S)                        RESPONSIBLE INSTITUTION
                                                                          another insurance supervisor in
                                                                          the region.

Organize the pension fund in an  Prepare a Pension Policy Paper           Prepare and pass an amended           National Board of Pension
transparent, robust and safe    that analyze the structure of the         pension fund law that allows for
legal structure                 pension fund where the ownership          the establishment of a
                                of the assets are properly legally        transparent, robust and safe legal
                                defined, the pension assets               structure for the pension fund
                                segregated from the pension asset          Reorganize the pension fund in
                                manager and provides proper               a transparent, robust and safe
                                transparency                              legal structure
Establish a independent            Discuss (in the Pension Policy         Prepare and pass an amended           National Board of Pension
depositary of the pension funds   Paper) the establishment of a           pension fund law that includes
                                  depositary that hold all the pension    the requirement for establishing
                                  assets, ensure that the assets are      and operating a depositary.
                                  properly safe-kept, net-asset           Furthermore, require that the
                                  valuation conducted and invested        pension fund needs to use a
                                  in accordance with the investment       depositary for the holding of the
                                  strategy communicated to the            contributors’ assets in the
                                  contributors                            pension fund

The pension funds should           Discuss (in the Pension Policy         Prepare and pass an amended           National Board of Pension
become subject to supervision     Paper) the need to have the pension     pension fund law that allows for the


                                                                         70
                                                                                 MEDIUM TO LONG-TERM                       COUNTERPART/
          OBJECTIVE                      SHORT-TERM TASK(S)
                                                                                       TASK(S)                         RESPONSIBLE INSTITUTION
                                   fund supervised by a pension              establishment of supervisor for the
                                   supervisor                                pension fund
                                                                              Establish a pension fund
                                                                             supervisor.
                                                              VI. Financial Infrastructure

Enhance credit reporting            Strengthen the capacity of the           Implement comprehensive credit       Steering committee, composed of
systems in order to reduce         public credit reporting at CBI.           reporting system.                     CBI. Ministry of Finance, private
credit risk                         Review and amend the Banking                                                  banking league
                                   Law to allow for the establishment of
                                   a private credit bureau
Introduction of International       Prepare gap analysis between Iraqi       Completion and introduction of       CBI
Financial Reporting Standards      accounting standards and IFRS, and        IFRS- compliant accounting             Council of Supreme Audit
(IFRS) for all banks, as well as   develop plan and timeframe for            standards chart of accounts and        Ministry of Finance
the associated chart of accounts   drafting of new accounting rules, the     prudential reporting formats.
and prudential reporting           chart of accounts, and prudential          Carry out appropriate training
formats.                           reporting formats; discussion with the    programs for banks staff to
                                   industry and accounting and auditing      implement IFSR.
                                   professions.

Strengthen audit profession         Prepare gap analysis between Iraqi       Implement international auditing     CBI
                                   auditing standards and international      standards and provide appropriate      Board of Supreme Audit
                                   audit standards, and develop plan and     program of training.                   Ministry of Finance
                                   timeframe for introduction of
                                   international audit standards.




                                                                            71
                                                                                      MEDIUM TO LONG-TERM                       COUNTERPART/
            OBJECTIVE                         SHORT-TERM TASK(S)
                                                                                            TASK(S)                         RESPONSIBLE INSTITUTION
Enhance governance of banks              Undertake a gap analysis,                Require banks to observe the         CBI
                                        reviewing and assessing compliance        OECD Code on Good Corporate
                                        with corporate governance practices.      Governance Practices, which should
                                                                                  be part of on-site banking
                                                                                  examinations.
Strengthen judicial system and           Issue a Prime Ministerial Decree        Measures to include                    Ministry of Justice
streamline the legal process            establishing Specialized Economic          Reduce the number of days
                                        Courts                                    required for legal court decisions
                                                                                   Introduce training program for
                                                                                  legal profession in commercial law
                                                                                  for the new Specialized Economic
                                                                                  Courts.
Strengthen financial integrity at all    Strictly combat financial                Amendment of State-owned             Parliament through the Ministry of
levels and enforce OECD code of         irregularities                            Companies Law 22, and Private         Finance in coordination with CBI
good governance                          Enhance transparency and                Companies Law 21 regarding Board
                                        disclosure of timely and accurate data    composition, increasing the number
                                        and information                           of independent experts (taking into
                                         Specify Board composition and           account the Banking Law 94 of
                                        members to avoid conflict of interest     2004 (Article 17)
                                         Clarify clear responsibility for
                                        Board versus management and
                                        accountability.
Encourage micro-finance                  Review current regulation to ensure      Encourage additional donor           CBI
                                        they are sufficiently flexible            funding in this area.                  Ministry of Finance



                                                                                 72
                                                                                MEDIUM TO LONG-TERM                        COUNTERPART/
          OBJECTIVE                     SHORT-TERM TASK(S)
                                                                                      TASK(S)                          RESPONSIBLE INSTITUTION
Implement public information       Start designing information              Better public understanding of        CBI
campaign, on role of banking      campaign on banking supervision and       and more confidence in the banking
system, banking supervision       the role and characteristics of the       system and the role of the CBI as
and depositor protection          banking system                            bank supervisor.
                                                         VII.        Information Technology

Promote IT awareness within        Form a high level team from              Conduct assessment according to       CBI Executive Sponsor (H.E. the
Ministry of Finance and CBI at    Ministry of Finance and CBI               approved plan (estimated period 3      Governor)
the upper management level         Determine action plan on how to         months) and provide findings            Ministry of Finance Executive
                                  conduct assessment of IT awareness         Prepare recommendations              Sponsor (H.E the Minister)
                                   Secure approval and sponsorship          Present findings and                  Representatives from CBI and
                                  from Ministry of Finance, Minister        recommendations to sponsors            Ministry of Finance
                                  and CBI Governor for the action plan       Decide next steps
Develop "IT" staff capabilities    Form a team from Ministry of             Conduct assessment according to       CBI Executive Sponsor (H.E. the
within Ministry of Finance and    Finance and CBI                           approved plan (estimated period 3      Governor)
CBI                                Determine action plan on how to         months). Assess things like ability     Ministry of Finance Executive
                                  conduct assessment of IT capabilities     to develop web applications, Oracle,   Sponsor (H.E the Minister)
                                   Secure approval and sponsorship         .NET, etc.                              Representatives from CBI and
                                  from Ministry of Finance Minister          Develop recommendations              Ministry of Finance
                                  and CBI Governor for the action plan      Present findings and
                                                                            recommendations to sponsors
                                                                             Decide next steps
Implementation of Core             Reach a decision re the relationship     Finish implementation in all          Ministry of Finance
Banking System for Rafidain       with the current vendor (within 1         Baghdad branches (phase 3)              Rafidain Bank



                                                                           73
                                                                         MEDIUM TO LONG-TERM                     COUNTERPART/
         OBJECTIVE                 SHORT-TERM TASK(S)
                                                                               TASK(S)                       RESPONSIBLE INSTITUTION
Bank                         month)                                   Finish implantation in all        Vendor
                              Pending agreement to continue         Governorate branches (phase 4)
                             with the current vendor, finish the
                             implementation of Phase 1 and 2 (7
                             foreign branches, HQ and main
                             Branch)
Implementation of Core        Select and sign a contract with        Implement the CBS at all Rasheed  Ministry of Finance
Banking System for Rasheed   consulting company                      branches                            Rasheed Bank
Bank                          Decide on implementation plan                                             Consultant
                             requirements with the consultant                                           vendor
Implementation of Core        Form a committee from Ministry of      Announce the RFP and receive      Ministry of Finance
Banking System for the       Finance and representatives of          responses                           Specialized Banks
specialized banks            specialized banks                        Short list the vendors            Vendor(s)
                             Decide whether all banks should have     Select a vendor and sign a
                             one solution (personalized to each      contract
                             bank) or each need to have their own
                                                                      Start development
                             solution
                              Prepare the RFP




                                                                    74
                        Annex 9: Iraq Banking Reform Strategy—Action Plan *
                                            (2008-2012)
I.     ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE
       A. Develop an Overall Organization Structure
            Business Units organization ** (retail, corporate and investment banking, and other business units)
            Risk Management Units
            Management Information System
            Governance, Control and Support Units (audit, legal & compliance, anti-money laundering, human
             resources & organization, shared services, financial functions, risk functions)
       B. Forming a Dedicated Restructuring Unit Headed by a Restructuring Project Officer in Individual
           Banks

II. CAPACITY BUILDING
       A. Improve Human Resources Processes (development of a people strategy, clear rules and regulations
            for employees, assessment of skills and needs, job descriptions and qualifications and career paths,
            rewards management and performance evaluation)
       B.   Training of Staff Based on a Detailed Training Plan (skills and talent development, role modeling,
            increasing understanding and motivation, mindset and behavior transformation)

III. FINANCE AND ACCOUNTING
       A.   Restructuring the Balance Sheets (including inherited debts and losses)
       B.   Capital Adequacy (classification of assets and provision policy, capital base)
       C.   Budgeting, Planning and Performance Management
       D.   Accounting System in Compliance with National Standard and in-line with International
            Practices
       E.   Comprehensive Reporting System of Financial Results
       F.   Cost Recovery and Re-pricing of Financial Products

IV. IT INFRASTRUCTURE
       A. IT Platform Covering all Operational Aspects, including:
             Marketing and sales tools
             Credit tools
             Risk management tools
             IT Related Consumer Product
       B.   Connectivity of Branches and Supervision Authority—Flow of Information
       C.   Security System of Information

V. RISK MANAGEMENT
       A. Credit Risk (origination, underwriting, monitoring, workout)
       B. Non-Credit Risk Management (market risk, operational risk, etc.)

VI. INTERNAL AUDIT AND COMPLIANCE
       A. Internal Audit (processes, audit framework and methodology, effectiveness of internal audit)
       B. Compliance with Laws, Regulations and Instructions (scope of improvement, compliance
            framework and methodology, organization)


*
     Banks in this Annex refers to state-owned banks.

**
     Units in this document refer to any organizational form.




                                                                75
VII. STRENGTHEN THE BANKING SUPERVISORY AND REGULATORY AUTHORITY
   A. Make a Thorough and Comprehensive Review of Banking Supervision Processes
   B. Update and Enforce a set of Regulations in line with International Standards
   C. Make New Recruitments and Develop Training




                                               76
I. ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE
  A. Develop an Overall Organization Structure                                                  Start
Time: July 2009
       Review the “as is” overall organization structure (hierarchical structure, roles and
        responsibilities, risk management, revenue sources) and detect the main current organizational
        issues.
       Design the bank new target model fulfilling: (i) hierarchical structure simplification in order to
        speed up decision making processes; (ii) focus on risk, business and accountability; (iii) neat
        separation between risk generation and risk control/monitoring; and (iv) neat distinction
        between revenue generating units and supporting/shared services units
       Adopt the new organization structure.
       Create the Restructuring Units
       Identify and hire Heads for key priority functions
       Design the migration plan from the “as is” to the new organization

1. Business Units Reorganization
a. Retail Business Unit                                                                       Start
Time: June 2009
     Create the position of “head of Retail” who will be responsible for: (i) retail products (deposits
      and other liability products, credit cards, personal loans, mortgages, etc.; (ii) retail client
      segments (i.e. affluent, mass market and micro-business; and (iii) branch network
     Create separate units for marketing.
     Consolidate branch network management under one Head (or a number of regional managers) to
      report directly to the Head of Retail

b. Corporate Business Unit                                                       Start     Time:
September 2009
     Create the position of “Head of Corporate & Investment Banking” who will be responsible for
      the development and management of the Corporate Business (small, middle and large corporate
      segments)
     Create the “Trade Finance” Unit.
     Decide on integrating investment banking with corporate banking or creating an Investment
      Banking Unit (as is desirable)

c. Other Business Units Organization                                                  Start    Time:
December 2009
Under the Treasurer:
     Review Treasury front office activities
     Review Treasury back office activities
     Create Credit Workout Unit to be responsible of non-performing loan analysis, recovery strategy,
      debt recovery “execution” and performance assessment (See Section IV and V for more details)

2. Risk Management Units                                                                            Start
Time: July 2009
     Create Risk Management Units (See Section V for more details)
     Create the position of the Chief Risk Officer who will be reporting to senior management and
       responsible for: (i) risk policy (credit, market, operational risk, portfolio, etc.), and risk control
       (credit, market, operational risk, portfolio, etc.); (ii) risk measurement (credit, market,
       operational risk, portfolio, etc.); and (iii) other risk related functions

3. Management Information System                                           Start    Time:      December
2008/January 2009
     Risk Management Unit will be responsible for: (i) central NPLs database; (ii) simplified and
      standardized rating/scoring tool; (iii) standard and centralized system and database for customers
      pre-screening; (iv) control of limits; (v) simulation of capital absorption on new deals; and (vi)
      simulation of market risks and capital needs


                                                    77
4. Governance, Control and Support Units                                                 Start Time:
January 2009
a. Audit
     Revisit audit organizational structure to ensure that it covers The bank control system (i.e. IT,
      financial and branch network auditing) and clients’ claims management

b. Legal and Compliance                                                                   Start   Time:
January 2009
     Revisit compliance organizational structure.
     Increase number of compliance staff for understaffed areas

c. Anti-money Laundering                                                              Start Time:
January 2009
     Revisit the established Anti-money Laundering Units in individual banks to ensure compliance
       with the Anti-Money Laundering Law and CBI regulations

d. Human Resources and Organization                                                  Start Time:
January 2009
     Enhance the position of “Human Resources Head” who will be responsible for: (i) human
      resources development and management (selection, evaluation, training, incentive system and
      career paths); (ii) bank organization; and (iii) internal communication

e. Shared Services                                                                         Start Time:
January 2009
      Create the position of the Chief Operations Officer who will be responsible for the management
       of shared services provision to the Bank’s business units, in order to maximize effectiveness and
       efficiency
      IT application, processes, back office services, real estate and facility management, purchases
       and logistic)

f. Financial Functions                                                                     Start Time:
January 2009
      Create the position of the Chief Financial Officer who will be responsible for: (i) planning and
       control; (ii) funding and asset and liability management; and (iii) accounting, financial reports
       and tax management

B. Forming a Dedicated Restructuring Unit at each Individual Bank
1. Establish a Dedicated Restructuring Unit Headed by a Restructuring Project officer in Individual
Banks:
Start Time: January 2009
     Create the position of the Head of the Restructuring Unit for each bank
     Follow-up and coordinates across different working groups on operational, institutional and
       financial restructuring of the bank
     Reports to the bank management and Executive Restructuring Committee
     Produce monthly and quarterly reports on progress made and challenges confronting the
       implementations of the restructuring process
II. CAPACITY BUILDING
A. Improve Human Resources Processes
1. Development of a People Strategy                                               Start Time: On-
going process
     Define clear roles and responsibilities for human resources management processes
     Leverage bank’s strategy to develop a comprehensive “People Strategy”, including: (i) an
      agreement on type and number of employees needed; and (ii) an agreement on strategic people
      choices (i.e., talent acquisition, work and accountability, performance metric and employee
      value proposition)


                                                  78
     Develop a plan to address redundant staff through redeployment or voluntarily early retirement
      schemes
     Clarify the rules and regulations applicable to employees of state-owned banks

2. Assessment of Skills and Needs                                                               Start
Time: July 2008
     Evaluate current level of skills, especially for pivotal roles (such as workout officers and Credit
       Marketing Officer) and managerial positions (including network)
     Assess commercial (such as product information) interpersonal and analytical/technical skills of
       sales force
     Identify recruitment needs for specific positions
     Create new job openings in areas that are not adequately available in banks with the needed
       skills, (such as chartered accountant, certified FM, IT expert, credit officer, credit risk
       management, mortgage underwriting, sectoral analyst, etc.)

3. Job Descriptions, Qualifications and Career Paths                                            Start
Time: July 2008
      Define specific and action-oriented job descriptions starting with pivotal positions in both Head
       Quarters and network; ensure that the responsibilities/ accountabilities are clear and well-
       understood
      Identify career paths for different positions including changing requirements/expectations at
       milestones

4. Reward Management and Performance Evaluation                                          Start
Time: June 2008
     Improve performance evaluation system to ensure objectivity and to include Value Based
      Management indicators
     Leverage on the work of the Ministry of Finance and the banks on “The Incentive Structure for
      Management and Employees Program”
     Revisit level and variability of incentives for specific positions (e.g. Marketing Officer,
      Workout Officers, etc.)
     Agree on style of accountability
     Collaborate with Value Based Management leaders to define process for setting goals and
      monitoring results
     Evaluate performance based on defined process
     Agree on compensation and rewards
     Find suitable solution for employees with low performance and potentials

B. Training of Staff Based on a Detailed Training Plan
  1. Skills and talent development                                                         Start Time:
January 2008
     Launch an extensive training starting from pivotal areas and roles: (i) key training areas would
      include FM, risk management, credit analysis, compliance, marketing, tellers with IT
      capabilities, etc.; and (ii) key marketing roles (such as credit marketing officer) would include
      four dimensions: technical knowledge (including, product knowledge), management capability,
      leadership and communication skills (including sales attitude)
     Set up a training program to increase experience and international competence preferably in
      partnership with foreign banks and/or institutions (such as exchange programs); provide support
      for development programs such as masters degree and language courses

2. Role Modeling                                                                          Start Time:
January 2008
     Deeply involve the top management in explaining the overall missions and strategy as well as
       the targets and objectives
     Find pivotal people and make them the “champions” of the behavioral change.
     Define the characteristics of a high-performing “top team” and the main steps for transformation
       paths

                                                  79
     Define seminar program held by top management for explaining to employees overall mission,
      strategy, targets and objectives and stage leadership “symbolic acts” as appropriate
     Identify the top 100-300 leaders to be indicated in future as role models (e.g. charismatic
      Branch/ Line managers).
     Highlight “change champions” characteristics from all levels in both formal and informal
      leadership roles.
     Training workshops with these pivotal people to make them “champions of change” within their
      daily work

3. Increasing understanding and motivation                                            Start Time:
January 2008
      Arrange recurring meetings between head quarter people and branch network to illustrate
       strategy and commercial initiatives.
      Establish a task force to help network in implementing commercial initiatives and new sales
       behavior
      Conduct regular meetings for feedback

4. Mindset and Behavior Transformation                                                  Start Time:
January 2008
     Conduct full diagnostic of the Bank’s culture/needs
     Conduct a program targeting mindset & behavior as well as other capability needs, including:
     Design program and prepare training modules for key business and control areas and roles
     Conduct off-site training modules targeting different profiles (e.g. front line staff, branch
      managers, etc.)
     Conduct intense technical/ commercial workshops for front line staff
     Launch a training program designed to select top performers for future programs, by closely
      monitoring performance of participants
     Measure impact of programs and agree on improvement opportunities for future programs
III. FINANCING AND ACCOUNTING
A. Restructuring the balance sheets (including inherited debts and losses)                           On-
going process
      Define foreign debts of banks in accordance with the aim of reflecting the foreign debt settled in
       the banks’ financial statements
      Transfer to the Ministry of Finance or establish contra-accounts
      Ministry of Finance would take responsibility of part of the external debt
      Ministry of Finance will negotiate for the remaining portion of the external debt with relevant
       parties
      Define other debt and losses for making related decisions by authorized parties
      Identify and agree on discrepancies and ways to eliminate undercapitalization of banks
      Monitoring of banks’ foreign assets in foreign banks and foreign correspondents

B. Capital Adequacy                                                                               On-
going process
1. Classification of assets and provision policy
     Increase the amount of provisions in the profit and loss (P&L) in compliance with the audit
       results
     Provide additional resources by the Ministry of Finance to the banks to be used for provisioning
       for NPLs
     Account for NPLs that are not recognized in the current accounts

2. Capital base                                                                                      On-
going process
     Reevaluation of the banks’ assets and take decision regarding non-strategic investments,
      rationalizing real estate properties of the bank in order to reduce the risk-weighted assets base



                                                  80
C. Budgeting, Planning and Performance Management                                             Start
Time: June 2009
     Leverage on the findings and recommendations of Ernest & Young audit in order to design a
      short-term Annual Business Plan and long-term “Strategic Business Plan” for each bank: (i)
      overview market outlook; (ii) assess bank current position; (iii) define bank’s mission, strategic
      priorities and aspirations; and (iv) define implementation approach, progress monitoring process
      and tools
     Improve operational planning and budgeting: (i) diagnose current situation and align different
      stakeholders; (ii) design a new operational plan and budgeting concept; and (iii) testing, piloting
      and deployment of the process
     Design a value-based management approach: (i) define Key Performance Indicators and value
      drivers; (ii) create a performance planning system and set opportunity based targets; and (iii)
      create a controlling function

D. Accounting System in compliance with National Standards and in-line with International
Standards
Start Time: January 2009
     Restructure general ledger
     Map and redesign accounting processes and policies
     Define system to account for provisions
     Leverage on the work being done to identify and clarify foreign debt, inherited losses and
       provisions

E. Comprehensive Reporting System of Financial Results                                      Start
Time: June 2009
     Define a set of data that is critical to the Ministry of Finance, the CBI, the management of the
      banks, and investors
     Identify financial performance indicators
     Take the required steps and measures to make the data available to decision makers and public

F. Cost Recovery and Re-pricing of Financial Products                                      Start Time:
March 2009
     Inventory of the major financial products and services, including potential new products
     Reassessment of the costs of financial products and services including those provided to the
      public sector to ensure that these costs cover capital costs
     Establishing a streamlined mechanism of the procedures and steps required to authorize pricing
      of financial products and services


IV. IT INFRASTRUCTURE
A. IT Platform Covering Accounting and all Operational Aspects
1. Establish IT Platform                                                                    Start Time:
October 2008
      Implement an IT system that handles basic transactions of the banks.
      Expand the capability of the system to provide a timely picture of the banks position.
      Design interim templates in key areas, such as: (i) credit tools in the areas of pre-screening,
       scoring, early warning and NPLs transparency; (ii) tools to target manage and monitor sales
       (reports on products usage, risk profiling, etc.); and (iii) corporate segmentation based on real
       business parameters such as turnover, number of employees and asset size
      Design IT related consumer products, such as swift, credit cards, automatic teller machines,
       direct deposits of pay, etc.

B. Connectivity of Branches and Supervision Authority                                  Start Time:
October 2008
     Set-up connectivity between branches and Headquarters in Baghdad
     Set-up connectivity between branches and Headquarters in other Governorates in Iraq


                                                  81
     Set-up connectivity with all correspondent banks
     Set-up connectivity with head quarters and the CBI

C. Security System for Information                                                           Start
Time: June 2009
     Adopting a security system for information in compliance with international standards
     Defining the responsibilities and authorities of those who have access to the system
     Identifying the right caliber, ethical, and professional skills for the staff responsible for the
      security system of information
     Establish a disaster recovery system
V. RISK MANAGEMENT
   A. Credit Risk
     1. Origination                                                                         Start Time:
October 2008
     Revise credit policy to make it simple and shared across the organization, setting guidelines on
      the credit risk appetite of the Bank and on how credit Risk should be distributed (across
      segments, sectors and geographies)
     Define how the overall process (of deciding, announcing, monitoring and revising credit Policy
      and strategy) works by specifying roles and responsibility of different stakeholders (i.e., Board,
      sales force as well as Credit Risk control units)
     Develop risk management policies and regulations for credit risk
     Transform front-line credit sales force from reactive to pro-active, increasing their focus on the
      client service while at the same time improve their level of accountability
     Reduce credit concentration risk
     Design standard and system/database for pre-screening (initially even basic parameters such as
      turnover, number of employees, past transactions, etc.), support organization with industry-
      specific data and information, such as sector reports
     Assess current situation by: (i) collecting credit files of all corporate and small and medium
      enterprises customers; (ii) assessing credit risk distribution (e.g., risk-adjusted exposure or, in
      absence of it, nominal exposure) across sectors and geographies; (iii) assessing risk rating and
      credit strategy of all corporate customers and most significant exposures (for example small and
      medium enterprises), and (iv) identify the weaknesses
     Define a risk-adjusted pricing for lending products
     Review credit policy/strategy
     Developing a simple credit strategy leveraging on existing material: (i) setting guidelines on
      Bank credit risk appetite and on how credit risk should be distribute across sectors/geographies
     Evaluating the new system
     Define a program to improve sales force and effectiveness: (i) create client portfolios to be
      allocated to sales force; (ii) define basic performance measurements (commercial, revenue and
      risk indicators); (iii) develop recruiting and training requirements for sales fore and credit
      officers; and (iv) plan the roll-out of the training program
     Develop business requirements to the IT for a centralized pre-screening tool supporting
      information reports (e.g. sector reports)
     Understand whether target IT platform fully satisfies/meets the business requirements

2. Underwriting
   Rating and Scoring:                                                                    Start Time:
   January 2009
      Simplify and standardize rating/scoring mechanism and tools, ensure that all credit-related
       employees understand and use them
      Design the systems to integrate all applications and database across the whole process and
       locations
      Standardize data requirements at the front-line level to minimize back-forth between origination
       and underwriting
      Closely monitor discrimination power of the scoring mechanism for further improvements

                                                  82
     Closely monitor customers ability to repay any loans in foreign currency
Delegated Credit Powers:                                                             Start Time:
January 2009
     Revise the overall credit processes designing a workflow and a set of powers (based first on
      lending exposures and over time on risk) which will allow quick response to clients and
      optimize the workload of the Board, Credit Committees and other organization levels involved
      in credit underwriting
     Degree of delegation will depend on the size of the exposure

3. Monitoring
Diagnose the “as is” and Draft the Operating Model:                                            Start Time:
March 2009
     Review Current model and identify gaps versus best practices
     Develop a full diagnostic on processes: (i) watch-list selection and prioritization; (ii) preparation
      and implementation of pre-specified actions towards companies in the watch list; (iii) risk re-
      rating policy and procedures; and (iv) assessment of predictive power of current early warning
      model
     Develop a full diagnostic on organization: (i) responsibility split between head office and
      branches; and (ii) role split between credit officers and Credit Marketing Officers
     Design the operating model to be implemented (with clear responsibility split between head
      office and branches as well as between credit officers and Credit Marketing Officer) and review
      the dedicated units
Capture Quick Wins and Design the Change:                                                    Start Time:
March 2009
    Identify and launch quick wins: (i) create and review the watch list and its prioritization; (ii)
      prepare an action plan towards companies in the watch list; (iii) select and train a task force
      (composed of high potential employees with credit e expertise) responsible to manage/update
      the watch list; and (iv) develop an easy to use and effective tool (i.e. excel format) to monitor
      the large corporate loans according to certain parameters and pre-set warning criteria
    Define a new loan monitoring process (e.g. process description of watch list selection,
      composition and prioritization, action plan design and implementation
    Improve monitoring organization: (i) define official role description of all the parties involved
      in the monitoring process (credit risk monitoring statistics, RMS, credit officers); and (ii) design
      a new performance measurement and incentive system
    Design required supporting system: (i) develop business requirements for an early warning
      system; and (ii) develop business requirements for a workflow system and attached standard
      reports
    Ensure that the IT platform to fully satisfies/meets the business requirements

4. Workout
Short-term Initiatives:                                                                    Start Time:
March 2009
     Analyze current existing portfolio: (i) establish a central NPLs database to enable portfolio
      segmentation in order to better identify relevant credit customers; and (ii) analyze historical
      recovery over last year and total cost of credit (losses, financial and operating costs): closed
      NPLs files sampling and one year recovery analysis of open NPLs Review current performance
      by customer segments
     Identify and launch “quick wins”: (i) draft a list of prioritized credit files according to net
      present value of recovery, distinguishing across segments and across secured vs. non secured
      lending, (iii) select and train a task force (composed of high employees with credit expertise) to
      workout selected NPLs; (iii) design the task force organization structure and its “ad hoc”
      incentives system; (iv) define simple and standard reports to make performance transparent and
      easy to monitor (at both aggregate and officer level); and (v) review the set of authority limits
      and delegated powers so as to speed up decisions and settlement process
     Develop recovery strategy and processes by customer segments (e.g. cases allocation to recovery
      officers, required level of analysis, key performance indicators)


                                                   83
Long term Initiatives for Sustainable Performance:                                             Start Time:
March 2009
    Design the long term operating model and define the organization structure specifying: (i) credit
      categories (i.e. Corporate, small and medium enterprises, Retail) and if necessary, sub-segments
      (i.e. geography and/or industrial sector); (ii) criteria to allocate credit to workout unit; (ii)
      criteria to allocate credit portfolio to workout officers; and (iii) processes and systems
    Develop a recruiting and redeployment plan, both for internal and external resources, according
      to the requirements in terms of full time equivalent and skills
    Define a training program for the workout officers
    Define an incentive system based on the recovery performance
    Estimate economic and financial impact of the long term business model
    Develop business requirements for a decision support system, with the following characteristics:
      (i) centralized and electronic access to the required data; (ii) support to the recovery agents in
      identifying recovery strategies; and (iii) decision making support based on quantitative
      indicators (i.e. recovery rate, average time of recovery, cost per transaction, etc.)

B. Non-credit Risk Management                                                                   Start Time:
March 2009
     Implement basic risk management in terms of measurement, strategy, processes and systems:
      (i) introduce simple risk adjusted profitability measurement; (ii) define basic capital allocation
      and expected return on capital; (iii) define risk management strategy and processes (e.g.
      operating limits and risk control processes); and (iv) introduce simple systems- or prototypes in
      short term- to support risk measurement of portfolio positions, control of limits and simulation
      of capital absorption on new deals
     Develop a full diagnostic to assess in an objective and consistent way each area of risk
      management.
     Design corporate risk management function with clear description of roles and responsibilities:
      (i) provide high level job description and key performance indicators for all functions related to
      risk and its processes
     Define guidelines on risk by the business unit and by risk type
     Define metrics for risk-adjusted performance measurement for the different levels of the
      organization
     Define a capital allocation process, coherent with the business and growth aspirations; set targets
      for expected returns taking risk into account; and allocate capital
     Define control processes to monitor operating limits and specify proper actions for managing
      exceptions
     Define business requirements of new systems/prototypes to support: (i) risk measurement of
      portfolio positions; (ii) control of limits; (iii) simulation of capital absorption on new deals
1. Market Risk                                                                                  Start Time:
March 2009
     Create Market Risk Management organization
     Review of treasury processes
     Liquidity risk measurement and management.
     Interest rate risk measurement and management
     Funds Transfer Pricing

2. Operational Risk                                                                           Start Time:
March 2009
     Define operational Risk organization and methodology
     Set up Operational Risk reporting and control
     Define key performance indicators and standards of control
     Outline Operational Risk Management manual
     Set up Risk and Control self assessment
     Design new product approval process



                                                   84
VI.       AUDIT AND COMPLIANCE
A. Internal Audit
1. Processes, Audit Framework and Methodology, and Effectiveness of Internal Audit
                                                                                               Start Time:
March 2009
    Evaluate the audit process, including role of Audit Committee, and recommend necessary
     improvements
    Create an integrated audit assessment frame work and methodology
    Assess effectiveness of internal audit, including the technical expertise, qualifications and
     experience in the internal audit function in order to provide assistance in all areas of the business
    Evaluate and assess effectiveness of the audit process and recommend necessary improvements
     of: (i) mission; (ii) roles and responsibilities; (iii) staffing (number of employees); (iv) skills
     (technical expertise, qualifications and experience); (v) supporting tools; and (vi) Key
     Performance Indicators
    Create an integrated audit framework and methodology
    Review and define Audit roles and processes (e.g. mission, roles and responsibilities, staffing,
     skills)
    Define a migration plan towards the “optimal” Audit structure, (e.g. supporting tools, key
     performance indicators)


B. Compliance with Rules, Laws, Regulations and Instructions

             Start Time: March 2009
       Assess current areas of improvement (e.g. understand role of the current Compliance Unit,
        benchmark with international players
       Strengthen compliance function: (i) revisit compliance framework and methodology (activities,
        regulation, policies) and the boundaries with audit and other functions; (ii) revisit organizational
        structure (e.g. define head role and responsibilities, review reporting lines, increase number of
        compliance staff in understaffed areas, define skill level requirements); and (iii) increase
        compliance-related IT investments (management information system, transaction monitoring,
        etc.)
       Run a compliance mindset and behavior program for both frontline and compliance officers, e.g.
        training programs, communication programs, and incentives and rewarding scheme.
VII. STRENGTHEN THE BANKING SUPERVISORY AND REGULATORY AUTHORITY
A. Make a Thorough and Comprehensive Review of Banking Supervision Processes
                                                                                              Start Time:
                                                                                    January 2009
       On site supervision should focus on risks: (i) credit organization and policy; (ii) concentration of
        credit; (iii) source of funding; (iv) risk management systems; (v) IT system; and (vi) internal
        controls.
       Off site supervision should focus on: (i) new Management Information System; (ii)
        comprehensive review of banks (CAMELS approach); (iii) qualitative and quantitative analysis;
        and (iv) Peer comparison analysis
       Macro prudential surveillance should focus on resilience: (i) key developments, risks and
        vulnerabilities of the banking sector; (ii) seamless supervisory cycle with micro prudential
        surveillance; and (iii) main delivery: annual banking sector review

B. Update and Enforce a Set of Regulations in line with International Standards
                                                                                               Start Time:
                                                                                     January 2009
       Priorities of the first set of regulations: (i) implementation of a lending policy; (ii) accuracy of
        loan evaluation and improvement of loan loss provisioning; (iii) monitoring of large exposures;
        (iv) addressing connected and directed lending; and (v) enhancement of internal controls and
        audit

                                                     85
     Priorities of the second set of regulations: (i) operational risk and related issues; and (ii) market
      risks

C. Make New Recruitments and Develop Training                                              Start Time:
January 2009
     Staff and training issues: (i) start new recruitments to rejuvenate the work force; (ii) assess the
      training policy and process; (iii) enhance leadership capacity and rewards; and (iii) incentives
      and rewarding scheme.




                                                   86
                                      Annex 10
     Organizational Structures Action Plans for Rafidain Bank and Rasheed Bank


Objective
                                   Actions/Tasks Proposed                 Responsible Institution


Implement Banking Reform
Strategy for the two state-owned    Implement organizational              Ministry Finance
banks, Rafidain and Rasheed --        restructuring of Rafidain and        ROC
to expand/deepen access to            Rasheed Bank as per agreed           Rafidain and Rasheed Banks
finance to all segments of the        plans.
economy

                                    Reconstitute the two state-owned
                                      banks’ Boards of Directors to
                                      bring in required business skills
Improve corporate governance
                                      and experience
in Rafidain and Rasheed Banks                                              Ministry of Finance
                                    Appoint/reconstitute Board
consistent with international                                              ROC
                                      Committees with new mandates
(Basel Committee) standards                                                Rafidain & Rasheed Banks
                                    Separate Chairman & GM
and Banking Law 94 of 2004
                                      positions
                                    Revise & approve GM and other
                                      key managers’ delegated powers


                                   Establish four Business Groups for
                                   Rasheed and Rafidain, namely: (i)
                                   Strategic Management; (ii) Risk
Improve Rafidain and Rasheed
                                   Management (iii) Operations; and       Rafidain and Rasheed Banks
Banks’ Operational Efficiency
                                   (iv) Credit Departments—with the
                                   objective of enhancing bank
                                   managers’ accountability for
                                   results.

                                    Install/operationalize Core
                                      Banking Systems in the two
Implement the restructuring           banks
                                                                           Rafidain and Rasheed Banks
recommendations                     Define and document business
                                      processes for the core banking
                                      system



                                    Appoint Experienced banker as
                                   restructuring project manager based
                                   on Board of Directors Decision
Appoint key personnel to            Appoint Project Manager for the
management positions in the        Core Banking System.                    Rafidain and Rasheed Banks
two banks.                          Appoint AGMs to head each of
                                   the four business groups for
                                   Rasheed Bank and the Five
                                   Business Groups for the Rafidain
                                   Bank

Build Institutional Capacity of     Implement Training of Trainers
                                                                          Rafidain and Rasheed Banks
Rafidain and Rasheed Banks to         and of key managers and staff in
improve their productivity and        banking topics and HR

                                                     87
Objective
                                  Actions/Tasks Proposed                 Responsible Institution

profitabilit, and quality and       management
content of financial services      Develop “Twinning” agreements
provided to clients                 with regional banks to facilitate
                                    “on the job training”
                                   Realign branch network by
                                     introducing new banking
                                     products & services, and start
Rafidain Bank and Rasheed            developing new strategies for
Bank accelerate diversification      existing branches and extend
and deepening of financial           branchless banking channels
                                                                          Rafidain and Rasheed Banks
services country wide                (Electronic Channels)
including provision of             Rafidain to resume international
international banking services.      banking following restructuring
                                     of external debts and liabilities
                                     and Rasheed Bank to develop
                                     its international banking
                                     department

                                  Rafidain and Rasheed Banks to:
                                   Prepare branches & headquarter
                                     rehabilitation & renovation plan
Improve client facilities and
                                   Execute Branch Module/s
satisfaction, improve corporate                                           Rafidain and Rasheed Banks
                                   Renovate key 50 branches and
image and branding
                                     then roll out renovation
                                   Hire marketing agency to develop
                                     & disseminate new image



Liberalize regressive MOF
                                   Review, amend and eliminate
regulations on Rafidain and
                                     MOF regulations & instructions
Rasheed banks to facilitate                                               Ministry of Finance
                                     regarding Rafidain and Rasheed
speedy organizational                                                     ROC
                                     Banks that constrain autonomy
restructuring, finance training                                           Rafidain and Rasheed Banks
                                     to undertake market-based
programs, and undertake
                                     financial services
broader market-based, inclusive
banking.




                                                     88
