                                            REPUBLIC OF IRAQ
                                    BANKING SECTOR REFORM PROJECT

                                               The World Bank
                                              Supervision Mission

                                                 July 17-20, 2010

                                                 Aide-Mémoire


I.         INTRODUCTION

1.     A World Bank supervision mission led by Ms. Sahar Nasr, Lead Financial Economist,
and Task Team Leader (MNSFP); and comprising Mr. Jorge Araujo, Lead Economist (MNSPR);
Ms. Nazaneen I. Ali, Senior Procurement Specialist (MNAPR); and Mr. Jad Mazahreh, Financial
Management Specialist (MNAFM) took place in Amman, Jordan from July 17-20, 2010. Mr.
Ziad Badr, Head of Mission, Iraq Office in Amman (MNCII) have participated in key meetings.
The mission was supported by Hanan Al Kortany, and Amira Zaky in terms of coordination with
counterparts, and mission preparatory work. This Aide Memoire summarizes the findings and
recommendations of the mission, which is subject to management review.

2.      The Bank mission carried out its work in close consultation with the Central Bank of Iraq
(CBI), Ministry of Finance, the Board of Supreme Audit (BSA), and the two state-owned
commercial banks—Rasheed Bank and Rafidain Bank. Meetings were held with Dr. Sinan
Alshabibi, CBI Governor; and Dr. Azez Jafar, Advisor to the Minister of Finance; as well as with
the Iraqi Banking Reform Executive Steering Committee (ESC), chaired by Dr. Ahmad Al-
Juboori, Deputy Governor of CBI; and comprising Mr. Waleed Eidy, General Manager of
Supervision Department, CBI; Dr. Huda Hadi, Advisor to the Minister of Finance; and Mr.
Abdulhadi Farhan, General Manager of BSA. The Bank mission also met with the senior
management of the two state-owned banks; Mr. Kadhm Mohamed Nashoor, Director General,
Rasheed Bank; and Mr. Mohsin Abed Hasan, Assistant Director General, Rafidain Bank, as well
as Rana Jabbar, Assistant of the Deputy Governor, CBI. The mission was joined by the Project
Management Unit (PMU) team, comprising; Dr. Majid Al Souri, Director; Ms. Leena Khider,
Procurement Officer; and Ms. Lamees Azouz, Financial Management Officer. A list of officials
met is provided in Annex I.

3.    The mission also worked closely with the IMF Stand-By Arrangement (SBA) mission.
The IMF held a First Review1 under the SBA in Amman, Jordan, during July 13-17.

II.        MISSION OBJECTIVES

4.       The main objective of the mission was to supervise the Iraq Banking Sector Reform
Project, and assess progress achieved to date focusing on the project's main components, namely:
(i) institutional and operational restructuring of the two state-owned commercial banks;

1
    The IMF Board meeting for the First Review is currently scheduled for September 10, 2010.
                                                          1
(ii) financial restructuring of the two state-owned commercial banks; (iii) strengthening the
regulatory and supervisory functions of the CBI; and (iv) project management, monitoring and
evaluation. The Bank mission also discussed with the Ministry of Finance the next steps for
moving forward with the Fiscal Sustainability Development Policy Loan (DPL).

5.      A key objective of the Bank mission was to discuss and agree with the authorities on next
steps in terms of project implementation, in the context of the extension of closing date. The
mission agreed with the authorities on the actions that will be taken under the new timeline of the
project to ensure effective and smooth implementation, as per the letter from the Regional Vice
President Dr. Shamshad Akhtar addressed to His Excellency Dr. Sinan Al Shabibi dated
July 14, 2010 approving the extension of the closing date from October 31, 2010 till June 30,
2013, in response to His Excellency's request dated June 23, 2010.

6.      The mission also discussed with the Iraqi counterparts the implications of the recent June
13, 2010 attacks on CBI and the PMU, which led to the destruction of all records, including
procurement and financial management records, and PMU equipment. The mission as well
explored areas in which further support can be provided to CBI, such as and not limited to:
(i) studying the operational needs of the PMU to resume working in an efficient business
environment; and (ii) replacing the destroyed assets as well as retrieving the lost documents.
Also, discussions were held on the situation of the Inter Banking Network (IIBN) that have been
completely destroyed as a result of the attacks.

III.   DESCRIPTION OF THE OPERATION
7.      The operation comes as a response to the request by the Government of Iraq to the World
Bank for supporting the implementation of Phase I of the Iraq Banking Reform Strategy—Action
Plan (2008-2012). The project, which amounts to US$ 10 million, is provided through the Iraq
Trust Fund (ITF) to finance the costs and activities associated with the restructuring of the
banking sector in Iraq. Specifically, it would support the restructuring of the two state-owned
banks and develop their activities in the financial sector—in parallel with on-going efforts to
strengthen the banking sector’s regulatory and supervisory framework in line with international
standards. The recipient of the grant and the implementing agency is CBI.

8.      On the overall financial system in Iraq, there are currently 43 banks—seven of which are
state-owned. As of April 30, 2010, total assets of the system amounted to ID 344 trillion—ID
290 trillion (84 percent) and ID 22 trillion (6 percent), belonging to Rafidain Bank and Rasheed
Bank respectively. There is no deposit insurance system in Iraq.

9.     Of primary importance is to build the capacity of the two largest state-owned commercial
banks with their huge branch network (293 branches) to play an effective role in financial
intermediation, and be able to provide the resources needed for Iraq’s growth and offer good
deposit and payment systems for the business and household sector. This would in a later stage
allow private banks to also contribute to the financing of Iraq’s development. Underpinning the
modernization of the state-owned banks would be the strengthening of the regulatory and
supervisory capacity of CBI.



                                                2
10.     Overall, this operation would assist Iraq in developing modern financial institutions that
can operate efficiently and competitively in a market-based environment. It will thereby foster
more efficient financial intermediation, resource mobilization and risk management, and increase
private participation in the provision of financial services in the medium-term. Capacity building
is essential to allow the Iraqi government ownership of the reconstruction and reform agenda.
International experience with reconstruction in conflict-affected countries has shown that a
sound and efficient financial sector is essential for economic growth and development.

IV.    MISSION FINDINGS

11.      Recent attacks on CBI. On June 13, 2010, series of explosions and attacks on the CBI,
that left casualties and two floors at CBI got on fire. The mission discussed the implication of the
explosion on the CBI and the PMU, which led to the destroy of all records, including
procurement and financial management records, and PMU equipment. The Bank mission
explored areas in which further support can be provided to CBI in procurement of office
equipment and furniture for the PMU, to resume working in an efficient business environment,
replacing the destroyed assets.

12.     Good progress. Since the last supervision mission on December 2009, good progress has
been made in signing consultancy contracts, issuing RFPs, and receiving proposals, however the
June attack caused serious delays that affect the progress in implementation. The PMU had
reallocated themselves to a temporary location but can not function efficiently because of the
tight security around that alternative location. The PMU will need to reallocate again to a new
location within the Rafidain Bank—HQ close to the CBI location.

13.    Disbursement. The mission reviewed financial management (FM) arrangements,
followed on pending issues and matters, and highlighted the current status of the FM aspects of
the project. As reconciled to the Bank Client Connection, a total of US$216,483 has been
disbursed as of July 19, 2010 which equals to 2.16 percent of the total Grant amount of US$10
million.

14.     Considerable progress has been made over the past months in the implementation of the
banking sector reform program. The Bank has been providing technical support and advisory
services to the Iraqi authorities. This has led to the development of a comprehensive, action-
specific Banking Reform Strategy-Action plan (2008–2012), which was done in consultations
with CBI, BSA, and the senior management of the two state-owned banks. As a result, consensus
was reached among all counterparts on a unified strategy, which became the binding document
for banking reform in Iraq, and has allowed Iraqi authorities to meet the benchmark set forth by
the IMF SBA. Good progress has been made to date towards the objectives laid out by the
Government of Iraq in its comprehensive five-year Banking Reform Strategy. Despite delays in
implementation and slower than anticipated disbursement due to the complex situation on the
ground, the PMU has made progress in the implementation of the four components of the
project.




                                                 3
Component I: Institutional and Operational Restructuring of the Two State-owned
Commercial Banks

15.     Under institutional and operational restructuring, this project provides capacity building
and training to the two state-owned banks staff, covering the following components of Phase I of
the Banking Reform Strategy: (i) reorganizing the organizational structure and implementing the
changes; (ii) improving HR processes;2 (iii) conducting risk management, both credit and non-
credit risk management; and (iv) IT infrastructure, covering all operational aspects, security
system of information and management of information systems.

16.     Various workshops will be held in coordination with other donors for the capacity
building of the management and staff of the two-state-owned banks, along with staff from the
Ministry of Finance, CBI, and BSA. These workshops will provide the participants the best
practice in terms of organizational structure of commercial banks, helping them in establishing
new units, such as Risk Management Units, and in identifying the required caliber. This would
also entail sharing with them means for improving HR processes. Training on risk management
will include support for establishment of a well-functioning, adequately managed and completely
staffed risk management organization in line with international and regional best practices;
changes in the organizational structure, especially the set up of a risk control department; and
development of manuals for risk management.

17.      Some achievements have been made in moving forward in the implementation of
institutional and operational restructuring of the two state-owned commercial banks, as evident
in:

              Organizational Structure and Capacity building: the proposals had been received
          and evaluated and negotiation started in April 2010 but not finalized due to discussions
          on reimbursement by covering hardship allowances, insurance, and security cost to the
          consultants staff in Baghdad. The Mission urged the negotiation committee to finalize
          negotiation in due time and send the initialed contract to the Bank’s for No Objection.

               Internal Audit and Compliance: Technical and financial proposals were received,
          however all proposals were damaged because of the recent attack on CBI and PMU. The
          PMU needs to request the short listed firms to submit their proposals and set a new
          closing date.

               Risk Management: The mission discussed the timing for launching of publishing the
          EOI and decided to postpone to coincide with the recommendations the organizational
          restructuring.



2
  This includes support for: (i) establishment of a well-functioning, adequately managed and completely staffed risk management
organization in line with international and regional best practices; (ii) changes in the organizational structure, especially the set
up of a risk control department; (iii) development of manuals for risk management; (iv) amendments to existing credit approval
procedures on the basis of accepted best practices; (v) improved measuring and monitoring capabilities that will enable the banks
to produce comprehensive and accurate reports on a bank-wide basis, including the ability to identify “single obligors” and
aggregate such exposures; and (vi) training in human resource management.
                                                                 4
            IT Training: EOI was advertised and RFP were sent to the short listed firms but due
       to the attack the closing dates were extended to August 7, 2010.

            Training of the Branch Mangers and Training of Human Resources contracts:
       Technical proposals were evaluated and World Bank’s No Objection was granted but the
       proposals were damaged because of the attack. The PMU will request the short listed
       firms to re-submit the technical and financial proposals and proceed with the public
       opening of the financial proposals. The PMU and evaluation committee will carefully re-
       examine the technical and financial proposals and compare with the technical evaluation
       report to avoid any attempt of changing any proposal.

Component II: Financial Restructuring of the Two State-owned Commercial Banks

18.    The second component of the operation focuses on capacity building and training in the
following areas: (i) finance and accounting—restructuring the balance sheets of these two banks
and developing the accounting systems; and (ii) internal audit and compliance, focusing on the
process, audit framework, methodology, and effectiveness of internal audit. The project will
support in organizing workshops and provide technical assistance on the best means of
addressing the problem of non-performing loans (NPLs) by sharing the experience of other
developing and developed countries in cleaning up the balance sheets of their state-owned banks,
and will also guide the Iraq authorities in choosing the most suitable approach to the Iraqi
circumstances. In addition, the project will also ensure that the new accounting systems lead to
balance sheets that reflect net asset values and the banks' financial position, through capacity
building in the area of finance, accounting, internal audit and compliance.

19.     The financial restructuring phase included restructuring the balance sheets by transferring
the debts, public entity NPLs and losses inherited from the past regime to the Ministry of
Finance within an agreed upon process after full reconciliation is maintained with the Ministry of
Finance. The Ministry of Finance, in coordination with CBI have been working on addressing
the problem NPLs. This process compelled the banks to sort out and reconcile assets and liability
accounts, before the Government providing any new capital. The state-owned banks have
verified their obligations toward some of the foreign creditors, for which a settlement by the
Ministry of Finance were reached, with the assistance of a qualified international auditor.

20.     However, limited action was taken until today due to various reasons, the most important
of which was no one assuming the required responsibility. the Bank team had been informed that
NPLs for the two state-owned banks had declined to reach ID110 billion in December 2009 (a
reduction by 23 percent as of June 2007). However, during the mission, there was some
uncertainty on the part of the Iraqi authorities as to the precise NPL amounts for the two banks.
Again, it will be critical to obtain accurate information on the NPLs for the upcoming DPL1
supervision mission. The banks needed an instruction from the Ministry of Finance on which and
how much of debt, to which creditor are to be deleted from the books. As a result the balance
sheets still contain inherited debts and losses.

21.     The second step of financial restructuring will be the capitalization of these two banks by
the Ministry of Finance in line with the capital adequacy regulations of the CBI. However, the
capitalization of Rafidain Bank should not be realized unless bankruptcy court case against its
                                                 5
London subsidiary is concluded to the satisfaction of Iraq. Moreover, the recapitalization of
Rafidain Bank and Rasheed Bank and the restructuring of their balance sheets should go hand in
hand with the operational and institutional restructuring, especially establishing an appropriate
governance structure and strengthening risk management and control functions.

22.    The financial restructuring of Rasheed Bank and Rafidain Bank would be accelerated
through the establishment of a Financial Restructuring Reconciliation Committee, which would
be chaired by a representative from the Ministry of Finance (as the owner of state-owned banks),
and comprising management of the two state-owned banks. CBI and BSA agreed to be
observers, while Ernst and Young (E&Y) would be active members to guide on audit issues.
This Committee would work under Restructuring Oversight Committee (ROC), and would focus
on addressing the problem of external debt rather than NPLs of SOEs, which is quite negligible
as opposed to the former. While there was clarity about the mandate of this Committee, a
decision on its structure and management will be taken at a later date. A proposed timeline for
the Committee’s activities is in Annex VI.

23.     Some achievements have been made in moving forward in the implementation of the
financial restructuring of the two state-owned commercial banks, as evident in:

            Financial Restructuring: Technical and Financial proposals received but the PMU
       will need to ask the short listed firms in setting a new closing date and resubmitting their
       proposals due to the mentioned damages on CBI and PMU.

          Training for Risk Management, Financial Restructuring, and Internal Audit and
       Compliance: The RFP was issued to the short listed firms and the closing date for
       submission was extended to August 4, 2010.

Component III: Strengthening the Regulatory and Supervisory Functions of the CBI

24.     The project provides capacity building to CBI to enhance its supervisory and regulatory
authorities. Under this component, support would provide in reviewing the existing banking
supervision process, assessing the effectiveness of its supervisory apparatus to the adherence to
international codes and standards, and preparing a detailed action plan to address any deficient,
gaps and needs in coordination with the IMF. Capacity building and training of the staff of the
supervision department at CBI would include setting up the underpinnings of a strengthened
regulatory and supervisory framework, focusing on on-site and off-site processes. CBI needs to
implement the corrective actions required to close the gap between existing practices at CBI and
international accepted best practices.

25.     CBI is currently working on its regulatory and supervisory authority. Developments at
that front include:

            Strengthening the regulatory and supervision functions of CBI: The contract with
       the selected consultant was signed on April 2010 and the consultant commenced his task
       at CBI—Baghdad on May 30, 2010.


                                                6
           Training of Banking Supervision of CBI: three institutions were short listed but only
       the Central bank of Egypt submitted their proposals before the closing date. The
       evaluation committee studied the sole proposals and found it satisfactory, WB’s no
       objections were granted on the technical proposal and later on the negotiated contract.
       The PMU needs to get the needed approval and sign the contract.

Component IV: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation

26.     This component of the project covers all costs related to the management, monitoring and
evaluation of the project. It includes the costs associated with the establishment of PMU, along
with salaries of PMU staff, that would include: (i) maintenance of office equipment; (ii) office
supplies, utilities, and office administration costs, including translation, printing and advertising;
(iii) communication costs; (iv) costs associated with the production of bidding documents; and
(v) commercial bank charges. Costs will also include: (i) transportation and travel including per
diem allowance for PMU staff in travel status to attend supervision missions; any other project
implementation related expenses as agreed by CBI and the Bank.

27.     Due to the recent attacks in June 13, 2010 on the CBI, most of the office equipment and
construction works at CBI and the PMU were destroyed. Hence, some funding will be allocated
to support the CBI in restoring its business operations as quickly as possible. This funding would
be drawn from funds initially allocated to Component (iv) of the Emergency Banking Sector
Reform Project, which covers all costs related to the management, monitoring and evaluation of
the project.

28.    The World Bank also plans rehabilitation work in CBI for IIBN (the inter-banking
network). IIBN is used to run the payment system and RTGS in CBI. IIBN was built under the
World Bank's Emergency Private Sector Development project. The system was commissioned in
2009. Due to the recent attack on CBI, the IIBN site at CBI has been destroyed, but IIBN is still
operating. CBI is one of the two main sites of IIBN and needs to be rebuilt.

29.     In order to achieve the project development objective and ensure full implementation of
the project’s key components, it was crucial to extend the closing date of the project. There are
some components that would require more than a year to attain adequate implementation, for
which the Bank cannot provide its no objection to some contracts since they will not be fulfilled
by the original closing date (October 31, 2010), which was set prior to the formal extension of
the Iraq Trust Fund (ITF). Furthermore, capacity-building activities such as technical training are
behind schedule and the lack of interest by international consulting firms and individuals to work
in Iraq remains a challenge. However, the signing of a number of contracts during the coming
period is anticipated.

30.     An Action Plan was agreed upon with the Recipient and the team is comfortable that the
action plan is feasible and will enable a successful achievement of the project development
objectives (Annex III). There are no overdue audit reports and Interim Un–audited Financial
Reports (IFRs) have been timely submitted to the World Bank. In that context, the Regional
Vice President Dr. Shamshad Akhtar has approved the extension of the closing date from
October 31, 2010 till June 30, 2013, in response to His Excellency CBI Governor’s request dated
June 23, 2010.
                                                7
V.    BANK RESTRUCTURING DISCUSSIONS UNDER                        THE INTERNATIONAL             MONETARY FUND
(IMF) STAND-BY ARRANGEMENT (SBA) MISSION.
31.    The IMF held a First Review3 under the SBA in Amman, Jordan, during July 13-17,
which was led by Ron van Rooden, IMF Mission Chief to Iraq; and joined by a financial expert.4
The restructuring of the Rasheed Bank and Rafidain Bank were a central part of the IMF
discussion with the Iraqi authorities. One of the SBA’s structural benchmarks – originally due by
June 30, 2010—is the completion of the restructuring of the balancing sheets of Rasheed Bank
and Rafidain Bank, a roadmap for accelerating the operational and restructuring process for the
state-owned banks was discussed with the Iraqi authorities.

32.        Some of the key outcomes of these are summarized below:

          The IMF team and the Iraqi authorities discussed the creation of a Bank Restructuring
           Committee, comprising technical staff from the two banks, the CBI, the Ministry of
           Finance, BSA and E&Y (see Annex VI). The Committee would be focused on financial
           restructuring only and mandated to: (i) conduct the reconciliation between the debt items
           in the Ministry of Finance’s settlement agreements and the books of the two state-owned
           banks; (ii) identify the debt items in the books of the banks that differ in amount with
           respect to the same item as shown in the settlement agreements; and (iii) proposing a
           course of action to the Steering Committee or the ROC for the unsettled debts.
          The restructuring of the balance sheets of the two banks should be completed by June
           2011.
          The discussions also emphasized that recapitalization of Rasheed Bank and Rafidain
           Bank should be preceded by: (i) the completion of the restructuring of the balance sheets
           of the two banks; (ii) resolution of the ongoing bankruptcy court case against Rafidain’s
           London branch; and (iii) adequate progress in the operational restructuring of the two
           banks.

VI.        PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
33.      Recent attacks on CBI. On June 13, 2010, series of explosions and attacks on the CBI,
that left casualties and two floors at CBI got on fire. The mission discussed the implication of the
explosion on the CBI and the PMU, which led to the destroy of all records, including
procurement and financial management records, and PMU equipment. The Bank mission
explored areas in which further support can be provided to CBI in procurement of office
equipment and furniture for the PMU, to resume working in an efficient business environment,
replacing the destroyed assets.

34.     Good progress. Since the last supervision mission on December 2009, good progress has
been made in signing consultancy contracts, issuing RFPs, and receiving proposals, however the
June attack caused serious delays that affect the progress in implementation. The PMU had
reallocated themselves to a temporary location but can not function efficiently because of the
tight security around that alternative location. The PMU will need to reallocate again to a new
location within the Rafidain Bank—HQ close to the CBI location.

3
    The IMF Board meeting for the First Review is currently scheduled for September 10, 2010.
4
    Mr. R. Engin Akçakoca, from KAB Consulting.
                                                          8
35.     High consultants’ fee in Iraq. Work on Iraq has a special flavor where international
consultants can not travel to Baghdad unless adequate security arrangements made for them.
Under Bank’s Procurement Guidelines, such consultants are selected by the Client (not by the
Bank) based on their qualifications. The Guidelines do not provide rules with regard to
consultant compensation; fees are negotiated between the Client and the consultant. The Bank
does not play a role in setting the fees. In addition, the implementing agencies have difficulties
evaluating CVs, establishing the correct level of expertise, and assessing the appropriateness of
the fees and expenses requested by consultants. The main factor includes high demand (including
from government, UN, and bilateral donors) and the limited supply of consultants with
appropriate skills who are willing to work in those circumstances.

36.    Delay in signing contracts. The mission advised the Iraqi delegation to streamline the
needed approvals for recommendation to award to avoid any delay that take place after getting
the Bank’s no objection on the negotiated contracts.

37.    Progress Status. The mission discussed the status of each activity per the recent updated
Procurement Plan and progress made at different stages that can be briefed as follows:

VII.     FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT (FM) ARRANGEMENTS
38.     The mission reviewed EBSRP implemented FM arrangements, followed on pending
issues and matters, and highlighted the current status of the FM aspects of the project.

39.     Funds Flow and Disbursement. As reconciled to the Bank Client Connection, a total of
US$216,483 has been disbursed as of July 19, 2010 which equals to 2.16 percent of the total
Grant amount of US$10 Million. The total net commitments (commitment less disbursement) are
US$ 213,500. The Project is disbursing using direct payment and reimbursement methods. To
complement that, the CBI provided the Project with an advance payment of US$80,000. The
advance is mainly used to pre-finance the PMU’s operating costs and contracts bellow
US$25,000. Subject to the presentation of full supporting documents to the World Bank, the
Project’s accounts are then reimbursed.

40.      Below is a summary of Project Financial Status as of July 19, 2010.

                                                                         Unpaid
                         Allocation     Commitments    Paid WB                        Uncommitted
         Category                                                      commitments
                            US$            US$            US$                             US$
                                                                          US$
 Goods                        350,000        -              -               -              350,000
 Consultancy &
 Training                   8,900,000        336,600        123,100         213,500      8,563,400
 Operating Costs              250,000        -                93,383        -              156,617
 Unallocated                  500,000        -              -               -              500,000
 Total                     10,000,000        336,600        216,483         213,500      9,570,017

41.     Destruction of assets and World Bank support. The recent unfortunate attack on CBI has
resulted in the destruction of all PMU’s assets except three laptops that were in the possession of

                                                 9
staff who were outside CBI at the time of the attack. The destroyed assets include office
furniture, computers, printers, scanners, network, and all other assets maintained at the PMU.
The total book value of destroyed assets that were financed by the Grant is US$15,915. The
Fiduciary Monitoring Agent (FMA) has visited CBI and confirmed the destruction of all PMU’s
assets. In this respect, it has been agreed that all destroyed assets will be written off from the
records of the PMU and the Grant will finance the cost of purchasing new assets.

42.     Loss of documents and World Bank support. Due to the unfortunate attack on CBI, all
FM related documents have been totally burned out and destroyed, including the accounting
records, financial reports, assets register, all copies of withdrawal applications with the
supporting documentation, bank statements.etc. As part of the World Bank support in retrieving
the destroyed documents, the World Bank FMS, in collaboration with the Loan Department, has
provided the PMU with copies (electronic and hard) of all withdrawal applications as well as the
attached supporting documents (invoices, contracts, summary sheets, bank statements, .etc). The
copies provided by the World Bank represent the majority of the lost documents. However, the
mission has requested the Financial Officer to go through the copies provided by the World Bank
and identify if there are any remaining missing documents. The mission informed the PMU that
the World Bank will provide all the necessary support to retrieve any missing documents and
will coordination with all related stakeholders for this purpose.

43.     Data protection measures. The recent unfortunate attack on CBI has resulted in
significant losses of Project’s data. In order to mitigate the risk of losing the Project’s data again
in the future, specific measures should be implemented, such as performing regular backup of
Project’s data. The PMU is advised to perform regular backup, preferably on weekly basis, for
the Project’s data using external hard drives with very high capacity and kept offsite. The
mission as well urged the PMU to maintain electronic copies of all the Project’s hard documents.
In addition, the mission urged the PMU to maintain the documents in fire proof cabinets. Those
cabinets can be either provided by CBI or being purchased from the local market.

44.    External auditing. The mission agreed with the PMU to re-launch the auditor’s selection
process based on the following facts:

      The Project has been extended to additional three years, up to June 30, 2013, thus the
       audit contract and Terms of Reference (TOR) should be revised to reflect the auditing
       services as well as reporting obligations for the additional three years.
      All documents pertaining to the previous selection process has been completely destroyed
       by the unfortunate attack on the CBI.
      A temporary audit waiver (combination of audit periods) has been granted by the World
       Bank to the Project, by which the first audit report is now due by June 30, 2011 covering
       the period from date of effectiveness (April 17, 2009) up to December 31, 2010.
      The General Secretariat Council of Ministers new instructions dated June 1, 2010
       prohibiting contracting with one of the shortlisted companies.

45.     Accounting system and reporting. The PMU has been timely submitting the interim un –
audited Financial reports (IFRs) to the World Bank. They included a statement of sources and
uses of funds per category and per components, and a Project Commitments Sheet. The Financial
Officer uses spreadsheet application to capture the financial transactions and generate the IFRs.
                                               10
The next IFRs will cover the quarter ended June 30, 2010 will be due by July 30, 2010.
However, the mission discussed with the Financial Officer of the possibility of submitting the
next IFRs by the due date as the recent attack destroyed most of FM documents. The Financial
Officer informed the mission that the copies of FM documents provided by the World Bank were
significantly useful and she as well possesses the other necessary data to submit the next IFRs by
the due date.

46.     Budgeting. The PMU has been timely submitting the quarterly disbursement plan based
on the updated procurement plan and implementation schedules. The mission agreed with the
PMU that the next disbursement plan, based on the last updated procurement plan and
implementation schedule, will be submitted to the Bank by no later than July 30, 2010. As the
closing date of the Project has been extended for additional three years (up to June 30, 2013), the
mission reminded the PMU that the next disbursement plan should reflect the disbursements’
projections based on the new closing date.

47.     Staffing. The PMU’s financial management and accounting functions are covered by a
full time Financial Officer, fully financed by the grant. The FM related issues have been
discussed with the Financial Officer as well as the PMU Director.

48.    Post—review withdrawal applications. The FMA reports covering the period from
October 1, 2009 up to March 31, 2010 documents the review, on a sample basis, of withdrawal
applications for direct payments and reimbursements submitted during the same period. The
FMA review revealed that the original supporting documents were examined and that the
expenditures were confirmed to be eligible and in compliance with grant agreement.

49.     Internal controls. The PMU has satisfactory internal controls in place for the Project,
including regular reconciliation of bank accounts, proper segregation of duties, regular
reconciliation of disbursement summaries of the World Bank with project accounting records,
and access to the Client Connection system. All financial management and accounting
procedures are documented in the FM Manual as part of the Project Implementation Manual
(PIM). The mission advised the PMU Financial Officer to revisit the FM manual, on regular
basis, to update the chapter, if needed.

VIII. NEXT STEPS
50.       The following next steps have been agreed on with the Iraqi authorities:

         Implementation of the revised and agreed upon Action Plan, according to the new
          timeline of the project.
         Recollection of destroyed and lost PMU documents.
         The PMU will re-launch the auditor’s selection process immediately.
         The PMU will submit to the Bank the Disbursement plan and the IFRs for Q2 2010 by
          July 30, 2010.
         A supervision mission would be scheduled for late November 2010, to assess progress
          achieved under the new timeline of the project.


                                                  11
       The Governor also stressed the importance of finalizing the hiring process, under the Iraq
        Emergency Banking Sector Reform Project, for an Advisor for CBI.
       All settled debts should be deleted from the balance sheets of Rafidain Bank and Rasheed
        Bank. In that regard, a “Bank Reconciliation Committee” should be established, chaired
        by the Ministry of Fiannce as the owner of the two state-owned commercial banks, with
        the participation of technical level staff from Rasheed Bank, Rafidian Bank, and E&Y,
        with CBI and BSA as observers, to be responsible for:

                 (i)      determining the reconciling debt items in the list of the settlement
                          agreements of the Ministry of Finance and the books of the banks;

                 (ii)     determining the debt items in the books of the banks that are more than the
                          amount of the same debt item indicated in the settlement agreements;

                 (iii)    determining the debt items in the books of the banks which are less than
                          the amount of the same debt item indicated in the settlement agreements;

                 (iv)     deciding on course of action for Unsettled Debts; and

                 (v)      obtaining the approval of the Executive Steering Committee or the ROC
                          for any accounting entries in the banks or written information to be
                          provided to other authorities including the Ministry of Finance. The
                          decisions of the Bank Reconciliation Committee, the Executive Steering
                          Committee, or ROC should be made unanimously.5




5
  The items in the Settlement Lists are considered to match the items in the list of E&Y which will also be submitted
to the banks by the Ministry of Finance or by E&Y at the instruction of Ministry of Finance.
                                                         12
                                              ANNEX I
                                 Officials Met by the Bank Mission




Central Bank of Iraq
Dr. Sinan Alshabibi, Governor
Mr. Ahmed Salman Al-Juboori, Deputy Governor
Mr. Waleed Aidi Abdulnabi, Director General of the Supervision Department
Ms. Rana Jabbar Ali, Assistant of the Deputy Governor

Ministry of Finance
Dr. Azez Jafar, Advisor to the Minister of Finance
Dr. Huda Hadi, Banking Expert in Ministry of Finance responsible for state-owned banks

Board of Supreme Audit (BSA)
Mr. Abdulhadi Farhan, General Manager

Rafidain Bank
Mr. Mohsin Abed Hasan, Assistant of General Director

Rasheed Bank
Mr. Kadhim Mohammed Nashoor, Director General

Project Management Unit (PMU)
Dr. Majid Al-Soori, Director
Ms. Leena Khider, Procurement Officer
Ms. Lamees Azouz, Financial Management Officer




                                                 13
                                             ANNEX II

   Restructuring of the internal audit and compliance units at Al Rasheed Bank and Al Rafidain
                               Bank, state-owned commercial banks


1.     The PMU has issued an Expression of Interest (EOI), in compliance with Bank’s
procurement guidelines, with regard to restructuring of the internal audit and compliance units at
Al Rasheed Bank and Al Rafidain Bank, state-owned commercial banks.

2.      On November 23, 2009, EOI has been advertised in United Nations Development
Business (UNDB) and DG Market websites. Four consulting firms expressed their interest;
Huron Consulting Group, Price Water House Coopers, International Business and Technical
Consultants, Inc., and Francis Domnic Noronha. Subsequently, an Evaluation Committee was
established and conducted a primary evaluation of the received EOIs.

3.      The Committee shortlisted three firms and the PMU issued Requests for Proposal (RFP)
for the shortlisted firms. On May 10, 2010, the PMU received the technical and financial
proposals from the three shortlisted firms. The Committee held two sessions in order to evaluate
the received technical proposals. Due to the unfortunate attack that resulted in burning out all the
PMU’s assets and documents; the process has been postponed until the PMU retrieve the lost
documents and re-establish the new offices. In this respect, the PMU will be requesting the
shortlisted firms to re-submit their technical and financial proposals.




                                                14
                ANNEX III
Action Plan for EBSRP prepared by PMU




                 15
16
17
                                                                ANNEX IV
                                                    Results Framework and Monitoring

            PDO                                       OUTCOME INDICATOR                                       USE OF OUTCOME INFORMATION
The Project Development                  New organizational structures for the two                         Monitor progress on overall banking
Objective is to strengthen                state-owned banks are adopted.                                     sector reform, with particular reference
the supervisory framework                Number of staff trained in each bank would                         to planning next phase, whether through
for financial intermediation              reach at least 100 staff member.                                   Bank, other donor, or internal
and build capacity of                    Compliance supervisory and regulatory                              Government resources
financial institutions to                 framework (Basle Code Principles)                                 Number of staff trained in each bank
support implementation of                                                                                    would reach at least 200 staff member
Phase I of the Iraq Banking                                                                                  (tellers, managers, credit officers, etc.)
Reform Strategy.




INTERMEDIATE OUTCOME                        INTERMEDIATE OUTCOME INDICATOR                                     USE OF RESULTS MONITORING
Component 1: Institutional               Improvement in functioning of the two state-                   Strengthened institutional and
and Operational                           owned commercial banks, evident in the                          operational framework for the two state-
Restructuring of the Two                  increase in loan-to-GDP ratios from 4% in                       owned banks.
State-owned Commercial                    June 2006 to 6% in October 2010.
                                                                                                         Capacity building with staff trained for
Banks
                                                                                                          using new computers for making loans
                                                                                                          and taking deposits.
                                                                                                         Improved financial intermediation
                                                                                                          evident in the rise in loan-to-GDP ratios.
Component 2: Financial                Build-up in provision levels at the two state-                       Improved portfolio quality of the two
Restructuring of the Two               owned commercial banks for new loans,                                 state-owned banks
State-owned Commercial                 reflected in the reserves-to-NPLs ratios, rising                          - Reserve-to-NPLs on new loans
Banks                                  from 10% in June 2006 to 20% in October                              Strengthened Capital Adequacy—
                                       2010.                                                                 Capital adequacy ratio improves as
                                                                                                             provided by government.

Component 3:                             Capital adequacy ratio in line with prudential                     Adherence to international codes and
Strengthening the                         regulations, reaching up to 4% by October                           standards regarding capital
Regulatory and Supervisory                2010.                                                               requirements (Basle Core Principles).
Functions of Central Bank
of Iraq
Component 4: Project                     Recruitment of qualified staff capable of                          Compliance with Bank’s rules and
Management, Monitoring                    effectively managing the project.                                   guidelines in terms of procurement
and Evaluation                           Capacity building granted to the Executive                          procedures, and FM requirements.
                                          Steering Committee, supporting the reform                          Adequate monitoring of project.
                                          program.
                                         Efficient and smooth execution of the project.                     Progress in implementation of project
                                         Training program fully in place.                                    components.

      *Due to the emergency nature of the project, the results framework and the monitoring table will be revised to include more details during
      supervision




                                                                            18
                                                                        ANNEX V
                                              Monitoring Indicators, Baseline, and Expected Outcomes

                           Baseline                                                                                            Data
                         (June 2006)                                                                        Frequency and                    Responsibility for
  Results indicators                        YR1              YR2              YR3              YR4                           Collection
                                                                                                               Reports                        Data Collection
                           percent                                                                                          Instrument
PDO
                                           Plans for          New
Development of new                     development of    organizational
                                                                          organizational   organizational
organizational                               new           structures                                                       CBI Annual
                           None                                             structures       structures       Annually                              CBI
structures for the two                  organizational   approved and                                                         Report
                                                                             adopted          adopted
state-owned banks                         structures      adopted by
                                          completed      October 2010
Number of staff
trained to do bank
operation                    0               0                100              150              200         Semi-annually       PMU                PMU
(both banks)

                                                                                                                              Financial
                                                                                                                            statements of
State-own commercial
                                                                                                                            the two state-
bank’s improved their                                     Reserves-to-     Reserves-to-     Reserves-to-
                                                                                                                            owned banks
capital adequacy ratio                                    NPLs ratios      NPLs ratios      NPLs ratios       Annually                              CBI
                                                                                                                              (Rasheed
(reserves-to-NPLs                                        reaching 10%     reaching 15%     reaching 20%
                                                                                                                              Bank and
ratios)
                                                                                                                               Rafidain
                                                                                                                                Bank)
Components

Loan-to-GDP ratio
                            4%             4.9%               5%              5.5%             6.2%           Annually      CBI reports             CBI
(banking sector)

Reserves-to-NPLs
                            10%             15%              20%              25%              30%            Annually      CBI reports             CBI
ratios (both banks)

Capital adequacy
                             0              2%               2.5%              3%               4%            Annually      CBI reports             CBI
ratio (both banks)

Number of qualifies                                                                                                            PMU
                             0               4                 4                4                4          Semi-annually
                                                                                                                              database
                                                                                                                                                   PMU
staff in PMU
Timely
                                                                                                                               PMU
disbursement of              0              1.7               4.6              2.5              1.2         Semi-annually
                                                                                                                              database
                                                                                                                                                   PMU
grant


                                                                               19
                                          ANNEX VI
        Proposed Timeline for Actions Related to Bank Reconciliation Committee
                        for Rasheed Bank and Rafidain Bank


              ACTION                              BY WHOM                       BY WHEN
Officially establish Bank
Reconciliation Unit/Committee
(BRU/C) through MoF decree.

The BRU/C should have the
                                          H.E. the Minister of Finance      September 15, 2010
participation of technical level staff
from the two banks, CBI, MoF,
Ernst & Young (E&Y) and Board
of Supreme Audit (BSA) (as
observer).

Conduct the reconciliation between
the debt items in the MoF’s
settlement agreements and the                           BRC                 December 15, 2010
books of the two state-owned
banks.

Identify the debt items in the books
of the banks that differ in amount
with respect to the same item as                        BRC                 December 15, 2010
shown in the settlement
agreements.

Propose an action plan to the ROC
for the unsettled debts of the two                      BRC                  January 17, 2011
banks.

Approve action plan for the
                                                     ROC                     January 30, 2011
unsettled debts of the two banks.

Implement action plan for the            MOF, Rasheed Bank, Rafidain
                                                                         January 30 – June 30, 2011
unsettled debts of the two banks.             Bank, BRC, ROC
Complete restructuring of the
balance sheets of Rasheed and            MOF, Rasheed Bank, Rafidain
                                                                               June 30, 2011
Rafidain                                      Bank, BRC, ROC
Banks.




                                                   20
