s c2C  4  (-  J cz  f  ..si --+  -   .  ,--- |---- R E S T D I C- T ,' D
PA73
~~~___        ___ 1j:o;       ; - . ,
'ig4 .-'  T 'lhilrerort vs  prepared for use within the Bank and its oftii:ited  organizations.
They do not .ccept ;esponsir;ility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
nor 9:>iA  no!  a nfior may it oe quoted as representing tneir views.
INTERNTTIONAL BANK FOR RECCNSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPIMENT
LNTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSCCLATICN
TIERRES NEUVES RESETTILEMENT PROJECT
SENEGAL
Ap.il.  , 1,71
Agriculture Project3 Department                               -   J '> 
rfLI; mU pDI:



_ RENCY EQYIVALENTS
US$i      D          A  277--7
CFAF I         a   us$ O.o00
CFAF I ml. iIon -   ss 3,60-.i00
WEIGHTS AMD YE-ARES
Metric -System
ABBSRIlATIONS
BNDS:    Banqtue Nationale de Developpement du Senegal
MFr.     Comanere Francaise pour le Developpement des Fibres Textiles
IRAT:    Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales et des
(lltures Vivrieres
IRCT:    Institut de Recherches dih Coton et des Textiles Exotiques
fUaD     Ministry of Ru-al DeTe7opent
OCAS:    Office de CommAcialisation Agricole du Senegal
ONCAD:   Office Nationale de Cooperation et d'Assistance pour le
Developpernent
CSTMC: OffLce de la. Recherche Scientifique et Technique d'Outre-Mer
FWD :    Public Works Department
SATEC:   Soc:Lete d'Aida Technique et de Cooperation
STN :    Societe dos Terres Neures



-, trr.
ERURES 'l-ru_T_S        R, W  O.ECT
'W'AUL. C*-  rJ7tEM.
Page No.
SLAMARY AM CNCLIUSTOW. _ _                                 i - ii
1.    INTROOUCTION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      1
II.    BACKGROUND   . . . . . .                                     1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
A.  General  .   .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .   . 1
B.  Agricultural Instit'zicns . . . . .    . . . . . . .    2
C. Population Pressure - Y.-drar:lon and 'Z!tlemenz  -       4
III.    THE PROJECT AREA   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       -     5
IV.    THE  PROJECT  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .   .  .  .  .  .  6
A. General Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       6
B. Settlement Program   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      7
C. Detailed Features . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       8
D. Project Deveiopment Methods . . . . . . . . . .          10
U  fVCqr '-C-TtUA -E A\fDl  - ~Af%,
V. ST I. S Am C .....- - = . .         - e      11
VI.    ORGA.NIZATION! ArND K-ANrEMr:T . .   = .     .  . . . .     16
A. Oroaniz;Htion and Staffing    .     . . . . . . . . . .  16
B.  Settler Selection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        17
C. Credit Arrangements .            . .           . . .     18
D.  Marketirtg Arrangements  . . . . . . .                  18
VII.    YIELDS, OUTPUTS, PRICES AUND PARTICIPANTS' INCOMES . . .    19
A. Yields and Outputs   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     19
B. Markets and Prices   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     20
C. Farner Benefits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      21
D. Government Revenues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      21
VIII.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION   .   . . . . . . . . . . . .    22
IX.    RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     23
This report is based on the findings of two IDA missions. The
Lirst, consisting or Nessrs C.E. Metcalfe, R. Adams anu T . chul, visited
Senegal in February/March 1970: the second consisting of Messrs P. Th-
Gros4ean, J. T. Schul,  . Co ert (FAO) an.d R.P. Chateau (consultant) in
Sentemnber 1970.



AN!''I:XI:
1.        Agricult:ural Backeround
2.        Markets ane t'rices for Proiect Commodities
3.        Organized S,Ztlement and Spontaneous Migration
4.        Technical Aspects
5.        La Societe des Terres Neuves
6.        Project Costs Sumnary, Tax Element, Cost Details, and Disbursements
7.        Farm Budgets
8.        Government Cash Flow
9.        Calculat:ion of Economic Rate of Return
MAlkPS
1.        Locatiorn of Protect Area
2.        Project Area



SENEGAL
TEtRES NEUVES RESETTLEMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Tnis report anoraises a project for the settlement or 300 rarm
families from the over-oonulated and over-farmed "Groundnut Basin" on
undUeve'Lopedu .Landu ofgo  aericulturaL potent-iaL  in the Tlerres NL Ieuves area
of Eastern Senegal. The project will be the first phase of a major reset-
tlement progrm. and -uld include the pro:ision of azricultural extension
and credit services to some 250 farm families now living in the project area.
The nrn1iL-e t.ldA bep t-he) Rank Group's scond operion fnr a             in
Senegal.
ii.       Croundnuts account for 75% of agricultural cash incomes in Senegal
and for aLmost 80Z of the cruntry's exports in terms of value.    In large
parts of the so-called Grou:idnut Basin, where due to population pressure
the average adult male cultivates only 0.54 ha of rainfed crops, suils are
deterioratinn. For that reason combined with various factors pertaining
mainly to oroducer prices, t, credit and marketing crganizations, to insuffi-
cient yield response to fert'.lizers, and doubtful quality of seeds, groundnut
production is declining.   Gov!rnment -s faced with two principal problems;
maintaLning aiud irproving expccrt earnings, and alleviating overpopulation
in the Groundnut Basin which occupies the eastern hinterland of Dakar.
Undeveloped land of good production Dotential "-es fu-ther south and east,
and gradually this is being developed through spontaneous settlement. Un-
fortunately, thils uncontrolled migration is tendinR to create the very
problerms which bedevil the Groundnut Basin - lack of tenure rights, uncon-
trolleci cropping, fragmentation of holdirngs, and over-concentration on
groundnut production. The project's objectives would be to control the
dsevelopm,ent cot new lard, introduce =l1pro-ved cult.-vat.on mietho's, an' "iver-
U  V  IJ.IIIL  I.lW L .1U L IZ L  Lu  U 11 .Jl  uV ~  UL  Ii.Vj  ul L1  Li  UU  dLU  U.LV   .
sifv the cropping pattern. The project crop rotation would include ground-
ntitq_ hlt, alqn 1nttnn fnT- Vnnot- :2  m47v. .",4 CeV-tJ1   in t- J- rnn1 en- 1
__-I--.                                            .._,-..-r-- - ~- ~
swnmpticn.
iii.      The project is small, but this is warranted by its being the first
phase cf what should develop into a most significant program of land develop-
ment; iwere the project larger the problems of introducing and evaluating the
new techniques on which its success depends would be substantially more
difficult and probably beyond the present capacity of the authorities. None-
theless, the project provides for a detailed evaluation of its progress, and
should the situation so warrant, for the preparation of a larger seconi phase
project in 1973 for the settlement of up to about 2,500 families. The proj-
ect would be carried out by a statutory corporation - La Societe des Terres
Neuves (STN), under the 3uthority of the Minister of Rural Development. STN
would employ managing azents for the initial period of proiect development.
iv.       Project costs are estimated to total USS 1.8 million during the
ten years needed to bring all Droject farms into full production. Project
costs during the six-year period proposed ror disbursement or tne proposed
IDA credit are USS 1.55 million including about USS 188,000 for establishing



- ii -
a revolving credit fund zo provide participants with seasonal and medium-
term credits.  A further US$ 228,000 would be required in the period 1977
through 1980 to complete deve]opment of settlers' holdings and this cost
would be mec by the Government. IDA would finance USS 1.25 million (ap-
proximately 81% of project costs in the IDA credit disbursement period or
70% of the ten year total developmnt) representing the estimated foreign
exchange component of USS 890,000 and US$ 360,000 local costs.    Farmers'
cot  _tlv  not L' _e. inlue   in -PLV..J J_ _           _______bL. rre.'_ .__ 
COS L: LIdV l&U;%t [L.U  '  LUL U .I.& jJLUJ =LL LJ1 ZO.LLL- LAI>Z. WUU LWULU  IIUL L M U
in kind; settlers would build their own houses with self-procured materials
and be responsible for te bulk of land clearing and development. In vlew
of the small size of procurement contracts for goods and services these
i-uld be let throug-h local competitive bid-Jing-
v.        The proiect would generate foreign exchange earnints and imnort
savings of about USS 328,000 at year at maturity. Based on the Bank's price
forecasts fcr groundnuts, cotton, maize and sorghum, the economic return
fron the project is estir2-1i at 13%.   Individual rates of return for the
settlerent and establish.il fa mer programs are 12.5% and 15.8% respectively.
vi.       At maturity, in 19b], the average settler family's cash income
from their holding would be about USS 440 annually, about 70% higher than
the current average farm incocie in the C,roundnjt Basin from where settlers
would Lbe selected.  The annual cash income of established farmers in the
project area who participate In the project is estimated to increase bv
US$ 110 after 8 years, an increase of about 3U2 over present incomes.
vii.      ir:e rroject is suitable for an IDA credit of UJSS 1.-5 million.
The credit includes retroactive financing of up to USS 60,000.



SENEGAL
TERRES _iEUVES RESETTLEWENT PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In 1969 Senegal asked IDA to help finance an agricultural
settlement project provid:Lng for the migration of some 1,000 farm families
from overpopulated areas in Senegal's "Groundnut Basin" to the less populated
Terres Neuves area of Eastern Senegal. Appraisal showed that a project in-
volving 1,000 settler famiLlies would be too large to ensure the success of
this initi3l operation and the proposed project involves the settlement of
300 families and making available extension and credit services to them and
to  s m 2  O __  rc-- l'  n w  llv_n   _.._ _  ...X_ ._  _L __._ I-_ - -_ _ _._T'-- ---  -- __ .. .. -
ti some ~    ~ Lu i   vl       ..vn   nL LIIC VL UJ c L d LLd .  LLI P LUJ ULL WUUiLU
be the first phase of a program for the settlement of some 6,000 families on
150S,000 ha of underdeveloped lan Aand inc'ludes "he cost of  --4parln- the next
phase.
1.022     In 1969 a Bank reconnaissance mission recommended a project feasi-
bili ty study and orenared terms of reference. The studv was made by the
French Societe d'Aide Technique et de Cooperation (SATEC), financed by the
French Fonds d'Ai,le et de Cooperation (FAC;. This report is based on the
findings of two IDA missions. The first, consisting of Messrs C. E. Metcalfe,
R. Adams, and J. .J. Schul, visited Senegal in February/March 1970; the second
consisting of Messrs P. Th. Grosjean, J. J. Schul, J. Coudert (FAO) and
R. P. Chateau (Consulzar.t) in September 1970.
1.03      The proJect would be the second Bankc Group operation in the agri-
cultural sector in Senegal. In February 1969 a USS 6.0 million IDA credit
and USS 3.5 million Bank loan were aporoved to help finance a groundnut and
millet improvement proeram which had been started in 1964 with the assistance
of the European Economic Cormmunity (EEC). Progress of this project has been
unsatisfactory: groundnut production has fallen in the project area, due to
a combination of fIactors:  poor weather, doubtful quality of seeds, low yield
resp.onse to fertillzers, loW produ Pr prICeS, and Ipw  pLUject administration
and coordinaition. As a consequence of these developments, most farmers are
heavily lndebted Innu have lost confidence in GoverTm.ent policies. Measures
have been taken to correct the situation; in August 1970, cash payments on
delivery of grnundmrucs hv farmerc were reincroduced   Mnre recencly, in early
April, Government announced an increase in the producer price for groundnuts
and is now reorganizing proiect administration. Althoueh it is too early to
assess the impact of these measures, thev are steps in the right direction.
II. RACKGRObND
A. General
2.01      Senegal's populattion is albout 3.7 million and is estimated to be
increasing at about 2.2% per annum. Population densitv averages 19 persons



- 2--
per im , ranging front about 130 per k-'i in some areas of the 'Groundnut 3asin"
in the West, to zero in oarts of the East. About 75% of the working popula-
tion is employed in the rural sector.   Annex 1 describes the country's agri-
cultural situation.
2.02      Senegal has; an area of 197,000 km   (see maD).  Topography is
generaiL4ly L"Lat, ardU Lvegetation ranges from hea-v-; forest Li the soutLU to
desert in the north writh a corresponding .--nual rainfall range of 1,500 mm
tV_VBE.t  1'.J'O  w UMI  X   O&'...  _  OLIL.  L 7  g.a .s-V\-,,a  aLS Jt p  *  L  tOL C 
tend to occur in a cyclical pattern and affect the north more than the south.
Soils 1 ar  most1ly light and abut 15 of theÖ2 tota     n r    ls cutivated.
' 03      Gross domestic oroduct (GDP) was estimated at USS 745 million in
1969, or about USS 200 per capita. Between 1966 and 1969. average growth
in GDP in real terms was 1.9% per annum and lagged slightly behind popula-
tion growth. Senegai.'s economic potential depends basically on the rural
sector which generates about 30% of GDP. Industrial output accouncs for
some 12% of GDP. Further industrialization is restricted due to limited
local markets and relatively high costs.    Mining is insignificant, but oil
prospection is being carried out.
2.04      Agricultural production is dominated by two crops:    millet for
subsistence, and groundnuts as a cash crop for export.    Groundnuts account
for 75A of agricultural cash inzomes and almost 80z of the value of exports.
This excessive dependence on groundnuts is unsatisfactorv because of the
heavy impact of climatic and market price fluctuations on Government revenues
and foreign exchange earnings.   Little has been achieved in the way of agri-
cultural diversificationi although Government has carried out a sall but
successful cotton development program which in 1969 met the local demand for
lint 2 - 1,JUU tons - andu a.l±lowed the export .f   1,000 Ions. Govern ment h as
elso undertaken a rice program which aims at providing Senegal with its own
requir.'.ments and the Bank, has --4ra-lA r-n,-cr fo- finrncing n rice
development prciect in the Casamance.
2.05      Over 60% of the pcpulation live and farm in the "Groundnut Basin"
which includes the regions of Thies, Diourbel, and the Sine-Saloum. Con-
tinuous cultivation, in the basin, of groundnuts and subsistence crops with
inadequate fallow periods has led to soil exhaustion, and a decreasine stand-
ard of living for its inhabitants.
S. Agricultural Institutions
Development zmd Extension
2.06      Responsibility for agricultural development is vesteu i'L severa'l
organizations. Research is carried out by several French institutions
under cost sharing agreement between Senegal and France.     Broad agricul-
tural development policy is determined by the Ministry cf Planning; the
Ministry mL plrmeatl Det.iMddevelop (  m s responsribli for preparctdon and
implementation of detailed development proerams. 'I)rection des Services



-3-
Agricoles", a branch of MRD, is respons:Lble for generai agricultural exten-
sion work. Local develomxnent and individual crop prograrns are the respon-
sibilitv of a varietv or speciaiized GovernmLent and private agencies.
Further details on these organizations are given in Arnex 1.
Agricuiltural Credit
2.07      Agricultural credit facilities are provided by the Banque Nationale
de Developpement du Senegal (BNS).     U-ntil 1968 BNDS operated rewelonaly  .!,
since then r:he situation has deteriorated because of poor management, and
th sql:etiatin depr-riSp.-i in narn  1=01=  RNDS incrtrred a loss of CFAF 45 3
million (USS 163,0O00 for the year ended September 20, 1969 and its losses
in 1970 will have been substantially greater.    Despite the dismissal of som(e
BNDS staff to reduce operating costs, and the computerization of accounts to
reduce accounting errors. BNDS's financial situation remains unsatisfactorv
and Gc'vernment intends to reorganize the agricultural credit system; BNDS
would hand over its industrial credit activities to Union Senegalaise de
Banque (USB), a commercial bank with a present minoritv Government partici-
pation buc with an option for Government to acquire a majority share. At
the time o' appraisal of the Terres Neuves project, BNDS's reorganization
tyas being studied and final decisions had still to be taken. As BNDS would
not have anv direct participation in the project, its reorganization would
not affect the latter's development.
Supn 1Yv of Farm Inpus
2.08      Seasonal farm inputs for growinR groundnuts, millet and sorghum,
are supolied Largely Jy cooperatives, about 90" ofti Le    in tihe  roundnut
Basin.   Performance is natchy, due principally to the very rapid establish-
ment oE coooeratives- in rec-n -years.   Th   glucrlcoperative system
and organization of the Office National. _e Cooperation et d'Assistance
(ONCAD). the avencv responsible for cooneratlve management, have been studied
by a consulting firm, Italconsult. under the Bank and IDA financed groundnut
and millet project. The consultants' recommendations and proposals are now
being reviewed by Government.
2.09      La Compagnie Francaise pour le Developpement des Fibres Eextiles
(CFDT) supplies inputs for cotton and deducts a standard charge of CFAF
9.Q/kg of seed cotton marketed mandarorily by growers through CFDT buying
centers. Under this arrangement CFDT breaks even when farmers' yields
average 1,200 kg/ha. Surpluses, when the average yield is higher, are
paid by CFDT into a Cotton Price Stabilization Fund, the Caisse de Soutien
du Prix du Coton (CS?C) and CFDT is reimbursed from the Fund when yields
are lower (see Annex :2).
Marketing
2.10       Farmers are required by law to sell cotton to CFDT and groundnuts
to ONCAn thro;;h1 Doprtvsa          rices fixed by Go ve,,ment: private traA4n
tj  lfl.fl.i LII  ~J~X  I _ L t Y~c;   01.LI A.C  t L.-,=U  Li'V 'V  &LJyl 1  J  1 V a L6  LI a.LLn
in these commodities has been banned. CFDT gins, markets and exports cotton
lint and seed; OMCAD    A.elvers unshelleA  rnu,1Odnuts eitherto  -4-teS oi_
millers orodutcing and exnorting groundnut oil and meal, or to the Office de



Commercialisation Agricole du Senegal ((CAS) which shells and exports ground-
nuts. For some time ONCAD had a monopoly for marketing millet and sorghum
but, in view of the shortage of funds available for croD purchase, private
trading in these commodities has been permitted to resume.
C. Population Pressure, Mieration and Settlement
2.11~~ 21 tlough the averagp peopul'iation den.sity in lSenega'l of l9 inhab.al
* .1.1.  L. tLI'U~ILI  av 1JU1L.JL        JLLL   .I. t~   .S L 17 inhId aL b t an t
per kin  is relatively low, population in the Croundnut Basin is about 90
inhabitants  er cultivated k2 (0.9 4nhab4ta-s per ha).       In the Bain   :
is estimatecd that about one hectare must be cultivaiced to provide for the
needs of onne erson.   The heavw nonulat4on nres3urp of tie Basin Is tl1lus-
trated by the fact that the average active person, i.e., one adult working
full time in the field.cultivates only 0.54 ha of crops acainst a c3nacity
to cultivate 1.5 ha using present techniques.    Consequently, malnutrition
is endemic atnd the child death rate excessively high, being nearly 2O' in
some areas.
2.12      Spontaneous migration from the overpopulated Basin towards Eastern
Senegal, where land and agricultural potential are underdeveloped, is
restricted for several reasons. First, before leaving, migratits must
accumulate enough food, or the cash equivalent. to subsist during the first
year of sett:lement; overpopulatiorn and related limited production opportun-
ities preclude this. Second, a natural reluctance exists to sever family
ties, and to relinquish the education antd health facilities of the Basin for
an area which lacks coru-unication and infrastructure.   Third, the different
soils and climate of Eastern Senegal require farmers to chance their
traditional cropping practices.   Nevertheless, spontaneous migration has
tI-L.en pla.e, prin.cipally in  affrine Drvince '-',-ex 3),  ut Under such  n-
controlled settlement land clearing and settlement arf    isorganized, sectlers
have 'no off-Leial tenure righrs and soil exhaisLrion is L-:oming a serious prob-
lem.
2.13      nTo organized settlement projects have been attempted in the past:
these are described in Annex 3.   The first was abandoned in 1955 due to
cultivation end financial problems; progress on the second, an irrigated
scheme, has been quite good but development costs are too hieh for it to
play a significant part in solvin2 the overpopulation problem.
2.14      A recent study commissioned by the State Secretariat of Plan!/
shows that up to 200,000 active persons (representing a total pcpulation of
about 350,000) receive inadequate incomes from their labor in the Basin and
would benefit from miigration to Less densely populated farming areas or to
towns where employment opportunities exist.    Government is now considering
a two component progran to assist aigration to Eastern Senegal.     Tle firct
component would be .t program for establishing nucleus settlements involving
1/   "La Decongestion du Bassin Arachidier au Senegal.    Aspects (Ouantitatifs"
by S.Y. Le Naelou. Secretariat d'Etat Charge du ?lan. D.A.T., Dakar,
TJuIly I.7rJ



-5-
., m (I 6h, : OOlt fam ilics (aLL -out 35,V000.J.. people) on about i. n1',n  ha ov-r ir5 years
witth hicah technical and econlomic standards through careful selection of
settlers, and efficient credit and extension services.   The proposed -ro4ct
would be the first phase of this progran. The second component would be the
construction of roads and  e11- arOuntel rhpq  nuelPiK and allosation of 'and
to soontaneous settlers. Estimated capital costs per hectare for nucleus
settlements are about USS 200,'ha cultivated, and for spontaneous settlements
about USS 10/ha cultivated.  The organized settlements would be a base for
extension and credit services and demonstrate improved farming techniques.
Land Tenure
2.15      The traditional land tenure svstem Is based on possession by the
village cormmunitv and allocation of rig.hts of usufruct to ir.dividual farmers.
A 1964 law provides that land for which ownership had not been officially
registered would become State property. Unoccupied lands are classitied as
.ones pionieres", and can be allocated by Government to existing or new
rural communities, and to statutory corporations.   Land, however, remains
State propertv and cannot be used as security for credit.
sIL.  iflf PRr.JEA.L ARJL
3.01      The projec:t area covers about 250 i'm in the Oriental Province of
SPnP(,n1 and lies to, teha so,th of the Y.,D-pnthnit ,-T ,,acoe   road (aps- Mnn
2). It is in the scutheastern sector of the "Terres Neuves" zrea and cover-,
parts of the Koumnentou.n Koussanar. an-_ Maka Di=strlcrs in the Tambacounda
Region.
1.02      The area is flat, about 40 .u in altitude, and covered with a dense
stand of shrubs interposed with trees, see Annex 4. Slopes are gradual and
there are no potentially serious soil erosion problems. A survey by the
Office de la Recherche Scientifique et Technique   ''--ere-Mer (ORSTOM) shows
that soils are nredominantly deep red sandy cla:.-      3uited for Project
crons, with some lateritic terraces, and with j'.luvia. t.oils in depressions.
Rainfall, averaeing about 35() mm annually, oc   s during a single five-month
wet season.  Although less variable than in Wes_ern Senezal, rainfall tends
to be irregular and to result: in annual yield variations.  Further rainfall
details are given in Annex 4, Table 1.
3.01      There are 17 already established villages scattered throughout
th2oro j-ecj t ar ea an. A1- -t-  -A_ -Aj    .rn F__t4 1- f__SA 4-.1 /-4-Sa te tr*
about 1,000 ha. These villages would be integrated within the project.    Pro-
duction of groundnut!;, sorohum and millet, anA tradre inf charc-nal and ha.nboo
;nats constitute the mnain sources of income of the area's present population.
Cotton. which was recently introduced, has nronmisine ootentlal but is not
yet important.  Settlement in the project area has been limited because of
inadequate surface water, lack of access roads in the center, and the shrub
and dense tree cover which discoturages clearing.  The area would probably
be settled eventuallv without Governmenc assistance, but such unorRanized
settlement would have the disadvantages described in Para 2.12.



-6-
V3Lo.04z N Ku       &pentoLu-Iauacoun-LLJ r-I , .-uud the Kuoussanar-Maka road
which border the prolect area to the east, are in satisfactory conditicn.
TUY.,ever, the Koumpentoum.ak.a road Lrh.ich .rosses the prO.aLJ CeCt area d'agonally,
and which would become the main access road for the prolect, is in ver-v Door
con.dition and can now only be *sed by carts or four -heel drive vehicls.-
Although this is; classified as a national road and the Public Works Der,art-
ment is responsible for its maintenane- it wnuld npee e_nmnlptp rehahilirti-,n
before settlement could begin. Government has budgeted funds for uise in
1971 and 1972 to rehabilitate the road and its maintenance could be included
in a proposed Baink financed road maintenance project presently under studv.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Koumpentoum-Yaka
road would be rehabilitated as an all-weather road and satisfactorily main-
tained throughout the life of the Dcaject.    A track, Mereto-Malem-Nioni,
which can be used only during the drv season, traverses the prolect area
on the other diatgonal, but prolect development does not require its improve-
ment or rehabilitation.
3.05      &oumpentoum, about 500 km from D3kar, is the rezion's administra-
tive center.  It, is linked to the rest of the country by Route Federale No. 1
and the Ocean-Niger Railroad.
3.06      Health nazaras are not severe; ri.ver blinUness is absenit from K 'n-e
project ..rea and other major endemic diseases are under control Trypano-
Sueozasi. '- endemlc, lu; d1raft an-ial"s emn,loye-d wou!.a b-e of: the N'Damacye
which is native to Senegal and tolerant to tryDanosomiasis.    Moreover, Land
clearingt itself micht reduce tsetse fly population a,,d thus !ryvancsomiusi s
incidence.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The project would be the first phase of a program for assistirin
the migration of farmers fiom the overpopulated Basin and their settlement
in the Oriental Province of Ser.egal.   It would involve the settlement ol:
3(0 families and the provision ot extension and credit services to them and
to about 250 families already established in the project area. Each settler
family would be allotted 10 ha which would be cultivated in accordance -with
farm plaLns p.epared bv a new statutory corporation "La Socipte des Terres
,e:u-c:* ~a±.^j w*.iLL wuu±  UC Cu L4U: ±LOLLCU LU' oLCU J.vUL oLIC Utvlv  .
project would be completed in a period of ten years, but the bulk of develop-
Ment -uld be fInished wthin si years.       For the purposes of thls report
the project is taken as deva2opments within the period 1971 through 1976
a::t ccns-ists of:
a) surveying, the project area in detail- includinè anv needed
aerial photography;
b) creating, staffing, and equipping ST"';



ver 15 years
ction of                                           3.04      The Koumpentoum-Tambacounda rc-:, axnd the Kous
posed profect                                     which border the project area to the east, are in satisf
would be the                                     However, the Koumpentoum-Maka road which crosses the Dro
tion of land                                       and which would become the main access road for the oroi
cr nucleus                                         condition and can now onlv be used bv carts or four-wh,ee
s settlements                                      Although this is classified as a national. road and the P
a base for                                        ment is responsible for its maintenance, it would need c
techniques.                                       before settlement could begin.    Government has budgeted
1971 ald 1972 to rehabilitate the road and its maintenan
in a proposed Bank financed road maintenance project pre~
D%uring negotiations, asurances were obta'n-d that the K
Ai L I&1  LS1J-,  .  JIf  3U4  tL LO .   i)L   _U  Lil  L  il 
sion by the                                        road would be rehabilitated as an all-weather road 3nd s.
idual farmers.                                     tained throughout the life of the project.   A   rack, M-r
afficially                                         which can be used only during the dry season, traverses
lassified as                                       on the other diaeonal. but nroiect develonment does not
ig or new                                          ment or rehabilitation.
r, remains
3.05      Koumpentoum, about 500 km from D3kar, is the re
tive center. It is linked to the rest of the country by
and the Ocean-Niger Railroad.
3.06      Health hazards are not severe; river blindness
project _rea and other major endemic diseases are under
Province of                                       Somiasis is endemic, but draft animals employed woula be
ad (see Map                                        which is native to Senegal and tolerant to trypanosomi.as:
aa and cover;                                      clearing itself might reduce tsetse fly population aind tf
rambacounda                                        incidence.
with a dense                                                                  I. nE PROjEC 
gradual and
~y by the
USTOM) showTs                                                             A.   General Description
'r .LroeJct
depressions.
de five-month                                      4-01      The proiect would be the first phase of a progi
:nfall tends                                       the migration of farmers from the overpopulated Basin anc
Pr rainfall                                       in the Oriental Province of Senegal.    It would involve ti
300 families and the provision ot extension and credit st
to about 250 families already established in the project
:roughout                                          family would be allotted 10 ha which would be cultivated
cultivating                                      farm plans p.epared by a new statutory corporation "La Sf
,roject.  Pro-                                     Neuves" CS;-) which would be established to carry out t.h
and bamboo                                       project would be completed in a period of ten years, but
poDulation.                                      ment would be finished within six years.    For the purpose
but is not                                        the project is taken as devélopments within the period l'
because of                                        and ccnsists of:
d the shrub
probably                                               a) surveying the project area in detail, inciudin    .
orRanized                                                  aerial photography;
b) creating, staffing, and equipping ST";



-. 7 -
c) constructing feeder roads, warehouses and wells;
d) recruiting, and transporting to the project area, 300 farm
families, and setziLng these families in six villeges to be
located and developed under the project:
e) providing extension services both to project settlers and
.a.M.s...a ..a. ~ ,J    Al. 6L4- FLV,'' MLCC
f) nrMiri4ng seasCInal and mcA4,um.-tover.  credit to, aCtlnrs and
established farmers by means of a revolving fund operated by SThX;
z) providinp: a central pool of equipment for hire to project farmers:
and,
h) conduc:ilme. the studies needed to evaluate the prospects of the
settlement program and to determine the size, scope, and
operation of its subseluent phases.
4.02      Agents would be employed to manage STN, details of which are given
in Chapter 6, and Annex 5: and consu:Ltants would assist in carrying out the
technical and sociologico'. surveys required for planning subsequent phases
of the settlement programn.
B. Settlement Procram
4. 0 3     .ree hundree fan. fi.. f icS ies IA *u - settled .,ver a three-year
period starting in 1972.   In 3dditior:, STN would aake available extension,
cre-dit and marketi[ng s,rvfices for 250 far-m. fmmilieS alreadly estab-lise- In
the area, of whom an esCimated 200 would probably respond.    At full deveLop-
ment, population :Ln the proiect area would reach about 4,500 people, of which
2,4O0 would be settlers and their families.    The project development schedule
would be as followis:



-08
Development Schedule
1971   1972    1973   1974   1975   1976    Total
I. Settlement Program:
Villages                 2       2             -      -      -          6
Families settled         -      50    100     150     -      -         300
Family members included -      2I00   450     750    3 50   360     2,110
Roads and trackcs (km)  12      12      16     -      -      -:        40
Wel.Ls                   2-                                  -           6
Mechanized lInd clear-
ing (ha)             =     mn     )A     3l       _      =        nn
"anual land clearing
:3)  -  -     100    300    600    500      10n  '
h'- r! l.JuseS           -       1       1      1     -      -           3
II. Established Farmers
Program:
Families participating   -     100     20      30     30     20       200
Family members includecd -     650    130     195    195    130     1,300
Roads and tracks (km)    -      25     -       -      -      -         25
Warehouses               -      -        I     -      -      -           1
C. Detailed Features
4.04      A detailed survey of the project area would be necessar-v to locate
sites for wells and villages and lateritic terraces unsuitable for cultiva-
tion.  Government h.s made arrangements for ORSTOM, see para 4.11, to carrv
out a so±l survey af the area during the 1970-71. drv season and for any
necessar; aer4.a.' .,hIot raphy bv the I.titut Geogra     National (TGN).  Th
soil survey will be carried out at the beginning of 1971.
4.05      Housing and Buildins.    As no suitahle housing for STN staff exists
in the Koumnentoum District, the Droiect would include the corstruction and
maintenance of four houses for senior and 11 houses for junior staff by
contractors. Settlers would build their own houses in the six orolect
villages, partly with self-procured local materials, and partlv with maru-
factured materials orovided by STN. A 200 m- warehouse wouldi be provided
for each two new villaces for storing farm inputs and croDs, and a sinele
centrallv located warehouse for existing villages.
4.06      Roads and Tracks.   Government would rehabilitate the Ko=m'ventoum-
Maka road bv 1972; and about 65 km of access roads to connect new and
estahlished villages with this road would be constructed and maintained
under the project by the Public Works Department (PWD) in line with annual
plans agreed with STN. Durinc negotiations, assurances were obtained
that NP would construct and satisfactorily maintain nrolect roads durine
the IDA\ credit periotd.



4.P,7 We'ls. '.e 1water tab-le ',n the project area is about 55 m. deep, and
most villages have hand dluz wells about 60 Ti deep.  Hydrogeological surveys
o  te r..Ulon Zkhv  thtb  diln     to depths of 350 m artesian    aecol
be brouight: to the surface. The cost of drilling depends on the bore depth,
and this cannot be accurately determined ithout proner testing. During the
1970-71 drY season MID would drill two artesian wells at the first two new
villaPg sites aend  depenfd4ng on the results and the cost involved. other
villages would be equipped either with artesian or traditional type wells.
In pro1ect costs. it is -assumed that all wells would be of the more expen-
sive artesian type.
4.08      Land Clearine.   As settlers would not leave their departure zones
until after the end of harvest and marketing season in February, thev would
not have time to clear enough land before the following cropping season which
begins in June. Settler families would each eventually cultivate 8 ha. The
first 2 ha would be cleared mechanically by private contractors hired and paid
by STN. Costs cf such mnechanlc clearing are high (about US$230/ha). Once the
first families will have settled, less expensive and more labor-intensive
techniques might be adopted. However, to ensure the provision of the funds
which might be required project costs include the mechanic clearing of 2 ha
per family. The remaining 6 ha would be cleared by the settlers themselves
over a tnree-vear perioa.   STLN wu'UOa loan settlers mechanical sdws andU siLmp'le
handtools for land clearing, and, as described in paras 4.05 and 5.14 settler
fs.iam"es wou" rieceive housing ,-,terials .nd food ut o a value of CFAF 40,000
£I. L.L±L.~  b LUIU  * LC.L   LIJ ±L5 LLLLO   Sf'A *S' L.  c VC U  L Ln  Y.,sr
(USS 144) to cover basic requirements during the first Year of settlement.
4.09       Farmers' Credit.  Proposed arrangements for farmers' credit are
described in paras 6=09 and 6.10     It is estimated that in the Deriod of
disbursement of the IDA credit (1971-76) seasonal credits would cover the
purchase by proiect participants of seeds, about 2.000 tons of fertilizers,
and 2.3 mi.llion liters of pesticides.   Medium-term credit would be provided
for purchase of work oxen and implements. In the period 1971-76 project
participarnts are! expected to purchase 350 pair of oxen, 700 seeder units,
and 380 tool frames with basic attarhments.
4.10      Central Equipment Pool.    Each village would be provided with a
manual maize sheller for communal use and one complete set of farm imple-
ments for demonstration purposes and for use by farmers in c:se of emergency
costing about CEAF 102,530 (USS280). Knapsack sprayers required for cotton
spraying woule be purchased and maintained by STN and hired to farmers.
4.11       Further Studies.  As the proposed project would be the first phase
of a mu-Ch larger settlement progr=:, it wvould be essentia` to analyze care-
fully the sociological, economic and technical results of the project.     Annual
sur..eys would be! carried out on _-~,out 1OZ of _11 pro4ect fn~a hxr r^n  ta_ntS.-- b
The Government is considering employing Office de la Recherche Scientifique
et Technique d'   uttre Mer (ORSTOM),- to rs , ouit thepqp qtrvevs and this would
be an appropriate arrangement. A special report would be issuea in September
1973 which would analyze the results of the first two seasons' operations
and make appropriate recommendations for a second phase project. If justi-
fied, STN would ccmmissicn consultants to prepare a feasibility study for
a second phase project involving an expansion of the nucleus settlement



- 10 -
program andl the provision nf infrastict-iire and se-vices to, faclli1cte
spontaneous settlement around such settlements. The study would also
examine the feasibility of introducing livestock into the Drolect. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that such studies would be carried
out by quaLified organizations under terms of reference and contracts satis-
factory to IDA.
D. Project Developaent Methods
4.12      Villages.  Approximataiy 50 families would settle in each of the six
villages. One central vi'lage would contain school and health facilities
provided by Covernment. These social infrastructure costs are not included
in project costs first because Government would have to finance such facili-
ties in the departure 7orLe at some stage, and second, because the benefits
accruing from such facilities are not directly quantifiable. During nego-
t'ati'oLots, assurances were o'otained that by the conclusion of project
year 4, satisfactory school and health facilities would have been constructed
in t"he pro,ect area.
4.13      Settler Recritent.     To rprmote interesct in the project, village
elders and other influenitial persons in appropriate overpooulated areas would
YiSit t he nrnipet area after revnentinin of well dip,ging anrd rad crinqtrtirt-on
for the first villages. Later in this first year families subsequently select-
ed (see naras 6.06 to 6.08) would each send three to four workers to the proi-
ect area, the remainder of che family following when sufficient food is being
produced on the settlement holdinrg.
4.14      Size of Holdings.   Each village of 50 families would have the use
of about L,250 ha; on average this probably would include about 750 ha of
good soils; 500 ha of these soils would be divided into four blocks, each
family being allotted 2.5 ha on each block. Of the total farm area of 10 ha
per family, 6 ha onlv would be cultivated each year leaving 2 ha fallow and
2 ha for possible eytensions. A further 250 ha of good soils would be set
aside for the narural expansion of the village, and the remaininR 500 ha of
less fertile soils would be used for draught animal grazing and possible
cattle raising.
4.15      Cropoing Pattern.   To permit efficient organization and supervi-
- .1  __  ---.               1                   -    _..   ~_   - - -
sion~J, one, or at -ilte mot two crops' wouUlb  ..Ue ultivated atL any O -- -  -ach
block; and the blocks would be rotated on a rour-year rotation system.
During the f4rst four ye~ars a cropping patterr.ait wol be eolv1,ed ton.s
satisfactorily meet farmers' food and cash requirement. The basic rotation
wniild be enttrnn;  ereals, groundintnr  and fal1nw.  This nattern takes into
account the need for croo diversification, market conditions, and labor
availability at the be9innin2 of the rainy season when demand is at its
peak. Further details of the technical aspects of the project are given
in Annex 4.



- I1 -
4.16      Seeds.   CFDT would provide farmers with cotton seed of the BJA
variety.  Tis vriety has a lonoer fiber (1-1/16")        thanee nrestl
used 1-1/32" Allen 333. Groundnuts would be of the 57313 variety which
has proved to be   ell adanted to proiect climatic conditions: sorzhum and
maize seed would be local varieties improved by Institut de Recherches
Aeronomlaues Tropicales et des Cultures Vivrieres (I.RAT) throueh selection.
IRAT would orovide t:he groundnut and cereal seeds needed bv the project.
During nerotiations,, assurances were obtained that STN would be provi-
ded with improved sceds in line with annual forecasts prepared by the STN
Manager.
4.17      Fertilizers.   Fertilizer use would be based on the results of field
trials carried out hy IRAT. To comper.sate for a basic phosphate deficiency,
rock phosnhate mined in Senegal would be applied to land in fallow.    Compound
fertilizers tailoredl to the needs of the project area (see Annex 4) would
be used on groundnuts and cotton. These fertilizers would have a residual
effect. and sorghum and maize following in the rotatioin would benefic from
their use.  Urea wouldl be used additionally on cotton and cereals.   Similar
fertiliztrq wouid be made available to established farmers in the project
area wishine to use then and prepared to follow a similar cronninr7 pattern.
,IItier estahlIshLetU farm,ers wouUld be able to outaiLn  he less concentrated
comnound fertilizers presently distributed by ONCAD and CFIT, see Annex 4.
4.18      Pest Control.   Cotton pest control measures would require fivp to
six snravnos each season writh a m.ixture of methvy-paraithion and Endnsl,A  n -
Hand sprayers would be rented to farmers by STl, and STN would purchase one
sprayer for each 5 ha of cotton. Other crops are not exnected to reauire
chemical pest conttol.
4.19      Farm- _trmlerents.  To enable e.ch farmer to ctiltiv.atC 6 ha.t oxen
would be bought In the neighbouring reptons by STN to be resold to far-ers
who would then train their oxen at project operated ox-traininm centers.
Fa-rmers would purchase from STY a seeder unit to be used For grouindnut and
sor!'hum planting and .a tool frame equipped with hoe, plow, ridrer and erournd-
nut lifter attachments.   This equiDment has been satisfactorily tested in t:he
project area and is acceptable to farmers in areas of Senezal where aniral
powered cotton cultivation is practised.
V. cOST   STI.-TES A,D FINANICINC ARRAMGr'!;FNTS
5.01      Project costs dturing the six years 1971 throuzh 1976, see parn
4.01, are estimated .at CFAF 430 million (USS 1.55 million), of which the
foreign exchange connonent is CFAF 246 million (USS 0.89 million.) or 57-:.
Following is a summarv of the cost estimates; further details are riven
in Annex 6.
5.02      Cost estimates ar'r b.ased on cutrrent qp:otations rrom sulnpliers and
contractors. and information 'roti.4ed by SA'I'EC. CFDT. and Covernment MmLn-
istricc.  Costc  r   siiL.      ;-   stpr      d:-i an.{ sales tauxes tabout
CAI. J.R 5* m     or  L Stiiatv,'   of' smeert Annex f   .c ') ', tI  cein- L
CFAF 58 million or U15S 210,000 see Annex 6, Table 2) hilt tncluide contin-



- 12 -
oenrci   .^f ln7. qin,, n,nia,-? nwsr,h, _- nca t n,,r ha fao_ nf A,,ripc ond.
taxes during negotiations the government gave an assurance that it would
nrrnufi,e- rhp fuinds neieded to mppr su,rh diies and r_xe-s  Th. manaoing _o_n s
fee comprises 15% of the total costs of Dro4,ect staff salaries.    Project
costs do not include those incurred bv settlers and farmers since the
contributions of these particinants would be in kind, principa!Lv labor anid
self-or ocured materials.
5.03      Although the bulk of develovment expenditure would occur dtirinc-
the proposed six-year disbursement period of the IDA credit, additional
investments would be needed for a furthet four vears to complete develop-
ment of settlers' holdings.   After six years, Government and STN would be
able to finance the CFAF 63 million (USS228,000) still reqtuired over the
next 4 vears to comnlete canital develoorment. Total prolect costs for the
10-vear period would amount to CFAF 493 million (USS l.-^ mlLlion) and during
nerotizitions assurances were obtained char the additional funds retuired
would be nrovided by Government.
Pronosed Financine
5.04       It is Drnnosed that an IlA credit of USS 1.25 million (CFAF 347.1
million) be .ade, on standard tet.., to the Government to cover annronimatpii,
8:% of project costs from 1971 throueh 1976. Durine that period the credit
wn,old f4Innran   the ersimartd foreign exchanne co.t of the nroiect- USS O.RQ
million (58Z of project costs) and 55t of local costs or US$ O.3h million
(23Z of proiect costs).
5.05      "Bread for the World", an aeencv of The Evangelical Church in
Germany, has expressed an interest in particinatine in financing the Pro-
ject to the extent of USSIOO,000. The funds suonlied bv "Bread" would be
available for local expendicures, consequentlv reducine the Government's
contribution.   The funds would be channelled to Government through IDA under
a formal agreement.   A final decision on this proposed particination is to
be taken by Bread in Julv 1971.
5.06f     The remaining local costs of CFAF 55 million (USe 0.2n million),
assumijiw BreaU m akes a CUOntri .tULU II Uo f.-Q IV-,-V., e' u: to aL I. o
project costs, would be met bv Governmenc. All project funds would b.'
channeled through the Ministrv of F    .innce to ST.. CFAF 35 mnllion
(USS 126,000) out of govern.nent's contribution would take the form of STN
share can-tal (see para 6.02) and be paid in rhree annu-l installments of
CFAF 15, 10 and 10 million (VSS 54, 36 and 36 t:nousand) starting in lQ71.
The navine-in of the first installment would be a condition of effectiveness.
Government's remaining contribution, together with proceeds of the IDA credit,
would be contributed as erants to SMN. During negotiations, assurances were
,btained that funds required for the project would be made availahle three
months in advance to STN, in line with budgets pronosed bv the STN Manazer
and anproved bv the STN Beard and IDA.    The proPosed financin^ nlan is
summarized in the following table, and is based on the disbursement
arr.invements eiven in nara 5.10.



- 13 *.
SU3IOT OF ?PET COST      SMTATMS
LF (%illion)                    2O   (thotsand)            Foreign
LocsLi   F _         T-1ofF                           Total !cchange
I. In 0iabursen*nt ?eriod of Proposed Credit 1971 trough 1976
A. CAPITAL ASSETS
Settlet.nt~ Pro .ajYI
Surveys, infrastructure wid bulidings      L7.5      38.6       86.1       17n.0     139.0      310.0       L5
Ltndcle&rlng                               12.7      27.1       39.8        L5.7    9'.6         '3        68
Vehicles and equipment                      0.7       5.2        5.9         2.3      18.9       ^1.2       98
Est.abli.qhed Fai-.ers' Program
InfriLstructure and buildljgs               L.L       6.3       10.7        15.5      22.7       38.5       59
7ehi-:es and tquipo nt                      3.1       0.5        o.6         V.0       ., 
, to-al                               65.L      77.7      1L3.1       235.L     279.9     515.3       59
3. SE3-LE. ;           . ?RAfSPTArION
N'D JIUti:E COSTS                         ll.L        2.9       IL.3        Li.2     10.3        51.5       20
C.  4NC,FNTAL F8LT:  !IPUT ;fS,S
Seed.s, 'ertillzers and pestiLcides        15.O      11.7       26.7        53.7      L2.3       96.0      L,L,
xen and oz-drmwn i=pleaentts               1.5        7.1       25.6        66.6     25.7       92.3       25
SubtotaL                              33.5      l8.5       52.3       120.3      68.,,      88.3       3
rD. .SKAGEMFNT ANfl OPtMIAING COSTS
Sta2if sa1artle  and agency fee            3L.5      dO.6      LLS.1       12L.6     289.9      LlL.5       70
Maintenan-  mqd operation of                                                1    
buidL.gs and vehiclep!                    5.?      10.?       15.i        1.7       36.8       5 5        66
qing and other :osts                    1.3       2.2        3.5         1.8       7.8       12.6       6;
v,l.*fl** en -of LnCrast-uCture
ard *-k'-ent                              3-9     _L.L         9.3        13.7     716.3       3c.o       ,3
:ubor ~LL.9                                    971L      1L2.3       161.81     50.S      512.6       S8
Tw~~~o:r:ji ~~~~~rA-o cct                                                                              6
:ady f.r .ronnd phase project             12.0      26.8       38. 83_3              96.L      139.7
.;uhl,tal 4, E. C, D, F.             167.?     223.6      390.8       A02.0     805.L    1,LG7.L       57
F. d:lTil::l!                                     b.,      2?.L       39.1        c0.?        .5     lLo.7
G.~.. r U. ,; .r:. y7T1-7O                 813.9     ?26.a       L29.9       562.2     00:9                    7
'I.  Proec l.-       07A13
fncludtnr 1;2 cant!n_encies                      L1.8      :1.5       63.3       1so.L      77.5      227.9       iL
LII:. Total Pe.'ect COst3                            .2.'       Zb7.5      L93.2       S12.i     963.L    1,776.0       53
March i971.



- 14 -
BREAD FOR
IDA         THE WORLD        GOVER 'NME'NT
CFAF   USS       CFAF   USS      CFAF   USS
n _     '000  .  In   '(000      m _   '(     .:
In Disbursement Pericd of
Proposed Credit 1971-1976
Infrastructure and Land-
clearing                     113    406  78    14     50  10   18     65   12
Vehicles Equipment and
spares                        11     41 8a            -   -     1      5   It
Settler recruitment and
subsistence                   -      -                         17    h!"  I Of)
Farm JInputs                     '    LJ 131  -6  14        2   5       1.     - 9
Local staff                     39    139  92    -      -   -     3     11    s
STN' Opeating Costs              5     91  97 -7            -     !      3     3
Technical Assistance, sur-
veys and expatriLate staff   12     442  92    -      =   -    1)     36    8
Subtotal             347  1.250  81   29    10(    6   55    193   13
In Period 1977-1980
Subtotal              -      -   -    -      -   -     63    228  1on
Total                          347  1,250  69    28    100   5  118    426   26
5.07      It is proposed that the costs of appropriate project activities
taking place before signature of the IDA credit should be financed retro-
actively. These would be tonographic and soil survevs, involving disburse-
ments of about US$ 14,000 of the IDA credit, and wells and feeder roads f-r
villages to be constructed iLn 1971 - about IJSS 60,000.
5.08      In addition to its cash contribution, Government would rehabilitate
the Koumnentoum-Maka road during the first two years of project execurion,
and subsequently strenethen the health and education services in the
Koumnentoum District in linei witn expected nopuiation increases (para 3.0'
and 4.12).
5.09      Procurement. All con-rac:s for goods and services required for
t.he projec  would be rocured foLlowinz local tenderin.g since their value
would be too small to attract interest outside Senegal.    Foreien supoliers
are well represented in Dakar and cm.etitive bids would be, ohbtained=   Com-
pound fertilizers proposed for the project are produced by the Societe
indet1rial1e Ad'engraic a  SnneaAl (STE-5) of which TFC is a shareholder.
During negotitations, assurances were obtained that STN would follow bidding
nrocedures satisfActorv to IDA.
5.10      Dis;burse::ent.  Disbursement of the IDA credit would be a-ainst
L00'" of the cost of i:-.or ted zoods and services exclusive of i-.nort cuties
and other sale taxe?s.  The disbursenent -ercentares that would be apDlied to



- 15 -
the costs of other goods and services anrd STN operating costs, and estimated
schedules of disbursement are given in Annex 6. Application for disbursements
would be supported by contracts, shipping docuents and certified records
of expenditure.
5.11      Accounts and Auclit.  Project accounts, and individual farmer
--edit acounts would be k ept at STM beafqluarters under the control of
the project accountant. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that,
in a,dditionn to any Goverprment auditing, SIN accounts would be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and that copies of the audited ac-
:ounts and the auditor's reports would be submitted to IDA within four months
of the close of each financial year.
Subsidies
5.12      Project participants would benefit from subsidies on the costs of
fertilizers and land clearing as well as receiving some subsistence costs
as a grant.
5.13      F'ertilizers.  Vie success of the project would depend on early
settlers obtaining annual incomes substantially larger thar. those previously
received in their own areas.   During the first. years of settleaent, however,
farmers' ex:penditure would be high and, due to lack of experience in the new
crops and techniques that they would employ, yields probably would be
moderate. To ensure reasonable incomes in these early years, Government
proposes to extendl to project participant's thle subsidies on rock phosphate
and groundnut fertilizers which are enjoyed by all other farmers.    Rock
phosphate is minced in Sene-al, but it is difficult to convince farm.ers in
traditionaL areas of its value. Thus at the present time sufficient rock
phosphate for an appli,n1 rin ro rorrect the basir deficiencv of this nutrient
is distributed free to farmers who clear new land in a manner satisfactory
to their local extension service.   The rationale for subsidising rock phos-
phate and p,roundnut fertilizers, see below, is that, ultimately, the ground-
nut crop, and economy as a whole, benefits from the use of such fertilizers
and conseqtuently the cost of the subsidies needed to obtain general farmer
acceptance is economically justified. The cost of rock phosphate to be
applied by project farmers every 8 years would be about CFAF 24.1 'lillion
(US$86,620) in the IDA credit disbursement period. Groundnut fertilizers
would be subsidized at the ruling rate of about 50Z of present costs during
the first four years of settlement, but within the project area the subsidy
would be reduced to 25% during years 5 and 6. Assurances to this effect
were obtained during negotiaticns.   Subsidies on fertilizers for groundnuts
would amount to a total of about * rAF 2,-.33 aLiioL (US5 OJ,UVJ In Like dis-
bursement period.
5.14      Clearing and Subsistence Allowance.   Each settler family would
have teo hectares cleared free of char-e at an estimated total cost of
CFAF 130,000 (US$ 465) (see para 4.08). A subsistence allowance in cash
woui,ld4 be paid to eath seettler family in the first year of -ettlement in
line with time spent on land clearing operations. The estimatec cost of
such aliowanees and of building materials supplied in lieu would be abcut
CFAF 40,000 (US$ 144) per family.



- 16 -
5.15      Total subsidies would be about CFAF 210,000 (USS 750) per farmer
in the IDA credit disbursement period. Existing farmers in the project area
would receive fertilizer subsidies only. Dturing negotiations assurances
were obtained that the rates of such. subsidies wotild not be changed prior to
consultat:Lon with IDA.
VI.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Organization and Staffing
6.01      The national organizations in charge of extension, credit and
marketing servicPQ are roc well est     he    I in EPatern Seneganl and are
presently being reorganized. As a result they would not be able to provide
the coordinated services needed durinc the nroiect neriod- and '"la Societe
des Terres Neuves" (ST'N) would be created to carry out the project and sub-
sequent phases of the Terres Neuves settlement program.
6.02      STN, with an initial capital amounting to CFAF 35 million
(US$ 126,000) entirely subscribed by the Government, would be directed by an
eight-member Board chaired by the Minister of Rural Development or his
nominee. Day-to-day operations would be encrusted to a manager who would
act as Secretary to the Board. Under Senegal law, State Societies such as
STN are supervised by a Government Commissioner directly responsible to the
Prime Minister. Such CcR.missioners sit on the Board and are entitled to
veto any Board decisions; which, in their opinion, are against tne Goverrment
interest. The veto has to be referred to thie Presidunt for confirmation, to
whom the Commissioner reports through the Prime Minister.    Such powers are
very far reaching and importantly much time can be wasted in obtaining
resiUentLa. confLirmatLin; consequently, during negotiations, assuraLces
were obtained that the C-overnment Commissioner's veto would be acted upon by
the c..petent authority within 30 calendar days.
6 03      An Advisnrv Crie-ttee would be establIshed to assist STN. and
would consist of senior representatives of all the entities directly or
indirectly concerned with the project. This Committee would advise STN
Board on technical aspects and would ensure STN of the full support of
the respective departments.   Creation of STN with financial autonomy and
statutes acceptable to IDA, including the Adv4'-ory Cormittee, would be a
condition of credit effectiveness.
6.04   '  STN would obtain technical assistance from a suitable managing
agency. Government is considering engaging CFDT as a managing agency; this
company rould be particujlarly well suited. It is already in charge of a
FED financed cotton prolect in Eastern Seneoal and is well established both
in the project area and in Dakar. The managing agents engaged by STN would
b* reqtiired principally to:
a) provide the Manager, Deputy Manager, and Senior Agricu.1turalist
required to staff STN and recruit its cthier staff and field workers;



- 17 -
b) establish and supervise STN's accounting system and finances: and
c) train STN administrative and field workers.
A management contract providing for these services, acceptable to IDA and
si2ned wlth STN. wou-ld be a condItlon of credit effectiveness.
6.05      Staff Recruitment and Trainine.   Due to the shortage of experi-
enced! Senegalese staff, the managing agent would probably appoint expatriates
as Project Manager and to one of the two assistant posts. A Senegalese
would take over as Project Manager before the end of the six-year development
period.  During negotiations, assurances were obtained that during the IDA
credit disbursement period, appointment to the posts of Manager, Deputy Man-
ager, and Senior Agriculturalist, their terms of reference and conditions of
employment would be acceptable to Government and IDA.   Initial appointment
of these three officers would be a condition of credit effectiveness.    Other
Senegalese headquarters staff would include an accountant, and an assistan':
in chlarse of settler- -ecnritment. No difficulty is anticipated in recruit-
ing field extension workers from among well qualified and experiencen per-
sonnel in other Government agencies. During negotiations, assurances were
ootained that tne field starf, as specified in Atmex 6, Table 5, were made
avaiLable to STN.   Further details of STN and an organization chart are at
A  C
B. Settler Selection
6.06      The recruitment assistant would organize advertisement of the
projecL iii appropriate Basin Districts and subsequent pre-selection of
candidates applying through their village chiefs.   Flnal responsibility for
settler selection would resc exclusively with the Project Manager.
6.07      Principal selection. zriteria would be that:
-settler-s were practising farmers currently occupying land
in the departure zone; would pay CFAF 1,000 each as a cooperative
membership fee, and would be prepared to sigrn a contract setting
out their rights and obligations: and
- families would have between three and four "active persons",
anda wo_ul nave one mt=ber experienced in worKing WLLt  EXAVCO.
6.08.,    A sett'ler's contract -wo-uld spec-"y -le rights an' dut1les of both.
rm  VL LJL  ~  UIId.   LULU  J     L.LL  LA L  ~LL~L _ IL U1~  ''  "
settler and STN, especially the terms of the settler's occupancy of the land
and me.asures to be t.ken in c-se of default, including grounds for dismissal
of unsatisfactoiv settlers.   Settlers would undertake to follow a cropping
n.atftPrn nnd to use cultiat-ion t-ch4niqsa _e directed bv ST%1 eAff   The
contract would specify the terms of seasonal and mecliur-term loans available
to siettlers as well -s the markterfnv arrangements for cash crops.  Aereement
bv IDA of a form cf settler's contract would be a condition of effectiveness
of the oronosed credit.



C. Credit Arrantzeents
6.09      Farmers' seasonal and mediun-term credit needs for crous. other
than cotton, would be provided by STY, which would operate a revolvinp fund
for this purpose. The arrangements for cotton credits would be those des-
crihed in para 2.09.  5,T. would purchase needed seasonal inputs and farm
equipmnent in bulk, distribute these to farmers and debit individual farmer's
credit accounts accordingly.   Repayments vouid be deducted from the sales
proceeds of sectlers' crops.   If further stages of the Terres Neuves progra.n
are implementeLd, STN mwiy have to transfer 'Lurect manaRement of credit,
marketing and the supply of inputs to cooperatives serviced by national
instltutions SUG1 as BN[DS dn. Oklr%r, prov4'-e-d experienceshwteein
stitutions have been made more efficient by the current reorganizations
(npras 2.07 an4  rlR%   ',TN onuld Aadvlno  fmnersr  coopracive  under the
project to enable some delegation of resnonsibility, and to establish the
nechannsm thrnuch which nat_  nal crerit and marketing ins1tirtirinns con,lA
onerate. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the above ar-
rancements would be inplemented and that in accordance with a timetable
and arrangenents to be agreed with IDA, funds would be made available to
STN to establish a revolvirg seasonal and medium-term credit fund, and in
addition to provide the working capital needed bv STN to purchase farmers'
crops.
6.10      Seasonal credit at 5.0  a year would cover the purchase of fertili-
zers and seeds for grotindnuts, maize and sorghum: this would amount to about
CFAF 28,000 per farm annually at full development.   Me.3itmi-term cre-4it would
be provided for purchase of a pair of work oxen and equipment, and amount to
about CFAF 82,000 per farm.   The term of such credits would be five years
with interest at 5.5Z and one year's grace for capital and interest: repay-
ment would be through five equal annuities of about CFAF 19,000. These
rates of interest are those now charged by BNDS and are based on ehe Banque
Centrale de l'Afrique de l'Ouest discount rate of 3.5Z.   Since it is possible
LtldL a  crUed* dladrralngeImU  r1ay 'we C.1.hgeU UUrin X11 Lle lifeC UL tle prLUJoLeX, 'LUoa
agreements with farmers, as well as the settler's contracts, would allow for
the transfer of their   4.-abilit4, fr.n STN to  y, successor organization n_.i-
nated by STIN.
6.11      In accordance with the Lav regulating land allocation (see para
2.'LS; nroietr area land would be allocated to STN which would in turn
enter irtto occupancv agreement with individual settlers. Assurances were
obtained durinz nerotiations that sufficient suitable land for the imple-
mentation of the projec:t would be made available to STN.
13. Marketinz Arrangements
6.12      Project cotton would be purchased and ginned by CFDT, lint and seed
would be sold subsequently to local industries or exported. ST" would pur-
chase project produceu groundnuts on behalf of ON'CAD." Maizc and sorrhun
would be bought by ST'I and 30ld to Dakar flourmills and feed producers ,nder



long-term contracts. Details of marketing arrangements are given in Annex
2.  During negotiations, assurances were obtained that these arrangements
would be followed, unless a farmer's marketing cooperative, acceptable to
IDA (see para 6.09), proves its capacity to take over these functions. and,
in particular, that STN wou:Ld be free to market cereals direLtly without
restriction.
VII.   YIELDS, OUTPUTS, PRICES AND PARTICIPANTS' INCOMES
A. Yields and OUtDuts
7.01 YIeLds arts expected to rise progressi           *j..ly d .   t  J
development neriod and, as slhown below, to reach their optif.um by about the
eighth vear I.n the life ol" eacl, falun1:
Eastern Senegal
Commodirv                    Year 1       Year 8            Average
................... }g/ha.
Cotton (seed cotton)         1,200        1,800          1,300 (4 vears, 1966-69)
Groundnuts (unshelled)       1,000        1,500            950 (3 years, 1966-68)
Taize (grain)                  900        1,600            900 (196∞/69)
Sorghum (grain)              1,000        1,800            750 (1968/69)
The tnhle shows that project yields are expected to develop to levels well
above the reroional averages; conversely, as shown in Annex 4. forecasts how-
ever are well below; the yield levels that have been achieved at agricultural
research stations and on trials made on farmers' land under the supervision
of research officers.    In view of imoroved farming metnods under tne project
the yield levels forecast are realistic.
7.02      The -first project harvest would be in October 1972.     Total cron
pro.!uction, in::ludin; the increental produ.cion of estahlished fa .s in e
project area, would increase progressively up to project year 11 as described
In Annex 4, Table 10) -nd simmArizedp in the Fnllewing table:
Commoditv                       1972      1973     1981
........tons..........
Cotton (seed cotton)              36       122    1,074
Groundnuts (unshelled)            77       247       300
Maize (grain)                     22        80       294
Sorghum (grain)                   25       110       810



- 20 -
B. Markets and Prices
7.03      As described in Annex 2, the volumes of Droject-nroduced crourid-
nuts, maize and sorghun would be very small in relation to Seneeal's total
production of trhese crops, and consequently, nroject production would h.ve
a. insignificant impact on both local and international commioditv prices.
7.04      Cotc'en prices would be determined by world supply and demand.     The
Bank's Economics Department forecasts that prices for Mexico strtct middlling
!.-l/l6" cotton lint which is similar to project produced 1HJA 592 will decl'ne
by 12i; from the US 28.4 cents/lb obtainedi in 1969 to US 25.0 cents/Lb in,
l975.  Such a decline has been taken into account in cotton prices uw.eJ in
report calcj±lations, as we'ltl as a 7' -1iscunt  . tc  111W for a p,os sLile a
verse price differential for KJA 592 cottoi.    Tlus the world nm.rrket pr[re
ror_ l2 tA 59)__1 . coto  Is as.te  . deras from rFrr. 162 /z.. /,t:<  c  n..F
lb) obtained For the 1969 crop, to CFAF 143/kg (US 23.28 cents/lb) in 1975.
Post 1975 cotton prices are e.    Ö.ected .t remain -ta-ic or to decline slowly
by about 1% per annum: project calculations assume a constant price after
1979.
7.05      Despite 2roundnut prices averaging US$ 230 par ton for the first
10 months of 1970, the Bank's Economics Department foresees a reduction
in the CIF Europe price to CFAF 47,210 (US$ 170) per m/ton of shelled
groundnuts by about 1975. This reduction has been used ir report calcu-
alations .
7.06      Maize and sorghum markets are unorganized in Seneg-al, but a demand
exists in Dakar for locally produced maize and sorzhum by both flour mills
and livestock feed producers. Largely because of the lack of guaranteeci
domestic supplies, which the project would be able to guarantee in the
future, these industries now import their supplies.    The CIF Dakar minort
price is now about CFAF 18.5 per kg (USS67.5jm ton for maize ancd sorgnum,
equivalent to a delivered mill price of CFAF 21.2 per kg (USS 77/m ton),
excluding '=uort taxes.   In `vew ofr an ant-icipatedI production shortage in
~~1±u .,1 JJiJU p   d~  LU  VL.   t dL  IIU   L.LjJ  LI_U  U. UUUI.1
relation to worlcd effective demaid, the Bank's Economics Department forecasts
a maize price increase of about 12% by 1980 co-.pA -ir), w    ht 1Q57-69 nrirp
of USS 78/m ton (CFAF 21.7/kg). Sorghum prices, wr.ich tend to follow maize
prircs, are al sA 1asreued t           hv nhAr 19!t frnm 115S 70/n ton (CFAF
19.4 per kg). Consequently, the CIF Dakar prices used iiu calculation of
the internal econromic rate of return from investment 5n the project in-
creases to USS 87/m ton (CFAF 24.1/kg) for maize and USS 78.5/m ton (CFAF
21.8kg) for sorghlm in 1960.
Farm Cate Prices
7.07      The relationships between farm gate and forecast world market
prices take into account export taxes, marketing marcins and transport
costs as described in Annex 2.    Predicted 1975 world prices fer cotton and
groundnut used for the econo-ic life of the project are taken as equi.alent
to farm gate prices of CFAF 26.15/kg seed cotton (net of cost of inp.ucs, see
para 2.09) and CFAF l,!.20/k- unshelledi groundruts.   Betn?een ].0il and iu.-,



- 21 -
however, farm gate prices for these commodities ar- likely to be higher.
For sorghum, private traders now pay about CFAF 1.4/kg. This price probably
will increase by CFAF 1/kg by 1975 in view of anticipated increase in wrorld
prices.  Thus a farm gate price of CFAF 14/kg for sorghum rising to CFAF
15/kg by 1975 has been used. The Dakar milling trade now imports its maize
supplies at r del:Lvered price o; -FAF 21/kg ald in supplying this market
STN should b  able to pay a farm gate price of CFAF lb/kg rising to CFAF
17/kg by 1975. SLnce seed cotton 'tnd groundnut prices are fixed by Govern-
ment, see para 2.10, assurances were obtained that !DA would be kept in-
formed of any proposed changes in producer prices.
C. armer Benref' t;9
* r aL7   L) D -UIk.L  .
7.08      By providing subsistence at the early stage of settlement, by es-
tablish1ng infrastructure and social facilitl-s- A nd by assisting in the
clearing of land and the learning of new cultural techniques, the project
would level out the main obstacles for migration described in para 2.12.
in view of the population pressure in the Groundnut Basin, it is the-afore
anticipated that many candidates will apply amongst whom it would be
possible to select satisfaLctory settlers.
7.09      Farm budgets for both settlers and established farmers in the
project area are given at Annex 7.  Costs include a CFAF 1.5/kg purchase
tax on fertilizers and one! of 10% on farm implements. In order to achieve
parity with farmers outside the project area the price for seed cotton
would be net of the costs of the seasonal inputs required for this crop,
see para 2.09 and Annex 2, Table 1. Fertilizers would be suLsidized in line
with the proposals detailed in para 5.13.   A settler famiiy's cash income
after taxation and provision for home consumption would increase from CFAF
5,000 in the first year of' settlement up to about CFAF 122,000 (US$ 440
equivalent) by the tenth year. This latter figure is some 70% higher than
t-he presaent vrg    nveo           ,''si       the Groundnut Bas'n -andi
is estimated thac total intcome, including home consumption, would represent
aln in-rease of mnr t,h2, 1inn- For eabih4she,A farm fmi 7ies ardil1t1nnq
cash income per family would be about CPAF 41,000 (USS 148) a-Lter 9 years
of narticfnatlon fn the nrniect. an fncrrepae of About 30Z over current incomes.
D. Government Revenues
7.10      The project cash flow for Government over the 25 yeeirs 1971-1996
is shown aw Annex S. Total Government revenue generated by the proiect
would amount to about CFAFP 1.1 billion (US$ 4.0 million equivalent) compared
with total project costs over-the same period of CFAF 1.3 billion (USS 4.5
million equivalent). Revenues would accrue from export duties on cotton and
groundnuts, farmers credit: repayments, revenues accruing to the groundnut
and cotton stabilization funds, and STN's margin on cereal sales. The
financial icss to Government from onerating the project stems basically from



-22-
51.3 04114. 0J.5  . 4UIC Li-Lvy L,4A.-LA LL=UCU L.U LP Lt alU ut:V.LUp :CLLJLCUW:m1L
procedures. When the latter are proven. it will be possible to reduce super-
vision costs, wand the C4f.cial i          to -*.. os1
will be substantially improved.
VIII. BENEFITS AND .TIFICATION
8.01      Tle project's main benefit somld be to demonstrate a means for
alleviating overpopulation in the Basin, and to initiate the. organized
development of undeveloped land of promlsing agricultural potential in
Eastern Senegal. The project would result in the increased production of
cotton and groundnuts for export and of cereals for a growing domestic
market; and the irltroduc2tion of a more diversified form of agricultural
production and improved farming methods. Important secondary benefits
would includ.e the development, albeit cn a limited scale, of more efficient
agricuiturai extension, credit and cooperative systems.
8.04      It is estimated that at full production, the project would generate
about US$ 328,000 (CFAF 91 million) anrually in net foreigr exchange earnings
or sav'Lugs.
8.n w    m    --I .... '-o  of th  re;tu A A t.._ o the economyt 1 th  --4  t  . e
* .J J    ,fl       _   -  .J.  ,v  &E  *--  _      &SE E-     r-- -~
shown at Annex 9.  For farmers already established in the project area, in-
cr-pmental productnion on-l is taken asa projeot beneffit and  ,nrnnIriArPlv
matched against incremental costs.   For the settlement cemponent, however,
total nroduction. includi-ng oroduce consumed by settlers. is considered as
a benefit to the economy. This treatment is justified because land eva-
cuated by prolect participants in the 3asin would be taken up immediately
due to heavy population pressure, and there would be no reductien in pro-
duction in the departure zone.
8.04      On the basis of yields given In para 7.01, cost estimates shown
at para 5.01, tne commodity prices assumed in paras 7.03 to 7.06 and a
25-year project life, the return to the economy from investment in the over-
all project would be 13.0%. The econ n.c rate ot return on the settiement
component alone is estimated at 12.5! ad the return on improving services
to existing farmers at 15.8Z. As shown in Annex 9, Table 2, if the value
of estimated project output declined by 10%, the overall economic rate of
retu-ru would fall1 to 1O.U., and rates f0or the settLeLmLerLi  aIIU existlng
farmers comnonents would be 10.3% and 12.3% respectively. The above rates
OCJ  *V.U  I If.  LlJ ..tU*L  S LS  4SU.at&.J  .Aa
of rcU&L .. ake LIU :_coune4 of th"I.^cl           bnft     that would be
generated by the roads and water supplies furnished or improved under the
project, or  fFoe opportu-nities for tr-ade expanscnn wh4rb the nrniee-t would
provide. If farm production autoconsumed by settlers is treated as a project
c03t; the rqtp nf return wniwitr hp rednrA tno ahout 10%. As an alternative to
the economic rate of return test, the cost benefit ratio has been calculated.
Ansumint various onnortunitv eostm for rapItal the ratios are at 8%, 1:1.26:
.i 9%, 1:1.20 and at 10%, 1:1.14.



- 23 --
8.05      The project would be the first phase of a larger ..ettlement program
which, cver scme 15 years, would settle 5,000 families in nucleus settlement
units.  The fixed cost, and overheads of the larger program would not increse
'n proT;c'rtion with the increase in number of settlers and the economic rate
of retutn from investment in the overall program is estimated at about 13% -
details on rate of raturn calcualtion are given in Aimex 9.
IX. RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      Dtirinif nesotiLations, the following main assurances were obtained:
(a)  the KoumpentoLLn-Maka road would be rehabilitated as an all-
weLLther roa)dU 'uy LeIC t-nu oif 197 7 _, dIIU sdaLla LdtLUL y mlallnta LdlledU
throughout the life of the project (para 3.04);
(b)  annual surveys would be carried out on 10% of all project farms,
and a specia:! report L,ould be 1issued in Setme 1g 7> which
would analyze the results of the first two seasons' operations
and make aonr-onriate reconmendations for a second phase proiect:
and that such surveys and studies and any feasibility study neces-
sary for a second phase project, would be carried out by a quali-
fied organization under terms of reference and a contract satis-
factory to IDA (para 4.11);
(c)  by project year 3 satisfactorv sc..-,l and health facilities would
have been est:ablished in the projec: area (para 4.12);
(d) government would provide the funds needed to meet import duties and
sales taxes on project purchases (para 5.02);
(e)  funds required for the project would be made available three
ronths in advance to STN, in line with budgets proposed by
the STN Manager and approved by the STN Board and IDA
c
(f)  TM  ccounts waould be audited by indepnden   audtor
to InA, and that copies of the audited accounts and the auditor's
renorts ,ou1ld' be- sub,m,itted to MA u4thin foutr months nf the rleqp
ok' each financial year (para 5.11); and
(z)  during the Ir1A credit disbursertent oeriod, appointments to the
posts of STr. Manager, Deputy 'Manager, and Senior Agriculturalist,
their term-s of reference a-id conditions of enployment would be
mutuially acceptable to Government and ITDA and that the field staff,
as detailed in Annex 6, Table 5, would be made available to ST':
(para 6.05).



- 24 -
9.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be that:
(a.) the first installment of STN.'s share capital had been paid in
by Government (para 5.06);
(b)  STI had been created, with allocation of land, financial
autonomy and suitable statutes, including the Advisory
Committee, :Ln a manner satisfactory to IDA (para 6.03 and
6.11);
(c.) a managemenl: contract, acceptable to IDA had been signed
providing STN with the services described in para 6.04
and that iniLtial appointments to the posts of Manar,er,
Deputy Manager and Senior Agriculturalist satisfactory to
IDA, had been made (para 6.04 and 6.05); and
(d) IDA had agreed a form of settler's contract (para 6.08).
9.03      The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$ 1.25 million on
standa:d term.   The ,c'redit includes- retroactive fina,ncinr, of up to
US$ 60,000 (para 5.07).



AhrTuZ  I
SENEGAL
TERRES NEUVES RESETTLEMENT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL BACKGROUND
A. Agricultural Situation in Senegal
1.        The value of exports of groundnuts and related products amount on
average to about CFKF 26 billion a year reaching some CFAF 29 billion in
peak years such as 1966. After groundnuts the next most important export
item is phosphates (about CFAF 2.5 billion a year). Imports total on average
some CFAF 40 billion a year. Rice is the most important single item:
185,000 tons worth CFAF 7 billion were imported in 1968.   Maize, sorghum and
millet. imports totalled 16,000 tons valued at about CFAF 300 million in 1968.
2.        Diversification, primarily int(. cotton, but also into cereals such
as rice and maize is the basic objective of agricultural policy.   Since for
tecnnical reasons, this a long term objective, groundnuts will have to re-
main ehe mainstay o[ the econoMy and provide Lhe necessary resources for
the economy in the foreseable future.   With this in mind, the Government has
carrie.d out a grountniut productiv-i,} Imree,:porsiua.osl
with the diversification effort, but because of various factors, farmers are
reouctant to continuea buylng fertilizers and im-lements onr credit (see m.ain
report, para 1.03).
3.        Government efforts to stimulate agricultural diversification were,
in the earlv 60's; inadeouate- slow- and for political reasons, concentrated
too heavily in the Senegal River Valley, although surer and quicker results
could have ibeen achieved in the South and southeast of the country where the
agricultural potential is better and development would require a lower level.
of investment. The multiplicity of agencies and organizations dealing with
the agricultural sector and its development and the lack of coordination
between their agencie!s have also hampered the implementation of Government
policies.
4.        The third four-year development plan (1969-73) has placed priority
on agricultural development whicn is rightly considered to be the key sector
of the economy and which also determines the rate of development in other
sectors. Out of total planned public investment of CFAF 121.3 billion, some
30Xt Al.l bJe d'evotedu to agriculture, -ua,LnLy for crop iMprovement adu develop-
ment, focusing on diversification and investment in irrigation facilities.
The Casamaance and Oriental prohavet           greatest developmet potental
for rainfed crops and the Senegal River Valley for irrigated crops and
nlnnnpt Invesotments re    to be c-cen-rated 4i these three are-
5.        Good yvildei hAv hae pn nbt{ned in Senegal under researrh condiir-irq-
especially for cotton and groundnuts. Inadequate institutional arrangements
have been a hindrance to proner dissemination of technical knowledge and the!
supply of nec-essary inputs and have prevented the rapid and successful



ANNEX I
Page 2
adoption of proper husbandrv techniques at the farm level. In areas witIi
good cotton potential spectacular results have been achieved and farmers
have shown increased interest ir cultivating this crop. in other areas,
however, the farmer has been reluctant to give up his traditional crepp4x
patterns which are based on extensive groundaut cultivation associated '
a subsistence food crop. in the last few years, however, a successietn ot
bad harvests and heavy indebtedness have broueht about a tendency to negΩ'c.
groundnuts as al cash crop in favor of growing more suDsistence crops and to
refrain from utilizing improved farm inputs sich as fertilizers.     During
the L969 . d 1970 agricultu ral seasons, mlle. a-rLeas   increased each year
by as much as 10Z in certain areas to the det-iment of the area under ground-
nut--.
B,  Tnqt1itinnsq i,n Sepgp21 ReponnnibIe fo r Agrirtl"tral   elonnpm e.n r
6.        Responsibilitv for developing Senegal's agriculture is shared by
a great number of organizations. This situation does not permit an efficient
and systematic approach to the problems of agricultural development and tends
to lead to some misallocation and waste of scarce resources. Organization of
the agricultura,l sector includes adr.u-nistrative services under the Ministry
of Rural Development (MRD). a number of autonomous state and expatriate
agencies active in promoting production, extension and marketing, and re-
search.  The Ministry's adDinistrative services include the Direction des
Services Agricoles (DSA) responsib:Le for the implementation of agricultural
programns and policies in cooperation with the State Secretariat for Planning;
for control of state agencies; and for extension work. Othler services are
the Direction de l'Elevage er des Industries Animales (livescock), the
Direction des Eaux et Forets (forestry), the Direction du Genie Rural (rural
engineerlng) and the iLretonLU1 ut: L 'UAiLMeU  df ue L 'Epaubior&.  IThe LaLLer
is, in principle, responsible for establishing better understanding bezween
thle faa..m,in2 population. a.di t-he technical servic-e.s.  R 4     for the
formation of development programs in the less populated areas lies with the
''ni -recin deA I' A-m noa.,onr du T-rri      and-o  the ah ,ini crra r4.n c.-r,,-- -
within the State Secretariat for Planning, which passes formulated programs
on to the Ministrv of Rural Development for their imnlementation.
7.        Research work is carried out by various French institutions under
cost sharing agreements with Senegal. Research on staple foods, groundlnuts,
and livestock is carried out by the "Institut de Recherches Agronomiques
Tropicales et des Cultures Vivrieres" (IRAT). The "Institut de Recherc:hes
du Coton et des Textiles Exotiques" (IRCT) deals with cotton.    These iristi-
tutes maintain seven stations and substations and a number of den'onstratcion
plots throughout the country covering all ecological zones. The "Insti.tut
de Recherches pour les Huiles et Oleagineux" (IRHO) is responsible tor
research and extension on confectionary groundnuts.



AiNNEX '
Page 3
o8.       All.. researclh orgI 'zatios concenLra-Z           -------n- applied . L
is of a good standard, and due to tha long-term assignments of expatriate
person-el, continu:lo£ roresearch work 45 oaoured. The organizations' long
established experience and the pooling and application of results obtained
from their worldAide neDtwork nf rpAPArr-h AtatAin in alno bpnpfifAlI to
developments of crops covered by them.  Results are particularly good for
cotton.  Res-Lts for staple foods are less satisfactory because in the
past these crops have receivee less attention than cash crops.   In recent
Years. however, the Govern:ment has showed increased interest in staple
foods and has promoted spec.ific research programs which shoulc. lead to
substantial increases in the yields of sorghum, maize and rainfed rice
in the near future.
9.        The Direction des Services Agricoles is in charge of overall
extension work. In practice, however, most extension work is carried out
by specialized agencies such as SODEVA, a state agency so far operating
mainly in the fielci of groundnut development, the Compagnie Francaise pour
le Developpement des Fibres Textiles (CYDT) is in charge ot cotton development,
and the Societe d'Amenagement et d'Exploitation du Delta (SAED) and the
Societe de Developpement Agricole et Industriel de la Casamance (SODAICA)
are concerned with rice. Efficiency of extension work in Senegal has
suffered fAro[i the ].ac oU?1  . OfICOcrUdinatloU between the various agencies in.volveU,
and in addition there has been a tendency to introduce intensive extension
methods in areas of low agricultural potential.
10.       TrheT $ffnn,*p Nn42tinnlr de AP TlPvp1nmnpnt dut ePnpc,--1 (RNDS) wq forimed
in 1964 and is responsible for providing financial and technical help for
all proiects concerned with the social and economic development of Senegal.
Ivs fixed capital is CFAF 1.36 billion, of which the Government owns 56Z,
Caisse Centrale de Cooperar ;.. Econv-oMque (CCCE) 28Z. Banque Centrale des
Etats de l'Af.rique de l'Ouest (BCEAO) 7% and commercial banks 10%. With a
few exceptiorns agricultural credit is provided in kind and prevailing
interest rates are 5% annually for short-term and 5.5% for medium and long-
term lending. Financing of the groundnut productivity program is the main
BNDS operation in the field of agricultural credit, but its role is very
limited. The individual farnmer's requirement, whether for seasonal or
medium-term credit, is assessed by the extension service operating in his
area and submitted to the cooperative to which the farmer is obliged to
belong if he wishes to obtain credit. Tne cooperative evaluates the farmer's
request and makes an overaLl application to BNDS. BNDS restricts the credit
zzi`lCable to cooperat'Lves tco 25% of thie aversagCe valuCe ofgodn,Casee
~ I..UL~IJUJLdI.LV~ LU ..Ji. II. LL~  ~   ULI 6.UXUL1ULULb LU4Lr.=1_=U
through the cooperative duriLng the prece~ding three years, and additionally
f'itak intc, -co-M.t the debt coollectior record of thle cooperative.  BND-c
performance, apparently satisfactory until 1968, proved to be poor. Govern-
ment tnnk stps tn ru      BN   operating costs and has agreed i.n pri"ciple
to its accounting reorganization, see main report para 2.07.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
11.       The main duties of the Office Nationale de Cooperation et
d'Assistance au Developpement (ONCAD) in Lhe Groundnut Basin are to provide
a service to cooperatives, including the provision of farm inputs, the
primary marketing of their groundnuts, credit recovery, management of the
seed stockpi:Les and technical services. ONCAD was formed in 1966 to succeed
regional farmers' organizations, but the responsibility for supplying farm
inputs and for primary marketing was not added until a year later. This
arrangement has not proven successful and currently ONCAD and the agricultural
cooperative system are being reviewed by a consulting firm, Italconsult,
financed under the Bank/IDA Loan/CredIt 5841140 SE.
C. Compagnia Francaise pour le Developpemen; des Fibres Textiles (CFDT)
Background
12.       The Compagnic  rancaise pour le Developpement des Fibres Textiles
(CrDT) which, 4t is antciparPrj wuntil mAnage thp nrnnonposd nroet on hehalf
of STN, was established in 1949 to provide technical assistance to France's
overseas territories (and subsecuently other countries) for the development
of fibre crops, particularly cotton. CFDT is a non profit statutory body
(Societe d'Economie Mixte) with a capital of FF 200,000 (US$ 36,0030, mainly
financed by the French Government. Its Board of Directors consists of
representatives of the French Ministries concerned with financial and tech-
nical assistance, private commercial and industrial groups, Caisse Centrale
de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) and Institut de Recherches du Coton et des
Textiles Exotiques (IRCT). Headquarters are at Paris and comprise four main
Divisions:  Agriculture, Industry and Equipment, Commerce, Finance and
Accountancy.
13.       The quality of services provided by CFDT are far greater than any
single recipient country could afford on the basis of its own cotton pro-
duction, and CF'TLrs technical strength lies in its operating _.n several
countries.  There are also advantages in CFDT's Headquarters being in Paris.
Dy 1-.'t t.4ng or-es  C,1_1 'Is Aic 0- lobr4       ;---_h f_ __  eof-Oano
)} p w   &  U CL~  u  X   C-sv  ;i ,  AP &   vL  V al   - X -b   e---- X
and equipment needed by the countries to which it supplies services; these
c-,st advantages apply a-so to in-curance and trannort.  B- CFDT centralizing
cotton sales considerable advantages additionally accrue to the producing
cotintri L-q 
Provision of Technical Assistance
14.       Technical assistance provided by CFDT is as follows:
(i)  Crop production - CFDT organizes extension services to teach
farmers to use improved cotton cultivation methods. These
methods are usually based on research results obtained by the
Institut de Recherches du Coton et des Textiles Exotiques (IRCT);



ANNX 1
Page 5
f(4i  Ginning and marketinR - TIn contries    hh hae nognnerie
and lack marketing experience, CFDT constructs its own ginneries
and nrganni7P rhe marketing, exnort and final sale of cotton:
(iii?  Management - In countries which have national ginneries but
lack competent technical staff, CFDT enters into agreements for
the management of such ginneries. and
(iv)  Consultancy - CFDT carries out feasibility studies, and prepares
cotton development plans and programs.
Financial Arrangements for Technical Assistance Services
15.       For its different types of technical assistance, CFDT is remuner-
ated as follows:
(i) Crop production - The Government usually reimburses CFDT for the
cost of directly employed expatriate and local personnei, as well
as for its operational costs. In addition, CFDT receives annually
15% of projecit personneL costs to cover overheads of the Paris
Headquarters and Regional Offices.
The following table shows the method of reimbursement in some
Wespt African c.untrties
REMUNERATION OF CFDT FOR EXTENSION SERVICES
(Percentages)
Remuneration
based on                       Central African
cost cf    Niger     Chad        Republie           Ivory Coast      Upper Volt:a
Expatriate
personnel       15       15            15                   10             15
National
personnel       15       15            -10                                 15
Opea Ltio-al
Costs          -        -              7                   10
(ii)  On£ration of CFDT-owned ginnpri1s
(a)  Lint
In most countries, as in Senegal, CFDT charges CFAF 18,000
per ton of lint ginned to cover its costs and CFAF 3,100 per ton
of lint as a rnanagement fee. It is also reimbursed for any
expenses incurred in purchasing and exporting lint.



Page 6
Un to now CFDT has usually received a lumn sum of CFAF 1-800
per ton of cotton seed exported.
(iii)  Management of. Covernment-owned Ginneries
When ginneries are Government-owned (as is the case in Central
African Republic) and managed by CFDT, the latter organization
is paid CFAF 3,100 per ton of lint produced and reimbursed all
its direct costs. Moreover, CFDT receives 1% of the sales value
of lint and seed, of which CFDT has to pass on 0.5% commission
to the importers in France.
(iv)  Consultancv    the arrangements for studies vary from case to case.
CFDT's Operations in Senegal
16.       CFDT started its local cotton activities in 1963, and since then
ptOu ILiO   uia  ~~L1U - IdJ AULy  T .Li10.LJU   . -LI.  - JULLL  d  1.  UL 
p r odUu c tion-- h-asb - ex-p-andt ' ed11 ra pidlyU.  I -Lu 1∞63j LLa.L prod'uction was 15.7 tons of'
seed cotton and by 1969-70 it had risen to 11,500 tons.    Yields for the last
~three campaigns were albout I,2  Sglh  hich         -is ehe, highes   -a 3 - iel
L.&   CC L WJ6L*      It~   * ,   9 .SaC  whichS  is   &L*1  -5L.-  IL  .,,C
obtained in West Africa.   More details of Senegal's cotton acreage, yields
and total -roducton ftgures are g.4ven in Annex 2.
17        CFDI Hpadannrters for Saneeal. looated in Daka-. emnlov a Chief of
Mission and his administrative personnel. Seven sector chiefs head a team
of about: 11 field workers and are responsible in their sectors for publi-
cising t:he advantages of improved cotton cultivation techniques, the dis-
tribution of inputs, and cotton marketing.    Chiefs of sectors in Kaolack
and Tamnbacounda are also responsible for the cotton ginning in the ginneries
located in these cities. CFDT is endeavoring to develop adequately trained
counterparts but still employs a total of 11 expatriates in Senegal.
18.       Present total ginning capacity in Senegal is 32.000 tons seed
cotton shared by three ginneries - two in Tambacounda and one in Kaolack.
One of the Tambacounda ginneries, with a capacity of 4,500 tons, produces
low density bales destined only for the local market. The average ratio
of lint to seetd cotton over the past three years has been 37.22Z.



ANNEX 2
C ruf'AT
TERRES NEUVES RESETTLEMENT PROJECT
Mnrkeats and Priees for Proiect Commodities
A. Cotton
Production
1.        Cotton cultivation started in 1963 on a limited scale.   Since 1965,
output has expanded rapidly, as shown below: 1;
1963/64 1964/b5 1965/66 1966/67 1967/68 1968ib9 1969/70
Area (ha)                63     122     386    i,038   3,047   6,447   9,805
Seed cotton (tons)       15.7    53.8   302.4  1,234   4,157   9,B89  11,500
.iedeIa I               24 It.  441     783    1,188   1 ,364  1,534I  1,173
Source: CFDT.
If adequate finance :Ls obtained the Compagnie Francaise pour le Developpement
des Fibres Textiles (CFDT) protects a production of about 51.OOO tons in
1974/75.
2.        Production consists mainly of the Allen 333 variety with a staple
length of 1-1/32 inches.  The BJA 592 variety with a staple length of 1-1/16
inches will be substituted progressively.
Ginning and Marketing
3.        CFDT is responsible, uader Government control, for cotton extensicn
-services, seed multiplication and distribution, purchase of seed cotton, gin-
ning, and tne marketing or cottonseed. 2/
1/   The de'velopment program is being financed by the Fonds Europeen de
fWlopp-er.t       ...)*il~41 107fl71 w?4ti trget: of 17,900 ha -nd 20,00n
tons production (Agreement EEC/Senegal 485/SE).   A 1972/75 program is
being considered by FEfD for further .,iport=
2/   Agreement between CFDT and Senegal, April 1969, for a three-year
period ending June 30, 1972.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
4.        CFDT owns three cottor gInneries wlth a capacity of about 32,000
tons of seed cotton. By 1972, ginning capacity will be increased to 56,000
tons per annum  CrYDr is respon-sble for setting up collection certers In
the production areas, and for transport of seed cotton to the ginneries.
5.        At present one cotton collection center has been establishied at
Diambour. in the center of the prorect area. UIIder the nro ect, each vil-
lage would e.ventually grow 75 ha of cotton and a CFDT collection center
would be established for each two villaaes. Growers would deliver their
production to the collection centers and would be paid by STN with funds
received from CFDT. Prices vould be net of the cost of inputs supplied to
growers, see para. 2.09 of main report.
6.        Production of lint in 1968/69 was 3,530 tons. About 2,500 tons
were sold to the local textile industry, leaving an exportable surplus of
about 1,000 tons. In 1969/70, sales to domestic mills are estimated at
about 3,200 tons, and exports at about 600 tons. Projected consumption
in Senegal for 1975 is 4,000 tons and the exportable surplus is expected
to be about 15,000 tons.
7.        In 1969/70, about 5,400 tons of cottonseed, which was not used
for planting, were sold to SOE.C, a groundnut oil factory located near
Kaolack which also processes cottonseed. The factory's output of cot-
tonseeid oil and m:eal is largely exorted.
Seed Cotton Cost Structure
8.        In the 1969/70 season. a sroducer prire of CF.AF 28/kg 1/ was paid
for top quality seed cotton and CFAF 14/kg 1/ for grade two; this compared
with CFAF 33 and CFAF 20 respectively in 1968/69.  On the basis of the
1969/70 producer prices, cose of seed cotton delivered ginnery, including
the costs of inputs, transport, and primary marketing. was CFAF 41,040 per
m ton (see Table 1).
9.        In 1969/70 the cost of Senegal cotton lint, CIF Eurcpean port,
was CFAF 1.53,802 (see Table 2).  In early 1970, prices received by CFDT
averaged CFAF 155,000 CIF Europe. These figures relate to the Allen 333
variety, and in the future the switch to BJA 592 should bring a premium
because of its longer staple length.
10.      WWorld lint prices are projected to decline by about 12% over the
period 1969-1975 (see Table 3), thereafter remaining relatively stable.
By 1975 CIF E.. Aope 7ri4ces for 41.d-caA St.ict r"UU.LLus, 1=1/1VJI6 .ich cotton
are projected at about 25 cencs/lb equivalent to CFAF 153.06/kg, and al-
lowin- _ 7X disco-nt for the re.vati.ely ol,, nknown BJA 592 variety, 1=t/16
1/   Net of cost of on-farm inputs, and equivalent to an average price for
seed cotton of CFAF 27165k=g



ANNEX 2
Page 3
inch staple, the price for lint of this variety is expected to be about
US 23.3 cents/lb or CFAF 142.56/kg. This price decline is taken into
account in the calculation of the economic rate of return at Annex 9.
11.       Cotton seed currently is sold to SOIEC al- prices based on CIF
Osaka quotations. In 1969, cotton seed oil could r.ot be refined by SODEC
and gossvpol could not be extracted from the cotton seed meal. However,
equipmenc for refining and gossypol extraction is now avaiiabie, and in
future refined oil and cotton seed meal will be exported by SODEC.
12.       Bank price projections for cotton seed (Table 5) assume a decline
LrLrI U  OU per Lor- .O CIr Osakda iLn 19770  L  i UV Uy 19'5, -Lth stabili-
zation at that lt';i. thereafter.
13.       As shcwn in Table 5 if present producer prices are maintained
Senegal shnu,il d - nk ,na prfit on iQts conrtnt program through 1974, but a
loss in 1975 and thereafter. Consequently, if the prices predicted by the
Bank's Economics Department prevail. oroducer nrices may have to be de-
creased in 1975 or thereabouts to make up a deficit of about CFAF 1,500/ton
of seed cotton.  This could be achieved bv reducing the producer price for
Grade I from CFAF 28/kg to about CFAF 26.5/kg, and such a reduction is
assumed in the farm budgets at Annex 7.   Table 6 shows the estimated allo-
cation of the sales proceeds from one metric ton of seed cotton in 1975.
Cotton Price Stabiiization Yunid
14.       The Caisse de Sout'en du Prix do Coton (CSPC) was established to
fix producer prices in advance of the season and to provide finance for
seeds. fertilizers anud pestUcl'Cs. made available to growers on credit.
The resources of the Fund, other than profits on sales of lint and cotton-
seedi. are thle procceds of a 1%. tax on textile imports (about CFAF i5 mili-
litn accruel from this source in l968/69) and any surplus on its farm in-
puts account, s,ee para 2.09 of ma.'Li report.  rovoiUona' balance sheets
of thc Fund for 1968/f,9 show a financial loss of nearly CFAF 10.3 million,
tind rhas;-q fnr l)hAC)/7n a nov244{rejir nvnfsr ^f nost1v rs¢AF 7A. Milion. Tif
this profit is made the Fund will carry forward a credit of CFAF 97 million
to its 1970/71 account. The maintenance of a sound financial nosition by
CSPC deDends first upon its fi:iing a realistic producer price, and second,
upon achieverent of a hi2h nazional average yield for seed cotton; to date
CSPC appears to have been able to achieve reasonable success 'n doing so.
3.  Crouncnuts
Production
15.       Seneg-al is v:; fourth largest producer in the world, after India,
Mainian(i China and Ni,7eria.  In. sote of Government efforts to reduce
Senevz.i. s dependence on tbis crop, It continues to be the mainstay of tihe
economy and will like.i. remair. so for many years. Average production has



ANNEX 2
been 700,000 tons ainnually for the oer: cd .?, -19b9, see para 18, and grouud-
nuts have oLcupied about half the total area cuiltivated in the countrv. The
average yield per ha varies wich annua: differences in rainfall and its dis-
tribution (Table 7).   Yields in Eastevl Senegal are among tne highest in
the country.
16 t.     Groundnuts generate .wo-thirds of ene cdas    lncou.e 'er've' from
.LW   %V   u                            -~4L   w'~LI. LL   '.  .I  L4~i  A.L U~  ~LA.VU
agric:ulture, and groundnut products account for almost 80% of the value of
t0alexorts. Und"^ -rcF1 the C-vrn-Oent' Third, P1a tage produtin Io _r,4A; 197 1
is 1.4 million tons of *unshelled groundnuts.   Adverse factors, riowevcr, such
as Iriw Inrntiuipr nri -e9 in 1C   hig !ehi   i nput rosts,q ponnr rlimatrir cr.,In,firinn
and an increasing f;armers' debc burden, have underuined farmers' conridence
in Lhe cooperative organization and it: groundnut production.    Consequently,
there has been a shift to subsistent crop production.    Altltoughi the prod.-
price for groundnuts was increased in August 1970, it probabl. occurred t.c
late to affect 1970 production, since th.e crop was planted in June 197u mitid
the 1970/71 marketed production is estimated at 4uO,O00 tons only.
Marketing
17.       Since 1967/68, cooperatives have purchased all grounntiuts.    The
cooperatives are assisted azd supervised by tne Office Nacional do Develop-
pement (ONCAD).   ONCAD is responsible for collecting groundnuts from co-
operatives and their subsequent srorage, and the Office de Commercialisa-
tion Agriccle du Senegal (OCAS) is .esponsible for overseas marketing.
ONCAD uelivers groui.nuts Lfrom 'Lts "seccos"  ewa.u1ouses) eiL[Id  tu mills
for crushing, or to OCAS' shelling factory for export.    Purcnases are fi-
nan.ce-d W.I.l- lundLs maAe available by a consortJ-&uW of state end cc,-imercial
banks under the leadership of BNDS.
18.       About 80% of the total production is marketed through ONCAD, some
seed is redistributed to farmers    some groundnuts are used for home con-
sumption by growers, and some are smuggled to Gambia anid Guinea. It is
estimaited that between 40,000 to 60,000 tons annually have been smuggled
out of the country over the last four years.    The table below gives pro-
ducticin and marketed tonnage in recent years:
Markering of the Groundnut Crop (1965-70)
('000 tons unshelled)
1965/66 1966/67 1967/68 1963/69 1969/70 1970/71
Total production       1.168     857      1,005     830      P0O      n.a.
Marketed                 948     736        842     604      595      400 /1
Z production of
...arketed              84.':   35.9%      83.8%   72.S    72.S    n.a.
*fFi'relirirnarv estimiates.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Processing
19.        Five oil mills operate in Senegal; two are Senegalese-owned and
the remaiDder are owned by subsidiaries of European firms.     Leaieur-Afrique
proce3ses over 40% of the total crush. Other companies are V.Q. Petersen
and Company, at Rufisque, SODEC 1/ at Kaolack (Lyndiane). SEIB 2/ at Diourbel
and SEIC 3/ at Ziguinchor.   Annual crushing capacity totals about 980,000
tons of unshelled groundnuts, but the intake of oil mills has never been
much over 500,000 tons and currently is around 80% of marketed production.
In recent years, only around 50% of total processing capacity has been
utili -ed. Vlalue addc' by the oil processing factories through crushing
estimated at: CFAF 2,604/ton of unshelled groundnuts, represent some 25%
of the total value added bv all industry in the country. The oil mills
make their own arrangements for exporting oil and cake. Between 20,000
to 30,000 tons of refined oil are sold for domestic consumption, and the
remainder of the oil and all expeller ccke are exported. An oil miller's
syndicate negotiates with OCAS and ONCAD on prices, whicn are based on
quotations CIF Europe, quaatities to be processed, and timing of deliver-
ies to the mdUls throughJ the medium of a GTo indAnut 'uotatULon COJttiee
which meets each week-day.
20.        Senegal groundnuts have a relatively high oil outturn, with oil
cnte      ert- a ,ia inyo bhetpwe w ! andI IA49  of she11edt welgh  The ratin hp-
tween shelled and unshelled groundnuts is about 70%. The improved variety
57-313. which would be grown by croiect participants has even better cech-
nical characteristics.
Prices
21.       Producer prices for groundnuts are fixed 'y Government.      Prices
vary by production region :Ln line with transnort costs to Dakar. For the
1970/71 season, the price in the -roject ares is CFAF 17.60/kg for un-
shelled nuts with a maximume of 1.8% foreign matter content. The basis for
this price is shown in Table 10.
World prices for Senegal groundnuts declined from 1963/64 through
1967/68 but prices increased in the next two years and reached their high-
est point in seven years Li 1969/70 at CFAF 60,298 per ton CUoSS 217) CIF
Europe shelled, see Table 9. For the future, the Bank's Economics Depart-
mint predicts a de-]ine 4n ---IA prices for- soft oisinldng1oudu
a  ~~   - .., - V&&_ &        0L aw&   J.O  SLQUU5~tUUU
oil until 1975 witn the .rlce subsequently stabilizing. As a result, prices
1/   Societe de Decortiquage (SODEC)
2/   Societe Electrique et Irdustrielle du Baol (SEIB)
i/   Societe Electcique et Industrielle de la Casanmce (SEIC)



ANNEY 2
Pa-e 6
-                   , .   t  _.__. ____Z~L..  _  .L  .S  _J1 _ ~   _ 97q1'  .2  _  _ .____l_ __._1  2  2..
CFr nurope for grounaduus o1 LLte h   Uh oL CoLtLeII J -3J var'ety sihoulU Ue-
cline by 1975 to about CFAF 47,210 per ton (US$ 170). This decline is taken
account of i* thlAe calculation of thSe economic rate of retu... at £&nex 9.
If marketing costs do not increase the current producer price of CFAF
17 AIt- a-essttl be. Mi04tai4', sPe  And thi. 4- nQassmed in rhe Farm budeets at
Annex 7.
Groundnut Price Stabilization Fund
23.       The Grcoundnut Price Stabilization Fund is financed from taxes on
exports of grourdnuts and groundnut oil, and from profits made by ONCAD and
OCAS on their groundnut operations. In turn, the Fund finances any losses
made by ONCAD and OCAS resulting from their groundnut operations.
Project Marketing Organization
24.       Total groundnut production in the project area is expected to
reach between 1,500 to 2,000 tons by project year 5. This volume is too
small to justify STN engaging in marketing operations beyond purchtsing
on oehalf of ONCAD.
25.   ;2.'wou' pur.e  he poJe-  cro  aethe warehouses estab'ished1
*     J ~LLI  WUU.LU  PULLU&,M.JC  ULM  jJ LU_J=4_   t..LUj.'   a tl.  =  ~   *
for each two villages. ONCAD would supply bag:; for the transport of the
a              a aEos.; ..a-.s.  1r  _ - ,Ö00
crop.
26.       E'roducers would be paid the net official price and STN would be
credited vwith CFAF 0.60 ner k2. the coamission usually paid to cooperatives.
Table 6 shows the allocat:Lon, between all parties, of export sales proceeds
on the basis of 1975 world prices and a producer price of CFAF 17.60/kg.
C. Sorghum and Maize
27.       Sorghum and maize are major staple food crops.    Only a small pro-
portion of current production is trad-_ for cash. In 1960/61, the Office
de Commercialisation Agricole (OCAS) took over the marketing of sorghum, as
well as millet which nas similar uses, from the private sector, and sub-
sequently transferred it t:o ONCAD in 1966. Although ONCAD has an official
monopoULy oDJ milllet audi sorghum marke 4W -, pri.---t taL.L.e st41  continues;
this is estimated at 25,000 to 30,000 tons per annum. While such private
traders supply most ^f urban requirents, ONCAn     still supplies rpmnrP
areas durintg the period of short supplies that usually precede the new
harvest   I ts nr% dres romtiit in high mAnrketfn' COS es.  Marketing by
ONCAD is governed by the need to pay an attractive price to farners to
secure the supplies adequate to meet the needs of rural communities in
periods of short supply.   Since sales to these communities are necessarily
tuade at low prices it is inevitable that ONCAD makes losses in these opera-
_iuns. The financing of ONCAD millet and scrglhum marketing is supporced
oy dNDS.



Page 7
28.       In 1970 ONCAD was able only to market about 8,000 tons of millet
because of financing difficulties. Because of a favorable rain fall, and a
switch from groundnuts, millet and sorghum production in the 1969 growing
season was good, and in view of this and past ONCAD losses Government has
again permitted the marketing of these commodities through the private
sector.
29.       Maize is marketed entirely by private traders and ONCAD does not
deal wLth this commodity. Although production has increased in recent years,
almost all maize proQuctLoun Ils beeU useU for susistence purp)oses, although
a limited market for fresh corn on the cob exists in the cities.
Cost Structure and Price Projections
30.       Prices paid by ONCAD for millet and sorghum are fixed by the Gov-
ernment everv year nnd vary with region. During the 1969/70 season, because
of higher production, sorghum and millet prices remained low and the prices
offered for marketable surpluses in September 1970 varied between CFAF 10 to
CFAF 1.5/kg compared with up to CFAF 20/kg in previous years in which the
cereal supply was in deficit.
31.       While the project would be able to supply sorghum either to ONCAD
or to private traders, it is believed that a more regular market would be
provided for project produced sorghum and maize by Dakar flour and feed
millers.  Currently millers are forced to import maize and sorghum due to
irregular domestic supplies. Since STN would be able to forecast project
production and organize deliveries it should be possible .or STN to enter
into contracts to supply the Dakar mills. The Bank's Economics Department
forecasts that world maize and sorghum prices will rise by about 12% over
the ne.st decade.
32.       STN would bie able to supply millers with maize and sorghum at prices
lower  th'an  tlÖe J pa   L.._ _J11-- . J 1 aO f.a t-   1.1  1I
LLLer tp    y UA.rs AM 1969           I '1 , -py project part -icipLJJants
producer prices of CF'AF lb/kg for maize and CFAF 14/kg for sorghum which
would be in line with those of recent vears. and in addition to retain a
margin which would be sufficient to cover unforeseen expenses and, if neces-
sary, to increase producer prices when prices on local markets are high.
The current mill demand is for about 1,500 tons of maize and 1,000 tons of
sorghum annually, and, this demand is expected to expand. The current demand
exceeds project production of these commodities at full development. In the
farm budgets at Annex 7, prices of CFAF 16 and CFAF 14 are assumed for maize
and sorghum respectively, rising to CFAF 17 and 15 respectively in line with
world market trends in 1975. For the economic rate of return calculation at
Annex 9, prices equi:7'lent to the value of import savings have been empioyed;
these are about 17% higher than the producer prices.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
D. Conclusions
33.       Organized markets exist for cotton and groundnuts, and STN should
be able to contract with Dakar millers for the satisfactory disposal of
sorghum and maize. The key to maintaining farmer interest in the project,
to efficient credit recovery, and to the production of quality produce will
be the immediate payment in cash for settlers' deliver'es.   Under project
arrangements STN would be able to make such cash payments, and ensure the
efficient storage and evacuation of produce.



ANNEX 2
Table 1
SENEGAL
TSRRES N&iMES RES ETTLEMDXT PROJ ECT
SEED C0UIf0N COST STHUCGTURE - 1969/70 SEASON
(CFAF/ton)
Base:  97.5% first-grade at CPAF 28 000
'3cf -ecA- ga..e a. Ml' A VI  rV1V'               en,~r'*
SdP/fri /         frpv.-I ,-i Aict 2/
Base: CFAF 11,229/ha for a 1,200 kg/ha average
vield                                            9.L∞
Sub-total - Producer Price (@ross               1 37 55∞
Marketing cost                                            1,000
Transport cost to ginner                                  2,450
Cost delivered ginmery                                   41-,0h0
1/ In 1968/69, 1.'3% Of total proauction was second grade, and in 1970 only
0.71% of the crop.
2/ Cost per ha:
Fertilizers                   4,536
Seeds4                          350
Pesticidles                   6,063
Denreci ation of snr   -rqs     R80
Total.                    11.929
3/ Average cost for Senegal. Transport cost from the proJect site to
Tambacounda should not exceed CFAF 1,500 per ton.
Source: CFDr.
December 8, 1970



.4fln-r '1
Table 2
SEGAL
TERRES NEUVES RESET77 -25   PROJECt
COTTON LfnT COST STRUCTURE FOR LCCA_ SALLS AND CIF EUROPE
Local Sales    Export
Gross producer price (see Table 1)                      37,590    37,590
Delivered ginneries (see Table 1)                      41,00 hL1,Obo
Fiber cost unginned                                    109,L40   109,bbO
Giming and baling                                      18,000     18,000
Deliviey to storage dock                                   100       100
Interest                                                2,400      2,C00
Insurance                                                ,        1' 
Shifting from storage dock and
onto  agon 
Rail transport to spinnery                               3,300
gl4-ti-ngr frnM S+toyi8e dn^>tr nei
transport to Dakar port7                                   -      3,000
Snmnlinu and exnartisa cost                               100        100
Ovez±heads                                               3,100     3,100
Handlin&. transit. stevedoring,
special profelssional tax (TPS)                            -      3,187
Storage at quay Dakar                                       -        700
Export tax                                                  -      1.675
Total cost delivered textile factory              137,690        _
Sub-total FOB Dakar cost;                                  1b2,802
Sales expenses in Europe                                           1,200
Freight and insurance cost to
European port i,800
Tot1/i C  r.urope cost                                i5-
.i.  wi n ginnlng outpUt o1 37f5>
7/ Should Kaolack harbor be utilized, this cost wculd be reduced by
IitA^  r.si^.  rv  J. dv'Yu              ...  3J-"  w ^G-dkz  w-wt
October, A  . ,  z  UV.=JlILIv L 9U70.  %RWL& %LUL W  j %JV  LWU.
October1 OL7n?.W



ANNEI 2
Table 3
TERRES NEUVES RESETTLE?INT PROJECT
AC TUA AND PRnjECfTD SATLq PRIGCES OF CrOON LINT CIF LrrWPCOT
(CFAF/kg)
U.S.           Mexico        Upper            Senegal
Middlinr    Strict Middlinu     Volta    Allen 333    BJA 592
In 1         1-1/16tr Lt    1-L/32 n   1-1/32t     1-1/16n
1960/61          172.35             183.98      18h.9         n.a.       n.a.
1961/62          177.21             18h.16      181.1
1962/63          170.9h             178.22      178.1
1963/16          16L.32             180.73      17t.2
i964/65          166.10             178.71      171.1
1965/66          159.98             173.08     157.3
196/67           153.73             179.63*     166.3
1968             172.65             190.ho     18h.3
1969             156.12             173.88      1Mi.4                  162 2'
1970             i6o.h 4            182.b5*       n.a       155        167
Projections
1971             1LI9.88             166.9h                            155.52
1972             1L6.776             63.t7                             152.28
1973             1h3.64              159.99                            1h9.06
1 071.           1I.A A1 i5A                                           i ,. r0
19753/           137.384/           153.06- 
L/   Price in U.S. cents per lb expressed in CFAF/kg.
2/   For the BJA 592 variety no price quotation on international market is
availible. Price estimates given here represent a 7% reduction on the
M∂exico Strict Midd:Ling prIce to which the BJA 592 is very similar.
3/   1976 and following years.
*/ ;Assum.ing a 12% decrease compared to 1969 price.
* Averag-e fo. less than 1L2 montlis.
October, 1970.



AM      2
Tab'lo 4
SEM
TE NEOVES REM=LA6ff U0JB=
COST OTMRXOP- 00DTOTE
(C7AF/ton)
Bags                                        L,80
Bagging                                       200
.uulCpdq9 baslig     torage                   %F-
Loading onto_wagon                            200
'-i L  .ap-- &w-ulu                      1s1 i e
InsuPao                                        95
Sau:ling and exertiLs                        100
CFl? overhaa&s                             1.800
Sub-total Cost Pree on Rail (VC)
laolaok                               6,105
Kaolao-Dalkar trzuapot                      1,000
Forward expeses &cL quay to
board cost (lump £u)                     iL,6L6
Export taxes                               1,912
FOB Dakar to CIF Osaka (Japan) cost         6.823
CIF Osaka Cost                            17,1456
1/ Cottonseed is considared as a by-prodct of ginnaries and to have no
U-Lj    -'L- e, -Inn ng  --4w--   wr   ^-1h re   to 14_4
I.CeO.L V Ap 6L4,.       - 
Deacember 8, 1970)



ANNEX 2
Table 5
SENE
TERRES NEUVWE RESETTLENT PROJECT
t 1=tII        TO ur     DE SOUrIun ±iu W T MU uur (cWFc)
Fflt Tu k2uluu-rLOLuB U Ulm~ TUMMYU =225 COTTON
Lint                                    Seed
ZrLV%ru UXU11      warLe  r rVV.VjwAU   Frru0C'tion  Sale Proceeda
Cost 1/     ___           lmg             Cost      CIF Japan    Net Beinefits
A                                                     T% Dc
1971    57,676              58J320              10,910       14,520 ,.25h
1Q97     7                  57;1005             1n-n0,910    I), 'A           2.69Q
1973    57,676              55,980              10,910       14,179           1,573
1971±   57,676              5L,675              10.910       t 14,mR             97
1975    57,676              53,L60              10,910       13,837          -1,289
1976    57,676              53,b60              10,910       13.667          -1,b59
1977    57,676              53,Lj60             10,910       13,667          -1,b59
1978    57,676              53,LH60             10.910       13,667          -1,L59
1979    57,676              53,A60              10,910       13,667          -1,L59
1980    57,676              53,J.60             10,910       13,667          -1,L59
and
thereafter
1; .- One ton of seed cotton contains 37.5% of lint and 62.5% of seed.
Column A - 0.375 x 153.802 given in Table 2
Colnwn B - 0.375 x foreenat pril6w in Table  3
Colujim C  0.625 x 17,456 givn in Table 41 note 2
Coluim D - 0.625 x forecast wrioe inT'NBI  L
Colutmn E ut- -A)+(D-C)
October, 1970.



ANNElL 2
Table 6
SENEGAL
TERRES NEUVES RESETTLEMENT PROJECT
AT:    TOCAc p'RAT7.q' PRrrfThq  -  .TQTr Tnow nV ..n rtnvrmN TN 10VC9
(CFAF and Ton)
37.5% of the CIP Europs value of one ton of lint    53,460
62.5% of the CI? Osaka value of one ton of seed     13,837
Total. CIF value of one ton of seed-cotton   67,297
Freight a;:d Insurance                               4,125
Freight and insurance                                4. 264
8,389
FOB Senegal value of one ton of seed-cotton            58,908
ALlocation of Sale8' Proceeds
1. To Governmentt
Export taxes on lint CFAF 1,675/Toi.            628
Eport t,aes on cotton-sed rFAF 1,912q/ron      1 9¢
1 8R%
2. To CFDT Against Processinf and Marketint Costs
From Table 2, CFAF 31,687 per ton of lint
x 0.375                                  11,883
From Table 5, CFAF 8,721 per ton of seed
x 0.625                                   5,4&51
From Table 1 primary costs on seed cotton
per ton                                      5
20. 78h
3. To Eroducer
I  LW 0 1-                     L,LL   Luz a  7j7L4V
Net purchasing price                         27, 6O
37,590
4. To Cotton Price Stabilization Fund
October, 1970.



SENECLkL
T1IRRES NJVES RESELTLEMO nOJECT
GROUNDA'rTS
AR9EA2ODCT'ION AND YIELD PER HEECTARE REQION
1966,6'7      _            _  _      1967/68  _                          1968/69
Area     Production    Yield          Area     Production    Yield         Area     Ftoduction  Yieldi
'Irh7a    0M  to5ns) (i;toEsa)        TI;L-    T-  X-ns:) (!,`on.¢/7F)              -low-amu)
Sine Saloum       51.4 700   468.7        .95           531,,000   403.8       .76           522,200    377.5      .72
.iourbel          307,300    113.0        .37           301,400    277.3       .92           339,000    205.5     .61
Thies             121,200      B5.4       .70           157,' 300  158.2       1.00          169,300     112.8     .67
Casamance         121,200    126.8       1.05           120,000    120.0       1.O0          11.3,6C0   103.5      .91
Eastern Senagal    35,100      33.3      .95             36,000     35.9       .99           .322C,0     28.9      .90
Fleuve             11,1.00     7.9       .71             12,300,     6.8       .55            12,00C       1.5     .12
Cap Vert            3,00       2.0                        5  ,100    3.2        .63        __2      CIO7            25
Total       1,L14,100     8    7.1   ..77         1163 00     l05.2         .86        121.OCQ       830.4     .70
Note: Estimrates5 for 1970/71L range far below the 1969/70 f(igUes, With about
40o.LCJ*(' tons procLuction.
Source: Directionr des Services Agricoles - Anmual Reports.                                                         3g
December 8, 19713



Table 18
SNEML kL
REnSU    MUwLVS RSuE LEMkNT 7ROJECT
CuQTuZ PMCE STABLTZA WJA F'TND
(Caisse de Soutien. du Prix du Cotin)
f "A 'N.
Provisional Brflance Shaet
SurpLus at begnning of year                                              31 ,079,078
Seeds, fertilizers, pesticides                        54,16h,702
Producer participation for the above expenses                            49,751,377
Fiber production cost                               524,569,837
Fiber sales return (estimate)                                           [81 ,h45,756
Cottonseed sales operations                                              22,152,180
1% tax on textile importq (provisory data)                               15,000,000
aSurplus at end of 3n6ar1/                           .o .793852
Total                                           599,528,391         599,;28,391
Provisional Balance Sheet -
'im'nThq at bnrimnriig o~f yea,'                                         20,'93,8ff2
Seed, fertilizers, pesticides                         85,036,237
ProhLcer participat:Ldn for the a!bave anienee                          1n07 A,7 -,O9
Fiber production cost (estimate)                    571,000,000
Fiber sales return (estimate)                                           559,000000
Cottonseed production cost (estimate)                 2h,300,000
Cottonseed sales operations                                              74,C00,000
l% tax on textile impor$s                                                16,COO,000
Surplus at end of y    -ar 4/                         97,125,011           _
Total                                            777,461,248        777,h61,248
1/ 1968/69 loss: 10,285,226
3/ 1969/70 prtot76,331,159
Source: CFDT, 1969/70 season report.



ARMKI 2
&A CW.OC 7
TERRS NUVES RESXTTEDITT PRWJCT
GROUNMNUT PRICES AWD PB)JECT=IONS
SELLED BASIS CIF £U)PE
French Guaranteed  Senegal Ezportz      Senegal Ecpor_t
Price         an World Market      on World Market
- CFAF/?on)                     (US$/ton)
up to 1963/64              52Z5W0
1964/65                    4a9,500           li8,930 1/2/           18Y.O9  1/
,,,   ,,                 I                *~  1  r- -J'X ,-             IZ
1966/67                    48,750            h3,850 I/Y/            157.90 T,'
1 <7/6 _I                                    38,7 I OO,J r-I        13.U 27- 2 e
1968/69                                      43,300                J155.92
I                                            fKQ/7  _3 4AOA -1      01 7 '1
Pro 4ections
1971                                         57,466                 207
1972                                         54.986                 198
1973                                         52,210                 188
1974h                                        49,71O                 179
1975                                         4w7,210                170 hI
1976                                         47,210                 170
1977                                         47,21.0                170
1978                                        L47,210                 170
1980 and foULawing years                     47,210                 170
1/   Applied to small residual quantities onlY.
S/   Addit+ 4 n-1 rVl" c.apSator  A -'.
G/   Average on 502,000 m ton up to Ju1ly 19, 1970 sales to oil mills tied
l'7 a!ta CTF D-arope PHrce en,Ota Ia 
4/!  Oil corntent 35% with 5'7.313  vriety. --t32% oil. c6Ftent, the corresponding
-ice li:d idbe 'U    15 i5.LO.
Source: IBRD Report AW-15a and OCAS.
October, 1970.



ANNEtX 2
e  Pe
Tab.e 1U
SEN4EGAL
TERRES NEUVES RESET=TEMEN1T PROJECT
DErNTIOT{AL PRICE FOR GROUNDNUTS
AND XLLOCATION OF SdiLS PROC EDS
1975 AND ONWARDS
I;TERNATIONAL PRICE FOR GROUNDNUTS
(CFAF per m ton)
C.F Europe price shelled lbasis                       L7,210
Equivalent unshelled basis                            35,h08
Freight and insurance to European port                 L} 795
FOB Senegal                                           26,613       28,613
4. --               -.--   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ -. I-a
AUdd.iti.Lon.-l retu-LUL .rIlA oL   pr.oLesSQ.  -                   2 UU
Ava4l"Lbl- ir. Ser.egal                                      -)rn AnA
AT.TIYCA'T'TI OF PRTrR T(TPF.TRAS.
1.   To Goverrunent:
Export cax                          4,h07
Bconciic control tax                 185
Miscellaneous taxes                    96
Taxes on oil mndustry                 896
Suub-total                   5            5,584
2.   To ONCAD against marketing costs                               3,855
3.  -To the oil industry                                            1,187
h.   To Producer:
Producer Drice                     17,6'00
Cooperative margin                    60o
Sab-total                    18 200       18.200
5.   To Groundnut Price St.abilization Fund                         1,870
Total                                                    30,696
I/   Crushing abhat 809f of the tot-al marketed prnduction results in a corn-
plelmentary net return to the econcoV of CFAF 2,601i per ton of unshelled
gndnuts. ThisAM t'u  i9 Alocated 'twfeeJn Goovenm*uent (L3%1) and oi-
industry (57%).
October, 1970.



Table i1-
ShZECAL
StR$. NEUVES RESETTtJrENT PRIOJCT
L'PO!RTED P!AIZE AND SOCHLThM COST STRV7CTUJE V
Tin UFAF per metric. tonj
A.   ITnports for Human Consumption
Averaga 19b9 actual maize price CIF Dakar             15,50
Board to quay costs     - shipping                        2L5
- unloading                       &55
9.29% transaction tax on two above items                  65
Ad vaiorem 0.5% tax pLus h% statisLtcs tax,
bothi on ClFX price                                      35
flaKIflJtLI tMa
Transport quay to mifling plant                           500
ao,-n ssion fees Il of rF .,rce a7n
Weight guarantee fees 1% of CT? price                  _   85
Total. cost delivered miii Dakar                  21z200
3.   Imports for Cat- le Fe   -
Average 1969  Zir Dakar nrice                          18,5
Quay to mill costs except 1.5% ad valorern tax         1,865
Ad valorem 20.6% -,ax                                  3.811
Total cost delivcred mil fakar                    24,176
1/ Prices icr iapurted maize and sorghn are as      Ad to be sitl a.
2/ Since 1969, a special 20.6% 4d valorn tax has been levied on nprsn1
tmpcrts fcr cattl' e feeding.
Source: Mun iers
Cctob, 1 Or f



A VKTV I'
SENEGAL
TERRES NEUV'S RESETTLE2MENT PROJECT
ORGANISED SETILEMENT AND SPONTANEOUS MIGRATION
1.        Two organized settlement projects have been started in the past
in Senegal: at Boulel on tihe fringe or the Groundnut Basin, and in tne
Senegal River Delta. Uncontrolled, "spontaneous" migration and settlement
takes place in central Senegal.
.~~~1 Tn    "ScerEpe--Ide.wenstsnnrcle                          So)a
Boulel begarL in 1947.  SEKA's objective was to combine mechanized groundnut
cultivation with tra A4tional cultiaelon of subsistence crops.     It w*"- in-
tended that SEDA should rationalize ongoing spontaneous settlement. SEMA
settlers were recv-uited from members of a Moslem sect, the Mourids who have
a tradition of migration. The mechanical cultivation of large areas of
groundnuts proved to be impractical. however; and most of the financial
benefits of the Boulel scheme accrued to the settlers' religious leaders.
In the face of these problems, the pro1ect was abandoned in 1955.
3.        The Senegal RVer Delta settlement project comprises 50,000 ha
of which 30,000 ha are bei; , developed for irrigation.   Tre project started
in 1964, and sorne 10.000 ';,. have since been brought under _ultivation. A
Goverrmcnt body, t-,e ". /    e d'Amenagement et d'Exploit1:'-      De-ta"
(SAED), was establ-; *, vi 1.965 to manage the project.
4.         By the end of 1968, SAED had recruited about 3,000 se-tier fam-
ilies (a total of some 18,000 people); and plans to recruit an additional
13,000 families bv 1977. Land is allocated on the basis of 1 ha per active
family member worker, and ithe average farm size is 4 ha.    While this pro-
ject is progressing relatively well, development costs are high and there
are debt recovery problems.. Due to the nign cost per settler family, it is
doubtful whether this project can plav a significant part in solving the
Groundul.u Basin's ovrpopu;LatloSn probim.
Spoannecnu-s Migr-lrotiof  have taken plac  i n *: -zous pa:ts of
Senegal. the most significcnt are those of the Mourids from the Groundnut
Basin towards the less nnpulated Fastr    Th1s hbaa.  in 1910, anA wag st imu-
lated initially by construction of the "Ocean-Niger" Railway. No data on
migrants is available, but in the Kaffrine Province- the main reception
area, settlement is estimated to have averaged about 1,500 persons annually
between 1950 and 1959; and since independence in 1960 is believed to have
increased to about 5,000 persons a vear. Under such spontaneous and un-
controlled se.tlement, land clearing and settlement are disorganized, set-
tlers have no official tenure rights and soil exhaustion is becoming a
serious problem.  'The Kaffrine and adjacent Koungheul Provinces are now
almost completeLy settled, and the onlv new land suitable for organized
land settlement lies in the eastern sector of the "Terres Neuves" zone,
and in areas further east.



ANNEX 4
TERRES NEUVES RESETTLEMENr PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASPECrS
A. Ecology of the Project Area
Climate
1.        The project asrea is situated at the juncture of two major eco-
logical zones, the Sudainese-Guinean zone and the Sahelo-Sudanese zone; both
zones are characterized by single clearly defined wet and dry seasons.
2.        The brevitv and irregularity of the wet season limits the scope
of cropping, and, for example, tne cultivation of upland rice would be a
risky proposition. Qainfall data from stations adjacent to the project
area are at Ta:,le 1.
3.        The natural vegetation is Av fnvast- with Combretum shrubs grow-
ing beneath a stratum of widely spaced trees, about 30 to 40 per hectare,
MA4niy RI1etrt    n pt1icpra- Ptero trarnwq erinareuS. Ternminalia macroetera
and Cordvla pinnata. The principal clearing problem is the removal and
destumning of the shrubs which have a density of between 3,000 to 4,000
stumps per ha. Surface vegetation is an association of grasses dominated
by androiDoRon ipp.
Soils
4.        An ORSiOM soil survey shows three major types of soil in the pro-
ject area:
(1)  lateritic soils;
(2)  deep tropical rerruginous ieached soils; and
(3)  tropical ferruginous leached soil lying over bedrock.
S         C     the seon   type i  s         f             crop production;
it has a high agricultural potential, but also a phosphate deficiency and
|vz Jit--9*o_      *                -r             r     ~     --sr_ j .*wwsnran"  Cr..rr*4n  n_ F .ho r.hnenh ato A0X4 r4lonr"
a p,oor organic mattrcotnt.Crecin             f-tephopaedfiecy
annual applications of nitrogenous fertilizers and fallow periods are es-
sential For efficient crop production
6.        Snmo Inw lvinr. areas of the nroiect area are already nartlv cul-
tivated; in these areas, solls are generally lighter than on the plateau,
easier to work. and very suitable for growing groundnuts.   The plateau soils



r age 2
with1 their sandy-c-lay, to cl.substratum. aro practial      virz-      .l
rather heavy, they can be satisfactorily cul:ivated by usi'ng animal-draw-n
4m"leamnec.   Th.ese de'n ferr,,inntp snils zrp intersp rsd !ufth outre-rns
of lateritic bedrock where no cultivation is possible. These latzritic
areas ai  usqtiallv flnoded during the wet spason and covered       (It: Orv-Z,
breviligulata and Loudetia togoensis. It will be necessary to pinpoi.-:
the exact location of such areas befcre eeciding on the location of vil-
lage sites.
B. Farming Methods
7.        The success of the project depends on the efficient cultivation
of four main crops: cotton, groundnuts, maize and sorghum.     The first two
would be cash crops only, and the latter two grown as botlh cash and sub-
sistence crops.
Yield T'argets
8.        Estimated pro4ect yields (see Tables 2 and 3), although markedly
higher than present yields in tne traditional sector, ar- po-    ble Lhrough
the use of fertilizers and animal-drawn implements.     Such techniques would
De used UIwer t'l,e project.
9.       Yields obtained by IMAT in its trials in Seneg,al durfn- 169Q rom-
paring traditional and improved cultivation techninues, were as follors:
Crops Tested                     Traditional                   Inproved Using
Without Fertilizers             Fertilizers and Deeip
Land PreDaration
(Ö-Ö - -------------                ---------- --)
Cotton (Seed Cotton)                 653                            1,0O8
Groundnuts, 57-313 variety
(Shelled Nuts)                1,040                             1,927
Naize, BDS variety (Grain)           370                             ,8
Sorghum, 51-69 variety (Grain)       S61                            3,169
10.       Under the same conditions (fertilizers and deep land preparation),
the following   eut    wer UU4uU UI                    I~4~~
ene  olioingresu'lts were obeaLined on ;lhe I'Oassisted '"issira Extension
Center, using a rotation of cotton-cereals - groundnuts - fallok., similar
to tLat which would bCeL  e usd u.nder the project:



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Crops Tested                              Fertilizers and Deep
Co::on, BJA                                     i ,7 1n
U     -'.l                               75f2qn
Sorchum. 51--69                                 1;958
Technical Requirements
11.       The following te,chniques would be practiced under the project:
Cotton:
(a)  The BJA 592 variety would be grown because of its longer
staple length (1--1/16) and higher lint out turn than the
more usually grorn Allen 333.
(b) Land preparation would be deep, with initial plowing by
ox drawn equipment at the end of the cropping season or
at the scart of the wet season.
(c) Tne crop would be! sown no later than July 15.
(dJ  Cornpo-und ferti izers wou'LUd bUe applied (se T   1  at
the time of thinning out, and be supplemented by applying
50 kg/h.Ia urea at floW-en -- t 
(e)  Afiter qnwini- maintenAnce would eonnftl nf an earlv
weeding amd thinning. A second weeding would be neces-
sairv and usually would be combined with earthing up.
(f) Pests (Jassidse, Heliothis and Diparopsis) would be
controlled by five to six sprayings at 12 dav intervals
starting 40 days after sowing. Farmers would use hand
operated knapsack sprayers. A proprietary insecticidal
mix:ture -T P-Protlhion" - comprisingr Endosu] fin and
methyl - parathion. This mixture would replace the
presently used "harder" DDT-Endrine mixture.
12.       Grcoundnuts
(1)  The high yielding 57-313 variety would be used.   The
variety is well stited co local climatic conditions,
has a high ratio of nuts to shell. 3:1, and a high
oi'L content (50'/I),



ANNEX 4
Page 4
(2)  oU pouiu Lert:;lizers would be used (see Table It),
trials indicate that these should increase vields
by more th&a r.f%V ^bS 11Z.
(3)  Crop reuiues wou.Ld 'oD use  as fodder for draught
animals.
13.       Maize. This crop is already grown in the project area, and yields
of about 900 k2/ha are abtalned frns unimroved varietIes without the use of
fertilizer but using sone animal and domestic manure. Depending on market
demand, settlers would have the choice of two imnrnvpd varieties: BPS, a
white variety and ZM 10,l a yellow maize. Use of nitrogenous fertilizers,
and the residual effect of fertilizers applied to cotton and fallow (phoq-
phate) should permit high yields from these varieties.
14.       Sorghum.  The 51-69 variety would be used which together with
nitrogenous fertilizers and deep land preparation should result in aclhieve-
ment of forecast yields..
C. Labor Requirements and Cro2ping Patterns
Labor Requirements
15.       Ecologica' conditions, particularly the short wet season, require
a strict correlation between labor availability and farm size.
16.       Labor requiresents for the four main crops, and optimum cultiva-
tIon scb.edule   s are1 folo



ANM 4
rm t
Time Required
Ox-Drawn
Proc,edures                     Man      Lsrpnert         Destv TLim  oI  -
...(days/naT ...
Cotton
Land preparation              10          4            June
SOr,no 10 - 12                            -             Jir., 1CA/.Ty I
Thinning                    4 -    S       -            July
Fl1rst Weedir4flg                         2            JulY
Sec:ond Weeding and
Rideing                       IL          2            August/September
Spraying                    5 -   6        -           August/October
Harvesting                 50 - 75         -            October/Norvember
Uprooting and
Eurning Cotton           10 - 12        -            February/March
Total                97 - 128        8
Groundnuts
Land Preparation               8          3             June
Soving and Hiarrowing             0 -  6   2            June/July
First 'Weeding                 4           2            July
A..  ,i  _ _J  jflI..a  r;r,.r  _   r      91           A.-.
;eConul d Urf ThirX WediXIngs  LU -  L.,  c             %urUa v
Harresting and Stacking    20 - 30         -            November
Th,es;.- -∞ '3-                   r_eceer
Total                 67 -  9        0
Maize
Land. PreDaration             10           4            June
Sowing                       5 -   6       -            July
First Weeding                  4           2            July
Second Weeding and
Ridging                        4          2            August
Harvesting                  8 -   10       -            September/October
Total                31 - 34         8
Sorghum
Y = .-s  "a  -                                         nf  i
£.^uu rrpz-to                 10d          4            9neu
Sowinlg                        4           2            July
First Weeding                  Is          2            July
Secoid Weeadng and
Ri4 A  nor                    h           2            August/September
Harvesting                 10 - 15         -            October
Threshino                  10 - 1 '_                    November
Total                L_ -   50      10



ANNEX 4
Page 6
17.       The foregoing shows that there are two critical-periods during
the agricultural season: June and July for land preparation and planting
which must be followed immediately by the critical operations of thinning
and first weeding; and October and November for harvesting.
Labor Availability
18.       The agricultiural year is divisible into three main periods, and
the followig table shows the approximate number of days during which
field work can be carried out in this period:
January to May June to October November to Decembesr
Average Number of
Rain.y Dys                   2/4              40/50                 0
Mfv1yimn, Nuimher of
Working Days                 122              75/85                50
On the assumption that: during project years 1 to 4 settler families would
comprise the following:
Year 1          4 persons, of whom 2 are active- /1
Year 2          5 persons, of whom 3 are active
Year 3          6 persons, of whom 4 are active
Year 4          8 persons, of whom 4 are active
/1   An "active farmworker is a male over 15 years old.    A woman is
considered as half an active person.
available mipower woiLU Ue as follows:
Period               Year 1    Year 2     Year 3    Year 4
(     - -    man days -)
January-May           244       366        488       488
June-October         150/170   225/255    300/340   300/340  ,.
Nov. - Dec.           100       150        200      200 + 100- - 300
/1   Female labor for cotton harvest.
19.       If the above is compared with Tables 4 and 5, it will be seen that
a manpower deficit develops from year 4 (full development) onwards during
the November-December period when much labor is needed for harvesting and
threshing.  Consequently women and children wo-ld have to participate at
this time, particularly in the cotton harvest; while this is the general



ANNEX 4
Page 7
custom, it is important to note that the areas planned under the project
for cotton and groundnuts represent about the maximum for the average set-
tler family.
Cropping Pattern
20.       The crop rottation that would be practised during the development
period is shown in Table 6. It takes into consideration the need for set-
tlers to obtain a satisfactory cash income and produce adequate subsistence
food supplies durinrsg the  rtÖt             project.
1.        The crop ro:aion at    ull development 'see Table 7 *ou    b Ie:
cotton - cereals - groundnuts - fallow. Cotton would be the first crop
of the rotation after a 12 ---nth fallow, and cereals would follow cotton
to benefit from the residual effect of NTK fertilizers applied to cotton.
Tables B, 9, iln sheow the areac that w.iuled hbe cronnpd nnd crop nrtiedrton
during the development period and when the project is fully developed.
Land Clearing
22.       During the first year, mechanical land-clearing would be used to
open up 2 ha for each settler. Mechanical. land-clearing in similar eco-
logical areas shows that probably it will require about 2 days/ha to stump
and windrow the vegetation using a D.8 type tractor equipped with an angled
cutting blade.
23.       During the three subsequent years, each family would clear 2 ha
annuallv by hiand using mechanical saws and traditional implements. The
labor requirement estinated for this work is about 150 man-days per ha
(see Table 5).
24.       Animal-drawn cultivation equipment used by settlers would com-
krLJs  anL5 Aradra  LUtoo, ty LdpIrm equippU ed iLt.
1  1i in plou,
1  ridg,fing p,low
1 "CTnadian" harrow
1 groundnut lifting blade
This equiLment has hben 4Ar14fnAtnr41y oeeastd 4n s4im4la  rag4iona  A  ia
well known to Senegal farmers. Settlers would also purchase two one-row
seeders to be used aa one unit with nxan- Tha nxan wnuld hp hsuaht bv
STN and broken in and trained at a project training school.



ANNEX 4
Page 8
25.       Cotton spraying Y quiprment -ould ue purchased for a certral pool.
controlled by STN.   Eaclh sprayer would be adequate to cope with 5 ha per
no  nA ,n.l . raio  Kanaa. ' C. c.t VI tk nC   'M.   L Ö        I 
sp  bf and would cover be-,ee-n 25 MMd mn haM ofcto.04spae             wi
be of theb manually operated knapsack type commonly used for cotton spraying
b,v .mAll f2rT-mra trohrihont Afr4ra.
F_ rrtilizers
26,       The fertilizer proaram described in Tables 3 and 11 encompasce:a cor-
rection of the basic phosphate deficiency, annual NTY fertilization for cot-
toni and groundnut:s, and an appl'cation of fractionated uren for the cerenl
crops and as a supplement for cotton.    In the case of cotton, tcle 1NPK wotild
be applied at timie of thinning and the nitrogen supplement on the SUth d&y.
Maize and. sorghum would be given half the total dose of nitrogen at the
time of first weeding and the second half at the time of earthing up.     The
total nutrients applied to each crop would be as follows:
Crop                       N               p2 5             K7
(    - - - - - in kg/ha annuall'-)
Cotton                    45                24               60
Groundnuts                10                29               54
Sorghum                   46
Table U1 shows the quantities of simple fertilizers that would be used per
ha to achieve the foregoing, a¢ssuing that complex fertilizers w4ere ntpo
cured for the project.
Pesticides
27.       Spraying with pesticides would be justified only in the case of
cotton.
Seeds
28.       The IRAT Experiment Station would furnish foundation seeds of
groidnuts, 57-313; maize, BDS anrd Z'.10; and sorghum 51.69. Thereafter
improved seed would be propagated by settlers chosen by STN. Foundation
seed would De renewed every ten years tor groundnuts and every five years
for cereals.   CFDT would supply cottonseed of the EJA variety which it
would obtain from IRCT.



Table).
c12?J^ T.
Annual Rainfall in Locations Adjacent to Project Area
Year                                                 Station
Malei        Maka          Ko2mpentoum
1960                                   8419
1961                                   62L
1962                                   698
1963                                   999
1964                                   977
1965                                 1,035          819           1,075
1966                                  .976          971              917
1967                                   911          871              885
1968                                   90l          691              558
1969                                   778          853              968
Averages                               879          841a             881
Average rainfall for Grouncnut Basin - 75n0.



SENEGAL
TERRSES hEES RE.SE7rLMENT PROJECT
Yield Development under Project (ki/ba)
Settl2emEnt toEam
_ _        Y  e        F   ._     -       --
C'rOpa              1         2          3                    -4  5     6       7      8        9      i 0
onwards
Cott.on(seed cotton) 0      1,200     1,300       1,5 00    1,500     1,50)  1,700  1,800    1,800    1,800
Groundnuetd      1, 00(     1,000     100         1, 200    1,200     1,300  I,1400 1,500    1,500    1, 500
(soheLLed)
Maiz"e (grain)     900      1,000     1,000       1,200     11,200    1,20D  '1,400 1,X600   1,600    1 ,600
Scrghun (grein)  1,000      1,200     1,200       1,300     1,300     1,500   1,600  1,800   1,800    11,800



xvmi 4
TaLbl 83
SENGAL
TEERRS HUVES RES TTL1E  T PROJECT
Yield Developzezt mndze Foj eact (kg/ha
Utablisbed !.rmg   Prolrp
Cotton           ,    _____u_____ I_____  __            _ _
CFDT          Project        OKUAD          Project J   Project L
ers.             Frertilizers    Fertiiiaers    Fertilizers    eortiiazers  Fert41i;ers
1                 1,200                           900             -
2                   2                             000             _           1,000
3                1,300            1,400           900 9AO0                    1,200
1,300            1,400        1,000          .,100          1,400
1,300            1,400        1,             ll             1,600
6                 1,400           1,500        1,000          1,200         1I,8W
1,500            1, 700       1,100          1,300          1,8co
8 and
onwards          1,500            1,700        1,200          1,400          1 , B)
Li Project fertiJlizers would be tailored to the requirenments of the project area.
CFDT and ONCA.D fertilizers -ire standard for Senezal and more suited to the soils of the
Groundnut Basin.



A 7
table
SENEGAL
.'!RRES MOVES RESETTLMNT ?RCjECT
.  ..~ 14i;s'wJub.LD  of. J.aWg; RFTL.LziUi p.r OtsrLU  FZ.~y
Januarv to May           JIMe to October      Ncve:1ber to flecenber
Land Clearing and          _a .    sparation          --rvrsting
-- vg and              ar. d
;t-                '1._. ~. erar.ce
W-r Seasor.                >      Seascn           ,     =
Tear       'M                 0          -                0     V                 0
1            -                 -        107                -    57
2          300               10          125             41    1 34
3          306               20         178              61    21_
IL         310               20          180             5     2:57'               -
5           18                -         180              59    257                 -
6           16                -         180              59    257                 -
7           16                -         1                59    281                 -
a           t6                -         183              5     302
9            16               -         183              59    302
t0  and      16                          183              59    302
onwards
Note: M - Man-days.
0 - Ox-drawn implenients days.



S94EGAIL
rTRRES M   lE.b RESET'LEME    PROJECT
;f,lor Req.irer:eent ?rojcc+,ions,i Per- 3cttler FairLil-
Year  1    Yep.  9   Year   3   '(ear  4   Year  5    Year 6    Year   7   Year   8  Year  9    Year 10
and 'nFar
*  _   _         _   _ *  *       _               _             -_     -                         -
Crops                      -   51     1I 1C0      8  165  12    165   12   165   12  1f0   12  200   12   2CO  12    20()  12
Orourdnuts           105   -  142     21i 215   36   190  30    19G   30  190    30  200  30   220   30   220  30    220   30
Maize                 27   -   20      It  20     4   20   4     20    4    ;20   4   92    4   23    It   23   4     23    4
Sorghum               32   -    46    '9   67   13    72  13     72   13    72   13   75   13   75   1 3   75  13     75   13
Land Cl1a a    /    _-        30      1 t)  Cn  2 0  300  20      -    -     -    -    -                    -   -      -    -
Total           186l9-      9    5    702   d18 547                                                                       _
3/ Duriug tne dry sieason.
Note:   H   Man-days.
I - Ox-drawn implement days.



Table v
SENEGAL
TERRES NiUVES RESErTL E!Prr PROJECT
Crooping PatteM Daring the Development Period
Sattlemn Pr-ogram,
Tht ∂                   9                   1 !vmnEwD > 1.
Year         Field a   Field b   Field a   Field b  Field a Field b   Field a Field b
7           t;   ~   ~ H      UC         UC        UC       UC       UC     UC
-         S        ~    ~   ~     ~~C M0         UC      DCUCC
G G
3                1        G        G          S         G        G       UC      UC
M         S
4                i;       F         C         C         S        S        G       G
Note: Each field    1 ha
Symbois: C - cotton
G - roundmits
M maize
S - sorehum
UC - uncleared
F = fallow



A)x4
Table 7
SiN4EGAL
*1±,   ri~UV --3 =._  u,sr_i ±o  r rMu_r& I
Sattl w-nt PIrogr
_  l'o+ 1             Plot 2             Plot 3          Plot 14
Filj a  Field b            Fiel      Field a  Field b  Field a  Field b
1             iFFp                 G      G      .   S        S       C         C
M                 G
2             C         C         F       F                   G       S         S
G                                           .           M
3             S         S          C       C         F        F       G         G
M                  G
14            G         G          S       S          C       C       F         F
L ~ ~~~~~~~ LLk
Note    Each field = 1 ha.
Symbols: C    cotton
C .- '' b*A a+
- maize
S : Sallhomw
F * fal low



5ENEGAL
TERRES NEUVES RE.SETTLEMENT PROJECT
Area Cuiltivated  erSettler FwxlIy
-r          iin _n
PLr'o&ction Fro3ictions 2er Settler Faxily
Cotton           Groidunts             Maize               Sorzhwm
Year   Area   Production   Area Production   AreR   Production   Area   Prod~UtiorL
1       -         -       1.0     1.000      0.5      510        o=5      5nn
2     0.5       600       2.0    2,000       0.5      500        1.0    1,200
3     1.0     1,300       3.0    3.300       0.5      500        1.5    1,800
Vs    1.5     2,250       2.5    3,000       0.5      600        1.5    1,950
5     1.5     2,250       2.5    3.000       0.5      600        1.5    1,950
6     1.5     2,250      :2.5    3,250       0.5      600        1.5    2,250
7     1.5     2,550       2.5    3,500       0.5      700        1.5    2,400
8     1.5     2,700       2.5    3,750       0.5      800        1.5    2,700
9     1.5     2,700      ;2.5     3,750      0.5      800        1.5    2,700
10     1.5     2,700      ;2.5     3,750      0.5      800        1.5    2,700
and
omnards



SIENEGAL
':RRES NEUVES RESE'TT I.HENT PROJECT
1l'otal Area under~ Culti:vation under Pr;LK-
Cotton                        Groundnuta     _                     e        _             u     _
Established                    Established                     Established              t *.ors
Pbroiect Yrear  Settlers    Far    Is    Total sqLwp F            a                         Farar        '
2                -          60        6o        50         65          115      25            -         25       25
3               25          80       105'      200        105          305      75           10         8';     tCO
4              100         120       22C0      500        175          675     ll50          20        17()     25,0
5              250         130       38C0      725        205          930    1l 50          25        1 7';    375
6              375         160       535       825        215        1,040     150           30        18()     450
7   and
thereaf ter   IjSO         190       6bc0      750        215         965      '150          30        180(    1450



SENEGAL
ThRRES NWrVESr wrrrtTLiaWr    WJE£T-
Total Production in. the Project Area
_Cotton          __roundruts                                      Maize
Sittlers    E     establieahsd  tstablised                                    Establiahed          Selers
lain  ___r_                -       t     -rr               Total     ikqm       LM    &_     Total   and T50a
1972          -           t2         72        50           27        77        _            _          22       25
1973         30           92       122        2w                     2 47       704 7o                 80       110
1974        125          154        2719     ,515           87       602       14'          24        i66       25%
1975        332          1 67       L99       780         117        897      1 55'         35         190      398
1976        532          208       7140       9145        1.25     1,070       165          48         213      472
1977        675          228       9033       913         131      1I,044      180          54         234      570
1978       690           264       951I       950         1,38     1,088       l85          54         239      608
1 979       728          264       992      1,025         1L59     1,184      2)3           54        254       712
1580        788          26L1    1,052      1,088         174      1,262      225           54         279      765
19,81 aLnd  810,         264     1,071      1,125         174      1,299     2413          514,      294       810
thereafter
1  Production incluides groursdnuts grown by established farmars not exqpectAid tcp follow technicaL
advice under thie project.
p-I
HoE
0-a-



A I   4
Table 11
aU~~ L1au r flJ ELChrLl"..-Ma rIvv LA.,
(oosi4nv^    rnan 'Yate  f AMnnrlieAtion of Proniet Fertilizers
(K  Per na)
NPK Caoound Fertilizer
Total Fertilizer
CroDs  N            P              K       ~~~~      ~~~~~~~~~Urea  Der la.
Cotton                50            50          100         75          275
Groundnuts            50            60           90                     200
Maize                  -             -            -        100          100
Sorghum                                           -        100          100
CFUT Compound         21            77            -          -          100
ONC,n GomonL           A                                    10    = '0
Note:   500 kg/ha rock phospahate will be applied soon after land clearing;
this t.reatnernt -MCU1  be raneated on the fallnw at Rear fn    n.



ANNEX 5
SENEGAL
TEPRES NEUVES RESETTLEMENT PROJECT
LA SOCIEIE DES TERRES NEUVES
Introduction
1.        The settlement of migrants requires the coordination of many dif-
ferent services such as recruitment and transport, construction of village
infrastructure, initial land clearing, extension services, organization of
credit and marketing of the production. Although different organizations
are already providing some of these services in other parts of Senegal, they
are not yet well established or coordinated in Eastern Senegal. Government
feels, therefore, that for the first phase of the 'Terres Neuves Resettle-
ment Project," a new Statutory Corporation should be established to organize
all aspects of migration and settlement during the initial 6-year period, which
would then, if the situation so warranted, hand over gradually to the
General Government services.  Consequently, Government intends to create
a "Societe des Terres Neuves"' (STN) to take on the present project and
fueure resetLlement operatioLs iLn Easteru Senegal.
A. Fun-ctions and Objec.tves
2.        STN would be res.onsible specificallv for:
(a)  imnlementing in the nroniert area all infrastrtucture
works suc'h as feeder roads, land clearing, well boring,
as well as the maintenance of such works;
(b)  selecting and transporting settlers to the project
area;
(c) providing both established farmers and settlers in
the project area with services needed to achieve
production targets;
(d)  processing and marketing project participants' pro-
duction; and
(e)  organizing and operating credit services and creating
and sune..:isin. farmes'at coopieratrles



ANNEX 5
Page 2
B. Organization'and Management
Board
3.       S'Th tae,iold he Aire-rteri by a BEari crnntqrin- of a nnminee of the
Minister of Rural Development, Chairman: and the nominees of the ILinister
of Finance- the State Secretarv for Plan- and a reoresentative of BNDS
and two representatives of project farmers elected by their fellows. The
Prolect Manager would act as secretary to the Board.   The Board would meet
at least four times a year to define STN policies and to approve yearly
development programs, budgets, quarterlv e3timates of expenditures and
accounts and balance sheets.  Official members of the Board would be
sufficiently senior to ensure! the support of their respective Departments
or entities in the execution of Board's decisions.
Advisory Committee
4.        Besides SrN, severai agencies would be concer-ed directly or in-
directlv with the project. To coordinate the work of these agencies and
entities, an advisory commnittee would be established u-nder the chaLrman-
ship of the Director of Land Use and Zoning Department of the State Secretary
Lor Prlan andu would .~onsist o.o senrLor reDresentat'.ves of the followi.g
Departments: Public Works, Land Use and Zoning, Livestock, Rural Engineering
Forestry, Rural Exten.ion. A-ricuiure Sev-ices, trater Department, and also
representatives of ONCAD, BNDS, SODEVA, CFDT, and of the Research Organization
concerned.  Members of the committee vould be of su^-h senioritty as to ensure
the full support of their respective organizations. The Committee would
convene whpneupr rPequeted by the Chairman of the Bnard or the Mana2er.
Management
5.        The Board would delegate its powers to the Xanager of STN for day-
to-day operations.  The Manager would be responsible for:
(a) executing the project in accordance with programs
previously approved by the Board and IDA, and in
particular:
- engaging and dismissing SIN personnel;
-final selection of new settlers;
(Ub  preDaring, annual. .Lnvestmenc progracus and uuels
for the s4ociety for approval by the Board and IDA,
(c)  preparing quarterLy and annual progress reports
for subr,ission to the Board and IDA;
(d) preparins: reimbursement requests to IVA;



ANNfX 5
Page 3
(e) preparing financial accounts and statements and sub-
mitting audited accounts to the Board.
6.        Other key personnel would be a Senior Agriculturalist in charge
of extension services. The Agriculturalist would also be responsible for
field engineering such as constructing village infrastructure, supervising
PWD road construction teams, and contractors' carrying out well boring and
land clearinig. He would demarcate cultivation blocks for each village,
individual plots in each block, and supervise the planting and cultivation
programs. Field workers to assist the Agriculturalist would be appointed
as follows:
1971       1972-i980      1981 and onwards
Established Population      2            3                  3
Total                  4            9                 6
7.        In selecting new settlers, the Manager would be helped by an Assis-
tant in charge of recruitment. This Assistant would visit departure zones
and pre-sel,ect potential candidates, for final selection by the Manager.
C. Farmers' Organization
Farmer Marketing and Credit
3.        While SIN's eventual aim wauld be the formation of cooperative
scnieties c2anple of ,,n dvraino credt       -d     4n  services,  rhis would
not be possible for s-me time both because the cooperative organization in
Senegal is under revie-g and because in the firqt years of sattlement nroiect
farmers would be unkno-n to each other.
9.        Consequently at least for the first three years of the project STN
would itself provide credit to farmers and market their crops for them.
Within chese chree years STN would !ncourage the formation of cooperative
societies, and although cooperative committee members would have no legal
powers, they would be given inscruction and encouraged to take a full in-
terest in their cooperative, which in practice would be operated bv STm.
As conditions penritted, SmT woulo gradually hand over the responsibil.ties
of running the cooperatives to their members.
Land Tenure
10.       The Law governing the public ownership of land (Loi 64-46 rela-
tiÖve a  Domsaine  ational, June 1?. 1964), floresees the establis.hent of
rural communities ("Communautes Rurales") to allocate land to villagers
and to hp rhe lasQs of political repr-v'-"a ..       t    Dartment level.
STN would collao3orate withi the local administration to establish such
rural communitieS amongst the nrni4rr ara nponpl.tion; but wontd rerain



IANNEX 5
Page 4
all rights conce-r.in5 land allocation in the settlem-en- area  x_ent as
they may be amended by t'he contracts si.ned by settl.-s whic> weuld govern
the occup.ancy ~ of  ~he r 'loino =
D. Financial Or2anization
11.       Investment expenditures in STN fixed assets (houses, warehouses,
equipment) would be financed from STN share capital fixed at CFAF 35 mil-
lion (USS 126,000) entirely subscribed bv the Government and paid in three
annual installments of CFAF 15, 10 and 10 million as from 1971. Other ex-
penditures on items such as feeder roads and wells would be financed
through government grant:s to ST.S. Investments made on behalf of farmers
would consist of grants for land clearing and short-term and medium-term
loans. I'hese would be equally financed by Government grants to STN. The
short-texm loans to project farmers earning interest at 5Z per annum would
be reimbursed to STN which would keep principal and interest to esLablish
a revolving fund amountLng to about CAFkTE 51 million.
i2.       Operating and maintenance costs of sTr would be met by Government
grants. Working capital required for the marketing of project farmers' crops
would bUe prov'Lded etitler directly bly  Gvernmuent or through BNDJS ac  cur=
rent rate of interest for such operations which ranges between 4.5Z and 6%
per annum.  ST, rould recover such interest costs from the com.missions al-
lowed by ONCAD on groundnut purchases and an appropriate commission that it
nrtild anp1p ro  nrahum and mafz  purrhases.
E. Control and Audit
13.       STh would be organized under the Decree 64/158 of February 28,
1964 which governs the supervision of State Corporations. Under this de-
cree Government Commissioners ("Commissaires du Gouvernement") who are
civil servants and directly responsible to the Prime Minister, attend all
Board meetings of State Corporations, and have the power to veto Board de-
cisions. If the Commissioner applies his power of veto, the matter has to
be refer-red to, the President for final decision. Such authority is very
far-reaching and might militate against the efficient management of the
project:; as staced in the main report, assurances have been obtained from
Govermment during credit negociations chat the Commissioner's right of
delay would be restricted to 30 calendar days.
F. Managin&_Agency Agreement
14.       STN would enter into a managing agency agreement with a suitable
managing agency for a period of six years. The agents would' provide STN
with cualified persons; to fill the posts of Manager, Deputy Manager, and
Senior Agriculturalist: and would recruit, or approve or persons recruited
by STN for the posts of accountant, assistant in charge of recruitment and
field workers. In view of the scarcity of experienced oersonnel in Senegal,



ANNkFX S
Page 5
it is expected thact the Manager and one of h.i tfo assistants wPuld be
expatriates.   It is anticipated that the Senegalese Deputy Manager would
he ahle tn rakp nver frnm rhp exnatriart  Manager by nrenip ter 5 or even
earlier if acceptable to Government, IDA and STN; and that by project year
4. the expatriate A-ericulturalist would be replaced by a Senegalese officer.
15.       At the start of STN oper-tions. the managing agency would establish
STN accounting systems and guide the STN accountant in their use.    Subse-
quentlv, the managing agency wouLld assist STh in bookkeeping and in estab-
lishing STN balance sheets and annual budgets. The managing agency would
also assist STN ats necessary in the international and local procurement of
goods and services.
16.       During IDA appraisal of the project, the "Compagnie Francaise pour
le Developpement des Fibres Textiles" (CFDT) expressed its willingness to
manage ST-II. CFDT's fee would amount to 15% of its seconded staff salaries
Such arrangements are similar to those practiced by CFDT in other Western
African countries (see Annex i) and are acceptable.    This management fee
has been included in project costs. Details of CFDT and its operations
are given in Annex _ .



SENEGAL TERRES NEUVES RESETTLEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART
SOCIETE   DES   TiERRES  NEUVI:                        ADISR CMIÖ        E
(S    1                                     ADViSC)RY COMMIT1EE      =
BOARD                                             ILand Lhe and Zoning Deportment,
Mnistler oIf Rural Development,                     Livestock Department
Cloirlmon                       PtI *Rural Ergin ering Deporlmeni
Slate Secretary inl Chorge of Plan                  I:orey Department
Minister oF Finance                                 Agqlcultur* SOVic40
Director of BNDS                                    Rural Extension Deportment
Farmers' Representtatives                          iruoic Works Deporimcnt
Bo rd Secrelory; Ilia Manoger                     NWale. Deportment
DNCAD, B.NDS, SODEVA
keseardh Organizalionws
CF DT
__     .              __        ~    ~I      ___U
MANAGER                                                U
ENIOR ACGRICULTURALIST                                                                                        SENIOR CREDIT ANiD
MARKtETING OFFIC:ER
FIELD WC,RKERS                                    ASSIS11ANT IIN CHARGE OIF                                  ACCOUNTANT
RECRUIThlENT                                               AND CLERKS                   1 R
:1'
IBIRD - 5317(4R)



AIINE0 6
ffRwne,r COSTS LeetIL Tid P8908 1971 -00
9                                                    Tst.1      O-.,ee
1971      1977        1973      19fl±      1975       1976     TmIa        F.E.        1 977     i978      19229      1980      191..7.. t0    c
of F=ject,60                              - A-                            -          -         6650      60                     -         --                              6650
R.ede                                          3,000     10,003      6,00 MO                                   10,000      66         -                    ---                            10,000
16.1 70    4,1 70     16L, 170    -                               2.510      30                                                             4 - 12,510
.dere0Ol~~~~~~~~~~CC ~~~-                    2, 785      2,785     2, 785      -          -         8,355      60                                                              8 . 355
.AS clearing                     -        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~6.3,3  1 it262  1 9.592  609             39.785      68          -                   -                      -       39,785
56Aipeelnt (STII eeed)                                  2015        230       421.       150        125      1,131.     6?25                    9         90        10,                21,979
9nildiOgS                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~14.917  6,051  1 652   -          -         -        20,620       56                   -          ---                            2,2
2et3clSS                           ~~~~~~    ~    ~       ~~~~1,386  1,6  396  762  396    220      4,817      95           72         7        70      ,,,,-~                  .9
S.btota1                                 39,123    12,303      36,6b9)   23.663        94.6      365     131,871      56           870       965       870         720      3,325   135,196
00:9,                             -       ~~~~~~       ~    ~    ~     ~    ~     ~   ~          ~~~~6,250  - - --  6,250  66  -                        --                   6,250
darellOUSCS                      -         ~~         ~~~~~~     ~    ~     ~    ~~~- 2,785  -  - - 2, 785  60                                                               2,785
(SINr ec  31  -od)                                  255          20       112         40        30         657      61           85       .70         70         70         295     1,752
931idi00R                                                1.239        -          613       -                    1,652      30          -         -                                          ,652
Velh,C -.                                                   32        -            2       -32                     96      95           322                  32      -Z-            1.6      11.0
3,.otcl.aI                    -        ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~7.776  2,805  557  60        62     11,240                   117        70       102          70        359     11,599
0 0ta1A~~ A~~ CaOi.Ci Aesete       39J,123   42,079     39,298     24,220        996       603    163.111       59          987       935        972         9
9000"07NDlVt, TRANS0PORTATION MA
SUBSISTEN0E OF 007LER2                              57     9,614       6,771     7,071                           I 6,313     20          -         -         ---                            16.131
XOO.LEA00A6 FARM NFUt?T COSTS
Seeds                            -          ~~~~       ~~~~    ~~~~~~       ~  ~~~506  531  1,6  765  36 ,22 5          -                               -3,212
~~~srt33na5r1                    - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~792  2,691  5,0095  6,996    3.3636    17,01       66           11,                                        11,,    17,130
?een3cld,S                    -          -          ~~~~   ~   ~~~~       ~~~~      ~~~~~14,6  438  076  730  2,190  95  638                                     438-62   2,628
Zrttcecad i.ple....t.                               1,375      4,383,     8,009      6,136     1,953     21,756       27                   --.                                       21.756
OS.Ptota1                                  -          ,671      7,552    16,509     12,771      9,593     66,171.     35           552      -         -                       5 53    a4,729
Seed,                                           -           561        137       236         98         66      1,056       5            Il     ..         --                               1,067
Fert lier                                                4 29       295       629        399        506      2,265      51           130                                        'IO13    2,375
?ssltl- en350                                                          117       236         59        175        934      95           175                                                2 7  ,19L
-ast    i- lmL-eet.                                653.       915      1,~065     1,390                3,896       )33                                                              .
Snttnta3                      -        ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~1, 9764  1,54  2,161  1, 935  725    9,129      41           311.     -                                 316      B. "5
S,ttcC:  I-c,-et.1 F-r Ica,t. Cos.,       4____       6.65      8.906     16.730     1          031       523063                    608      -         7-        -             00      3.7
.03? f013E2000 AND OF_EXAMO3  COST3
5ettie-et Fr-ar-
Oaiar-es, aloane     adsnng       ,t tee       6,987    20,791      22,333    21,193     22,1 333   15,962    107,679      74         6.690     5,690     6.690       6,690     25,160    133,L35
m                    ..eacea  Oidn8  .ttd elt,nt  60      1,231      139       1,111      1,471      1,111      6,673      30         1,397     1,267     1,267       1,260      5,138     11 , .11
etcC  i.t ... -    .ed apo-tiog ocets        670     1,760      1,73,0     1.560      1,420     1,620      8,330       95        1,650     1,450      1,650      1,650       5.100    16,130
raijo    ad ott. tce7nnt                                    00        600        600        600       600      0,000       61          250       250        250        250       1.000     3,009
an,d op-rting  -ots nt 11TN et,d eltp ...t_-             260        699     1.281      161        1.6,6      5,515      55           998     1,335    ,,,..22      1, 035    4,, 03      9,61t
Scatot.l                                  5,717    26,392      26,551    25,515     27.265     20,557    129,997      72        10,505    10,3.72   10,672      10,672     62,00     171,006
Saar,es  a1,t~o,cse .6d -acg-set fee      ..        1,936      1,336      1,666      1,1664    1.666       7,603      15        1,659      1,650     1,650      1,650       6,100(   16,200
f  b.ildlIg,  -d   q~ip ... t               62        62          83        83        290      30           275       225       225         225        1'O0     1,190
-r3~gad oftice eapseecs                                300        300       300         300       300      1,500       61          200       200        20D        200         300     2,300
and ,p...ertitg  -ote ft STN cw-d s9Itte_               -           583       730         752       768      2.833       So          950       650       650         65       2_0        5,433
Saltotati                                  -         1,656      2,299     2,756       2,799     2,815     12,323       29        2.765     2,765     2,765       2,765     10,996     23,303
17-11ES                               ~    ~   ~~~- 6,300   9,800    13.,200     7,000     1,500      38,900      69          -                   ---                            30,900
A,B,o- d_E.                    3),3,97   79.1,9      91,625    90,691     52,752    32,597     390,866      57        15,185    14.152    14,199     7_,,0o7     5_7_5 l   4669.82
-O031439NCC90 109                     6.~~~~~~~~~4390  7,2.9h1  9.162  9,069     5,275     3,,260     39.086      57         1,518     1,615     1.619       1.601     5,753S    61,637
,...i~?60J0C7 COStS 9oCt.9oo~as 11,195  68287   87,3,3L2  100,787     99.541     59.029    35,857    62993         57       16,703    15,567     15,608     15.406     63,26     693219
1902.0  ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~   ~       *,j~~~~,,._" 78  16.O65  9,232     5.248     4,,369     58.433                 2,505     2,330     2.341       2,311      9,637    67.920
* ..A. 9ROJECT COST  018C1321090 79,00560 669  100.,10    116.832   108,773      63.27     L0205g    4988366                19 208    17,993    17.949      17,719     72,712    561,139



SENEGJiL
TERRES NEUVES RESETTLEMENT PRCJECT
TAXES ON PROJECT COSTS CFAF '000
1 971     1 972      1 973     1 9714     1 975     1 976    'rotal
A. Indirect Taxation (Ptr-hase and Maintenance)
Initial Survey                                   29       -          -        -          -         -           29
Tracks                                          279       882       1463      102        102       102      1,930
Warehouses                                      -         307       i530      355         6114      64      1,420
Wells                                         1,316     1,316      1,316       -          -        -        1;948
Landclearin!'                                   -         544     1, 089    1,6313       -         -        3, 266
Training Material                               -         63         44        O147            1    19        1 92
Buildings                                     1,658      646        326       200        200       200      3,230
Recruitment of settlers                          30       271       l01       65'8       -         -        1,500
Shellers                                        -         -          -         24          2         2         28
Sprayers                                        -          3          6        15         29        29         82
Fertilizers I/                                  -         278        ,20    1 ,J414    1,020       958      I4, 490
Pesticides                                      -         55         60       1 47       145       149        556
Implements                                     -           47       :241      539        888       426      2,141
Taxes on vehicles and maintenance               211       792     _792        702        648       648      l,793
Subtotal                                 3,523    5,204      6,288     5,876      3,117     2,597     26,605
B. Inccome Tas.
Expatriate staff                                 94      367        .367      367        367       229      1,791
Senegalese staff                                 75      130      ,h66      1,332      1,482     1,534      6, 919
Subtotal                                   169     1,497     1,733     1,6599     1,8149    1,763      8,710
C. Import Duties
Warehouses                                      -         418        857      1481        814       84      1,924
Wells                                         3,800     3,800      3,Boo       -          -         -      11,400
Handtools                                       -         22         43        65        -         -          130
Power saws                                      -         -          264      264        3014      120        952
Generator                                       -        356         106      106        1OS       1o6        780
Settler's Food (First year)                     -          60        120       180        -        _          360
Housesl Construction                          2,925      645         180       45        -         -        3,795
Houses Maintenance                              -         172        219      231        234       234      11,090
Vehicles Purchase                               693       846        196      397        196       126      2,1454
Vehicles Maintenance and Office Equipment       134       611        611       586       586       586      3,114
Urea                                            -          28         84       162       144       100        518
Subtotal                                 7,552    6,958      6,480     2,517      1,654     1,356     26,517
Income tax included'- Total plus 10%
contingencies                              12,368    15,025     15,951   11,101      7,282     6,287     6,3,614
-c aa tax ex,luded - ictal plus 1%                                                                                    raI
contingencies                              12,182    13,378     114,045   9,232      5,248     4,348     58,1433
1 / IncLudes a 40% taxation on transportation costs.



ANNEX 6
SENW1AL
TERRIS MMVI RESETTIZ1KN PROJECT
PROJECT COST DETAILS
A. Capit.al Costs and Settler Recriaitcint,, and Tranaportatics, and Subsistence Coats
Unit Ccit        97            '972 ,973                   1974.          ∂975          t97oTta
OaTF?J PRInRAJ(
1.Initial Burley                                     6,650,000      ,65o, oo                                                                             4,650,200
2 . Cotton tracks  -No. (kmn)                                  I            I2             12            16                                                       60
3. Wells   -  No.                                              1             2              2             2                                                        6
Cost                                     7,085,000    14,170,000     14,170,000    14,170,000                                               42,510,000
6. Warehsoes  - No.                                           I                            I1                   1                                                 3
Cost                       2,786,000                    2,785,0120    2,-785,00 2- 2,785,000                                   8,355,000
5. Land clearing:L;t27600',0,u                                                                    Z  0,(
a) Mechanical    -  No. (ha)                                                          100o          200            300                                        600)
Cost                               64.050                    6,405,000    12,810,000    19,215,000                                 38,430,003
b) Handtools   -   No.                                     1                           50           100            150                                        300
Cost                                   516                       25,800        51,6oo        77,600                                    156 800
c) Pcmer sacs   -  No.                                                                                6              4             4                           12
Cast                              ht110                    _____              020          600.000O      600.000                    1.200.000
Subtotal Cost a,b,c.                                                            6,630,800    13, 261,600)  1 9,692,60        600LO,000                39,784,800
a) Maite Shellers                                         61
b) Sprayers                                                1                                          5             15            30            25             75
5000o                                     2 5,00 7CO     5,000        1 5C2,002'    125,Co2       375, 002'
c) Training Equipment                                                                   2             2              2                                         6
102,500                      205.000       205,000       205___                    ___0             615, COO
Subtotal Cost a,b,c,                                                              205,000       230,000       626,000        1 50),00O1    125,002     1,l3.,000
7. Buildings:
a) E~Datriate h,o.ses   No.                                1              2                                                                                     2
Cost                                5,163,5oo    10,327,000                                                                            10,32-, ooa
b) Assistants' houses No.                                  2              2                                                                                     2
Cost                                      2,295,000     6,590,000                                                                             4, 550, 320
Cost                         6~~~~~~         ~        ~~~~~13,000  1,239,000  1,652,000                                       '2,89 ,002
d) Offlce               No5.I 
e)Cost                                      1,912,030                   1,912,000                                                               1 , 91:i,02Co
Cost                                  500,000                      500,00)2                                                               5(>0, C0C
C) Training and Off~ice Equipnant No.                     I1 
Cost                                   600,000    4__  _  _         00,002                                                                40 _______
Subtotal cost a,b,c,d,e,f.                                       14,917,002     6, 051 ,002   1,652,000                                                22,622,000
8. Vehicles,
a ) 2T Truck           Nio.I
b) P-      ACrint                              1,300,000                    1,300,OCO                                                                ,23,0
b)Fi  hc  l-io.  1*,                                I             1
Cost                                 812,000       812,000                                                                               81 2,2122
c) Pick-up              No.                                I              1                         2 /3             1           213                        3-1/3
d)          ~~Cost                               562,000       562,000                      362,000O      562,200        362,000                    1,808,020
--r                                                                        213~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,  2/3      2- /3
Cost                                 329,000                      3 29,0O00                   220,2000                     220, C00     722, D00
a) Motorcycle          No.                                 I              1             I             1                                                        6
Cost                                  32,000        32.000         32,0010       32,000    ______             32.0, OoO___               128,200O
Subtotal cost a,b,c,d,,.                                          1,386,0       1,610           396.000        762,00        396,000       22,0        6,817,000
Total Capital Cost                                           38.123.000    32,302,800    36,692.600     23,663,400       944,000       345,000 __131,6 12.800
L2 5 ISHED FPLRMR PROORAJ4
Cotts,  tracks          No.                      K,,        1                           25                                                                     25
Cos t                                250,000                    6,250,000                                                              6,250,000
2. Warehouse               No.                                 I                                          Ieo-
3. Maize shellers          No.                                 I 
Cwt           24,000                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~72,000                       72,000
6. SPrayers                No.                                 I                           10 .                          8             3                           36
Cost                                   5,00                        50,200        20,000        40,000         40,020O       30, 20       15,000c
S . Training Fquipewnt     No.                                 12                                                                                                   2
6.            ~~~Cost                               102,500                      205,000                                                                205,002C
6.NilIdings,
?ieid Workers' house No.                                 13                                                        1                                          L
7. Vehcles,    Cost                                 613,000                    1,239,000                     413,000                                   1 652, 000
Motorcycle            No.                                I                                                         1                            1             3
Cost                                  32,000                       32.000    3____          .,2i,000       _____            32,000         96,002
Tot-al Capital Cost                                                         7.776,000     2.805,000        557.000        40.000        62,000     11240.002
Total Capital Costs I areS 20                                38.123.000    LO,.078.8MO   39,297,600     26,220.400       986,000       407,0ox    143,l10 800
8AR0lIfK.Er ~TRANSPCR~TATMN AND SUBSISTEN2E COST
1  Propaganda per trip     No.                                 1             2              2             2 
Cwt                                   28,560        57,120         57,120        57,120                                                   171,360
2. Family tranoputation    No.                                 1                           50           100            150                                        300)
Cost                                   7,140                      357,000       716,000     1,071,000                                   2,162,6002
3- Subsistence             No.                                 1                           50           1 00           150                                        300
Cost                                  60,000    _    __         2.000.000     4,o    o      6,o,o                                      1,0,C
Total Cost                                                       57,120     2,414,120     6.771,120      7.071,000                                 IL.313,360



S'ENECAL
TERRES NEUVES RESETTLE)ENr PRCJ ECT
PROJECT CCST IDETAIIS
B. Incremental Short and Medium Term Credit Requirements and Cost of' Farm Inputs
Unit Cca,st
CFAF           1971           1972         '1973          1974           1975          1976          Total
I. siETTLEWNT PROGRAM
1. Seeds I"
a) Cotton No. (kg)                         1                                         1 _  ',250    5,0(0        12,500         18,750         37,500
CosC                                7.C            -             -             3,750        35,0(0        8,' 500       131,250        262,500
b) Grourxinut No. (kg)                     I             -            5,000        21D,000        50,0(0        72,500         82,500        230,000
Cost                               30.0            -          400,000        600D,000    1,500,000     2,17'5,000     2, 475,0C10    7,150,000
c) Maize No. (kg)                          1             -            1,000         3,000          6,0(0         6,,000        6,0CIO         22,000
Cost                               25.0            -           80,000         75, 900      1 50, 0?00    15C), 000      150,000        605,000
d) Sorghuim No. (kg)                       1             -              3D0         1,200          3,000         4,500         5,4co          14,400
Cost                               25.0            -           2L4,00'?  3_-D,000           75,000       11 50          135,000        376,500
Total Annual Cost a,b,c,d                                  504,000        713,750     1,,760,000     2,525;,000    2,891,250      8,394,000
Incremesntal Cost                                          504,0DO        531,250     1,,046,25'0     765,000        366,250      3,212,750
Costs ait Farmer Unit Cost.                                182,500
2. Fertilizers
a) 50-50-50   No. (tons)                   1             -             -                5             20            50             75            150
Cost                             25,000            -             -           12'7,500      510,0(0     1,275,000      1,912,5CO      3,825,000
b) 50-60-90   No. (toIns)                  1             -               10            40            1(00          145           165             460
Cost                             25,970            -          259,700      1,038,800     2,,597,0(0    3,765,650      4,285,050     11,946,200
c) Urea      NID. (tons)                   1             -                5         '19.37         47.'50        71 .25        88.12          231.24
CostC                            21,500            -          107,5D0        4(16.5455  j,021,20        1,531,8,75   j89145O         4,971,660
Total knnual Cost EL,b,c                                   367,200      1, 58:2,755   4,128,25;0     6,572,525     8,092,130     20,742,860
d) Increnental cost                                                 367,2D00     1,215,555     2,545,495     2,4414,275     1,519,6CI5     8,092,130
e) Rock Phosphate No. (toris)              1             -               50           150           3(0            300           250           1,050
Cost                              8,500            -        _425,010       1,27$,000     2,550,0 0     2, 55Cl, O     2,125,OC       8,925,000
Incremetntal Cost Total d,e                                792,2DO      2,491,555     5,095,495     4,9914,275     3,644,6C5     17,017,130
3. Pesticides (100 liters)                     1             -             -              450          1,8(?0       L4,500         6,750          13,500
Annual Cost                      32, 438           -             _           145 971       583 884     1 4559 710     2,189 565      4 379 130
Incremental Cost                     3             _             _          17r           1i73            o2
4. Draft oxena and :Lmplements
! ((rACnT flAlrR  N. 1                                -                50           100          10            -             -                300
Cost                             25,000            -        1,250,0D0      2,500,000     3,750,000          -              -         7,500,000
b) Yoke and chain No.                      1             -               50           100            1 50         -              -               300
Cost                              2,50C            -          125,000        250,000       375,0(0          -              -           750,000
c) Arara hoe      No.                      1             _             -               50           1iO            150          -               300
Cost                             21,200            -             -         1,o60,000     2,120,000     3,180,000           -         6,360,000
d) Seeders        No.                      1            _              -               50           1 00           150          -               300
Cost                             11,470            -             -          573,500      1,1147, 000   1,720,500           -         3,441,000
e) Seeder with swing bar No.               1            _              -             -                ;0          100            150            300
4,   ',     * )( (W)r.     1 R02 n00      1.705.Onn)



B. Incremental Short and Medium Torm Credit Requirements and Cost of Farm Inputs
(CFJWFT
Unit Cost
CFAF           1971           1972           1973          1974           1975          1976           Total
I. SETTLEMEP PROGRAM
1. Seeds 1
aj) Cotton No. (kg)                         I            -              -             1,250         5,000        i2,0S           i 8,750        37,NO
Cost                                7.0             -             -             8,750        35,000         87,500       131 250         262, 500
b) Grouniinut No. (kg)                      1            -             5,00N         20_ (O        50, 000        72,500        82,500         230,000
Cost                               30.0             -          400,000        6OO,C00      1,500,000     2,175,000      2,475,000      7,150,000
c) Maize No. (kg)                           1            -             1000          l;O00 6            o ,000     ,00           5,0O           22, 000
Cost                               25.0             -           80,000         75,000       150,000        150,000       150,000         605,000
d) Sorghum No. (kg)                         1            -               300          1,200         3,000          4,500         5,400          14,1400
Cost                               25.0             -           24,000         30,000        7'5,ooo       112,500        135,000        376,500
Total Annual Ccet a,b,c,d                                   504,000        713,750      1,760,000     2,525,0w0      2,891,250      8,394,000G
Incremental Cost                                            504,000        531,250     1,0L6,250        765,000       366,250       3.212,750
Costs at Farmer Unit Cost                                   182,500
2. Ferti:Lizers
a) 50-50-50   No. (tons)                    1            -              _                5             20             50            75             150
Cost                             25,000             -             -           127,500       510,000      1,275,000      1,912,500      3,825,10D0
b) 50-60-90) No. (tons)                     1            -                10            40            100            145           165            146o
Cost                             25,970             -          259,700      1,038,800     2,5517,000     3,765,650      4,285,050     11,946,200
c) Urea       No. (tons)                    1            -                 5          19.37         47.50          71.25         88.12          231.24
Cost                             21,500             -          107,500     _416,1.55       1,0 1,250     1,531,_75      1, 894,580    _L4,971,60
Total Annual Cost a,b,c                                     367,200      1,582,7'55     4,128,250     6,572,525      8,092,130     20,742,860
d) Ineremerital cost                                                 367,200      1 ,21 5,555   2,5145,495     2,444,275      1,519,605      8,092,130
e) Rock Phosphate  No. (tons)               1            -                50           150            300            300           250           1,050
Cost                              8,500             -          425,000      1,275,000      2 55; 000     2,550,000      2,125,000      8.,L0o0
Incremental Cost Total d,e                                  712,200      2, 490,555    5,095,495      4,994,275      3,644,605     17,017,130
3. Pesticides (100 liters)                      1            -              -               450         1,800          4,500         6,750          13,500
Annual Cost                      32,438             -             _           1145 971      53,8814      1 459 710      2 189 565      4 379 130
Incremental Cost                      3             -             -         -riJt3,-             B                                    I7h';  ,  -
4. Draft coxen arld implements
a) 03ten paiLrs    No.                      1            -                50            100           150           -              -               300
Cost                             25,000             -        1,2150,000     2,500,(000    3,75;0,000          -              -         7,500,000
b) Yoke and chain No.                       1             -               50            100           150           -              -               300
Cost                              2,500             -          1'25,000       250,000       37'5,000          - o                        750,000
c) Arara hoe       No.                      I             -             -                50           100            150           -               300
Cost                             21,200             -             -         -1,060,000.    2,120,000     3, 1 80,o OO        -         6,360,000
d) Seeders         No.                      1            -              -                50           100            150           -               300
Cost                             11,1470            -             -           573,500      1,1147,000    1,720,5:00          -         3,1441,0ooo
e) Seeder with sing bELr No.                1            -              -              -               50            100           150             300
Cost                             12',350            -         _        -         - _        617,500      1,235,000      1,852,500     _3,705,000
Total Annual Cost a,b,c,d and e                           1,375,000      14,383,500     8,009,500     6,135,5o0      1,852,500     21,756,000
Total Farm Inputs Costs                          -        2,671,200     13,100,976     17,031,634    159,242,735    17,150,445     64,196,990
Total Credit Requirement                         -        2,671,200      7,551,276     14-589,158    12,770,6,01     6 593,2 0     44,175,445
I1.  ESTABIJSHED  IFARI   }/03R.4
1. Seeds
a) Cotton          No. I(kg)                1            _             3, 0O          4, (00        6,000          6, 00         8,000          27,500
Cost                                7.0             -           21,000         28,()00       142,000        45,5o0        56,000         192,500
b) Groundinut      No. '(kg)                1                         6,500         10,500        17,500         20,5;00       21,500          76,500
Cost                               30.0            _           520,000        315,000       525,000        615,0OO       645,000       2,620,000
c) Maize           No. (kg)                 1            _-                            1400           800         1,0OO          1,200           3,400
Cost                               25.0            -                           I-  1 00      20, 000       25,0           30,000          85,000



1. Seeds
a) Cotton         No. (kg)                 1             -            3,000         4,000          6,ooo         6,500         13,000         27,1500
Cost                                7.0            -21, 000                   28, 0oo       142, 000      45, 50        95, ooo       192,5?00
b) Groundntat     No. (kg)                 1             -            6,500        10,5:00        17,500        20,500        21,500          76,500
Cost                               30.0                       520,000        315,0COO      525,000       615,000        645, 000      2,620,000
c) Maize          No. (kg)                 1             -             -              1400           800         1,00o         -1,200          3,1400
Cost                               25.0            -                          I0,C20                     25,000         30D000         85,000
Anrnual Cost a,b,c                              -          5141,0o0       353,000       587,000       685,5DO        731,000      2,897,500
Incremental Cost                                           5111,000      137,COO        234,000        98,5D00        45,500      1,o056,o0
Costs at Farmer Unit Cost                                  216,ooo
2. Fertilizers
a) Cotton, CFDT Formulsa No. (tans)        1             -             9w.0         12.00         16.510         17 25         1 9.50          714.25
Cost                             28,740            -          258,660       344,880        474,210       495,7i65       560o.430     23133,9145
b) Ccotton, 50-50-100 Formula No.(tons)    1             -             -             -              2.0            3.0           6.0            11.0
Cost                             25,500            -             -             -            51,000        76,500        153,000        280,∞00
c) Groundnut ONCAD Forimala No. (tons)     1            -               6.5          10.5          14.5           16.0          15.0           627.5
Cost                             23,000            -          1149,500       241,500       333,500       368,o0D        3145,000     1,'437,500
d) Groundntut 50-60-90 Formula No.(tons)   1             -             -             -              6.0            9.0          13;0            28.0
Cost                             25,970            -             -             -           155,820       233,730        337,610        727,1,60
e) Urea     No. (tons)                     1             -             _              1.0           2.38          3.o2          4.88          11.88
Cost                             21,500            -             -           21,500         51,170        77,8_3        1014,920       255,1420
Total AnrLual Ccet a,b,c,d.and e                -          408,160       607,880      1,065,700     1,251,825      1,500,960      14,8314,525
f) Inicremrental Cost a,b,c,d and e                                 408,160       199,720        457,820       186,125       2449,135     11,500,960
g) Rock Phosphate No. (tons)               1            -             2,500        10,0oo         20,000        25,000        30,000          87,500
Cost                              8,500            -           21,250         85_ ,CIO     170,000       212,500        255,oo- 743,750
Total Incremental Cost (f&g)                               42 9, 410      284,720       627,820       398,625        5014,135     2,21414,0rl0
3. Pesticides Nl. (100 liters)                 1            -             1,080         1,1440        2,160          2,340         2,880          9,900
Cost                             32,438            -          350,330        467,107       700,661       759,0149       9314,214     3,211,3161
Incremental Ccet                                   -          350,330        116,777       233,554        58,388        17'5,165       934,21 4
4. Draft Oxen and Implements
a) Oxen traLining  No.                     1            -                10            15            15             15          -                 55
Cost                              5,000            -           50,0 00        75, coo       75,000        75,0oo           -           275, 00
b) Oxen purchase and training  No.         1            -                 5             ,5            5              5          -                 20
Cost                             25,000            -          125,000        125,C0C       125,000       125,000           -           500,Co)
c) Yoke and chairs No.                     1            -                15            20            20             20          -                 75
Cost                              2,500            -           `17,500        50,coo        50,000        50,000           -           187,500
d) Ar-ara Hoe  No.                         1             -               15            15            20             40          -                100
Cost                             21,200            -          318,000        31 8, COO     424,000       636,0o0O       - -           1, 696, oOo
e) Seeder with swing bar No.               1             -               10            20            30             40           -         I     10
Cost                             12,350            -          123,500        247,C90       370,500     _494,o0O            -         1.235,X00
Total a,b,c,d aLnd e                            -          6514,000       815,C00     1,01414,500    1,380,000          -         3,893,500
Total Farm Inputs Costs                         -        1,9'14,740     2,327,987     3,567,861      4,288,874     3,421,174     1 5,580,636
Total Credit Requirements                       -        1,914,740      1,353,1497    2,1319,874     1,935,513       724,80C      B,128,1s424
III. TOTrAL P1tOECT  (I and II)
1 . Totail Farrn Inputs Costs                              -        4,6145,940   10,428,5963    20,559,495    23,531,609     20,571,619     79,777,6526
2. Total Credit Requirements                               -        4,6145,940    8,g904,773    16,729,032    14,706,114      7,318,010     52,303,1869
Total Costs at Farmer Unit Cost                        -        3, 9'q, WUc
1/ Seeds: Unit Costs are giverL for seed produced by farners; groundnuts ald cereals foundation seeds wculd ccst CFAF 8A0g. Cotton seeds supplied by CI7DT at the usual price.



_AVrY 5
Table 5
TERMS NEU3DVES 3E?TI! PROJECT
PROPOSED FIlMAIC:X  ANO DISSMIRSZIITS CF 3JA CREDIT
u5 'ocx0
A.   DA rCMll
I. Civil Wcrks
Wells                               4O.9       4o.9       hO.9        -         _           _       122.7
Warehouses                                      8 8.1     16.2        8.1             -              32.J
Staff houses                        h3.3       155         4.9        1.2       -                    6L.9
Mtm.1                          AL 2       5L 5      62.0         9.3       -          -        220.0
It.  Vehicies- equioent and STN
Vebicles I                           4.7        5.        1.3         2.7       1 .3       C.9       1 5.7
ST% equipment & landeluaring tools   -          1.7        2.4        3.        2.0         O.5        .
St% maintenance & operatstng coats   2.9       13.5       17.3       1 3.6     20.3       19. 7
Subtotal                        7 .       2i .3     21 .5      2b.8       2L1.i 2J .          123.1
II. Farm :ruts
Seasonal Far, nut3                   -          -         -          2[h.?     23.a1      17.3      i7.1
Draft COen and   mzolemets           _          -                    23.5      24.h h.               53.-
Subtotal                        -          -         -          4.h1      47.8       23.5     120.0
IV. Roads and Ld 1*earl ml
Rz z' a. us17.2                                          ih.          =1 =.
Hechanical landc:e3ri  :                        -        48.0        70.        - 4
Subtotal                                  1  2      22.-
V. STN Staff and Surveys
Surveys                              5.5       21.1      32.3        47.5      23.4       5;0      1L5 .3
Staff                               16.3       73        79.1        ?6.a      z0.1       58- .     _. 7
Subtotal                       31.3       95.0     111.9      123.9      103.5       53.9     53C.:
VI. Unalloated                              12.%       22.3      25.;        25.h      1h.3       9.2      1 , .:
Total MIL Credit              ;6.0       22.-      283.7      32 .2      190.2      113.^   1,2.1
B. BREAD FCR THE WCRLD
Farm  zptats                            -         15.1      29.0         5.9       -          -         ±.S
Roads and landclearing                 10.8       39.2       -           -         -          -
Subtotal                       10.3       Sh.3      29.S         5.9       -          -       1C.3
C.  JuVE"t.Lvolrr CUTRZBUTn  .._/              27.1       Lo., 5     5          50          .3 13 .1            "C i3
Total                         173.9      3! .1     s63o        35a.!     2C9.)      129.2 1,55.?
1/   s   contrtbutim  Is oaet cf taes. With taxes '     uncued, tlta. jcver-eret caitritutiai '.s IS$ LC8,50C.



AWNEX 6
SENEG;AL
TRES NEWES RESEMlLENT TROJECT
C   3 'atlv - 4s    +   at end
of Quarter (US$ '000)
UOA W'" --, Y^-.
and Quarter                    "Bread for the World"               "IDAH
1971/72
Septmber 30, 1971 
Decemiber 31, 1971                       10.8                         b18.1
March 31, 1972                           21.0                       1C7.3
Jume 30, 1972                            36.1                        179.1
1972/73
September 30, 1972                       55.1                        220.9
Decembe- 31, 1972                        65.1                        297.0
March J7 , 1973                          72.1                        30'7.8
uur.e 30, 1973                           82.1                        uOl3.7
S2pt'eribr .30,                          AO7 91a7c
December 31,, 1973                       91J.1                       537.8
March 31, l971'                         1   0                         83*
Juze 30, 197ii                                                       637.6
197b/75
September 30, 197I                      100.0                        660.0
December 31, 197L                       100.0                        720.9
March 31, 1975                          100.0                        783-.3
J1ne 30, 1975                           100.0                        850o 7
1975/76
Septeiber 30, 1975                      100.0                        890.2
Deember 3 , 19775                      Il.V                             .
March 31, 1976                          100.0                        98L.2
JUri;G 30C 1976                         100.0                      1,O 0.5
to , i   '-  .  I
September 30, 1976                         an __1 _1.
December 31, 1976                       100.0                      1,128.2
Mareh 3',L- 1977                        100.0                      1,170.3
JUM'e 33.,, 1977                        100.0                      1,217.6
1977/78
September 30, 1977                      100.0                      1,239.7
December 31- 1977                       100.0                      1,250.0



S ENEOAL
TERBS NEJVIZ RkCNrLDOET PItOJECT
C. Project Management and Operating Cost
----T~~niTC Cost
CF&F               1571-          1972            1973            19714           1975            1976rta
I. SETTL&ENT PROGRAM
A)  taff requiremAents, salaries
a.Liowances ancd manageaient lee
1. W~atriatex
a  rana-gei    No.                    1            1/2                1                1               1              1               1                5.112
Cosat                   7, 500, 000    3,750,000        7,500,000        7,5oo,000o      7,500,000      7,500,000       7,500,oo0          141,250,000O
b) Seaior Agriculturalist No.           1              -                1                1.              I              1.                                   4 
Cost                    5,510,oo0              -        5,510,000        5,5140,000      5,5W4,o00      5,5140,000o                         22,160,000
Total a,b,c.                               3,750,000       13,0140,000      1 3,040, 000    13,,0140,ooo   13,0140,000      7,500,000           63, 41 0,000C
2. Senegalese
a)Senior Credit Officer No.             1              -                1                1               1 
Coat                    1,800,000              -        1,800,000        1,800,0cDc      1,80o,ooo      1,800,000       1,800,000            9, 000,000C
b) Senior AgricuiLturalist No.          1              -                -                                               I               1                    2
Cost                    1,000,000              -                -                --                     1,000,000       1,000,O00            2,000,000
c) Recruiter    'No.                    1            1/2                1                1               -              -               -2-1/2
Cosit                   1,000,000        500, 000       1,000,000        1 OD,00o,o                      -              -                    2, 500,000c
d) Acc ountant   No.                    1              -                I                I               1              1               1                    5
Cosit                     800,000              -8OC00, O                   800,000         800,000        800,000         800,000            14, 0cc, 000i
e) Clerk         No.                    1              -                1                1               1              1               1                    5
Cost                      350,000              -          350,000          3,50,000        350,oo0        350,000         350,000            1 ,750,000',
f) Field Wlorker Igo.                   I              -                2                6               6              6               6                    26,
Cost                      270,000              -          5140,000       1,620,000       1,620,000      1,620,000       1,620,000            7, 020, 000'
g) Watchmen      No.                    1              -                2                3               3              3               3                    1 4
Cost                      270,000      -                  54O,00..,00                    -  1000          80000           810.000            3,____
Total ia,b,c,d,e,f,g.                        500,000        5,030,000        6,3830,000      5,380,000      6,380,000       6,380,000           3 0, 050, 000i
Total                                      14, 2 50,00     100,0            19,4,20,000     18E, 420, ax0  19,I,20,000     13,880,000           93, 46o,0oo0
Management Fee - 15%                         637,000        2, 711,000       2, 913, 000     2,763,000      2,913,000       2,082,000           114, 019,000c
Subtotal                                   14,887,000      20,701,000       22,333,000      21,1 83,000    22,333,000      15,952,000          107,1479,00o
B) Kalntenance of &eildings and Nquipmient
a) Expatriate houses      No.               1              -                2                2               2              2               2                   10
Cost                        258,200)             -          516,1,00         51i6,1400       516,14oo       516,1400        51i6,1400          2,582,000
b) Assistant hiouses      No.               1              -                2                2               2              2               2              .5   10
Coat                        1114,750             -          229,500          229,500         229,500        229,500         229,500            1,:147#500
c) Field workeir houses   No.               1              -            -                    3               7              7               7                   24,
Cost                         20,650              -            -               51,950         1144,550       11,14,550       1144,550             1,95,6oo
d) Office                 No.              1I                     -                          1               1              1               1                   10
Cost                         95,600              -            -               95,600          95,600         95,600          95,600.             382,1400
o) Generator              No.               1              -                1                1               1              1               1                    5
Cost                        125,000              -          125,000          1.25,000        125,000        125,000         125,000              6525,000
f) Rentals                No.               1              1                1                1            -1                             -                       4
Cost                        360,000        36o,ooo)         360,000          360,000            -360,000                       -               1,144~0,000
Sub-Total B                            36C, CXYJ      1,230,900        1,3,38,1450     1,11l,os;o     1,1471,05o      1,11~l1,050          6,6572, 500
C) Maintenanice, Operating Cost of
Infrastruceture arid STNl equipnient
1. Cotton tracks          No,                            -                12                214             4,0             40             140                  156
Cost                        20 0rk0           -           2140, 0(0         1,80,000        800,0CO0        800.000         800,000            3,120,000
2. Warehiouses            No.,              I            -               -                   1               2               3               3                    9)
Cost                       139,200            -               -             139,2oo         278,1400        4,17,600        1417,600          1,252,800
3.  Power, saws           No.               1            -               -                   2               5              12              10                   30
Cost                        25,000            -               -              50,000         150,000         300,000         250,000              750,000
L~. Maize Shellers        No,              1I                    -                -                -                         6               6                   1 2
Cost                         2,1400           -               -                 -                            114,100         114,400              28,8oo)
5. Spaers (per ha basis) No.                1                             -                                 2               0               5                    75
Cost                           1490           -               -                 -            1 2,25)         149,000        122,500              183,750)
6. Training Bquipment     No.               1            -               -                   2               14              6               6                   18
Cost                        10,000-                                          20,000          40,00    0,000                _60000 -              18o,0C



C FAF               15~'1          2.972            1$'73           197h             1975            1576               Total
I. SET'TLEMENT PROGRAM
iTstaff requirementsa, salarieDs
allowancess and management £'e~
1.  'sRianasg     No                      1            1/2                 1                1.               I                               IL                5.1/2
Cost                     7,500,000      3,750, 030        7,5oo,01)3       7, 500, 000      7,500,000      7,500,000        7,500,000            41a,250,000
b)  Senior Agriculturalist No.           1               -                1                 1                I              I            -                         4s
Cost                     5,5)40,000      -        ~       5,5ho,ooo)        5,540O,000      5.5ho,0.00     5,514-,0000          -22,160j,0W
Total a,b,c.                                 3,750,000       13,040,,000       13,04,0,001)     13,Oj0,000     13,04,0,000       7,500,000)          63i,41,0, 000
2.Sen'egalese1
Ta Senior Credit Officer No.             I                                I                                 1                                                     5
Cost                                             -        1 ,800, 000       1,800,000       1800,000        1,800,000       1,800,000)           59,000, GOO
b) Senior Agriculturalist No.             I              -                 -                ..-1                                             1                     2
Cost                     1 ,OCO,000              -                -                 *.-                     1,000,000       1,000,000             2,000,000O
c) Recruiter      No.                     1            1 /2                1                1                                                .2-1/2
Cost                     1,000,000        !500, 000       1,000,000         1,000,00                 --                              .            2,500,000
d) Accountant     N.o.                    1              -                 I                1                1              1                .5
Cost                       800,000               -800 000                     800;  )   o, 000  80,00        0a, -            800,00              11o ,000,000
e) Clerk.         1O                                     -                1                 1                1              1                I1,
Cost                       350,000               -          350,000O          350,000         350,000         350,000         350,000             1, 750, 000
f)  Field Worker No.                      1              -                2                 6                6              6                6                    :26
Cost                       270,000               -          54,0,000        1,620,00(1      1,620,000       1,620,000       1,620,000             7,0O2O0,00
g) Watchmen       No.                     1              -                 2                33                              3                3                    14
Cost                       270,000       -       -          54,,00 GOO        810             8.2j000         81olOO          810.00              3i,780,0O00
TotaLl a, b, c,d,e, f,g.                       !)OD,000       5,030,000         6,380,000       5,380,000       6,380,000        6,380,00)           30,050,0)0
Total.                                       4,250,000       18,070,000        19,4,20,000      iB,4z20,000    19,4,2o,oo0      13,880,001)          93,1,460,000
Management Fee - 15%                           637, 000       2,711, 000        2,913,001)       2,763,000      2,91.3,000       2,062,001)          111,019,000
Subtotal                                     4, 887,0OM      2 0,7 1 ,COO      22,333,000       21,1 83,000    22,33.3,000      15,962,oo0          107'j, ,79, 010
B) Mainteniance of Wilddings and Equipmnent
a)  Sxp3atriate housets   Nio.                I              -                 2                                 2              2                2'                  1.0
cost                         258,200              -           516,4,00         516,4,00         516,4,00       516O, 400        516,4,00            2,582,0100
b)  Assistant houses;      No.                I              -2                         2                        2              2                2                    1.0
Cost                         111,,750              -          229,500           229,500         229,500         229~,500        229,500             1,14,7#500
c)  Fieild worker houLses  Nio.               I              -             -                     I               7              7                7                    21,
cost                          20,650               -            -61,95c0                        lJ1L,550        lIds,550        l1,4,55(              1,95,600
d)  Of fice                Nio.               1I                    -                            1               1              I                1                    1.0
Cost                          95,6oo               -            -                95,600          95,600          95,600          95,600:              382,1s00
a)  Genierator             Nio.               I              -                 1                1                1              1                1.                    5
Cost                         125,000               -          125,000           125,000         125,1000        12!;,000        125,00(1              625,0(O0
f)  Renitals               No.                I              1                 1                1,            -                 1             -                        1
Cost                         36o,000        :160,000          360,000           360,0CC                         360,000o                            1,4410,000
Sub-Total B                              360,0X'        1,230,900         1,388,4.50      1,111,050       1,4,71,050      1,111,05(1            6,672,5(30
C) Maintenance, OPperatinig Cost of
1nfrastructure and STjN equipment
1. Cotton tracks-          ND.                I                              12                24s              40              4,0              Io                   1 56
Cost                         20,000            ..210,0DO                       L180,000        800,C000         800,000          800,000            3, 120,0ODD
2. Warehouses              No.               1I                                                 1                2               3                3                     9
Coot                        139, 200            --139,200                                      278,L,00         4,17,600        41,7, 60D           1,252,800
i. P?Fwer savs             No.                I                                                 2                6              12               1)                   .30
Coot                         2!;,000            --50,000                                       150,000          30D,000         250,001               750,030
II. M4aize Shellers        No.               1I                                               -                ..6                                5                    12
Cost                          2, 400            -                                                   .14,400O                      s14,40D              28,800
5.Sprayers (Psr ha basis) NO.               1            -                --3                                                100~             25 3                  375
Cc-t                                                                                            I --  2,250      4,9,000          22500                8,5
6. Training &juipmenit     No.                1--2                                                               4,                       6                  18 i
C Ost                        10,000                                             20 -00          402L000          60 000          60, 000              1 80 030
Subtotal C                                      -           2,0,03             689, 200      1,280,650        1,61i,oo00      1,6641,50)            5, 515,3510
D)  Trai-ning and Office expenses                1            -                  I1                         1               1       1                I                     5
Subtotal D                  1,0),0 Cm                       400,O030O'O 1,0,00loo, c00                         1O00,000        1400,004)            2, 000,0(O0
E) Maintenance aind Operatinig Coot
of ,OClOC,~5S



i,LsU            -                                                                  j,400           I .1s, L0ol           28,800
5.sprayers (:per ha basis) No.              1             -                                                     25             100              250                   375
Cost                            Is90--                                                            12,250           4~9, 000       122,500               1 83, 750
6.Training E;quipment    No.               1I                                                   2                4s              6                6                    18
Cost                          10,00-,0                   00                         004~00 OT6,00
Subtotal C                                                   24s0,000          6.89,200       1, 280,650       1 ,64s1,000      1, 664s, 500)         5,51 5,350
D)  Training and Office expenmes                 I                               I                  1                1                1                1                     5
Subtotal D)                 I00,000             -            00,0100          4s,00       ,000 4                isOO4O,OO,       i500, OOC'          2,00,OO
E) Maintenance and Opratirng Coet
of Vehicleo
1. Tiruck                 No.                 1                              1                  1               1                1                1                     5
Coist                        600,00              -          600,00 O400o) 000                           600,000 65I 0              0.9,000              DM,0C,OO
2. Four Wheel Drive       No.                 1I                             1                  1                Ω                -      -                              3
Coist                        6o0,000o        300,000        600,000            600,000          3DO, 000               -                              1,800o,000c
3. Plckup                 NC).                                               I                  1                Ω;               2                2!8
Cost                         3(O,000         150,000        300,000            300,000          4s50,000         600,000          600,00oo            2,4s00,000
1,. A9sistant Car         N-.                 I              -               1                  1                1                1                ,5
Cost                           2C0,000              -          2 00,0OO0          200,000          200,000         200,000          200,001)            1,000,000
5.  Motorcycle            No.                 1               1               2                  2                1               1                1                     8
Coat                           20,000         20,000          40O, 0c0o          40, 000          20,000           20,000        -20,0001                160,000c
Subtotal                                     is70, 000     l, 740,,00         1,74s0,0COO      1,570,0(XO       1,420,000        1,4s20,0O0            8, 360,000
Tot4al 1. Settlement Prograsm             -5,71 7.000      4Ls391.9CS        26,550 650       355s70           27,265,050       201557155(1          130.026.850
II. ESTAfLUSHI0) FARHKR PR00.M4
A) Staff r-eqtdremnents, salaries and
alloywanices and Managemernt l'ee 
Senegalese Clark           NoD.1-111115
Cost                          350,000               -        350,000            350,000          350,000          350,000         350,000              1, 750,000I
Senegalese Field Workers No.                   1               -              2                  2                3                3                3                    13
Cost                          210,000               -        54s0, O0           5l40,000         810,000          810,'000         810o, COO           3,510,000
Watchmasn                  No).                1               -              1                  1                1                1 I                                    5
Cost                          2 70, 000             -        270,000            20  000~         2-70-000         27OO             270,000             i,350,020
Subtotal                                            -      1,160,000          1,160,000        1,430,000        1,4s30,000       1,4s30,00O            6,610,000
Management Fee 15%                                  -        174s.000           17.0       _        .o    21        !.000      _   21 .0 )          -,99,)
Total                                                      1 331s, OX         1,331s,000       1,64sl,00O       1 ,6WsJ,000O     1,64u4,000            7,600,000
B) Mainteniance of Buildiing
Field uaorker's house      No.                1            --3                                                    3                4s               L                    1
Cost                          2o,650             --61,950                                         61,950           82,600           8 2, 600             289,100
C)  Mainrteniance arid operating
Cost or' Vehicles
Motorcycles                Nc,.               I 
Cost                          20,000             -20,000                          20,000          20,000O          20,000           20,000)              1 00, Oo
D)  TrainirLg and Office expenses No.                                              IIIII
cost                         300C, 000           -300,002                       3~00, 000        300,000          300,000          300,000               5000
E)   Mainterance anid Operating Cost
of' Infrastructure and Farm Equipment
1.Cotton tracks           Nlo.              1            -                                    25               25               25              25:                  100
Cos t                         20,000             --500,000                                       500,00O          500,000          500, I00            2,000,00.)
2. Warehouse                No.               1                              -                                    I                I                1                     3
Cos t                        14s0,000            -                                  -14s0,ODOlJO,0 1hO                             I 0, OOo             420,000
3. Maize Shellers           No.              1I                                                                                    3               3                      6
CostL                          2,4soo            -               -                                                  7,200            7,200                Ls,I00
hs. Sor-ayers (per ha basis) No.              I            -                -                   60               80              120              13(1                  390
Cost                             755             --                              Is5,300          60,4s00          g0,6oo           98,150               294s,450
5.  Training Equipment      No.               1--                                                6                6                6                6                    24,
Cost                          10,000        ---_                                __                  2              6)0,000
Subt,otal 1,2,3,1,                               -                              6,05,300         76o,6,00         7971800          805,35(1            2,968,850
Prcgram                                          -         1 654s,GOO         2,321,250        :2,786,350       2,84s1,4s00      2,851,950            12,Ls57,9~O
Total I and II                              5,7117, 000   26,04s5,900)       28,871,900       28,331,050       30,1o09,45o      23,4s09,50()         14s2,484,8C00



AN0EX 7
TableSI
0121027L
S_TTL}MET PNO.PAM - FAP0 B110DG0S
Year.  1          2          3         4         5         6         7      .8    _  _   9-1.2          13-16
A. COTTON           Production                                          600      1,300    2,250     2,250      2,250     2,550     2,700      2,7∞∞           2,700
Net Price  27.6.0                                2,765      2,765     2.615     2,615     2,615     2, 15     2,615       2,01           2,1
CFPF 26.15/kg fr  1974/75
Net Benefits at                                 16,590     78. 37    5887      58.837    58.837    66 882    70,605      70-605         70,05
0.  D0OtDON1'TS  -    Co,to- 3ceds x (.05)                                               7 3,150  6,300  9,450   7,875  ',875   7,875  7,875  7,375         7,87,5
1004cli::er, (.Si)    2,520          5,039      7,559     6,30- 10,500       10,500     0,500   1:4,42 l-                   lh,422
Su,b-tot,l                5,670         11,339     17,009    14,175    18,375    18,375    22,297    22,297      22,297         22,297
-r___       ct or             1,000          2,000      3300      3,30      3,000     3,250     3.500     3.7500        7              75
Price                    182            182        182       182       182       182       182       iS2         132            182
In-me at              18,200         36,400     60,o9r    54,61o    54,600    59,150    63,700    68,250      6i,250         68,250
_ Net Benefits                     12,530         25,061     43,051    40,b25    36,225    40,775    41 103    45,953      45,953         45,953
2.  1202Sf    - Costs       Seeds (it5)             525            525         52)       535       525       525       725        5         525             525
c- Fertiiioer 3/       1,208          1,20       1,206     1,208     1,208     1,208     1,28      1,20        1,208          3,30
Sub-total                  1,733          1,733      1,733     1,733     1,733     1,733     1,733     1,733       1,733          1,737
- Oeceflts   =roductlon               45o            500        500      6Oo        600       600       700         o         3.7            &CIO
rtce              ~     ~    ~   ~~~~~~iA  10  _j)     -U                            '7        17          i-
I-.c-e                 7,200          8,ooo      8,00)     9,600     9.600    102,000   119,^000  I,n   c     13E.000        136 1212
a67            6,267      6,2'6-. 7k7         7,867     7.267    1o.iS     11.-r       ,1%7           11
SO? _ lo,     -Ccstc       Seeds i1.051             158            315        473       473       473       473       43        17'         473             4;3
certl12er              1,208          2.415      3,623    -LA        3,622     3,622     _' 22     _.62a      ___ _22
sub-total                   1,366          2,730      4,377)    4,0s95    4.09,    9, 335       KioS.       L95     1.3?5
- ?eceft7ts  ?ro.lucslon 5i0                       1.200      1,80?     1,950     1,950     1,957     2,277     2. L71      2,703          2
-   PrI:e               b1              14         IL     -5           14        11        17        1'          17
Inconet                7,000         16.,oo     25,200    27,300    27,300    33,750    36,003       LO,503   1 ,0 .
- Nt    - Onefi-s                   5,634         14070      21,105    L1205       ,2C25   29,675    31,305    36.10536.b.5               2L42,
Thtal :et Fenefits Beore
overall cocOs                  23,631         61,988    1         1L36  'I)3,334  L26.134  137,734  150.-7 %   ,53C   lL3G            1277
?.E FALL Ex.LSNSE
e-adtuoln                                           950              -          -         -         -          -         -        -           -               -
Phosphate sppli-auion-     sr/ g                      -              -          -         -         -                   -                 3 ∞                 -
Delt serv ce f-r oPen and esuipanc                              16,075     19,273    13,170    19,270    19.270      3,101
tquipeent maintenance                                                       5,7?7     7,343     7,8L3     7,840     7;8L,     I,B1-         ,43           7,344
Oa:ce SheGllng                                                              -'-___  o>~   250     250       250        300     735           350            37.2
0±4-total                     90io        16,075     25,267    27,363    27,363    27,363    1,337      3.I.3s       ,17I ,1-i
2t3: 450 F/             aidd 240 F/scal               18             2,730      3,180     4,080       -       4 080      L 0jß    4± 80       4,530          4,530
01_ IICG'iE                                          20,881         43,183     77,971    98,891    94,691    106,i91   134,940   152,75     143,107         152,107
3;-5ESISTENCE FslRM.r
"nice 2-lotitn                      300            100        100       100       100       100       100       173         100            11X
rice                           16             16         1         16        16        16        i6        1-          16              16
V.sioe                      4,879          1,630      1,600     1.600     1,6oo     1,700     1,700     1,707       1,700          1,700
Sorgi.a  quar.tiit:                    795          1,220      1,650     1,650     o,6)       6 1,650  1,So      1,875       1,570           1,03i
Price                          i4             ii         14        14        14        14        14        1L          14             16
Solos                      11,130         17,080     23,100    23,100    23,100    24,750    241.750   22,050      o8,o5o         ?8,o(n 0
Total Subsistence                15,930         18,680     24,700    2,7       24,700    26,450    26,45o    29,750      29,5           29,790
002T 9001NET03Y 090002                                4,951         24,503     53,221    74,191       69,991  79,841   10J,490  .122,807    113,357         122,357
3, Fertilliers: Figures gis- the eoact cost to tb,,f fer after deduction of Gover--sat subsidy and including icteresi charges.



ANNEX 7
Table 2
SEN RAL
TERPES NEUVES R.ESETTLIZENIT PROJECT
ESTABLISHED FARMER PROCRAM - CONSOL LDATED FARM BUDGET
CFASF 000
Years:      1            2                          4                           i6           7            8          9 and
Agricultural Campaign of                           -971-73     123_74        lE572        1975         1976_77        197-79 -8           1(99-80            thereafter
COJTON          Incremental Proctuticn in tons         36            60         11           131          172            228          248          248           248
Net Income at                          995        1,659       3,086          3,426        14,L98        562           6,485        6,485        6,485
CFAlF 27.65/kg
CFAF 26.15/kg 1974-75
GROUNDNUTS     Costs - Seeds
Project 575.3                          205          13:L        551            646          677           677           677          677          677
Cost-28,844/kg Fertilizers -DNCAD       64          1014        144           1l59          275           273           392          392          392
PROJECT    _             .          76            1L3          273           273           375          375           375
Sub-total                         269          43S         771            9i8        1,225         1,223        1.,1444       1,444        1,444
Benefits Prod .ction                    27           47          87            117          125           131           138          159          174
Income at CFAF 18.20/kg                491          85 5      1,585          2,129        2,275         2,384         2,512        2,894        3,167
Net Income                             222          14."        812          1,211        1,050         1,161   '     1,068        1,450        1,723
MAIZE          Costs - Seeds                            -            11          21            26           32             32           32            32           32
Fertili Zers                     -           24          48             60           72            72            72           72           72
Sub-total                           -           3'S         66'            86          ]014          104           104          104          104
Benefits  Production                     -           10          24             35           48            54            54           54           54
Price                          -           16           -              _           17             _             _            _            _
Income                         -          16i         3814          560           816           918           918          917
Net Income                             __           12-          31"           14714        ,12            814          8114         8114          8114
OVERALL EXPENSES - Debt Service                       156           352         6044          944           944           785          592           339            -
- Oxen trained                         -            7           8              8            8              -            -            -            -
- Equipmaent Mc,intenance                          79         180            319          5l4           515           515          515          515
- Maize Shelling                                    5          12             18           24            27            27           27           27
- Rock IPhosphE,te                    _             _                      _             _                            135          135          270
Sub-total                         16-;        443         804          1,289        1,490         1,327         .1,269       1,016          812
ADDTTTONAL FTSSAUITY (0--   ,o-,,i   7L07                             R          13 .       -   R 18         18            18           1       8           18       -
TOTAL NET ADDITIONAL INCOME                          1,060        1,753      3,396          3, 8014        12           6,592        7l.080       7.16          8,192
Number of families                                     100          120         150           180           00            200          200          200           200
Net in:lcome per fauLily in CFAF                   *102,0       14,608      226140          21,131      U.L:          32,961       35A1         3    6        40. 961



TERRES NEUV
Cashflow t
1971      1972      1973      1974      1975      1976      1977       1978      1979
Surces of Funds
Ink crecdit                                37,769    61,096    78,759    83,924    52,820    32,770       -         -         =
Bread for the World                      2,999    15,080     8,054     1,638       -         -
Government Revenues
,24rmers Riepayments,
Inputs                                                76     1,303     4,280    10,435    17,451    21,460     23,066    24,029
'raxes                                     _          22       114       325       682     1,346     1,676      1,834     1,898
Interests                                                                                 - -  312  800  1,451  1,692  1,745  1,660
SuibtotO'                                             98     1,494     4;917    11,Q917 ?      20,248   24,8   26,A  ! A:  278 R7
Eport Taxes
Cotton                                     _         _          66       177       561       986     1,638      2,478     2,559
lar-ondnots                                                    430     1,379     3,362     5,o09     5,975      5,830     6,075
-   - ~~~~~~~~~(        (hb)     (0)()i          ~   (b         (321L     (A
Subtotal                                   _                   491     1,512     3,818     5,835     7,370      7,984     8,269
Stabilization Funds
-         -     +      ^         _57  10  67       22         37        46        57
Groundnuts                                 -         -         432       925     1,126     1,677     2,001      1,952     2,035
Maize                                                           14       122       324       426       624        632       706
S_orghum-                                                                -          19        86       217        271       L19
Subtotal                                                       503     1,057     1,534     2,211     2,879      2,901     3,217
Fiscality                                     -         -        ( 32)     ( 93)     (190)     (121)     (123)      (318)     (318)
Total C0vemment Reveues                                  98     2,455     7,393    17,079    28,173    35,954    37,212     38.755
!MTAL SCURCES OF FUNDS                       40,768    76,274    89,268    92,955     69,899    60,943    35,954    38,203    38,755
Application of Funds
On-fa-m costs                              -       4,6)-6   10j527    21 j27    24,862    23,154    9    21,74. 9.,01    20,099
Project Acbdinistration                 43,897    68,539    72,919    59,592    31,048    23,779    14,317     14,152    14,J52
Studies for Second Stage                   -       6,300     9,800    14,200     7,000     1,500       -
Contingencies                            3.925     7.948     9.325     9.492     6.291     4.843     3.S69      I.417     31,25
Total Application Before
Debt Service                            47,822    87,433   102,571   104,411    69,201    53.276    39.260     37.585    37.676
'ebt Service Df IDA Credit
Service Charge                             -         306       877     1,528     2,170     2,566     2,812      2,812     2,812
Repayme:nts                                          -         -         -         -         -         -          -         -
Total Lnebt Service                           -         306       877     1,528     2,170     2,566     2,812     2,812      2,182
2AL APPLICArmON OF FUNDS                     h7;822    87,739   103j)48   10 93Q    71 171        R,82   1.2,072  40,397     40,488
%et Cashf3ow                                ( 7,054)  (11,465)  (14,180)   (12,984)   (1,418)    5,101   (6,118)    (2,194)   (1,733)
-'s93.tive Cashflow                         ( 7,054)  (18,519)  (32,699)   (45,683)  (47,155)  (42,054)  (48,172)  (50,366)  (52,099)
D 9ue to an increase of the proiect nroduction of maiae and aorghu. importe of these nroducts are assumad to decrnase resulting in a
Ir Icome taxes are higher in the cleparture zone than in the project area. The migration thus results in reduced fLscal incomes..



SENEGL
TERRES NEUVES RESZTTLEMEN' PROJECT
Cashflow to Government - CFAF '0oo
1971      1972      1973      1974      1975      1976      1977      1978     1979      1980      1981      1982      1983
37,769    61,096    78,759    83,924    52,820    32,770            -         -             -         -         -
2,999    15,080     8,054     1,638       -         -
-          76     1,303     4,280    10,435    17,451    21,460   23,066     24,029   23,952    23,821    23,636    23,211
-          22       114       325       682     1,346     1,676     1,834    1,898     1,893     1,888     1,871     1,846
-        _            7        12 C     o80     I,51 "-)I    2      1.745     1.660    i, .03    1,013       954       954
98     1,494     4,917    11,917    20,248    24,828    26,6k5    27,587    27,248   26,722     26,461    26,011
-          66       177       561       986     1,638     2,478     2,579    2,673     2,855     2,924     2,924
430     1,379     3,362     5,009     5,975     5,830     6,075    6,611      7,047     7,254     7,254
-          (5)      (44)     (105)     (160)     (243)     (324)     (365)     (444)     (5oo)     (500)     (528)
-         491     1,512     3,818     5,835     7,370     7,984     8,269     8,840    9,402      9,678    9,650
-  -       57        10        67        22        37        46        57       60        63        65        65
L32 O925  1126    1,677     2,001     1,952     2,035    2,21'     2         2,          ,
_         _          14       122       324       426      624       632       706       820       911       966       966
_         -         -         -          19        86      217        271      419       681       782       822       822
-         -         503     1,057     1,534     2,211     2,879     2,901    3,217     3,775     4,116    1k,282     4,282
_    _        ~~~~~t 32%  9"      (I on)    ti '1 N   (1 91     t -41R A   w   t -1A (4A R     -A).RA   t'7R N    ('41A
_          98     2,455     7,393    17,079    28,173    35,954    37,212    38,755   39,535    39,892    40,043    39,595
40,768    76,274    89,268    92,955    69,899    60,943    35,954    38,203    38,755   39,535    39,892    40.043    39,595
-       4,646    10,527    21,127    24,862    23,154   21,374     20,016   20,099    20,441    21,270    21,333    21,333
43,897    68,539    72,919    59, 592   310,o48   23,779    14,317    14,152   14,214,007        10162        9 38k     9,3B
_       6,300     9,800    14,200     7,000     1,500       -         -         -        -         -         -         -
3,925   7.948       9,325     9,492     6,291     4,843     3,569     3,417    3,425     3.445     3,143     3,072     3,072
47,822    87 433   102,571   10k,411    69,201    53,276   39,260     37,585   37,676    37,893    34.575    33,789    33,789
-         306       877     1,528     2,170     2,566     2,812     2,812     2,812    2,784     2,756      2,728    2,700
-  -      -         -         -         -         -        _          -      3,750     3,750     3,750     3,750
-         306       877     1,528     2,170     2,566     2,812     2,812     2,i82    6,534     6,506     6,478     6,kSa
47,822    87,739   103,448   105,939    71,371    55,842    42,072    40,397    k0,488   44,174    41,081    40,267    40,239
( 7,054)  (11,465)  (14,180)  (12,984)   (1,418)   5,101    (6,118)    (2,194)   (1,733)  (k,892)   (1,189)    ( 224)    ( 644)
(7,054)  (18,519)/ (2699)    (45,683)     (7,155)/ (2,o54)       -    fe,12   (0366)  (el 099% (5,9)(818)(844         (59,048)
,.'  lI ,n  ts.1~-C, 7j~L) .)/kL ,t, Sli  OS II, ~,rC I 15 nf'  30I'  l&n ,t1L4.  Ir'f, I  fl I r' n,. 991 'D i0c<  It'Dnil(L0 fl,$l
a project production of maize and sorghum, imports of these products are assumed to decrease resulting in a proportional decrea.Be in import dutie:
in the departure zone than in the project area. The migration thus results in reduced fiscal incomes.



7r PROjErCrT
CFAF '000
1981      1982      1983       1984      1985      1986      1987      1988      1989      1990      1991      1∞fl*__73
'3,821   23,636     23,211    22,361    21,086    22,543    22,543    22,543    22,543    22,543    22,543    22,543     22,543    22.SL3
I,888     1,871     1,804,    1,790     1,721     1,607      1,807     1,807     1,807     1,607     1,807     1,807     1,807     1,807
1,013       954       954       954       954       954        954                 954       95        954       95_94                5
6,722    26,6 i    26,01i    25,1i     23,761    25,304    25,30h    25,3Ut   25,304     25,304   25,304     25,304    25,304    25,304
2,855     2,924     2,9214    2,924     2,924     2,924      2,924     2,924     2,924     2,924     2,924     2,924     2,9214    2,924
7,047     7,254     7,251     7,25     7,251     7,254      7,254     7,254     7,254     7,254     7,254     7,254     7,254     7,254
(500)   (S50)       (5213)              (52o8)    (528)     (528)      (528)     (528)     (528B     (528)     (528)     (528)     (528)
9,402     9,678     9,650)    9,650     9,650     9,650      9,650     9,650     9,650     9,650     9,650     9,650     9,650     9,650
63        65        6;        65        65        65         65        65        65        65        65        65        65        65
2,360     2,429     2,42'9    2,429     2,429     2,429      2,429     2,429     2,429     2,429     2,429     2,429     2,429     2,429
911       966       966       966       966       966        966       966       966       966       966       966       966       966
782       000                            000       000       000       000 082 22          822        2 2      022       022       822
4,116     4,282     4,282     4,282     4,282     4,282     4,282      4,282     4,282     4,282     4,282     4,282     4,282     4,282
(348)     (378)     (3413)    (3D8)     (348)     (348)      (348)     (348)     (348)     (348)     (348)     (348)     (348)     (348)
0043  3   9.5  38,6 .e    ,     ,,.,4  13 lie   0 000  8      000   00 00 0  0000        a 3 oo 3 ,,3000,0000,oO..             o 0 0
9,892    40,043    39,595    38,6'15   37,345    38,888    38,888     38,888    38,888    38,888    38,888    38.888    38,888    38,888
i,270    21,333    21,33     2,-       2i,3      2,,33 3  2   33 2,333         2i1,333    2i,333    2i333     2i,333    2i33      2,3
3,i62     9,384     9,381     9,384     9,384     9,384     9,384      9,381l    9,384     9,384     9,384     9,384     9,384     9,384
^15       3,072     3,072     3,072     3,072     3,072     3,072     3,072     3,072     3,072     3.072      3,072     3,072     3.072
!L:!c  33,789    ez, 89 ,                           Jv rlJ7                                 3        3,789      f, ru9 ,ai-0    -2y f, ru7 3,8 ,,93.8 379
2,756     2,728     2,70C     2,672     2,644     2,616     2,587     2,559     2,531     2,447     2,362      2,278     2,191     2,109
i750      3,7750    3575C     3         3,750     3,750     3,750     3,750     3.750    11,250    11,250    11.250     11,250    11,250
i,5o6    6,478      6,1450    6,421     6,394     6,366     6,337     6,309     6,281    13,697    13,612     13,528    13,444    13,359
.,O81    40,2671   0,239    L0,211     40,183    10,155    40,126    10,098    10,070    47,486    47,401    47,317     47,233    47,148
,189)     ( 224)    ( 644)   (1,515)   (2,838)   (1,267)   (1,238)   (1,210)    (1,182)  (8,598)    (8,513)   (8,429)   (8,345)   (8,260)
i,180)  (58,404)  (59,048)  (60,563)  (63,401) (64,668)   (65,906)  (67,116)  (68,298)  (76,896)  (85,409)   (93,838) (102,183) (110,413)    lo
oe     _r s n iimrt dutfieOs.



ANNEX 9
SESEGAL
TERRES NEUVES RESETTLEMENT PROJECT
Calculation of Econ=ic Race of Return
._n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1.        Table 1 shows details of annual costs and returns used in calcu-
lating the economic vate of return fron iavestment in the settlement pro-
gram, established farmer program and the overall project.    The results of
a sensitivity analysis testing four levels of reduction in project benefits
are given at Table 2.
2.        The following assumptions have been used in the rate of return
calculations:
(a)  Project Life
The ecunomic life of settlment and established farmer
progra.is 'Ls assumed to bue 2-5 years Fro. omProJec, Year l.
Thus, the benefits from individual farms range from 20
to 24 years.
(i) Infrastructure and STN Farm EauiDment Costs
Costs of pro1ect infrastructure and STN farm equip-
ment are detailed in Anne% 6, Table 3. All infrastructure
and STN farm equipment costs, both capital and recurrent,
arising from implementation of the project are taken into
account.  Because artesian wells have not been bored pre-
viously in the project area, a 20% contingency has been
included in the cost esti3ates.
(ii) On-Farm Costs
Cost of seasonai inDuts and of oxen and farm equip-
ment: are taken L.rom -.nlnX 6, Ta ble 4. Yearly ain.te.a..ce
costs of farn equipment -have been assumed as 15' of the
initial investment.   All cos_s are exclusive of taxes and
=nport duties.  A 10% conc..izencv has been added to all
co6t:st  Farmers o.' expne-d--ures are included in on-farm
costs and have ba>en caken from the farm budgets at Annex
7. Familv labor is costed at zero, and the value of crops
autoconsumed are treated as ,roject benefit.    This has been
done since the value of such crops would be more than met
by the value cf pIuuction or. land vacated by settler far-



kNNEX 9
Page 2
ilies in the departure zone. Due to land Dressure this
lard would be 7aken over   muediatelv and cultivated bv
other farmers.
(iii) Manas;eMent Cost
All project administration costs inclusive of exten-
sior. servi.e costs and staff training, both capital and
recurrent arising from tmp>inentation of tehe p.ojecc taken
into account. Fifteen percent of all staff salaries have
Deer taken as the provision 'or thle managinL agency fle.
Since the managemert costs of the settlement prcgram com-
prise adequate headquarters personnel to manage both set-
tlement and farmer orogram , only the direcr costs of the
additiona! field staff n,eeded for the latter pipe been
charged to the establi?hed farmer program.
(iv) Furt;er Studies
Costs of tt-   ro,ect evaluation szudies, and feas.-
bility stuay for a possible second phase project are not
included in the calculation of the econam-c rate of retur:n.
(c) Benefits
(i)  Yields and OUtDUtS
Yields and output of project produced com=oditias
have been taken from A.nex 4, Tables 2, A and 10.
(ii) Prices
Returns have been calculated by using he allocation
of price proceeds   iven i.n Annex 2, Tahle 6, 10 and 11
adjusted on a, zime bas's to take in:o account wcrld price
variatioms given irL Annex 2, T;_ble 4, 9 and para 7.06 of
t:he main re-ort.



SENEGAL
ThMLES NEIIVES RESETTLhEENT PROJ ECT
PROJECTS RELTE OF RETURNI CA,I,00LTION5 - 076A' '000
1971        1973',,,         ,,i        1,7 ,        d         107'        1910       1070    09        19     91        therea.fter
eq,alp,e                          38,12.1     32,303     36,693      23,633         911        315        696         652         6 96       567         --
...a.. co..                            -        2,671      801 "e,,,    ,o 9      -09A       19 10I9    1 953       150808       4.,678    16.228     16.983          17,016
seaeetfee                     4,887      18,702     20,099      19,065     20,099      11,365      5,aL1       5,841      5,841       5,861      6,321          46324
3ettoer R-crit-et T-asplrtatloc
and S.nsl.ten...                       57      2.L16       1~771       7 ~071       -                -           -           -          -          -             -
30N operatin,g and other 000t5          83(1     3,250                              449 369  .39  4 136    3.666     __8_         358_35__,492,5
Soetotal                1~~~~~~~~~~3,897  59,340  73,26c   71,007     15,676     37,594      27,176      25,920     25, 709     26,220     24,706          23,991
Contingency 10%                  3,925      5.936       7.326.      7,1 01     6.568      3,9         2,718      L2,59       25680       2,622      2Xi             2,399
Total 1            ~L.7L2                  6.7          056        7.0         0262,2                2.9          657       2.0          ,2        0,7             26,390
iotablislhed E-arners_Progra
eqstpe   t.re                          - SN-nd7,776         2,805         557         L0          62        291i        236        276         21L 
"     "resna  onlm  ots1,975                               2,126       3,788      6,666       1,00c5     4,o21       1,213      6,621       o,213      1,317            li
5alarIes, alowances and
so-gnl,ent fe,-                                3,41        3,567      3,762       3,677       3,210      2,290       2,2,é0     2,270       2.290      1,361           1,51L
3711 cP.0tingf Cod ethercot -t,61                            1,387       1,5L5      1          J648   1,630            1.506      1,505_9~ L~              316             3.'6
Societal                                    13,8,6     10,185       9,652     10,231       6,937      8,537       8,252      8,e92       5,222      6,007           6,067
Contitngecc.y 10%                           1,306       1,1           965      1,621                    891        -125        869         822     -    1             601
Tctol 2                            -        5289067                           1.0         i~,83       9,358       9, 077    9,31         9,01.i 
_____ 8- 2                   88,255                                                      L L      37,886     33,75           3299
3ottl-,rt Program
.c o  Pr-d-ctioc (ton)_                                   3C         125        332         532        675         690,        728        756         610            01,
PrI,, Ef/       -                       -        9F10       3,16A7g5               3 7,951l   IL_         37,95       37,95      37.95       31,9            37,951
OaO9c           -           -       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,18'.  4, 76  12,5031  20,1,1?2  25,619  26,166   é0, 11      é9,96      3, ao           )C.743
,r'9toPrcd-ctlcn (t...                         50        200         915        700-   ~     L5        913          50      1,025       1,25       1,125           1,125
PrO- CEA:/kg                         30, 501    76,76       2    61     6 ., 2L        1 2     6 811      26 31       20.1    ~   LL         21, 51          25,611
20.0,'             -        ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~1,530  5,753  13.823  2c 1,03  25/6-15  24, 506,  25,199      27,512      29,2:~3    32b,196~        31,196
o0c        rdcic(o,                               20          70'        1 L2       155        165         180         165        20          225        319C
-     61       I 1,336.    2,726      3.026       3,172      3,616       3,770      6,132       3,606      1,958           1,958
Same               -          6~~   ~~~~~~~       ~~~~~~06  I1, 6  .  08  j,71:  8,128  1 0, 021  10,906    13,1C3,    1 -         I0 1L,023       1lh,c23
~*0l Settionet; Becefits                     2,353     1 0,0.'?,   25.523      63,273     56,9,57    57,764      66,366      72,3c5     16,759     60,720           60,720
loIo 0-eren-,a- Pr-du-to
(tons)                 -           3~    ~    ~~~    ~   ~~~~       ~~~    ~   ~~~~6 60,  116  131  172  228  218  316         216        216             21,6
Valor                                 1,606       2,3171     L,50l       6,972      6,528      8,6556      9,113       9,613       9,113      9,113           9,-13
(ton,)                 -           ~~~        ~~~         ~~~        ~~~~       ~~~        ~~27  LI  87  117  25 131  16 19    16           7              7
7aluo              -         ~~~~      ~~~~~~     ~~~~826  1,352  2,335  3,110  3,355  3,516     3,701       L,266       1,670      1,670          1-,670
'llc  T:r.not P-Erd-eti,,,
(to-)                             -           -           10C         21          35         18          51         So          56         51          51,             ci
Price                        -          -        9051       19,206      19.20      12-         20.10  ~    2-3,380               L           20),66          Ll
Saice           -          -           191~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g  661  663   1152      1,085       1,101      1,116       1,116      1,116           1,115
."tOniished Earner Senefit,,        ~~~~~~     ~~2,302  3, 91 L.  ,297  8,795     10,835      13,255     16,216      11,757      15,199     15,19,9         15,199
00761IA PIRCOItT BENEIT.S          -        6655       13.I991)   32.82       5,08                   77,019      80,83        ,102,     912L .98     .19           91, 919
-0tin0e-t Program                   (47,822)   (62,921 )   (70,5091)  (52,585)    (6,973)     15,163      33,870      37,853     63,926      17,917     53,563          56,330
Ostabji.hed Farners   Progroe   -              (12,926)    (7,2891)    (3,320)    (2,159)      1,001       3,897       5,162      5,456       6,1155     .1,591          8,591
OCTAL FROJMOT SET BENEFITS     (47.622)    7967       (779)       (,0)         9,2)      16,7        3777I2 9L932                       5,02       6,3              2,921



ANIM  9
Table 2
SENAL
TERRES NEUVES RES=TL7.4NT PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATES ',F RETURN
SENSITIVI't'Y ANALYSIS
Benefits Reduced By
0t          5%         1 01
300 Families Settlenent Program     12.2L7     ll.41       10.32
Zstc.blished Population ?rogramn    15.85       1L.09      12 .3i
TOTAL PR73ZCT                       i2.83       11.71       it).
Costs Increased By
C!          5          10C
Total Project - 1J00 ienefits       122.3       11.76       10.76



' 'i I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S EN\f GAL 
A P R      I; A                              .      J        TERRES; NEUViES RESE:T-; LEMENT PF'OJECT
i 4 t R 1: C ' \x l ) 'tttooPS ~~~~~~~~~ PROJECT LOCATION 8t POPULATION DENS,TY
\'                              )  kJ  !tet  - .\- >- );- > . %>}-~~~~~~~~~~~~~J  ..... . ..
1____ __ gtJIl'; ' .5, ,-t/F 
+ ! ) . vi j,> r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
S f  97=.o>~~~~~~~ /lJPb                                       ' v' ,.,^., j~~~~~~~~84
i '.  <>               '    1                                            *t$>'\,w/'N 
0 , K A 11449"  + o ,,d                                                            lr   F
\-)  <>^t43'^  /  aN  \  ,,                              /4>4-t   s^t \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
FQN>LAhI  L1tt4511Y'                              r                                          .-;;; 
~^~      PC)RTIJGUESE    GlJINE-A-                                            J
---_  ._1__ u _  ,  _  ,_  ___,         .          \   ~~G U I NEA 
.UGUSI 19.1u



_ -s ) <,zz.7::z:y._ _,   ;%k ,u)                   ,---  '  (:9  " -t \-'C  N-NEGAL
NY (      %ous;Pc;.;wu*> t=  -;         -   -- -$               T1FERRE:S N E U V IE S
RES,ETTLEME NT 1'ROJECT
(PROJECT AREA)
5INTIU OA/
hc      N    *-Js N   j\\%\~N tIoeAaiA '\'                            -s -- - ' MAIIMM.NIA"
., / ) 1/--0 (   / '1                           -    SAMBA DIARI t 
CUE_  E                               U)/KUUMARE      |_*^, su
KIN    M      .     PAR[MPEMPE  /           A                     _
RK EL   BY
A      I  RIIAMBOUR El HADJ M84ft  )U
/''~?IL,NUIAVEIE  \jASS NDIABItANE  J  \  U                    )1
'lJ'Ss' ~ ~ ~          j.- I                                           Jr/k   t- >t1*t.,
l  NDIAVENE  l     -,
If                             / FGACJO  ,?  )/                    A( 
. .'/KO?IDAU//               \      BAMBAKOT)
IO'~ '"  C   ./  UUKOO   . ;             )           MAyAKOT
*U  O .- -  ,/  1/                                    2,                Ii)-,j 
/ AR  MFALi 
IL-,-,.---. NDOUGOSi1NE
I/SARE SAEDOU  v--      )        (
I  ~   ~    ~    ]P~~ T E EL BODI  SILAM~E                                    -
. > . ._ M         K A 



