CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 254 SE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Terres Neuves Resettlement Project)
BETWEEN
0
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 18, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 254 SE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Terres Neuves Resettlement Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 18, 1971


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 18, 1971, between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the followir, modifications thereof
(said General Conditions AApplicable to Development Credi Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter calied the General Conditions):
(a)   Section 5.01 is deleted;
(b)   Section 6.02 (h) is deleted and Section 6.02 (i) is renumbered into
6.02 (h); and
(c)   Section 6.05 is amended to read as follows:
"Section 6.05. Application of Cancellation to Maturities of the Credit.
Except as otherwise agreed between the Association and the Borrower, any
cancellation shall be applied pro rata to the several instalments of the
principal amount of the Credit which shall mature after the date of such
cancellation and shall not have been theretofore sold or agreed to be sold
by the Association."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "STN" means the statutory corporation to be created and maintained
pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;


﻿4
(b)   "Project Area" means an area of about 250 square kilometers situated
between, but not including, the villages of Koumpentoum, Malem-Niani,
Ndougossine and Kountouata in the Borrower's Oriental Province; and
(c)   "Participant" means "Diakonisches Werk Der Evangelischen Kirche In
Deutschland ".
ARTICLE 11
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to one million three hundred fifty thousand
dollars ($1,350,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods
and services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured on the basis of
procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits published by the Bank in August 1969; provided, however, that,
without in any way restricting or limiting any right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, expenditures under any
contract for the procurement of any such goods or services which the Association
shall reasonably determine to have been awarded according to procedures
inconsistent with those hereinabove set forth or referred to, shall not be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   Contracts for the above mentioned goods and services need not be
made subject to international competitive bidding.


﻿*                                           5
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1977 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 1 and
November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
May 1    and   November 1    commencing    November 1, 1981    and   ending
May 1, 2021, each installment to and including the installment payable on
May 1, 1991 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount,
and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic )f France is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part A of the Project and
shall cause STN to carry out Parts B and C of the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial, engineering
and agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall create and maintain a statutory corporation to be
named La SociMtd des Terres Neuves with powers and authorities adequate to carry
out Parts B and C of the Project in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall make the funds required for Parts B
and C of the Project available to STN as follows: an amount equivalent to one
hundred twenty-six thousand dollars ($126,000) in the form of equity capital and
the balance in the form of a grant.


﻿6
(b)   The funds referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section shall be made
available to STN in accordance with annual budgets proposed by STN and approved
by the Borrower and the Association and before each three months' period during
which they shall be needed by STN.
(c)  The before-mentioned equity capital shall be paid in three annual
tranches, the first in an amount equivalent to fifty-four thousand dollars ($54,000)
and the last two each in an amount equivalent to thirty-six thousand dollars
($36,000), provided, however, that the aggregate amount made available to STN
under the Project on or before the due payment date of any tranche, after deduction
of the amounts paid under previous tranches, if any, shall be counted towards
the payment of such tranche.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the surveys
included in Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants or an
agency acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause STN to carry out Part B of the Project in accordance with the following
provisions:
(a)   In order to assist STN in the management of Part B of the Project,
STN shall employ management consultants or a managing agency acceptable to
the Borrower and the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association;
(b)   STN shall conclude arrangements satisfactory to the Association with
the Borrower's Public Works Department to construct under force account the
access roads included in the Project;
(c)   STN shall select the settlers in accordance with policies and procedures
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association;
(d)   STN shall conclude with each farmer a farm contract, substantially
in accordance with a form of farm contract acceptable to the Borrower and the
Association, providing that the farmer shall comply with the requirements of his
farm plan, and specifying inter alia land allocation, the terms and conditions of
land clearing and seasonal and medium-term loans available to the farmer, and
marketing arrangements;
(e)   STN shall furnish settlers with food and building materials required
by them during the first year of settlement over and above their own means;


﻿7
(f)   STN shall employ qualified contractors to construct the warehouses
and houses for STN staff included in the Project;
(g)   STN shall prepare and update each year a farm plan for each farmer,
specifying in detail his agricultural requirements, such as agricultural inputs,
equipment and credit;
(h)   STN shall provide, promptly as needed, to each farmer the animals,
equipment, inputs and credit required under his farm plan and to each village
included in the Project the necessary communal equipment;
(i)   Seasonal credit included in the Project shall bear interest at the rate
applicable under the Borrower's annual agricultural programs;
(j)   Medium-term credit included in the Project shall bear interest at the
rate applicable under the Borrower's annual agricultural programs and shall be repaid
in five equal annuities of principal and interest.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause STN to provide all rock phosphate
fertilizer required under the Project free of charge to the farmers, and to take
*        all such other action as shall be necessary to provide sufficient other agricultural
inputs against such prices or such other incentives as shall be required to ensure
the successful participation of the farmers in the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall cause STN to employ consultants
acceptable to the Borrower and the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association, for the purpose of carrying out
the annual surveys and the feasibility study included in Part C of the Project.
(b)   The annual surveys shall be carried out on ten per cent of all farms
in the Project Area and a special report shall be issued by September 1973 which
shall analyze the results of the first two seasons of the Project and make appropriate
recommendations for a project representing the second phase of the Borrower's
farm settlement program in its Oriental Province.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower undertakes, and shall cause STN, to insure,
or to make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.


﻿8
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall cause to be furnished to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, surveys, contract
documents and work and procurement schedules, for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower shall or shall cause STN to: (i) maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose
the use thereof in the Project; (ii) enable the Association's representatives to inspect
the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary for STN to acquire promptly all such user rights in respect
of land as shall be required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such user rights in respect of land are available to STN for purposes
related to the Project.
Section 3.10. By the end of 1972, the Borrower shall have rehabilitated
the Koumpentoum-Maka road as an all-weather road in accordance with sound
highway engineering practices.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall have established, by the end of 1974, and
shall maintain thereafter, adequate health and school facilities in the Project Area.
Section 3.12. All appointments to the posts of Manager, Deputy Manager
and Senior Agriculturalist of STN to be made before the Closing Date shall be
acceptable to the Borrower and the Association and upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.


﻿*                                   9
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause STN to maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the operations and financial condition of STN.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause STN to: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of STN and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause STN to take out and maintain with
responsible insurers insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with sound practice.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause STN at all times to manage its
affairs, nmintain its financial position, plan its future expansion and carry on its
operatior:   '1 in accordance with sound business, financial, agricultural and banking
practices anLd under the supervision of experienced and competent management,
assisted by qualified staff in adequate numbers.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause such steps to be taken as shall be required
to ensure that, within thirty calendar days following any veto by STN's Government
Commissioner of a decision of STN's Board, the competent authorities shall have
taken a final decision concerning such veto.
(c)   The Borrower shall establish and maintain an Advisory Committee
which shall consist of senior representatives of all ministries and other entities
involved in STN's operations, to advise STN on the technical aspects of its
operations and to ensure effective assistance of said ministries and entities to STN.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause STN:


﻿10
(a)   to take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all such
rights and interests in land and all such other rights, powers, privileges and franchises
as are necessary or useful in the conduct of STN's business; and
(b)   at all times to operate and maintain its installations, equipment and
other property, and promptly as required make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound business and engineering practices.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall cause STN to be provided, promptly
as needed, with improved seeds in accordance with annual forecasts prepared by
STN.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause STN to establish and maintain effective
marketing arrangements, satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association, covering
all produce of the Project Area, and shall permit STN to market all available cereals
grown in the Project Area directly without restriction.
(c)   The Borrower shall keep the Association informed of any proposed
changes in producer prices of seed cotton and ground nuts.
Section   4.06.   The   Borrower    shall  maintain   and   repair  the
Koumpentoum-Maka road, and shall cause the roads and tracks in the Project Area
to be maintained and repaired pursuant to annual plans agreed with STN, all in
accordance with sound engineering practices and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall ensure that after completion of the Project
the extension services, agricultural inputs and agricultural credit required by the
farmers included in the Project shall be continued to be made available promptly
as needed and in conformity with sound financial and agricultural practices.
Section 4.08. The legislation under which STN shall have been created, or
any provision thereof, shall not be amended, suspended or abrogated without the
prior concurrence of the Association.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:


﻿0                                  11
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition of STN and, in
respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof, and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations and financial condition of STN and, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to inspect all installations, sites, works,
buildings, property and equipment of STN and any relevant records and documents
and to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes related to
the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be fre,, from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.


﻿12
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   STN shall have been unable to pay its debts as they mature or any
action or proceeding shall have been taken by STN or by others whereby any
of the property of STN shall or may be distributed among its creditors.
(b)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of STN or for the
suspension of all or part of STN's operations.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified, namely, that any event specified in
Section 7.02 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
tl-e effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   STN shall have been duly created under legislation satisfactory to the
Association;


﻿13
(b)   STN shall have duly acquired the user rights in respect of land referred
to in Section 3.09 of this Agreement;
(c)   STN shall have received the first tranche of its, equity capital in
accordance with Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(d)   STN shall have appointed a Manager, Deputy Manager and Senior
Agriculturalist in accordance with Section 3.12 of this Agreement;
(e)   STN shall have retained management consultants or a managing agency
in accordance with Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement; and
(f)  The form of farm contract referred to in Section 3.04 (d) shall have
been approved by the Borrower and the Association.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)  That STN has been duly created and is a valid statutory corporation
under the laws of the Borrower with powers and authorities adequate to carry
out Parts B and C of the Project and any other operations in accordance with
the Development Credit Agreement; and
(b)   That the acquisition by STN of the user rights in respect of land
pursuant to Section 3.09 of the Development Credit Agreement is valid under the
laws of the Borrower.
Section 8.03. The date of October 1, 1971 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.01 (b), 3.02
(a) and 3.11 and Article IV of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraphs
(a) and (b) of Section 7.02 of this Agreement and those of paragraph (a) of Section
7.03 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date ten years after the
date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Ministre chargd des Finances of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.


﻿14
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist6re des Finances
Rue Charles Lafn6
Bofte Postale 4017
Dakar, Senegal
Cable address:
Minifinances
Dakar
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿15
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By /s/ Leopold Sedar Senghor
President of the Republic
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Robert S. McNamara
President


﻿16
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in             Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
I.   Civil works                     220,000           65% of total ex-
(buildings and                                    penditures
wells)
II.   Vehicles, equip-               120,000           100% of foreign
ment and opera-                                   expenditures and
ting costs                                        67% of local ex-
penditures
III.  Farm inputs (seeds,            170,000           100% of foreign
fertilizers, pesti-                               expenditures and
cides, oxen and im-                               85% of local ex-
plements)                                         penditures
IV.  Mechanical land                 200,000           85% of total ex-
clearing and roads                                penditures
V.    STN staff and                  530,000           100% of foreign
surveys                                           expenditures and
78% of local ex-
penditures
VI.   Unallocated                    110,000
TOTAL              1,350,000


﻿17
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
procured in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of any
country other than the Borrower; provided however, that if the currency of the
Borrower is also that of another country in the territories of which goods are
procured or from the territories of which services are supplied, expenditures in
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures";
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures for goods procured
in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Categories I and V on account of
expenditures under Parts A, B (1) and B (2) of the Project incurred after
October 31, 1970 in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $65,000;
and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;


﻿18
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I or
IV or of local expenditures under Category 1I, III or V shall increase and no
proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such Category, the
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column, or the percentages set forth in the third column, of the table
in paragraph I above, if on or before the Effective Date the Association shall
not have received a formal commitment from the Participant to invest in the Project
in the form of a participation in the Credit, the Association may by notice to
the Borrower cancel under each of the Categories III and IV an amount of the
Credit up to the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) and adjust the
percentage then applicable to local or total expenditures under such Category in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made. Upon the giving of such notice,
such amount or amounts of the Credit shall be cancelled and such percentage or
percentages shall be so adjusted.


﻿*                                               19
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project represents the first phase of the Borrower's farm settlement
program in the Borrower's Oriental Province and shall benefit about 550 farm
families. The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A.      Detailed topographical and soil survey of the Project Area, including
aerial photography.
Part B.     (1)    Construction of about 65 km    of access roads to connect all
villages in the Project Area with the Koumpentoum-Maka road;
(2)   Drilling of village wells;
(3)   Recruiting, transporting and settling of about 300 farm families
in six new villages;
(4)   Construction of warehouses and houses for STN staff serving
the Project Area;
(5)   Establishment of a central farm   equipment pool to serve the
Project Area;
(6)   A   program   of farm   extension  services and   seasonal and
medium-term agricultural credit to all settlers and established
farmers in the Project Area; and
(7)   Establishment of marketing arrangements with respect to the
crops of the Project.
Part C      Annual surveys of the socio-economic and technical results of the
Project and feasibility studies of a second phase of the before
mentioned program.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1977.


