Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7204-ZR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ZAIRE
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
June 2, 1988
South Central and Indian Ocean Department, Infrastructure Division
Africa Technical Department, Infrastructure Division
Tbis document has a resicted disribuion and may be used by redpients only In the perfonmance of
their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otewise be disclosed witout World Bank authrzaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Zaire (Z) - 100 Makuta
Z 1.00  (as of February 1, 1988)   - US$O.0752
US$1.00 (as of February 1, 1988)   - Z 133
MEASUREMENT EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)                                   - 39 inches - 3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)                              - 0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (kW2)                      - 0.386 square mile
I hectare (ha)                                - 0.01 km'  2.25 acres
I cubic meter (m3)                            - 35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 liter (l)                                   - 0.26 US gallon
1 cubic meter per second (ms/sec)             - 35.3 cubic feet per second
1000 cubic meter per day (1000 m9/d)          - 0.26 million gallons (US) per day
lcd                                           - liters per capita per day
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB                      - African Development Bank
AIDR                      - Association Internationale pour le D6veloppement Rural
BADEA                     = Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
CCCE                      - Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CEMDAEP                   = Centre Multidisciplinaire pour le Developpement de
l'Alimentation en Eau Potable (Multidisciplinary Center
for the Development of Drinking Water Supply)
CIF                       - Cost, Insurance and Freight
CNAEA                     = Comite National d'Action de l'Eau et de l'Assainissement
(National Wacer Supply and Sanitation Action Committee)
DNVA                      - Direction Nationale des Voiries et de l'Assainissement
DTR                       = Direction des Travaux en R8gie
EDF                       - European Development Fund
EIB                       = European Investment Bank
GECAMINES                 - La Generale des Carri6res et des Mlnes
GNP                       - Gross National Product
Government                - Government of ZaIre
GOZ                       = Government of Zeire
ICB                       - International Competitive Bidding
ILO                       - International Labor Organization
IMR                       = Infant Mortality Rate
KfW                       = Kreditanstalt ftr Wiederaufbau
LCB                       - Local Competitive Bidding
MP                        - Ministry of Portfolio (Dgpartement du Portefeuille)
MME                       - Ministry of Mining and Energy (Dgpartement des Mines et de
1'Energie
ODA                       = Overseas Development Agency (U.K. Bilateral Aid)
O & H                     - Operation and Maintenance
*            CVD                        = Office des Voiries et du Drainage
;            PEP                        = Public Expenditures Program
j            PIP                        - Programme d'Investissement Public Prioritaire (Government
Public Priority Investment Program)
PNA                       - Programme National d'Assainissemert
RC                        = Reinforced Concrete
REGIDESO                  = Regie de Distribution d'Eau de la PRpublique du Zaire
;            SNCZ                       = Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer du Zaire
SNEL                      - Societe Nationale d'Electricite
SNHR                      - Service National d'Hydraulique Rurale
UNDP                      - United Nations Development Program
UNICEF                    - United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund
WHO                       = World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
Government's and REGIDESO's fiscal year is the calendar year.



FOR 0CL US ONLY
ZAIRE
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I. THE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR
Background .... .. ........  .............. ........                  1
Water Resources and Legislation 3........................             3
Sector Organization .............. . .         ......      .          3
Water Supply ...... .         ... ..... . .                           3
Levels of Service          .       ..                                 4
Sanitation and Drainage  5...                   . . . ..              5
Sector Objectives and Strategy       .       .                        6
Implementation of Sector Development Study. ....                      9
Mechanism for Implementlng Sector Cost Recovery Policy in
Semi-Rural Centers Exclusively Through Water Tariffs ......           9
Sector Development .... .O .....      .         ..    .    ....      10
P.I.P. Programme d'Investissement Public Prioritaire                 11
Sector Constraints ........ ..                      .      ....      12
Previous IDA Activities in the Sector ...............12
Rationale for IDA Involvement    ............. ..........            13
Bank/Country Goals, Pole and Sector Lending Strategy ......          14
II.  THE PROJECT
Project Origin and Status of Preparation                 .    .      15
Project Objectives . . ... .    . .                ....       .      15
Project Area - Special Features - Residential Patterns ....          16
Population Served and Levels of Services              ........       16
Population Projections and Water Supply Demand. ......               18
Project Description.             . .     . .......   .    .... .     18
Cost Estimates ....        ........        . .....        ....       22
Project Financing Plan.               . .... .....        .          24
Project Organization and Implementation                 .            24
Procurement .........        ...... . ...                            24
Reporting and Monitoring .... .O- ...... . . ..                      27
Disbursements .................... . .......... . .....28
III. THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCY: REGIDESO
REGIDESO's Organization and Management          .      . .29
Personnel and Training ........ . .....        ... .. . .30
Budget and Management .....                ......                    31
Customers Management                     ..            .....         31
- Private Connections ....... ...........                  .       31
- Public Standpipes .... ...   ..... ... . ....31
This document has a restricted dis!iibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
IV. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Past and Present Financial Performance ...... ............                                                    33
Billing  and  Collection   .......                      ................... .........                         34
Financing  Plan  ....................................................                                         35
Tariffs  ................  O..*. # ..........0.                    ..  ...................                    36
Future Operations and Forecast Financial Position                                           ........          38
Insurance            .........................                  .......................                       39
Accounting  and  Audit   .....................................                                                39
Computer  Systems  ......................               ............................                          40
V.   ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS
Affordability                     ............................................                                42
Project  Justification  .. .... ....   .....................  ........                                        43
Environmental  Impact   . ................................... .                                               43
Women's  Role  ...........  *.$.#.............                 . 0 .......................                    44
Project  Riaks                      ................................. ..  ...... .                            44
VI.   AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements   ....................... ***.                   .     .    *.    ... ...........                  45
Conditions of Credit Effectiveness .......................                                                    47
Recommendation ................... . . .                                                                      47



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
LIST OF ANNEYFS
Annex 1-1      Excerpt from the Contrat-Programme Bietween REGIDESO and GOZ
Annex 1-2      Summary of Loans and Grants
Annex 1-3      REGIDESO's Proposed Investment Program
Annex 2-1      Justification of Centers' Selection
Annex 2-2      Forecast of Population in the Semi-Rural Centers and Likasi
Annex 2-3      Existing Water Supply Systems
Annex 2-4      Forecast of Population, Water Consumption and Water Demand
Annex 2-5      Cost Estimates (January 1988 prices)
Annex 2-6      Project Financing Plan
Annex 2-7      Implementation Schedule
Annex 2-8      Monitoring Indicators of REGIDESO
Annex 2-9      Estimated Quarterly Disbursement Schedule
Annex 3        Organigram of REGIDFSO - January 1988
Annex 4-1      Water Distributed and Sold per Consumer Category -
Tariffs Cross-Subsidization
Annex 4-2      Income Statement
Annex 4-3      Funds Flow Statement
Annex 4-4      Balance Sheet
Annex 4-5      Assumptions Underlying Financial Projections
Annex 4-6      Computer Component
Selected Documents in Project File
Map            IBRD No. 20753R "Project Locations"
This repo.   prepared by Messrs. S. Calegari, Sr. Sanitary Engineer,
J. Renkewih   Sr. Financial Analyst and Ms. Y. Powers, Financial Analyst, is
based on tht findings of the pre-appraisal and appraisal missions which took
place respectively in September/October 1987 and in January/February 1988.
AF3IN/AFTIN
June 2, 1988



REPURC OF ZAIRE
THIWO WATll SllPLY PR1WJCT
aOEDrr AM PF=r Sw
Borrwer            : Repbic of Zaire
Bedcn              : RE=DEE;O
Ammit              : IDA Credit: SD  32.6 uuIllitr
(US$ 45.0 m UlIn equivalent)
Terms              : Standard
Co-lenders        o: Na
O endnjTe  : 20 years inblirg 5 yes of grace and Interest rate of 7.7 percent. Foreign exchng
risk to be borne by REOND     for all c avoits except waten.rwks in the 18 centers;
for the latter, Goverumt wu,ld bear the risk.
d jectives  : ¶he key objectives of the project are:
roe/strengthe  sector iaes nnt/expvoqditure planing in lime with the acent structural adjust2nt
lis wdl aflw for steppinp. p invsnmnts to weet epanion and rehbilitation requiremnts fu3ly
with mscroeconrnde constraits. Develapqit and strengthenirg of inommtry project selection criteria
rnt of prpepratcu, appraisal and lmplemntatmon capacity of REGDEO wold also be achieved thrwgn
ied project; (ii) to formlate policies and prograwm to address key sector issues, in particular nral
aly and increased coumity participatiam; ani (iii) to erhance PRFDEO's financial sustainability,
-aost recomery perfomance and idyrove operational e.fficiency.
- n: 1le addressing the above baslc sector econaduc ad financial issues, the proposed project
Followimg campaents idch are crucial to sector developmnt:
water supply system  in 18 semi-nral centers ("cdefs-lisx de zone")  dhich are prioritv
for Important surraudirig rural areas. For the first time sem-niral agglaurations with
g from 10,000 to 40,000 inhabitants uld be serviced thragli piped water supply systems  tidch
D their further develop.mnt; (ii) reiforing the water supply of Likasi, an essential elemnt
t of this ixpotant towu of the ShMba region wiose ewoic activity is dkuriated by the minig
chnical, assistance and trairing a8mBd at strengthening the sector plamdig as well as the
--rational capai lities of RwflDE0, which would exterO its rilitie       s to supplying water
eners; (iv) c       onutin ervices for sectoral policy and sector study, feasibility and final
nder docments and wrks' supervision for the wateror1ks to be imp3emented through the propcsed
feasibility study/vaster plan of the Kinshasa sewerage/evdrcraental protection system
nization/nm'A geilt study of WRfIDESO and feasibility study/master plan for the future
su (v) s      of essential operational and training equipnent to further strengthen
and nanagerial capabilities. The irplementatier. of a soand sector policy was developed
:ion in the form of a contrat-programue which Is an agreenmnt made between Gcovernuent ard
__  ~ -rtor objectives and performance targets over a first periot of three years (1988-1990).
Benefits and R1isks: Ihe project would contribete to blmgn resource development ard therety foster econamn-
pment. Design, frlezuutation and operation of water systems in the "chefs lieux de zone", which to
a not benefited from REHDES0's assistance, should in future also ewourage other donors to foresee
g of water systems there. Furdtherxore, the project wuld enhance the capabilities of REGIDESO's center
ies (CEMOAEP) in project preparation, appraisal and iplementatim. Tlie sevings due to eliMnation of
uling and the consmers' benefits in term of overall it:me were used as tlte economic criteria for
ng the certers' selection. The project waul nDt pose specific technical risks. Fxecution of physical
ts wmnlA be straigitforward. The risks mostly inolve the Government's willrgness and coamient to
t and enforce neded reforms stipulated in the conrt-roga       , c     arni  in particlar water tariff
quarterly adjustmert, p'rment of Gwerment arrears to RlIIDESO and RFXlDE508s technlce*l ne finacal
r --    e.



- ii-
Estim ted Costs
US$ Million
Total    local   Foreign As % of Total
Preparatory Activities (PPF)               1.1       0.1       1.0        2
Techrical Assistance                       4.3       0.4       3.9        8
Studies                                    2.4       0.3       2.1        5
Water Supply Facilities:
- 18 semi-runrl centers                   24.9       6.2      18.7       48
- Likasi                                   2.5       0.6       1.9        5
Equipment, supplies and
vehdcles for RBDMESO                     2.9        -        2.9        6
Base Cost (Jauary 1988 prices)            38.1       7.6      30.5       74
pThsilCotingeies                           5.1       1.1       4.0        10
Price Contigencies                         8.4       1.7       6.7       16
Total Project Cost                        51.6      10.4      41.2       100
(about 10% of x4hich are taxes)
FinrANcn Plmn
US$ M.llion       _
Total    Tocal   Foreign As % of Total
Proposed MACredit                          45.0      3.8       41.2      87
GOvernMAMt a/                               5.2      5.2         -       10
REGIDESO                                    1.4      1.4        -         3
Total                                      51.6    10.4        41.2     100
a/ Government contribution to fud local taxes and charges.
Estinmted Disbursements
US$ Million
M& FY
1989     1990      1991      1992     1993
Annul         9.6       14.8      11.0     7.4       2.2
Caulative    9.6        24.4     35.4    42.8       45.0 b/
b/ In accordance with an inplerentaticn over four years, in line with experience gained frcz the
:nple tutation of similar projects in Africa.
President's Report: Report No. P-4792-ZR
Nap: IBRD No. 20753R



ZAIRE
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
I. THE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR
Background
1.01      Zaire, in the heart of equatorial Africa, covers 2,345,000 km2
of the huge basin of the Zaire River, which forms an area of
4 million km2 on the great African plateau (IBRD Map 20753R). Only the
Southeastern and Western parts of the country have relatively high
population densities and important economic development, related to
mining development and river traffic. The Central and Northern regions
are mostly equatorial forests, which cover more than 1,000,000 sq. km.
Only 5% of the country is cultivated, and the development of stock
farming is still at an early stage. Mineral and hydraulic resources are
abundant.
1.02      Zaire is richly endowed with natural resources, but its GNP
per capita (US$ 170 in 1986) is one of the lowest. Zaire is one of the
world's largest producers of copper and cobalt, which together account
for about 40% of its exports and about 25% of its GNP. For the last
fourteen years, Zaire's economic situation has been difficult. Between
1974 and 1982, external factors, mainly the low prices of Zaire's main
mineral exports and low net capital transfers, have played a role in
explaining the deterioration of the economic situation, but the main
reason was that macroeconomic policies remained inadequate. The
Government undertaok, s,;arting in 1983, a strong stabilization program
that has yielded positive results in 1984 and 1985. Since 1986, it has
undertaken a major structural adjustment program to address the
deep-seated problexas that have hampered economic growth. This
adjustment program has been supported by IDA through a Structural
Adjustment Loan and by the IMF through a structural adjustment facility
that both became effective during the second semester of 1987. To date,
the performance under the Government's structural adjustment program has
been uneven.
1.03      The population, estimated at 32 million in 1987, grows at a
rate of 2.9% p.a. and is very unevenly distributed. 38% live in urban
areas with more than 5,000 inhabitants. At 12 million, Zaire's urban
population is exceeded only by Nigeria's, across all of sub-Saharan
Africa. This population is concentrated in 25 cities with more than
100,000 residents. Over the last three decades, the rate of annual
urban population growth has declined, falling from about 10% during
1960-1970, to about 7% in 1971-1980 and about 5% since then. This
decline has occurred across all nine administrative regions of the
country, Kinshasa included. However, urban population growth is almost
twice the national population growth rate. Nevertheless, the rate of
urbanization slowed down as a result of a decade of economic stagnation,
during which GNP declined at an annual rate of 1.1%. Once economic



-2-
recovery begins, rural-to-urban migration may accelerate, even though
the macroeconomic environment has been stripped of many of the features
that discriminated against ru: al sector.
1.04      Partly because of ecosystems to be found within its vast
territory, and partly because of the limited linkages between many
regions, significant urban centers are found across most areas of the
country. Zaire's urban system is structured around the equatorial
forest at the country's center, which is a demographic void. Three axes
can be identified bordering the "cuvette centrale". One runs from the
Atlantic Ocean, through the capital, Kinshasa, along a southern axis
that links up with Lubumbashi in the copper belt. Another begins in the
Atlantic, runs through Kinshasa, and follows the northern axis defined
by the Zaire River, to Kisangani. A third is the Kivu axis, through the
eastern mountainous region adjacent to Uganda, Rwanda and Burundi.
1.05      Compounding the challenge posed by demographic growth is the
existing size of cities, combined with the absence of significant urban
infrastructure investments since independence (1960). Kinshasa contains
about 3.1 million people, while Kananga, Lubumbashi, Mbuji-Mayi and
Kisangani range in size from 500,000 to one million. Another group of
towns with populations of about 200,000 each consists of Mbandaka, Boma,
Likasi, Kolwezi, Kikwit and Bukavu. Each city has an infrastructure
network meant to serve only a fraction of today's residents and which
has not been significantly expanded since independence. New
neighborhoods, on the periphery of the 1960 core area, are therefore
generally without paved streets, drainage channels, electricity, solid
waste disposal facilities, public transport, and, to a lesser extent,
piped water. In the latter case, some progress has been made because of
an active lending program for expanding systems in several major cities
with funding by IDA, AfDB and EDF. Bilateral donors (mainly Italy and
KfW) have been funding water supply systems in secondary centers. In
spite of major shortcomings which include the unavailability of public
services, the urban population has shown considerable initiative by
building most new housing units out of durable to semi-durable
materials.
1.06      The current overall health status of the population cannot be
accurately assessed given the absence of reliable national health
information and vital statistics systems. However, the available
information does show that the health situation is poor and has been
deteriorating during the last few years. Infectious and parasitic
diseases cause at least 50% of all deaths in Zaire.  The infant
mortality rate (IMR) is calculated to be about 114 per 1000, which would
rank Zaire 33rd among 105 developing countries in increasing order of
IMR (Population, Health and Nutrition sector review report



-3-
No. 7013-ZR). 1/ The lack of safe water is a primary factor in the
unhygienic environment.  Waterborne and water-related diseases occur
frequently and contribute to the poor health status of the population.
A health sector review mission conducted in November 1987 stated that in
1985, the health sector share was less than 3% of the government
expenditure and represented only US$ 0.33 per capita and that government
health recurrent expenditures in both real terms and as a percentage of
total recurrent government expenditure has been steadily declining since
1980. Both figures are extremely low, even for a least developed
country. The Association has established a good dialogue with the
authorities on this question and several operations in the health and
population areas are under active preparation.
Water Resources and Legislatian
1.07      Rainfall is generally regular and abundant except in the
southeastern regions which have a three to seven month dry season.
Yearly rainfall in the main urban centers varies from 910 mm in Matadi
to 1790 mm in Kisangani. The country is covered by a vast network of
rivers and streams, most of which are tributaries of the Zaire River,
whose flow is one of the most constaLt and important in the world. Most
urban centers are situated by the rivers, but surface water needs to be
treated before distribution. While the hydrology of the most important
rivers and their tributaries is sufficiently well-known, underground
water resources have not been inventoried. For this reason, the project
provides technical assistance for organizing collection and storage of
hydrogeological data by the underground water resources section recently
created within REGIDESO. Springs are tapped in some urban centers, but
more often in rural areas. Deep aquifers are only well known in mining
areas. All water resources are state-owned. In principle, water rights
are granted and charged for by the Government, but in practice this does
not apply to water used for drinking and sanitation purposes.
Legislation regarding protection of water resources from risks of
pollution needs updating.
Sector Organization
Water supply
1.08      Water supply in urban areas and piped water systems in rural
and semi-rural centers of about 10,000 people are the responsibility of
the state-owned authority, REgie de Distribution d'Eau (REGIDESO), the
executing agency for the proposed project. REGIDESO is responsible to
the Ministry of Mining and Energy-MHE (Departement des Mines et de
l'Energie) on technical aspects, and to the Ministry of Portfolio-MP
(Departement du Portefeuille) on financial and administrative issues.
1/  Average infant mortality is 110 per 1000 in Sub-Saharan Africa, 10
per 1000 in Europe and 13 per 1000 in North America.



- 4 -
The Ministries approve importau: decisions concerning new investments
(whi h are also reviewed by the Planning Minister), borrowings and
REGIDESO's organization. Rural water supply (in general non-piped water
bupply systems such as springs and wells or boreholes equipped with hand
pumps) is the responsibility of the "Service National d'Hydraulique
Rurale" (SNHR) under the Ministry of Rural Development. Generally,
rural water supply boreholes equipped with hand pumps are implemented by
SNHR through drilling equipment and technical assistance/training
provided by donors. Initiated under the International Drinking Water
and Sanitation Decade, a National Water Supply and Sanitation Action
Committee (Comite National d'Action de l'Eau et de l'Assainissement,
CNAEA) was created in July 1980. It is headed by the Vice Prime
Minister as President and REGIDESO's Chairman serves as Executive
Secretary (Secretaire Executif). This committee coordinates the
activities of the different government agencies involved in the
water/sanitation sector (REGIDESO, SNHR and PNA-Programme National
d'Assainissement), and participates in sector development planning,
mobilization of financial resources and proposing arrangements for strengthening
sector institutions, especially for sanitation and rural water supply.
Until now, its main achievement has been to keep the top level of
government officials constantly informed about sector needs and
constraints. (The future role of the various agencies and their linkage
is spelled out in paras. 1.14 to 1.17 inclusive).
Levels of Service
1.09      The level of water supply services in Zaire is one of the
lowest in the world. REGIDESO supplies water to about 6.7 million urban
dwellers residing in 66 centers (2.7 million through private house
connections and 4 million through courtyard connections). This
represents about 56% of the total urban population, or 78% of the
population in the 66 centers served by REGIDESO. About 700,000 people
or 6% of the urban population is supplied through 1,500 public
standpipes. All together about 62% of the urban population has access
to safe water. The remainder have water resources of their own, which
are often unsafe. Ten years ago all the standpipes were constructed and
poorly managed by the municipalities because of inadequate skills and
municipal funds. REGIDESO has taken over most of them since, achieving
satisfactory cost recovery through water sales and has launched a
program aimed at improving the access of urban residents to piped water,
which has shown encouraging results. There is no distribution network
in many of the suburbs which developed after independence. About 135
centers of more than 5,000 people remain without piped water. Most of
the urban dwellers not supplied by REGIDESO rely on unprotected wells or
springs, and polluted streams. Only a few towns are supplied through
mining company-owned systems and limited to the quarters inhabited by
the company's staff: Kamituga, Kalima, Manono and Kilo-Moto.
1.10      Funding of REGIDESO comes from internal sources, government
contributions and foreign loans. REGIDESO is one of the most effective
water utilities in Africa at recovering from its customers the full cost
of the service provided including operation and maintenance (O & M)



-5 -
costs and financial charges. To date, the rate of return covenants in
IDA-assisted projects are in general being met. This suggests that
REGIDESO could plan on generation of surpluses that would cover a
portion of capital investment. For this to occur, Government must be
willing to assure REGIDESO continued increases in its tariff structure
over the medium term according to mutually agreed objectives. This
would then permit REGIDESO to expand coverage of investments from its
own resources and, over time, reduce reliance on government transfers
and foreign loans (paras. 4.13 to 4.19 inclusive).
1.11      Only 10% of the rural populatioc appears to have reasonable
access to permanent sources of safe water. There are about 5,000
protected springs, 800 protected wells and boreholes and 80 piped
systems (mostly working by gravity), serving about 2 million people.
Most of the above-mentioned systems are not working because of poor
maintenance of equipment which is the big issue in rural water supply
for which an adequate solution has not been identified to date. SNHR,
assisted by various donors (namely USAID and UNICEF), is now
implementing new rural boreholes at a rhythm of about 200 per year which
is totally inadequate. Unfortunately, SNHR has never dealt with what
should be the main concern of an administrative service, i.e. planning,
identifying justified packages of rural waterworks to be implemented by
contractors and appropriatedly channeling the funds made available by
the various donors. This basic issue would be resolved by enforcing the
new sector strategy identified through the project (paras. 1.15 to 1.17
inclusive).
Sanitation and Drainage
1.12      Planning and implementation of sanitation programs are the
responsibility of the inter-ministerial agency PNA (Programme National
d'Assainissement) w,.ich reports to the Ministry of Environment, while 0
& M of sanitary sewerage systems is the responsibility of
municipalities. Planning, implementation, 0 & M of drainage systems are
currently entrusted to D.N.V.A. (Direction Nationale des Voiries et de
l'Assainissement). Sanitation and drainage are not well organized
subsectors and PNA, DNVA and municipalities provide rather poor
services.  Due to the unsatisfactory performance of DNVA, in September
1987, the Government created the "Office des Voiries et du Drainage"
(OVD), which is still non operational, but which would take over DNVA's
responsibilities soon in a much more effective way through an
appropriate institutional setup, competent staff and autonomous
revenues.  Achieving a fully efficient OVD is one of the policy
objectives of the urban development project presently being prepared by
IDA. Careful attention is being given to ensuring a smooth transition
between DNVA and OVD.
1.13      In urban areas, human excreta are usually disposed of through
pit latrines in low-income areas and septic tauks in high-income
residential areas. The only waterborne sewerage systems are found in
the centers of the main cities.  About 100,000 people, or less than 1%
of the urban population are served by sewerage house-connections and



-6-
500,000 or 7% use household disposal systems. Most of the sewerage
systems do not function. The most serious effects of the lack of
adequate sewerage have generally been kept in check by low population
density and permeable soil which enable the use of pit latrines and
septic tanks and by the usual proximity of large, fast-flowing streams.
However, there are potential health hazards where high density zones
have grown up some distance from rivers, or where streams are small or
polluted, as in parts of Kinshasa and the cities in the southeastern
region. Excreta disposal in rural areas does not seem to be a major
problem in the sector.  The construction of appropriate sanitation
facilities in rural areas (latrines) by the villagers themselves is
sponsored by the Health Zones, which are semi-autonomous, decentralized
parastatal entities essentially relying on NGO's for medical support and
on donors for financing their operating costs. At present 75 of the 306
Health Zones (into which Zaire has been subdivided) provide inter alia
active technical support to villagers who build themselves their own
sanitation facilities (latrines) at their own expense.
Sector Objectives and Strategy
1.14      REGIDESO, in its capacity as Secretariat General of the
National Water and Sanitation Action Committee (para. 1.08), has been
updating the sector strategy and study with the assistance of a
consultant funded by PPF and in collaboration with SNHR and PNA. The
sector strategy was finalized in May 1988. The draft updated sector
study would be delivered in July 1988 and finalized in October 1988.
Both the strategy paper and the sector study would incorporate IDA's
comments. Like most countries, Zaire adhered to the 1981-1990
International Drinking Water and Sanitation Decade. While its target of
providing safe water for 70% of the urban population in 1990 is
realistic, the target of providing safe water to 35% of the rural
population appears to be overoptimistic in view of the present low level
of service and the existing constraints on financial resources and
limited absorption capacity for planning, design and implementation.
Through the above-mentioned strategy paper and sector study, the
Government is setting up more realistic coverage targets. The
Government's general sector objective is to strengthen sector
investment/expenditure planning, in line with the overall PEP review
process and consistent with the current structural adjustment program.
The salient features of the proposed sector strategy, already agreed by
CNAEA and to be officialized by Government, are described hereunder.
a.   Sector development policy
1.15      (i)  step up investments to meet sector requirements fully
consistent with macroeconomic constraints, particular
attention being paid to rural or semi-rural centers where
presently piped -'ter supply systems do not exist;



(ii) develop and strengthen in-country project selection
criteria and improve preparation, appraisal and
implementation capacity of REGIDESO;
(iii) cause REGIDESO to prepare, appraise and implement
waterworks in rural and semi-rural centers and shift as
feasible responsibility for 0 & M to local communities
(or to "concessionnaires" as appropriate) through techni-
cal assistance and training;
(iv) cause REGIDESO to collect data and develop management of
underground water resources which are much cheaper and of
better quality than surface water;
(v)  cause REGIDESO to pursue training of se Lor staff in its
two training centers of Kinshasa and Lt.umbashi in order
to improve the efficiency and quality of service and to
strengthen and suppcrt sector institutions like SNHR and
PNA;
(vi) cause REGIDESO to continue its present policy aiming at
(a) making house connections accessible to as many people
as possible through payments of said connections over
four years; (b) limiting the number of public standpipes
to about 1,500 with a very moderate increase of a few
standpipes in the poor quarters of the new centers; and
(c) giving standpipe management to "concessionnaires"
living on adjoining plots. The "concessionnaire" is a
customer of REGIDESO and sells the water to the consumers
at a marked-up price controlled by REGIDESO. Existing
standpipes still managed by municipalities should be
converted to the "concessionnaire" system because under
municipalities' management, water for the consumers and
the municipalities is free and standpipes are badly
maintained and unsupervised, which results in waste and
poor service;
(vii) cause SNHR to focus on (a) collecting more detailed
information on rural water supply; (b) planning and
developing rural water supply systems based on priority
needs; making the best use of the know-how existing at
REGIDESO for planning, design, research of financing and
implementation; and (c) shifting responsibility for 0 & M
of rural water supply systems to villagers through
appropriate sensitization and motivation of rural popula-
tions to be supported by technical assistance
(viii) limit the present rcle of SNHR consisting of implementing
rural water supply systems through force account to the
cases where force account clearly represents the least
cost solution and cause SNHR to identify sufficiently
important lots of works to be further implemented by



specialized contractors to be selected through
international competitive bidding (ICB);
(ix) cause SNHR/REGIDESO to have rural water points (namely
boreholes equipped with hand pumps) funded exclusively
through donors' grants except for the handpumps (which
represent only 5 to 10% of the total investment amount)
which should be funded at least partly by the villagers
themselves;
(x) cause PNA to focus on planning of sanitation systems
(both sewerage and individual systems) based on priority
needs making the best use of the know-how existing at
REGIDESO for planning, design, research of finanLing and
implementation;
(xi) cause REGIDESO, SNHR and PNA to involve NGO's in sector
activities;
b.   Cost recovery
1.16    (xii)  cause REGIDESO to achieve full cost recovery for urban
water supply systems through appropriate water tariffs to
be adequately adjusted;
(xiii) cause REGIDESO (or the local community or the "conces-
sionnaire") to recover at least 0 & M costs of piped
water supply systems of small urban, semi-rural or rural
centers;
(xiv) cause SNHR to motivate and sensitize rural populations to
pay for 0 & M costs of water supply and sanitation
systems concerning spare parts and on the spot repairs to
be carried out by the villagers themselves or by
mechanics living in the vicinity. Actually, it has been
proven in several African countries that centralized
solutions for 0 & M of rural water points have been
failures, whether they are public, semi-public or private
organizations;
(xv) add a surcharge to the urban water tariff to cover 0 & M
costs of urban piped sewerage systems;
c.   Physical targets
1.17    (xvi)  REGIDESO would:
- rehabilitate water production and distribution networks,
especially in the major cities and towns where leakage is
important (up to 35%);
- extend the piped water supply service to semi-rural



- 9 -
centers (chefs lieux de zone) which are priority develop-
ment poles for important surrounding rural areas, and
increase the level and quality of service, particularly
in major agglomerations;
- extend networks to catch up urban development water
distribution, especially through house connections and
neighborhood sales in order to lower the per capita
investment costs and meet the consumers' ability to pay;
(xvii) SNHR, with the support of REGIDESO's planning and design
sections, would implement regional packages of rural
water supply systems through contractors;
(xviii) PNA would provide support to the sanitation program of
Health Zones, especially in the large rural centers.
Implementation of Sector Development Policy
1.18      The immediate implementation of the principles of a sound
sector policy was developed during project preparation in the form of a
"contrat-programme". This agreement made on May 5, 1988 between
Government and REGIDESO, is an essential tool specifying the following
objectives and performance targets over a first period of three years
(1988-1990):
(a) on REGIDESO's side
- water service objectives;
- objectives for technical operation (0 & M, metering, house
connections, water quality control);
- investment objectives, earmarked towards rehabilitation
(increase of networks' efficiency);
- management and personnel objectives;
- financial objectives (essentially related to cost recovery).
(b) on the Government side
- approving continuous quarterly adjustment of water tariffs
to guarantee to REGIDESO a rate of return of at least 7% on
net revalued fixed assets in operation;
- payment of arrears; and
- timely payment of future water bills
An excerpt from the contrat-programme is given in Annex 1-1.
Mechanism for Implementing Sector Cost Recovery Policy in Semi-Rural
Centers Exclusively Through Water Tariffs.
1.19      As a financially autonomous utility committed to operating
without any subsidy, REGIDESO's natural tendency would be to reinforce
and extend water supply services in the largest towrs and cities where
profits are the highest.  The Government's preseae We.tor policy is to
extend piped water supply services to rural aree  ,J has entrusted



- 10 -
REGIDESO with the implementation end operation of new systems even in
the small centers where REGIDESo would have little incentive to invest.
To overcome this situation, the Government has to provide the financial
means to implement its policy. This is the reason why Government is
providing the funding of the Investments related to the water supply
systems of the 18 project centers, partly through its own direct
contribution (15%) and partly through the IDA credit, in the total
amount of US$ 35.8 million which represents an equity contribution to
REGIDESO (para. 4.11). REGIDESO, being thus the owner of the assets,
has the obligation of covering all costs, including replacement through
revenues generated by water tariffs, without any Government subsidy.
For large centers, REGIDESO achieves full cost recovery by applying
appropriate tariffs which are tailored to the cost of water in each
center. The application of this principle to the project centers would
lead to clearly unaffordable tariffs. Therefore, the only viable
solution for achieving full cost recovery in the project centers and at
the same time set ing affordable water tariffs would be to have (i)
tariffs for the centers covering only 0 & M and (ii) provision for all
other charges in the tariffs of the large towns. To reduce REGIDESO
costs of operating the 18 centers, the Government would also finance the
necessary investment through an equity contribution to REGIDESO rather
than through on-lending the corresponding proceeds of the IDA credit.
This cost to Government, in terms of foregone income, would be largely
offset by the many benefits of the project including improved health,
increased productivity of the population served by the new waterworks
and strengthened in-country preparation and implementation sector
capacity. The above-mentioned mechanism would apply to all investments
concerning piped water supply systems in rural or semi-rural centers of
which the proposed project (with its corresponding figures) is cited
only as an example.
Sector Development
1.20      Between 1960 and 1967 there was no investment in the urban
water supply sub-sector. From 1968 to 1987, RECIDESO has made large
investments (totalling about US$ 300 million equivalent) mainly through
Government's grants and self-financing, and with the help of the African
Development Bank-AfDB, Arab Bank for Economic Development in
Africa-BADEA, Belgium, European Development Fund-EDF/European Investment
Bank-EIB, France, IDA, Italy, KfW, and UNDP. The summary of loans and
grants is given in Annex 1-2. As a result, from 1968 to 1987, the
number of urban centers served increased from 47 to 66, production
capacity by 72%, distribution networks length by    300%, and quantity
of water sold by 68%.  The main beneficiaries of these investments have
been the major towns: Kinshasa, Lubumbashi, Kananga, Kisangani,
Mbuji-Mayi, Likasi, Kamina, Mbandaka and Matadi.



- 11 -
P.I.P. Programme d'Investissement Public Prioritaire 2/
1.21      The Government prepared in 1986 its first Five-Year Economic
Development Plan covering the period 1986-1990. Based on this Plan, the
Government prepared in 1987, with IDA assistance, the P.I.P. (Programme
d'Investissement Public Prioritaire) 1988-1992. Government considers
that the P.I.P. is an essential element of its structural adjustment
program. REGIDESO's 1988-1992 investment program is part of the P.I.P.
and is given in Annex 1-3. The program would mainly benefit the suburbs
of major towns as well as medium-sized centers not presently served and
semi-rural centers with populations between 10,000 and 40,000 people.
In addition to rehabilitation and extension/reinforcement of existing
water supply facilities and construction of new water production and
distribution facilities, the program includes the construction of plants
for the production of chemicals used by REGIDESO for water treatment
(lime and aluminum sulfate), the conatruction of a meter workshop, the
purchase of equipment, technical assistance and training. This program
of ZR 31 billion (constant 1987 prices) would require considerable
external aid. It is, however, compatible with the medium-term,
macroeconomic framework and REGIDESO has demonstrated its ability to
implement such a program. Besides the semi-rural centers dealt with in
the proposed Third Water Supply Project, there is the continuous need to
reinforce the Kinshasa water supply system. At present REGIDESO is
preparing a project which is included in the PIP and consists of two
additional water treatment plants for Kinshasa with reinforcement of the
water distribution network which are in the P.I.P.: one of 110,000
ms/day funded by CCCE (Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique) and
the other one of 55,000 m3/day funded by the Italian bilateral aid.
Bilateral aids of the UK (Overseas Development Agency-ODA) and of
Belgium have been providing technical assistance and equipment
respectively for leak detection in Kinshasa and for the operation of
water quality control laboratories in the urban centers.
1.22      In rural areas, since independence, there has been very
limited development and maintenance of existing facilities, except where
missionaries have helped to do so. Since 1983, resources have been
allocated to the SNHR (para. 1.08). UNICEF, assisted by an engineering
institution (AIDR 3/-Belgium), has been upgrading existing and building
new wells, and protecting springs in three regions (Bas Zaire, Kasai and
Kivu). USAID has been financing drilling rigs and related spare parts
and tools purchases and provides technical assistance and training to
SNHR staff. UNDP is financing the training of local drillers and
2/   P.I.P.; Government Priority Public Investment Program 1988-1992 to
be differentiated from the overall yearly PEP (public expenditures
program) which Government and IDA will be reviewing in the coming
years.
3/   AIDR: Association Internationale pour le Developpement Rural.



- 12 -
hydrogeologists. The Government's development program for 1988-1992
includes construction of rural water supply systems and equipment for
new SNHR brigades at a total estimated cost of US$ 26 million
equivalent.
1.23      Virtually no development, repairs or maintenance have been
carried out in the sanitation subsector, which is unorganized and needs
the establishment of an appropriate institutional organization (paras
1.12 and 1.13). Specific recommendations on how to remove the
constraints on the development of the sector were proposed for three
towns (Matadi, Bukavu and Likasi) in the feasibility reports implemented
under the UNDP Project ZAI 78/004 (para 1.26). Funds should be secured
to assist the Government in updating these studies and implementing
their recommendations.The feasibility study/master plan of the
sanitation/drainage/environmental protection system(s) of Kinshasa is
foreseen within the framework of the proposed project.
Sector Constraints
1.24      In the urban water supply subsector, the major constraints are
financial and are related to the inadequacy of water tariffs which were
not adjusted to compensate for high inflation rates. Due to its limited
resources, REGIDESO could not provide for all needed spare parts,
chemicals, meters, pipes, etc., all of which are necessary for 0 & M.
Hence, waterworks 0 & M is insufficient to date and most of water
production and distribution facilities need to be rehabilitated.
Waterworks are costly because of a nationwide shortage of building
materials, gasoline, oil and spare parts. Other constraints are the
cost of transportation and the lack of qualified manpower. REGIDESO's
continuous training programs have lessened this constraint, but
continued effort is needed. External funds needed to implement the
1988-1992 development program have to be accompanied by technical
assistance to strengthen REGIDESO's staff beyond the present support of
engineering firms for preparation and supervision of projects.
1.25      Prerequisites to development in the sanitation subsector are
the need to study appropriate technology, health education, cost
recovery arrangements and identification and strengthening of suitable
institutions to implement sanitation facilities.  Maintenance and cost
recovery should be transferred to villagers through appropriate techni-
cal assistance and sensitization actions.
Previous IDA Activities in the Sector
1.26      Since 1973, IDA has played an important role in assisting in
the development of REGIDESO. The first water supply sector study was
carried out in 1973 by IDA-WHO Cooperative Program. The first IDA
project, for which a US$ 21.5 million credit was made in 1976
(Cr. 625-ZR), included extension and rehabilitation of water supply
systems in six cities, engineering services and contribution to a
training program with REGIDESO as beneficiary and implementing agency.
The project was completed in Decemiber 1981 and the PCR carried out in



- 13 -
1982 highlighted the need to continuously strengthen the sector planning
and design capabilities of REGIDESO. Key activities included the
implementation of a tariff structure study, under IDA/WHO Cooperative
Program in 1979; execution of the UNDP Project ZAI/78/004 in 1979-80,
under which master plans and feasibility studies foi water supply and
sanitation in three cities (Matadi, Bukavu and Likasi) were completed;
and financing in 1982 the second water supply project (Cr. 1241-ZR of
US$ 18 million) concerning the reinforcement and expansion of the water
supply systems of Likasi, Kisangani and Mbuji-Mayi, completed in 1986.
The PCR for this latter project is under preparation. The timely
execution of the 2nd water supply project within 4 years was made
possible by the Bank's particularly close supervision. This same
practice should be followed during the implementation of the proposed
project. IDA has also been involved in rural water supply through the
Smallholder Maize Project (Cr. 1040-ZR), presented to the Board in June
1980, and including a US$1.2 million component for rehabilitation of
village water supply systems which was successfully completed in 1983.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.27      Notwithstanding REGIDESO's good performance, the water supply
sector in Zaire remains grossly underdeveloped. Investments have lagged
behind urban growth and coverage is inadequate.
1.28      The IDA involvement in the water sector is consistent with the
Government's main objectives namely (a) to increase the level and
quality of water supply services in urban areas; (b) to supply, where
possible, low-income neighborhoods of these centers, (c) to provide
continued support for increasing planning, design and implementation
capabilities of REGIDESO and (d) to achieve adequate cost recovery in
all sub-sectors: urban water supply, rural water supply and sewerage
(para. 1.16).
1.29      Access to safe water supply has, within the "Septennat du
social" (1985-1991), been accorded a high priority by the President and
the Government of Zaire. The goal is to develop the necessary social
infrastructure which should directly benefit the population by spreading
economically justified investments to those areas of the country that
have so far been deprived of an equitable access to basic goods and
services such as health, transportation and safe potable water.
1.30      The First and Second Water Supply Projects were prepared using
the traditional approach of entrusting preparation of studies, bid
documents and supervision to consultants. Faced with an increased
demand to rehabilitate existing water supply systems and to construct
new ones, pursuit of the same approach would not allow the country to
develop and build up its own project planning, selection, preparation,
appraisal and implementation capacity. The proposed project would
enhance the development of these capabilities and has given IDA
appraisal mission the opportunity to carry out an overall review of
REGIDESO's 1988-1992 investment program. This review ascertained the
economic and financial viability of the above-mentioned five-year



- 14 -
investment program and its coherence with the overall sectoral
development strategy and afforded the opportunity to reorient some of
the proposed activities.  Assurances were obtained during aegotiations
that in the future IDA will be given the opportunity to systematically
review each year the REGIDESO expenditures program and that REGIDESO
shall promptly take all necessary measures to comply with the values of
the indicators agreed with the Association (para 2.20).
1.31      The project would be the third ID. involvement in the sector
and the first IDA operation for supplying water to 18 semi-rural centers
with populations varying from 10,000 to 40,000 inhabitants with the
exception of three centers of 7,000 (Walikale), 9,000 (Bosobolo) and
86,000 (Ilebo). This would represent the logical extension of IDA
sector activities to the agglomerated rural areas. The project would
include the reinforcement of the Likasi water supply system as well as
technical assistance for strengthening of planning, design and
managerial capability of REGIDESO, studies and logistical means for
REGIDESO.
Bank/Country Goals, Role and Sector Lending Strategy
1.32      The main elements of Bank Group sector strategy in Zaire, over
the short and medium term, include:
(a) assisting the Government in defining and implementing the
policies and institutional reforms necessary to establish a
sound macroeconomic environment; and
(b) assisting the Government in the definition of appropriate
sectoral strategies and in the strengthening of the planning,
programming, and budgeting process with emphasis on the
coherence between stated objectives, financial resources, and
absorptive capacity and within the context of the overall
structural adjustment process.
The project is fully consistent with the newly-prepared strategy which
has been outlined in paras. 1.14 to 1.17 inclusive. Financial reform
aims essentially at (i) continuously adjusting water tariffs, (ii)
setting up an appropriate tariff structure to reduce the large
differences between tariffs of public and private consumers and (iii)
causing Government to pay arrears and regularly pay for future water
service. These reforms are needed to reach full cost recovery and thus
addressing current sectoral constraints related to the difficult
economic situation of the country and to the lack of skilled manpower.
The proposed project would provide the foreign exchange required to
implement the water supply development program, to fund technical
assistance and to purchase equipment needed for operation and
maintenance and for reinforcing REGIDESO's managerial capabilities.



- 15 -
II. THE PROJECT
Project Origin and Status of Preparation
2.01      The actions within the water supply subsector and under the
proposed project were identified partly during the last supervision of
the Second Water Supply Project (Cr. 1241-ZR) by drawing on the lessons
learned in preparing and implementing that project and partly during the
pre-appraisal and appraisal missions respectively of September-October
1987 and January/February 1988. The feasibility studies and hydro-
geological investigations have been satisfactorily carried out by
CEMDAEP 4/ within REGIDESO with the assistance of an expatriate engineer
funded by the PPF. The approach being followed for project preparation
has and would continue to require close involvement by IDA to ensure
that the project objectives can be achieved.
2.02      Since 1986 REGIDESO has carried out investigations and studies
on 25 semi-rural centers deemed to be potential candidates for the third
water supply project, which are located in five regions of Zaire:
Bandundu, Kasai Occidental, Equateur, Kivu and Shaba. Feasibility
studies have been completed for the water supply systems of 24 centers
and for the town of Likasi whose water supply system needs to be rein-
forced. For the 25th center of Samba, the water resource has not yet
been identified. Based on economic criteria (rate of return and
discounted investment amount per inhabitant: see Annex 2-1), REGIDESO
selected 18 priority centers (para. 2.04) for which piped water supply
systems would be implemented through the project. At present, CEMDAEP,
assisted by two expatriate engineers, is preparing final design and
tender documents for 24 centers and Likasi which would be finalized
latest in July 1988. In May 1988 about 30% of final dsign and tender
documents were completed.
Project ObJectives
2.03      Country-wide sector policy and investment program were for the
first time addressed in the sector study carried out in 1974 by the
Government and Bank-WHO Cooperative Program, REGIDESO b^ing appointed as
Government Counterpart Agency. Ever since, REGIDESO has been continu-
ously updating the sector study and investment program and the proposed
project is an essential component of the overall 1988-1992 ZR 31 billion
(constant 1987 prices) REGIDESO public priority investment program
(para.1.21). The key objectives of the project would be: (i) to
improve/ strengthen sector investment/expenditure planning, in line with
the overall yearly PEP review process and consistent with the current
structural adjustment program; this wout.d allow for stepping up
investments to meet expansion and rehabilitation requirements fully
4/   CEMDAEP: Centre d'Etudes Multidisciplinaires pour le Developpement
de l'Alimentation en Eau Potable.



- 16 -
consistent with current SAL and technical assistance projects.
Development and strengthening of in-country project selection criteria
and improvement of planning, preparation, appraisal and implementation
capacity of REGIDESO would also be achieved through the project; (ii) to
formulate policies and programs to address key sector issues, in
particular rural water supply and increased involvement of community
participation; and (iii) to enhance REGIDESO's financial sustainabtlity,
strengthen cost recovery performance and improve operational efficiency.
Project Area - Special Features - Residential Patterns
2.04      The project area comprises 25 semi-rural centers which include
18 priority centers (IBRD map 20753R). Detailed population forecasts of
these latter ones are given in Annex 2-2. The town of Likasi is located
in one of the Shaba mining fields. Its economic activity is dominated
by the mining industry (copper and cobalt) and railway maintenance
workshops. Its present population is about 210,000 with 70,000 living
in the mining company township. The foreseeable growth rate is about 4%
p.a and the projected populations in 1993 and 1998 are respectively
246,000 and 300,000. Likasi has a central core including a residential
quarter, offices and stores, three "cites" built after independence, and
an industrial quarter in the northeastern part of town. The 18 project
centers are "chefs-lieux de zone", scattered over five administrative
regions (Bandundu, Equateur, Kasai Occidental, and Kivu) and have
populations ranging from 10,000 to 40,000 except Ilebo, Bosobolo, Bozene
and Walikale which are inhabited respectively by about 86,000, 9,000,
7,000 and 7,000 people. The total population of the 18 centers is
presently 365,000 and the projected populations in 1993 and 1998 are
425,000 and 494,000 respectively. All of these centers have typical
rural features: half of the houses are built with bricks and half of
them are built with traditional materials (rural agglomer6). Through
the proposed project, piped water supply systems would be implemented in
the 18 centers which are priority development poles of important
surrounding rural areas, the main activities of which are agriculture
and cattle breeding. The largest center, Ilebo 5/, is not only the
terminal for the railway from Shaba, but is also the major inland river
harbor and thus an important transshipment center. Each of the 25
centers has an hospital (or dispensary), schools, stores and
administrative buildings for local authorities. Habitat is scattered.
The existing water supply systems of the 18 centers and Likasi are
described in Annex 2-3.
Population Served and Levels of Service
2.05      Figures in the following tables were drawn from feasibility
studies prepared for the project. As at present there are no piped
water supply systems in the centers, the 1988 figures in the tables
5/   Chef-lieu de sous-region



- 17 -
hereunder represent forecasts of present needs and service levels,
assuming that piped water supply facilities already exist. Furthermore,
all figures for the 18 centers are weighted averages. Table 2-1 below
gives projected average individual consumptions for the different types
of water supply: house connections, neighborhood supplies (inhabitants
of houses provided with house connections supplying water to neighbors
not serviced by house connections) and public standpipes. All
consumptions are metered.
TABLE 2-1: Projected Average Individual Consumption Levels
liters per capita per day (lcd)
Water Consumption             Likasi              18 centers
1988  1993  1998     1988  1993  1998
Domestic
- house connections      108   110      112     43    45    47
- neighborhood supplies  20    20       20      12    12    12
- public standpipes       20    20      20      12    12    12
Weighted average        40.3  42.5    44.8   18.5  18.9  2C.1
Projected individual consumptions differ slightly (+ 10%) in
the 18 centers, depending on the features of the centers and of their
populations.
2.06      Table 2-2 hereunder gives the forecast percentages of people
serviced by various types of water supply.
TABLE 2-2: Projected Levels of Service (percentages of people
served)
Type of water                       1988          1993        1998
supply service                    L 6/   C 7j  L       C    L      C
Piped water
House connections                 23       20    25     21   27    23
Neighborhood supplies             27       34    25     30   23    25
Public standpipes                 50      46    50      49   50    52
TOTAL                            100      100   100    100  100   100
6/   L: Likasi
7/   C: 18 centers.



- 18 -
Population Projections and Water Supply Demand
2.07      Table 2-3 below summarizes the forecast of population served,
water consumptions and water demand in Likasi and in the 18 project centers.
Detailed forecasts are given in Annex 2-4.
TABLF 2-3: Forecast of population, water consumptions and water demand
Likasi              18 centers
Denomination                              1988   1993   1998   1988   1993   1998
-Population (thousands) 8/                  40     49     60    365    425    494
-Average Consumptions (thousands ms/day):
- domestic                               1610   2082   2690   6763   8037   9918
- industry and commerce                   210    260    430    456    656    945
- government institutions                 315    405    510    255    385    562
-Total Average Consumption               2135   2747   3630   7474   9078  11425
-Total Demand on Production               2512   3232   4271   8793  10680  13441
-Peak Day Water Demand                   3014   3878   5125   9672  11748  14785
The estimated daily networks efficiency (ratio between the volumes of
consumed and produced water) for the 18 centers and Likasi is assumed
equal to 85%. The peak seasonal coefficient (defined as the ratio
between the consumption of the hottest month and the average monthly
consumption in a given year) for Likasi is 1.2 and the average peak
seasonal coefficient for the 18 centers is 1.1.
ProJect Description
2.08      While addressing the above basic sector economic and financial
issues through conditionalities, the proposed project wouls include the
following components which are crucial to sector development:
(i) technical assistance and training aimed at (a) strengthening the
sector planning as well as the management and operational capabilities
of REGIDESO, which would extend its responsibilities to supplying water
to 18 additional semi-rural centers; (b) supporting REGIDESO in updating
sector policy strategy and studies (para. 1.14); and (c) supporting
8/   The population figures represent the total population of the 18
centers which are presently not provided with water supply
facilities. However, for Likasi (which is presently provided with
water supply facilities), the population figures represent the
additional papulation to be served by the project facilities.



-19 -
REGIDESO in carrying out feasibility and final design studies, tender
documents and works' supervision for the waterworks to be implemented
through the project (para. 2.01); (ii) feasibility study/master plan of
the Kinshasa sewerage/environmental protection system (s), the medium
and long-term organization/management study of REGIDESO and feasibility
study/master plan for future water supply project; (iii) developing new
water supply systems in 18 priority semi-rural centers, (17 "chefs-lieux
de zone" and I "chef-lieu de sous-region" - Ilebo) which are priority
development poles for important surrounding rural areas. For the first
time semi-rural agglomerations would be serviced through piped water
supply systems which would strongly contribute to their further
development; (iv) reinforcing the water supply system of Likasi, an
essential element for the development of this important town of the
Shaba region whose economic activity is dominated by the mining
industry; and (v) supply of essential operational and training equipment
to further strengthen REGIDESO's operational and managerial
capabilities.
2.09      Details of the project components are as follows:
(a)  tkchnical assistance and training to strengthen REGIDESO's
managerial and operational capabilities, earmarked towards:
-    defining the water/sanitation sector strategy, including an
assessment of the achievements of the International Drinking
Water and Sanitation Decade (1981-1990);
-    updating the water/sanitation sector study;
-    carrying out feasibility studies of the proposed waterworks;
-    carrying out final design and tender documents of the proposed
waterworks;
-    carrying out works' supervision of the proposed waterworks;
-    organizing research and management of underground water
resources;
-    training of REGIDESO computer specialists;
-    training of REGIDESO's trainers;
-    training of operators of REGIDESO's drilling rigs;
-    training of CEMDAEP and REGIDESO planning unit;
-    strengthening of REGIDESO-DTR 9/;
-    strengthening REGIDESO's finance accounting and management
analysis and control;
-    preparing the "contrat-programme" to be made between Government
and REGIDESO;
-    preparing the ZAIRE water code;
-    consolidating REGIDESO planning and consulting services
capacities.
9/   D.T.R.: Direction des Travaux en Regie, a section of REGIDESO in
charge of repairs and of implementing new works in isolated
centers, where clearly force account represents the least cost
solution.



- 20 -
-    strengthening costumers management in Lubumbashi;
-    strenghtening of REGIDESO planning unit to support SNHR in
inventorying water needs and priorities in rural water supply
subsector.
(b) studies
-    feasibility study/master plan of the Kinshasa sewerage/
environment protection system(s);
-    medium and long-term organization/management study of REGIDESO;
and
-    preparation of a future water supply project.
(c) physical works
(cl) new water supply systems in 18 semi-rural centers, each system
consisting of intake, transmission line, reservoir (ground and/or
overhead), slow filtration treatment plant (only for surface water),
chlorination plant, pumping station; distribution network,
individual connections and public standpipes, office, operational
building and house. Waterworks consist of the following (see IBRD
map 20753R) :
Lot 1:    20 boreholes equipped with electric submersible or diesel
pumps for nine centers: Bagata, Bozene, Dibaya-Lubwe,
Ilebo, Kibombo, Lukolela, Makanza, Mangai and, Mushie;
Lot 2  (Bosobolo, Bozene, Lukolela and Makanza:
- source intake for the center of Bosobolo;
- transmission lines: 1,725 m PVC-diameter: 125 mm;
- 4 steel overhead reservoirs with a capacity of 100 m3 each;
- 4 chlorination plants;
- 4 pumping stations;
- 45,125 a of distribution networks of which:
- 13,625 m PVC, diameters: 100, 125 and 150 mm;
- 31,500 m PVC, diameters: 40, 50, 65 and 80 mm;
- 1,090 house connections;
- 24 public standpipes; and
- 11 small buildings (4 houses, 4 offices and 3 operation
buildings.
Lot 3 (Bagata, Dibaya-Lubwe, Gungu, Mangai and Mushie):
- source intake for the center of Gungu;
- transmission lines: 400 m ductile iron-diameter: 200 mm and
3,070 m PVC - diameters 100, 125, and 150 mm;
- 3 R.C. ground reservoirs (capacities: 125, 150 and 300 m3);
- 2 steel overhead reservoirs of 100 and 125 m3 and
rehabilitation of an existing 50 m3 steel overhead reservoir;
- 5 chlorination plants;
- 5 pumping stations;
- 119,940 m of distribution networks, of which:



- 21 -
- 1,300 m ductile iron, diameter: 200 mm;
- 1,710 m PVC, diameters: 175 and 200 mm;
- 26,485 m PVC, diameters: 100, 125 and 150 mm;
- 90,445 m PVC, diameters: 50, 65 and 80 mm;
- 2,790 house connections;
- 58 public standpipes; and
- 14 small building (5 houses, 5 offices and 4 operation
buildings).
Lot 4 (Demba, Ilebo, Kapanga and Luiza):
- source intakes for the three centers of Demba, Kapanga and
Luiza;
- transmission lines: 2,000 m ductile iron-diameter: 200 mm and
16,900 m PVC, diameters 125 and 150 mm;
- 3 R.C. ground reservoirs (capacities: 75, 200 and 1,500 m3);
- 2 steel overhead reservoirs of 100 m3 each and rehabilitation
of an existing 100 m3 steel overhead reservoir;
- 4 chlorination plants;
- 4 pumping stations;
- 179,321 m of distribution networks, of which:
- 3,450 m ductile iron, diameters: 200 and 250 mm;
- 4,780 m ductile iron, diameters: 125 and 150 mm;
- 27,475 m PVC, diameters: 100, 125 and 150 mm;
- 143,616 m PVC, diameters: 50, 65 and 80 mm;
- 3,790 house connections;
- 64 public standpipes; and
- 10 small buildings (4 houses, 4 offices and 2 operation
buildings).
Lot 5 (Kalima, Kamituga, Kibombo, Kiliba and Walikale):
- 3 boreholes equipped with electric submersible or diesel
pumps for the center of Kiliba;
- source intake for the center of Walikale;
- 2 slow filtration treatment plants for the centers of Kalima
and Kamituga.
- transmission lines: 6,100 m ductile iron-diameters: 200 mm;
1,900 ductile iron-diameters: 80 and 125 mm; 900 m PVC,
diameter: 150 mm and 1,000 m PVC, diameter: 80 mm;
- 4 R.C. ground reservoirs (capacities: 100, 150, 250 and
750 m3);
- 2 steel overhead reservoirs of 100 m3 each;
- 5 chlorination plants;
- 5 pumping stations;
- 116,511 m of distribution networks, of which:
- 2,440 m ductile iron, diameters: 200 and 250 mm;
- 5,200 m ductile iron, diameters: 100 and 150 mm;
- 3,540 m ductile iron, diameters: 50, 65 and 80 mm;
- 4,730 m PVC, diameters: 200 and 250 mm;
- 19,720 m PVC, diameters: 100, 125 and 150 mm;
- 80,881 m PVC, diameters: 50, 65 and 80 mm;



- 22 -
- 5,470 house connections;
- 86 public standpipes; and
- 13 small buildings (5 houses, 5 offices and 3 operation
buildings).
(c2) reinforcement of the Likasi water supply system
Lot 6
- source intake;
- transmission line, PVC reinforced with fiber glass (length:
11,000 m; diameter: 400 mm;
- pumping station (Q - 5000 m3/day; H - 90 m);
- 25,000 m of PVC tertiary pipelines (distribution network),
diameter: 50 mm;
- 2,500 house connections.
(d)  equipment, supplies and vehicles for REGIDESO
- radio communication equipment;
- reinforcement of logistical means;
- maintenance equipment;
- 1,800 house connections for low-income customers
(raccordements sociaux);
- training equipment for REGIDESO training center in Kinshasa;
and
- computer (data processing) equipment.
2.10      Preparatory work is satisfactorily advanced (para. 2.01).  Following
the Government request of April 1987, IDA approved in July 1987 a PPF increase
of US$ 340,000 so that the total amount now available is US$ 1.5 million, of
which US$ 1.08 million are earmarked for preparatory activities of the
proposed third water supply project (the difference of US$ 0.42 million being
used for preparatory activities of the urban development project).
Cost Estimates
2.11      The estimated costs of the project are detailed in Annex 2-5 and
summarized in Table 2-4 hereunder.



- 23 -
TABLE 2-4
Summary of Estimated Project Costs
(including local taxes accounting for about 10%)
US$ thousands
Total Local Foreign
A.   Preparatory Activities (PPF)          1,080    108      972
B.   Technical Assistance                 4,305    431    3,874
C.   Studies                               2,353    236    2,117
D.   Water Supply Facilities
- 18 semi-rural centers             24,924    6,231 18,693
- Likasi                             2,476       619  1,857
Sub-Total D         27,400    6,850 20,550
E.   Equipment supplies end               2,932       -    2,932
vehicles for REGIDESO
F.   Base Cost: A + B + C + D + E        38,070    7,625 30,445
G.   Physical Contingencies               5,069    1,094  3,975
H.   Price Contingencies                   8,412    1,722  6,690
TOTAL COST           51,551   10,441 41,110
100%    20%     80%
2.12      The base cost estimates are expressed in January 1988 prices.
Cost estimates are based on data provided by the feasibility studies.
Project goods are exempt from import duties. Local taxes and charges
are included ir the cost estimates of waterworks, and their amount is
covered by the government contribution. Cost estimates of technical
assistance, studies and supplies are net of local taxes and charges.
Unit costs are based on recently awarded contracts. Physical contingen-
cies of 15% and 10% have been added respectively to the costs of water
supply systems and other project components (technical asslstance,
studies, equipment, supplies and vehicles). Price contingencies
totalling 20% of the base costs expressed in US dollars plus physical
contingencies would be based on the following inflation rates.
1988      1989      1990       1991      1992
Foreign Exchange (US$)    3%         3%         4%        4X         4Z
Local Currency (Z)        65%       35%        35%       35%        35%



- 24 -
Project Financing Plan
2.13      The project financing plan would be as follows:
TABLE 2-5
Project Financing Plan
Amounts      Percent of        Lending
in US$     project costs      Terms
IDA         45,000,000        87          Standard IDA terms to GOZ
Government   5,159,000         10         Equity contribution.
REGIDESO     1,392,000          3         Own contribution.
TOTAL       51,551,000        100
The detailed project financing plan is shown in Annex 2-6.
2.14      The proposed IDA credit of US$ 45.0 million (SDR 32.6 million)
would fund 85% of the waterworks cost of the 18 centers and Likasi, 90%
of technical assistance/training and 100% of equipment, supplies and
vehicles for REGIDESO (CIF Kinshasa) which is equivalent to 86.9% of the
project costs (or 100% of foreign costs and 39% of local costs). Out of
the proposed IDA credit, the Government would on-lend to REGIDESO the
amount of US$ 15.8 million (SDR 11.4 million), representing 85% of the
investment cost of the Likasi waterworks, 90% of the costs of technical
assistance/training and studies and 100% of equipment, supplies and
vehicles for REGIDESO. The Government's contribution would finance the
investments relating to the centers waterworks through an equity
contribution of US$ 29.2 million (SDR 21.2 million) representing the
remainder of the IDA credit and US$ 5.2 million equivalent out of its
investment budget. REGIDESO would finance US$ 1.4 million representing
15% of the amount of the Likasi waterworks and 10% of the amount for
technical assistance and studies out of its own resources.
Project Organization and Implementation
2.15      The project is designed to allow for an implementation over
four years: from end 1988 to end 1992 (para. 2.21). The implementation
schedule is shown in Annex 2-7. The implementing agency will be
REGIDESO which has established a good track record in implementing
projects. In the past REGIDESO implemented projects through the assis-
tance of consultants who provided appropriate training and technological
transfer. The proposed project will be implemented by the trained staff
of CEMDAEP assisted by a few expatriate specialists, both for
preparation of detailed design/ tender documents, and for works'
supervision. REGIDESO will be responsible for operation and maintenance
of the project works.
Procurement
2.16      The supply and installation of pipelines, civil works and
equipment will be procured by ICB in accordance with IDA's guidelines.
Eligible domestic manufacturers of pipelines and equipment and other



- 25 -
supplies would be afforded a preference up to 15X or the applicable
customs duties, whichever is less, for goods under ICB procurement.
2.17      In accordance with the agreement (convention specifique) made
on April 7, 1986 between SONATRAD (Societe Nationale de Trading) and
REGIDESO, REGIDESO would be responsible for carrying out the evaluation
of prequalification procedures, the evaluation of bids and for making
recommendations for contract award. Actually, Article 3.3 of the
above-mentioned "convention specifique" specifies that SONATRAD would be
responsible for bid evaluation and recommendations for contract award
only for supplies exceeding US$ 3,000,000 equivalent which is never the
case in the project. Waterworks have been split into the following
lots:
-    Lot No.1: execution and equipment of 20 boreholes for the
nine centers of Bagata, Bozene, Dibaya-Lubwe, Ilebo,
Kibombo, Lukolela, Nakanza, Mangai and Mushie;
Lot No.2: supply and installation of waterworks for the four
centers of Bosobolo, Bozene, Lukolela and Makanza
located in the "Equateur" region;
Lot No.3: supply and installation of waterworks for the five
centers of Bagata, Dibaya-Lubwe, Gungu, Mangai and
Mushie located in the "Bandundu-Kasai Occidental"
region;
Lot No.4: supply and installation of waterworks for the four
centers of Demba, Ilebo, Kapanga and Luiza located
In the "Kasai Occidental" region;
Lot No.5: supply and installation of waterworks for the five
centers of Kalima, Kamituga, Kibombo, Kiliba and
Walikale located in the "Kivu" region, including 3
boreholes for the water supply system of Kiliba;
and,
Lot No.6: supply and installation of waterworks reinforcement
for the town of Likasi;
Each contractor will be given the possibility to tender for one or more
lots, and will clearly indicate supply and installation prices for each
center. All contracts will be awarded following ICB procedures, after
prequalification. CEMDAEP assisted by technical assistance specialists
(to be recruited by REGIDESO following IDA's procedures for the
recruitment of consultants), will be in charge of the following:
-    preparation of international prequalification documents for
the above-mentioned waterworks and for supplies included in
the project;
-    evaluation of the various prequalifications;



- 26 -
bid evaluation and recommendation for contract award;
-    preparation of contract documents; and
-    works' supervision.
DTR (para. 2.09) could eventually participate in the construction of the
project works, but as a sub-contractor in order to get more familiarized
with the common practice of private contractors (cost control,
implementation schedule, etc.), without being directly exposed. CEMDAEP
would be fully in charge of prequalification, contract evaluation
procedures and works' supervision, which would complete the design
consulting services carried out to date. The long-term objective of
CEMDAEP would be to carry out any kind of sector consulting services
without any support of foreign technical assistance.
2.18      Consultants would be engaged in accordance with IDA's
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants and under terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA. Terms of Reference for the various assignments have
either already been or will be reviewed by IDA. REGIDESO will submit to
IDA for its approval a detailed training program, including the qualifi-
cations of the candidates, type and cost of training as well as the
training institutions and an indication of assignments to be given to
the trainees upon their reintegration into REGIDESO.
2.19      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the following table
2-6, where figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by IDA.
Small contracts for the purchase of equipment, estimated to cost less
than US$ 100,000 each (totalling US$ 500,000 in aggregate) would be
procured on the basis of LCB procedures acceptable to IDA in which
foreign bidders would have an opportunity to participate. The lower
limit for prior review of tenders by IDA is US$ 20,000 for equipment and
US$ 40,000 for civil works.



- 27 -
TABLE 2-6
Amounts and Methods of Procurement
(US$ million)
Project Element                            ICB   LCB  Others  Total Cost
Supply and installation of boreholes,
water supply systems ar.d construction
of operation buildings
a) for semi rural centers            34.4    -      -        34.4
(29.2)   -      -       (29.2)
b) for Likasi                         3.4    -      -         3.4
(2.9)   -      -       ( 2.9)
Equipment, supplies and vehicles
for REGIDESO                            3.4   0.5      -        3.9
(3.4) (0.5)    -        (3.9)
Consultants, experts, training and          -     -      9.9       9.9
studies (including PPF:                  -     -    (9.0)      (9.0)
US$1.08 million)
TOTALS                                     41.2   0.5   9.9       51.6
IDA Credit                                (35.5) (0.5) (9.0)    (45.0)
Government                                 5.2    -       -        5.2
REGIDESO                                   0.5    -      0.9       1.4
Reporting and Monitoring
2.20      REGIDESO would report monthly on the progress of project
implementation, and the achievements of the project would be monitored.
REGIDESO would also prepare the Project Completion Report. These reporting
requirements should be agreed upon during negotiations. Key indicators are
described in Annex 2-8. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
during the project implementation, (i) a yearly comprehensive review will be
conducted by IDA to verify the accomplishment by REGIDESO of the following:
(a) implementation of measures contemplated in the "contrat-programme";
(b) average system efficiency: not less than:
-    74% in 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991; and
-    75% in 1992.
(c) percentage of non-working meters: not more than:
-    25% in 1989;
-    20% in 1990;
-    15% in 1991; and
-    102 in 1992.
(d)  working ratio: not more than:
-    0.53 in 1988;
-    0.52 in 1989;
-    0.51 in 1990;
-    0.49 in 1991; and
-    0.48 in 1992.



- 28 -
(e) rate of return on net revalued fixed assets in operation: not less
than 7%;
and (ii) that REGIDESO will consider th-x Association's comments in finally
agreeing on these indicators.
Disbursements
2.21      The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed as shown in table 2-7
hereunder on the basis of full documentation, except for eligible expenditures
with a velue below US$ 10,000, which would be covered by statements of
expenditures. The documentation for these statements would be available for
review at the project unit office. 91% of the credit would be disbursed
against foreign exchange expenditures. Technically the project can be
implemented in four years and this is in line with experience gained from the
implementation of similar projects in Africa. This justifies the disbursement
profile over five years (see Annex 2-9).
2.22      The risks of delaying the project implementation and of having to
finance a higher proportion of project costs would be borne by the Government.
Assuming that construction begins on November 1, 1988, the project would be
complcied by November 1, 1992. The closing date would be April 30, 1994..
TABLE 2-7
IDA Credit Disbursement Categories
(in SDR million)
Esated Cost                    Percentag
Estimated    of Caponents    ALlocated     of Epediture
^'eME            Total Cost   Funded by  A Ammnt of Credit Finaed by Credlit
I.  Supply and installation
of boreholes, water supply                                     100% of foreiga
systems and conttin of                                         expendiUres and
loal operation bolli                                           80% of local
a) for saei-nral centers   24.87      17.35        17.35      e      te.
b) for Likasi             2.48         2.03         2.03      100% of foreig
iture and
80% of local
exeSitures
II. Equi'mrwt, supplies and    2.80         2.47         2.47       100% of foreign
vebicles for RBEIDS0                                           expenditures
m. Consulteris., experts,      6.37         3.62         3.62       100% of foreign
training and studies                                           expenditrs and
80% of local
itures
IV. PPF                        0.83         0.83         0.83       100%
V.  UnaLlocated                  -          6.30         6.30       100%
37.35        3E6          32.60 B      7



- 29 -
III. THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCY: REGIDESO
REGIDESO's Organization and Management
3.01      REGIDESO was created by a decree of December 30, 1939 and its
organization has been modified by the following laws:
-    No. 66-460 of August 25, 1966;
-    No. 73-026 of July 20, 1973;
-    No. 78-002 of January 2, 1978, concerning all Zairian parastatal
utilities; and
-    ordinance No. 78-197 of May 5, 1978 that gives the REGIDESO
statutes.
PEGIDESO is empowered to produce and distribute piped water in urban and rural
centers, to study and design new water production and distribution facilities,
and to supervise their construction. Formerly, REGIDESO also carried out
power operations, but in 1979 they were transferred to the National Electric
Company (SNEL). It presently operates 66 systews throughout the country (IBRD
map 20753R) and by 1995 will expand its activities to about 100 centers,
including the 18 centers dealt with by the proposed project.
3.02      REGIDESO's Board of Directors consists of nine members appointed by
the President of the Republic. Three are REGIDESO officials -- the Chairman
(President Delegue Gengral), the Finance and Administration Manager and the
Operations and Equipment Manager -- the other members are Government and
business representatives. The Board retains the right to approve large
investments, new borrowings, other major important decisions, and to review
financial statements. It delegates daily operational authority to the
Management Committee, which consists of the three REGIDESO directors and one
workers' representative. Four account controllers (Commissaires aux Comptes)
acting jointly, also appointed by the President of the Republic, verify the
company's books and check the accounting systems and procedures annually.
3.03      REGIDESO is satisfactorily organized, as recorded since 1976 by
supervision missions under the first and second water supply projects. After
two reorganizations authorized by the Board of Directors on January 16, 1982
and October 7, 1986, the Central Administration in Kinshasa was divided into
four departments, each being headed by a General Manager: the Finance and
Administration Department, the Technical and Development Department, the
General Secretariat, and the Department of Human Resources and Social
Development. The first department comprises the Accounting, Computer,
Commercial and Financial Sections. The second department comprises the
Studies, Operations, New Waterworks and Works on Force Account Sections. The
third department (General Secretariat) comprises the General Secretariat,
Legal, General Services and Public Relations Sections; the fourth department
comprises the Professional Relations and the Medical and Training Sections.
The Claims, Methods and Organization Planning and Evaluation, Audit and
Management Control and Supplies Sections as well as the principal adviser to
the President Delegate General report directly to the President Delegate
General. The present organizational chart is given in Annex 3. Each of the
General Managers has functional authority over his domain of responsibility



- 30 -
throughout the conIat, _    ".ut R-vional MIanagers are responsible for operations
in their regions.  T'  ' ;    i  t' e Reglonal Branches are located in Bandundu
(Bandundu), M-tad'i (L,;i 4..    ?b.  uJi-Mayi (Kasai Oriental), Mbandaka
(Equateur), Ki sangai. (Aaut Zaire), Kinshasa (Kinshasa), Bukavu (Kivu),
Lubumbashi %Shaba) and V'Ararga (Kssai Occidental). REGIDESO is fully capable
of expanding its organizatioi. -t. irn'ude water supply operations in other
towns and centers.
3.04      The President De_1._atr General was appointed as REGIDESO's Chief
Executive Officer in 1972 ana has proved to be a competent and efficient
manager throughout a period in which the company has developed conslderably.
Departmental, Divisional and Regional Managers are competent and some of them
have held their positions for several years.
Personnel and Training
3.05      REGIDESO employs a total staff of 3,490, which is the right order of
magnitude for a water entity of that size in Africa. The Central
Administration employs 500 and the regions 3,000. There are 370 cadres and
3,130 skilled and unskilled workers. Manpower was stable at 3,700 staff
members from 1975 to 1978, decreased to 3,200 in 1979 when power activities
were transferred to SNEL (para. 4.02), and increased to 4,180 in 1984 with the
staffing of new operations in the six cities of the first project a-d the
addition of staff to the Kinshasa Region.  Afterwards, following a rigorous
staff policy, REGIDESO staff decreased to the present level of 3,490.  An
increase of 130 staff would be needed to operate the 18 project centers. The
number of expatriates working for REGIDESO has been maintained at a low level
for several years and has worked satisfactorily at the present level of
construction program (para 1.15). Out of the eleven expatriates presently
with REGIDESO, ten are technicians and one holds the position of adviser to
the President Delegate General.
3.06      In 1978, through assistance provided by the first project, a
Training Division was created within REGIDESO to define and implement
REGIDESO's overall training policy. With the assistance of an expatriate
training adviser a residential Training Center was established in Kinshasa.
From 1977 through 1980 a systematic training program was developed and
financed jointly by the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) and IDA.
The International Labor Orgarization (ILO) was the Executing Agency for the
project training component. Since 1978, an overseas training program was
drawn up and implemented for 200 key managerial and professional staff. Since
1980, a cadre of ten Zairian training staff and instructors was established in
the Kinshasa training center and is now fully operational. The quality of
training, particularly in operations and maintenance, has been improving over
time and can now be deemed satisfactory. In accordance with its training
policy the Training Division now intends to focus on management in-house
training.
3.07      Since the creation of the Kinshasa training center, the number of
REGIDESO staff receiving training increased from 280 in 1978 to 750 in 1987.
Since 1982 the Kinshapa center has also been providing training to about 30 to
40 foreign specialist- each year from other African water utilities. In 1985,



- 31 -
another REGIDESO training center was created in Lubumbashi which provided
training to about 40 in 1985, increasing progressively to 240 in 1987. The
average number of man-weeks per staff trained is about 3 to 5. Both training
centers provide regional services which focus on training operational
supervisors in the skills of identifying training needs and organizing
on-the-job training at the place of work. Management training emphasizes the
development of systems for organizing, planning and controlling work
activities. A training cadre has been established by the Training Section
comprising thirty-two training staff in the Kinshasa training center and
eleven in the Lubumbashi training center.
Budget and Management
3.08      The Budget Control Unit within the Accounting Section was created in
1978 and issued REGIDESO's first budget for the year 1979. The members of
this unit are experienced and in 1981, in collaboration with the Audit and
Management Control Section, they completed cost studies and job analyses of
all branches and started a program of cost reduction. Furthermore, REGIDESO
instituted a satisfactory inventory control system in mid-1981 which has been
applied regularly each year ever since.
Customers Management
a.   Private connections
3.09      Private connections laid in public land are generally financed by
the consumers although they become REGIDESO's property. In the past, because
of lack of foreign exchange, REGIDESO had difficulties in buying pipes and
meters to construct private connections, where no external financing was
available. To ensure the normal replacement and conetruction of private
connections needed, REGIDESO has undertaken the construction of a meter
factory with CCCE financing. Furthermore, the supply of 25,000 house
connections (including meters) through CCCE's funds has been included in the
REGIDESO 1988-1992 investment program. To avoid subsidizing consumers with
private connections, REGIDESO is recovering from the consumers the full cost
of constructing new private connections in the project centers.
3.10      Only 70% of the customers are billed on the basis of metered
consumption, corresponding to about 90% of total water sales. 30% of the
customers, corresponding to 10% of the water sales are billed on a lump sum
basis. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that non-working meters
be less than 25% in 1989, 20% in 1990, 15% in 1991 and 10% in 1992 (para.
2.24).
b.   Public Standpipes
3.11      In order to reduce water wastage in the standpiees managed by the
Municipalities and the excessive amounts paid by Government, REGIDESO has,
since January 1980, been taking over the management of the standpipes from the
municipalities. To date, all of the 1,500 public standpipes are managed by
REGIDESO through concessionaires to whom REGIDESO sells the water;
concessionaires collect water charges from consumers. Practically all of the



-32 -
standpipes are in operation. A ceiling price has been fixed which prevents
concessionaires from charging over a maxi-um of 30Z more than the REGIDESO
rate for small quantities (10 liters or less). In the case of standpipes
operated by concessionaires and where REGIDESO has sheltered the taps under
kiosks, waste is reduced and arrears are maintained at a reasonable level
(about three months' payments). As standpipe operations need to be constantly
supervised, the REGIDESO manager of each center is in charge of rupervision.



- 33 -
IV. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Past and Present Financial Performance
4.01      The volume of water sold remained the same in 1984 and 1985,
increased slightly from 1985 to 1986, but increased by 11% in 1987 as shown in
the tables of Annex 4-1. The average yearly increases were the result of a
combination of some substantial Increases and decreases by the various
consumer categories. Sensitivity to the 1986 tariff increase brought about a
considerable reduction in the volume of water sold to industry. Water sales
to government agencies decreased in 1985 and in 1986 due to a waste and
leakage reduction program launched by REGIDESO and various government
agencies. Also the volume of water sold at standpipes decreased both in 1986
and in 1987. Only domestic consumption showed steady increases over these
years.
4.02      The relative share of the various consumers was more or less stable
in terms of volume of water sold over the years from 1985 to 1987. While
commercial consumers showed no variation in their share, the volume of water
sold to domestic users increased from 41% in 1985 to 48% in 1986 from where on
it remained stable. While the share of volume of water sold to government
agencies dropped in each of the years from 1985 to 1987, the share of
industrial users remained stable from 1985 to 1986 and decreased slightly
thereafter.
4.03      The comparison of volume sold with actual water revenues shows the
evolution of REGIDESO's tariff policy. While the volume of water sold to
industrial users accounted for 17% of the total volume in 1985 and 1986 and
19% in 1987, their share of total revenue rose from 26Z to 53% over the same
period. The volume of water sold to domestic users increased over the same
time. However, their share of revenues increased from 18% in 1985 to 25% in
1986 and dropped to 12% by 1987.
4.04      REGIDESO's income statements for the years 1985 to 1992 are shown in
Annex 4-2. High inflation translated into continued devaluation of the Zaire.
The rate of exchange of the Zaire to the US dollar which dropped from Zr. 55
by the end of 1985 to Zr. 130 by the end of 1987, required substantial tariff
increases to meet the rate of return requirements under Credit 1241-ZR.
Tariffs were increased in 1986 and 1987 which raised the average tariff from
Zr. 14.57 in 1985 to Zr. 19.67 in 1986 and to 25.63 in 1987. These tariff
increases compensated only more or less for inflation and REGIDESO achieved a
7.6% rate of return on net revalued fixed assets in 1985, 3.8% in 1986 and
1.2% in 1987.
4.05      Operation costs increased substantially from 1985 to 1987 due to
high inflation. The working ratio (cash operating expenses over revenues),
decreased from 60% in 1985 to 57% in 1986 from where it increased to 60% in
1987. This indicates the inadequacy of the tariff setting mechanism in a
highly inflationary economy. Tariff increases took place only once a year,
mostly in the first half of the year and just allowed for keeping up with past
inflation. This, together with a building up of arrears and the requirement
to carry the foreign exchange risk, did not permit REGIDESO to maintain the



- 34 -
same level of financing of a portion of its investment program. The
self-financing ratio which was at 24% in 1985 and increased to 31% in 1986,
became negative in 1987.
Billing and Collection
4.06      REGIDESO bills its customers on a monthly cycle because of the high
inflation. Bills for the Kinshasa area are prepared centrally on the computer
of the regional office ("Direction Regionale"). Bills for REGIDESO's centers
in the country's interior are centrally prepared in Lubumbashi with a computer
and in the smaller and less accessible centers by hand.
4.07      Collection from industry is excellent.  Great difficulties however,
are encountered in collecting payment from government agencies. Also, private
customers and the standpipe concessionaires do not pay as expected. Accounts
receivables from government agencies stood at end 1987 at 27.8 months of
corresponding sales, for domestic sales at 6.3 months and for standpipes at
9.7 months, thus bringing the total amount of arrears at end 1987 to 8 months
of sales. Collection of water bills has been a persistent problem. Budgetary
allocations remain insufficient in spite of efforts to include sufficient
funds in the government's budget to permit payment of utility bills. As these
allocations are made towards the end of the calendar year, they are eventually
too small, mainly because of inflation. Cash shortages then do not allow
final settlement of bills.
4.08      A compensation therefore took place at the end of 1985 whereby
government arrears of Zr 433 million were compensated for by the debt service
of REGIDESO for external funds onlent by the Government. However, arrears
rose again and amounted to 27.8 months of sale by the end of 1987. A similar
compensation on May 5, 1988 settled Zr 911 million in overdue water bills
through March 31, 1987 and reduced the Government's arrears to about 9 months
of sales.
4.09      Reducing arrears from domestic users and standpipes to acceptable
levels requires concerted efforts by REGIDESO. Reducing the government
arrears, however, is a task beyond the normal means of REGIDESO. During
negotiations, agreement was reached with REGIDESO that it will take all
necessary actions that its accounts receivables from water sales (a) to
domestic customers and standpipes will be 3.5 months of corresponding sales by
the end of 1988 and to reduce them gradually therefrom to 2.5 months of sales
by 1992; and (b) to government agencies 3.5 months of corresponding sales by
end 1988 and to reduce them gradually therefrom to 3.0 months by 1992.
Furthermore, during negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
that it will promptly, at the -d of each fiscal year, settle its outstanding
water bills first through paymeat and only thereafter in the event of
insufficient funds through a compensation between its overdue payments and
debt service payments due to the Government by REGIDESO so that arrears for
water sales do not exceed 3.5 months of corresponding sales by the end of 1988
and 3.0 months by 1992.



- 35 -
FinancaslPa
4.10      REGIDESO's financial requirements consist of: (a) funds for the
proposed project; (b) funds for other projects included in its investment
program approved by the Government PIP (programme d'investissement public
prioritaire); (c) debt service; and (d) increases in working capital. Its
plan can be summarized as follows:
Financing Plan of REGIDESO, 1988-1992
US$        Zr          %
Sources of Funds                       ---------million------
Financing from internal funds
Internal Cash Generation              165.25      68,192    67.4%
Less: - debt service                   37.91      15,646    15.5%
- increase in working capital   23.55        9,720     9.6%
(Third Water Supply Project)
Net financing from internal funds    103.78       42,826    42.3%
Proposed project financing
IDA Credit proceeds
- onlent 10/                         17.84       6,884    32.5%
government contribution             30.32      12,992    55.1%
Government grant                        5.16       2,251     9.9%
REGIDESO - internal funds               1.39         562     2.5
Total proposed project financing       54.71      22,689    22.4%
Government grants for other projects        7.38      3,046     8.5%
External grants for other projects        50.04      20,652    57.9%
External loans for other projects         29.03      11,980    33.6%
86.46     35,678    35.3%
Total source of funds                 244.95    101,193   100.0%
Application of Funds
Capital expenditures
Proposed project                       54.71      22,689    22.4%
Other projects                        186.60      77,000    76.1%
Other investments                       3.64       1,504     1.5%
Total application of funds            244.95    101,193   100.0%
10/
Including interest during construction (US$3.2 million, Zr 306 million)



- 36 -
4.11      The financing plan of the proposed project (see Anrex 2-7) foresees
financing from three sources, the Government of Zaire, REGIDESO and IDA for
which a credit of SDR 32.6 million (US$ 45 illlion) under standard terms is
proposed. The part of the IDA credit that would be used to finance the
construction of the water supply system in the "chefs lieux de zone" and to
refinance the PPF advance would be in the form of an equity contribution of
US$30.3 million equivalent and the remainder of US$ 14.7 million in the form
of a loan to which interest during during construction would be added. The
onlending arrangements under a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government of Zaire and REGIDESO would specify a term of 20 years including 5
years of grace and an interest rate of 7.72% p.a. REGIDESO would carry the
foreign exchange risk. Execution of the subsidiary loan agreement under terms
and conditions acceptable to IDA would be a condition for declaring the
proposed project effective. Other government contributions of Zr 2,251
million would finance 15% of the water supply systems (or US$ 5.2 million)
representing mostly taxes and other charges going to the Government. REGIDESO
in turn would finance out of internally generated funds Zr 562 million (US$1.4
million) representing about 10% of the other investments included in the
proposed project and which account for local costs.
4.12      Funding for other projects of REGIDESO over the forecast period 1988
to 1992 has either been secured or will be secured shortly from other bi- and
multilateral sources.
Tariffs
4.13      The last tariff increase dates back to May 23, 1988.  This tariff
increase was based on an assessment of REGIDESO's operating costs,
improvements in its operating efficiency and the rate of return requirements
under IDA Credit 1241-ZR.  The tariff structure provides for a considerable
cross-subsidy between industry and commercial users for the benefit of the
lower tranches of domestic consumption, water drawn at standpipes and, to a
certain extent, water utilized by government agencies. Table 3 in Annex 4-2
provides information on the extent of the cross-subsidy. Water sales to
industry which account for 19% of the volume of water sold will make up about
46% of total water revenues and their tariff exceeds by 299% the full average
cost. Likewise, commercial users, who account for about 7% of the water
consumption, will account for 12% of water revenues and their tariff is set at
2.1 times the average full cost.
4.14      This strong cross-subsidization has been a feature of REGIDESO's
tariff policy over the years. However, the growing resistance of industrial
and commercial users to large tariff increases required a substantial increase
in all tranches of domestic usage in the May 1988 tariff revisIon. Whereas
none of the domestic customers previously paid the full average cost of water,
this has now changed and the two highest tranches pay even more.
4.15      In order to overcome the difficulties arising from a tariff
adjustment only once a year, water tariffs will, beginning with the May 1988
increase, be quarterly adjusted in line with the evolution of the prices for
the major cost items of REGIDESO, as well as for exchange rate variations



- 37 -
because of the number of loans where REGIDESO has to carry the foreign
exchange risk.
4.16      Given the need to expand water systems in rural agglomerated areas,
for which the project is the first major effort, it is essential to set
tariffs within the population's ability to pay. Studies undertaken in
preparing the project indicate that the limit for water tariffs should be
around 5% of the overall income. Such tariffs would cover the charges for
direct operating and maintenance expenses and would leave a contribution to
head office charges and funds for replacement. During negotiations agreement
was reached with REGIDESO that tariffs for water produced and distributed in
places that are classified as "chefs lieux de zone" or below that
administrative category would be set at levels that cover direct operating and
maintenance expenses and leave besldes a contribution to REGIDESO's head
office charges and funds for replacement.
4.17      In order to permit REGIDESO to continue to cover its operating and
maintenance expenses as well as the cost of borrowing in foreign currency
denominated loans and to allow REGIDESO to finance a growing portion of its
investment program, agreement was further reached during negotiations with
REGIDESO that tariffs be set such as to achieve a 7% rate of return on
revalued net fixed assets. This corresponds to the provisions as laid down in
the project agreement related to Credit 1241-ZR. Experience over the years
has shown that a rate of return covenant should be supplemented by a working
ratio (cash operating expenditures over revenues). Containing and reducing
the cost of operation is an objective of REGIDESO's management. This
commitment was confirmed during negotiations and agreement was reached whereby
FEGIDESO would take all necessary actions to ensure that its working ratio
would not be higher than 52% in 1989 and to gradually decrease to 48% by 1992.
4.18      Although tariff increases will take place at shorter intervals
during a calendar year in the future, there is still a need to assess these
interim tariff increases on a regular basis in light of the rate of return
cove-.ant. It is therefore proposed that REGIDESO prepare by the end of
October of each year a forecast for the next year of its operating expenses
and the tariff adjustments required for meeting the rate of return, to submit
th.is report to the Government and a copy to the Association for its review and
comments. Furthermore, following the completion of the audit (para. 4.29),
REGIDESO agreed to assess each year whether the tariffs for the audited fiscal
year were sufficient to meet rate of return, propose tariff adjustments,
submit this report to the Government and make a copy available to the
Association for its review and comments. During negotiations, agreement was
reached with REGIDESO that (i) it will prepare a report by the end of October
of each year, forecasting the cost of operation for the next fiscal year, and
on the basis thereof, recommend tariff increases in line with the covenanted
rate of return, to be submitted to the Government and to be forwarded to the
Association for its review and comments; and (ii) following completion of the
audit assessing the adequacy of tariffs In the audited fiscal year, propose
tariff adjustments in light of this assessment and submit a report to the
Government with a copy to the Association for its review and comments.
Furthermore, during negotiations agreement was reached with the Government



- 38 -
that upon review of the tariff adjustments proposed by REGIDESO in the reports
under (i) and (ii) above, it will agree to the Implementation of tariff
actions not later than two months after receipt of the reports.
4.19      On the basis of the aforementioned assumptions and of the forecast
inflation rates (para. 2.15), REGIDESO's tariffs from 1988 to 1992 would be as
follows:
1987   1988   1989   1990      1991    1992
Average tariff, in Zr/m9
in current value             25.63   67.5   95.9    133.5   187.5        251.9
annual increase                  163.4%  42.1%    39.2%   39.1%       35.6%
in real terms                25.63   26.3   26.0      26.8    27.7       27.8
annual increase                    2.7%  -1.1%      3.1%    3.1%       3.1%
Future Operations and Forecast Financial Position
4.20      REGIDESO's forecast income and funds flow statement for 1988 to 1992
are given respectively in Annexes 4-2 and 4-3 together with the underlying
assumptions (Annex 4-5). The projected cash generation is based on the
combination of the planned tariff increases, the containment and reduction of
operating costs, as well as in achieving the forecast reduction in arrears.
4.21      The need to implement water systems in areas so far not adequately
served by REGIDESO will require considerable outlays in operating expenses due
to the absence of economies of scale possible to realize in the larger cities.
Operating expenses are therefore expected to grow at an annual average of 41%
from 1988 to 1992. However, cost containment and reduction should result in
reducing the working ratio from 53% in 1988 to 48% by 1992.
4.22      REGIDESO's estimated balance sheets from 1988 to 1992 are shown in
Annex 4-4. REGIDESO's capital structure would consolidate during the forecast
period. The current ratio would grow from 1.18 in 1988 to 1.51 in 1992. A
cnvenant under Credit 1241-ZR commits REGIDESO to request the Association's
agreement before incurring any debt exceeding US$ 4 million equivalent. As
REGIDESO may finance capital expenditures through borrowing in the future, it
is proposed to replace this absolute ceiling by limiting debt financing.
Agreements were reached during negotiations whereby REGIDESO would not incur
any additional debt without prior consultation with the Association unless its
net revenues are at least 1.5 times its debt service requirements.
4.23      Credit 1241-ZR required onlending of the credit proceeds at terms
which foresee an interest rate of 11.6 p.a., and a repayment period of 30
years including a grace period of five years.  These terms are adversely
affecting REGIDESO's financial performance and should be brought in line with
current conditions. An agreement was reached with Government during
negotiations that it will amend the REGIDESO onlending agreement related to
Credit 1241-ZR by replacing the existing Interest by the proposed on-lending
interest rate as for the proposed credit. Presentation to IDA of the signed,



- 39 -
new on-lending agreement, together with reconfirmation that REGIDESO carries
the foreign exchange risk, would be a condition of effectiveness.
4.24      REGIDESO's future financial position will, to a considerable degree,
depend on the observance of the "contrat-programme" 3igned on May 5, 1988 by
the Government and REGIDESO. This "contrat-programme" defines the rights and
obligations of the two parties. In summary, it outlines technical,
operational, financial and administrative targets and sets the framework
within which REGIDESO has to operate and the principles to which the parties
have agreed. It sets realistic objectives for REGIDESO for the period 1988 to
1990. It is furthermore foreseen that REGIDESO prepares an update of these
performance indicators by November of each year and submits this update to the
government. As these indicators will have a bearing on the financial
performance in the foliowing year, agreement was reached during negotiations
that REGIDESO will make available a report covering the forecast indicators to
the Government and the Association for its review and comments and that
REGIDESO will consider the Association's comments in finally agreeing to these
indicators with the Government.
Insurance
4.25      REGIDESO carries insurance according to public utility practice with
reputable local insurance companies. The risks covered are (1) fire of all
its buildings including contents; (2) civil liability resulting from the
production and distribution of water; (3) keeping and transporting of cash;
(4) workmen's compensation; (5) life insurance for its employees with 50%
employee contribution; and (6) in compliance with government regulation, third
party liability insurance for its vehicles. Also, transport of goods and
equipment are regularly insured up to the place of delivery or installation.
Furthermore, all employees, including immediate family members are covered by
REGIDESO's health service which includes medicines as this is the least cost
solution. REGIDESO's insurance coverage is therefore considered adequate.
Accounting and Audit
4.26      The accounting department is headed by the director of accounting
who reports to the vice-president in charge of administration and finance.
With the decentralization of its operations, which also includes accounting
activities, greater responsibility is being given to accounting divisions in
the regional offices. Compilation of all accounts for REGIDESO is then
performed by the head office.
4.27      REGIDESO keeps its accounts according to the country's accounting
code ("Plan Comptable General Zairois") which is prescribed for all public
enterprises and parastatals. Cost accounting, whose implementation was
started in January 1988, is now fully operational. Through appropriate
extension, it is based on the general accounting code. Difficulties in
establishing cost accounting reports, income statements and balance sheets in
a timely fashion have now been overcome with the completion of the
computerization of REGIDESO's accounting activities. Cost accounting data is



- 40 -
presently being prepared monthly for the regional offices serving the
population in greater Kinshasa, Shaba and the head office. Reports for all
other regional offices and other services are prepared on a quarterly basis.
The reports are adequate and provide sufficient information. A follow-up
service analyzes differences between actual values and targets and proposes
action for management. Since its creation, REGIDESO has regularly prepared
each year an annual report summarizing the main aspects of its activities.
4.28      The existing accounting system should facilitate the keeping of
separate accounts for each of the water supply systems funded under the
proposed project. Assurances were therefore obtained from REGIDESO during
negotiations that it will keep separate accounts for each of the water supply
systems financed under the proposed project in accordance with sound public
utility accounting practices.
4.29      In addition to the regular audit prescribed for each parastatal by
the government controllers ("comnissaires aux comptes" para. 3.02), REGIDESO's
accounts have been regularly audited in compliance with covenants under
previous IDA credits (Credits 624-ZR and 1241-ZR) by local auditors
representing Price Waterhouse. Delays have occurred in the past in issuing
the audit report on time because of the transition from a manually kept
accounting system to a computerized one. This however has been overcome, and
the FY 1988 audit report, which found accounting systems and procedures
satisfactory, was issued on time. With the computerized accounting system in
place and through the envisaged installation of a minicomputer in the head
office (para. 4.31), it should in future be possible to reduce the time for
issuing the annual audit report, which at present is six months after the end
of a fiscal year. Agreement was further reached with REGIDESO during
negotiations that its accounts would continue to be audited by auditors
acceptable to the Association and that the audited accounts, together with the
auditor's report be made available to ths Association not later thun five
months after the end of the 1988 fiscal year and four months for each of the
following fiscal years.
Computer Systems
4.30      IDA Credit 1241-ZR financed the first computer requirements study
for REGIDESO as well as a minicomputer located in the regional center in
Kinshasa. The computer presently processes all transactions related to
customer accounts (updating customer files, billing, collection) as well as
payroll, analyticaligeneral/budgetary accounting and inventory, not only for
Kinshasa, but also for the regions of Bas-Zaire, Kivu and Equateur. The
computer also handles the consolidation of all records for the Central
Administration of REGIDESC. A second minicomputer located in Lubumbashi and
financed by REGIDESO handles the same activities for the regions of Shaba,
Kasai Oriental and Kasai Occidental.
4.31      Under the proposed project, IDA would finance a minicomputer and
twelve microcomputers to be installed at the Central Administration of
REGIDESO, as well as technical assistance (Annex 4-6). The acquisition of
this computer equipment will provide much relief for the overtaxed computer in
the regional office in Kinshasa. It will also improve the REGIDESO's



- 41 -
administration by reducing the delay in the treatment of all applications to a
minimum, and will allow for the computerization of further activitiea auch as
management of investments, budgets and equipment maintenance.



- 42 -
V. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS
5.01.     The proposed project will, as major benefit, make available safe
water supply to that part of the population living in agglomerated rural
areas, which so far has not received an adequate share towards improvements of
their living conditions. Implementation and operation of these systems by
REGIDESO should ensure proper operation and maintenance and demonstrate to
the population that the necessary outlays in the form of water bills will
greatly improve their physical well-being through safe water supplies.
5.02.     Quantification of health benefits due to safe water supply is not
possible as a variety of factors influence improvements in health, such as
health education, availability of a well-balanced diet, level of education and
observance of adequate hygiene.
5.03.     Further benefits would be derived by REGIDESO and therefore by the
country as the project implementation will further foster the in-country
sector planning and project implementation capability. Whereas in the past
practically all of REGIDESO's water supply projects were concentrated in urban
areas and prepared, executed and supervised with very strong assistance by
foreign consultants, this will not be the case with the proposed project.
Affordability
5.04.     In preparing and selecting the sub-projects, socioeconomic studies
provided the basis for determining the affordability and the willingness to
pay. For most of the sub-projects, the annual charges per family for
operation, maintenance and provision towards renewal would be between Zr 10.8
and Zr 13.2 per ms (1988 levels) for water drawn at standpipes and Zr 32.4 and
Zr 38.4 per ms for water obtained at plot connections. These charges would
represent, in general, about 5% of a family's average annual income, which is
considered acceptable. For a small segment of the population living at income
levels far below the average, the average daily consumption will in all
likelihood not be affordable at the proposed tariff levels. Tariff setting
policies will have to consider this aspect and provide some form of
cross-subsidy in order to ensure that their basic human water demands can also
be met.
5.05.     Project affordability has  also to be seen from a country level, in
particular the implication of the project on the country's budget. The
Government of Zaire will be responsible for the administrative charges and the
repayment of that part of the IDA credit used in financing the construction of
the 18 centers (US$ 29.2 million).  Furthermore, the Government of Zaire will
have to contribute the part representing local corts and amounting to 15% of
total costs (US$ 5.45 million). Charges associateu with the IDA credit will
initially, after project completion in 1994, be US$ 0.33 million which will
increase to US$ 1.19 million by 1999 when the first repayment will be due,
from where they will diminish. The highest amount represents a small fraction
of present export earnings and the project should therefore be considered
affordable. Total P.I.P. sector investments in the period 1988-1992 would be
about US$ 50 million per year or 72 of the overall P.I.P. for all sectors



- 43 -
which is deemed to be within the absorptive capacity of the country.
Affordability would be assessed through the overall yearly PEP review process.
Project Justification
5.06      The project's benefits are closely linked to its Justification.  The
proposed project would contribute to the generally recognized objective of
human resource development and thereby foster economic development. Design,
implementation and operation of water syste.s in the "chefs lieux da zone"
which to date have not benefited from REGIDESO's assistance should in future
also encourage other donors to foresee financing of water systems there.
5.07      REGIDESO's center for studies (CEMDAEP) has already gained valuable
experience by preparing the project through technical assistance. This
building up of in-country project preparation, appraisal and implementation
capacity will continue during project execution. CEMDAEP has also recently
been recognized as the most appropriate institution to carry out the
preparatory work for water supply and sanitation projects in rural areas as
well as sanitation projects in urban areas.
5.08      In order to provide a rational basis for selecting the centers, an
effort was made to determine the rate of return of the water supply systems of
the 18 centers (Annex 2-2).  In quantifying the time savings due to
elimination of water hauling and in assessing the consumers' benefits in terms
of overall income, the lower bounds for the rates of return of the individual
sub-projects were estimated to range from 5% to 27%. If unquantifiable
benefits (i.e. health improvement, environment, etc.) were included, the rate
of return would be at levels equivalent or higher than those obtained iu other
sectors. These are encouraging results which demonstrate the need for their
execution.
Environmental Impact
5.9       Environmental benefits would be derived from REGIDESO's improved
planning and performance capability to be developed under the technical
assistance and training component and from the preparation and implementation
of the Kinshasa sanitation/drainage/environmental protection system(s) master
plan. A negative environmental impact could result from the unsafe disposal
of used water. However, the water quantities that will be drawn from
public standpipes, as well as those from yard connections, will be relatively
small. As human excreta are disposed of in pit latrines built in generally
favorable soil conditions, the threat of pollution of aquifers is small.
Also, waste water should not pose a serious threat to the environment as
disposal in leaching pits in sandy soil conditions is adequate. To ensure
that the water will be disposed of in a proper fashion, assurances were
obtained during negotiations that REGIDESO will install water connections in
project centers only in houses where beneficiaries formally commit themselves
towards REGIDESO to build adequate waste water disposal systems, such as
leaching pits or septic tanks. The environmental impact of the proposed
project can therefore be considered acceptable. To maximize the expected
health benefits of improved water supply, the project might provide an



- 44 -
opportunity to try some of the appropriate sanitation systems presently being
developed in Africa.
Women's Role
5.10      As in most African countries, provision of water is the task of the
woman, assisted by her children. Most of the water hauled is used by the
family and the women need most of the water to perform their tasks. In this
respect, the project would have a major impact on the women, as it would
greatly reduce one of their chores and free some time that could be used for
other productive purposes.
Project Risks
5.11      The project would not pose specific technical risks.  Execution of
physical components would be straightforward. The risks mostly involve the
Government's willingness and commitment to carry out and enforce needed
reforms stipulated in the contrat-programme.



- 45 
VI. AGREEPENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
A.        Agreements
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was obtained:
(a) From Government that it vill respect all commitments undertaker in
the contrat-programme with REGIDESO (paras. 1.18 and 4.24) and will:
(i)  promptly settle at the end of each fiscal year, its outstanding
water bills first through payment and only thereafter in the
event of insufficient funds through a compensation between its
overdue payments and debt service payments due to the
Government by REGIDESO so that arrears for water sales do not
exceed 3.5 months of corresponding sales by the end of 1988 and
3.0 months by 1992 (para. 4.09);
(ii) agree upon review of the quarterly tariff adjustments proposed
by REGIDESO in the reports under (a) and (b) (see conditional-
ity (vi) hereunder) not later than two months after receipt of
the reports (para. 4.18);
(iii) during the project implementation, give the Association the
opportunity to carry out a comprehensive yearly review to
verify the accomplishment by REGIDESO of indicators mentioned
in para. 6.01 (b) (iv) hereunder and that it will consider the
Association's comments in finally agreeing on these indicators
(paras. 2.20, 3.10, and 4.17);
(b) From REGIDESO that it will respect all commitments undertaken in the
contrat-programme with Government (paras. 1.18 and 4.24) and will:
(iv) during the project implementation give the Association the
opportunity to carry out a comprehensive, yearly review of the
REGIDESO expenditure program; to verify the accomplishment by
REGIDESO of the following performance indicators, and that it
will consider the Association's comments in finally agreeing on
these indicators:
a)   implementation of measures contemplated in the
"contrat-programme";
b)   average system efficiency: not less than:
-    74% in 1989, 1989, 1990, 1991; and
-    75% in 1992.
c)   percentage of non-working meters: not more than:
-    25% in 1989;
-    20% in 1990;
-    15% in 1991; and
-    10% in 1992.



- 46 -
d)   working ratio: not more than:
-    0.53 in 1988;
-    0.52 in 1989;
-    0.51 in 1990;
-    0.49 in 1991; and
-    0.48 in 1992.
a)   rate of return on revalued net fixed assets in
operation: not less than 7%. (paras. 2.20, 3.10,
4.17) and 4.24);
and that it shall promptly take all necessary measures to comply with the
agreed values of the above mentioned indicators (para 1.30).
REGIDESO will make available to the Association a yearly report
covering the indicators for its review and comments (para. 4.24);
(v)   take all necessary actions that its accounts receivables from
water sales (a) to domestic customers and standpipes will be
3.5 months of corresponding sales by the end of 1988 and to
reduce them gradually therefrom to 2.5 months of sales by 1992;
and (b) to Government agencies 3.5 months of corresponding
sales by end 1988 and to reduce them gradually therefrom to 3.0
months by 1992 (para. 4.09);
(vi)   (a) prepare a reporc by the end of October of each year,
forecasting the cost of operation for the next fiscal year, and
on the basis thereof, recommend tariff increases in line with
the covenanted rate of return, to be submitted to the
Gorernment and to be forwarded to the Association for its
review and comments; and (b) following completion of the audit
assessing the adequacy of tariffs in the audited fiscal year,
propose tariff adjustments in light of this assessment and
submit a report to the Government with a copy to the
Association for its review and comments (para. 4.18);
(vii)   not incur any additional debt without prior consultation with
the Association unless its net revenues are at least 1.5 times
its debt service requirements (para. 4.22);
(viii) keep separate accounts for each of the water supply systems
financed under the proposed project in accordance with sound
public utility accounting practices (para. 4.28);
(ix) cause its accounts to be audited by auditors acceptable to the
Association and that the audited accounts, together with the
auditor's report be made available to the Association not later
than five months after the end of the 1988 fiscal year and four
months for each of the following fiscal years (para. 4.29);
(x)   install connections in project centers only in houses where



- 47 -
beficiaries formally commit themselves towards REGIDESO to
build adequate waste disposal systems, such as leaching pits or
septic tanks (para. 5.09).
B.        Conditions of Credit Effectiveness
6.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness will be: (1) the execution of the
subsidiary loan agreement under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association (para. 4.11) and (ii) the submission to the Association of a new
on-lending agreement for credit 1241-ZR signed by both Government and REGIDESO
in which the interest rate would be the same as for the subsidiary loan
agreement mentioned in para. 6.01 (i), together with reconfirmation that
REGIDESO carries the foreign exchange risk (para. 4.23).
C.        Recommendation
6.03      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project is suitable
for an IDA credit of SDR 32.6 million (US$ 45.0 million equivalent) to the
Republic of Zaire at the standard interest rate for 40 years including 10
years of grace.
AF31N/AFTIN
June 2, 1988



Annex 1-I1
- 48 -                    Page I of 3
ExcerPt from the contrat-2roaramee betwenn REGIDESO and GOZ
Article 1: Water Service ObJectives.
REGIDISO will undertake to ensure the best distribution of
water within the means it has at its disposal. Its sedium term
objective is to supply 70X of the urban population and 35X of the
rural pop'ilation with water by 1990 (in 1987 coverage was 62X for
the urban and 15X for the rural populations).
For the period 1988-1990, the objectives for water sales ire
outlined in Annex V of the contrat-programse. Sales should
increase by 5X per year, which will require the achievement of
the following objectives in terms of growth:
- production capacity: + 5X per year
- coefficient of network utilization (ratio be-tween
quantity delivered to the network and prodaction capacity):
+ 1X per year
- network efficiency (ratio between quantities consumed and
quantities delivered to the network): 74 X in 1989-1991 and
I5T in 1992;
Article 2: Objectives for the technical operation.
REGIDESO is committed to maintaining the effort to improve
the technical quality of its operation. The operational
objectives are outlined below:
2.1 Maintenance of installations
- Enforcement of systematic maintenance procedures for
water production units (pumping stations and treatment
plants) and distribution networks;
2.2 Improvement in metering
- Systematic installation of flow meters at the
production units.
- In Kinshasa, the objective is to have 90X of
connections equipped with meters in working condition
by 1990, against 70% in 1987.
- Improvement of meters/customers manaeent;
2.3 Installation of house connections
- Better planning and shorter installation periods.



Annex .1-
- 49 -                       Page 2 of 3
2.4 Continuation of efforts to saintain and improve the
quality of water and the effectiveness of quality
control.
fticl  3:.  Investment Objectives.
REGIDISO is comitted to putting into place its investment
program (Annex 1-2) and of ensuring a growth rate in Its
production capacity equal to 5% mini um per year.
Article 4: Objectives in customer relations.
R$GIDESO is committed to improving the quality of its
customer relationship. In this regard, the operational
objec.ives are summarixed below:
4.1 Improve the reliability of the billing system,
notably by a better computerized treatment of
discrepancies;
4.2 Reduce the number of inactive connections to less
than 10% of total number of connections by 1990;
4.3 Improve the "customer service", notably cm the
following points:
- information to the public;
- quicker response to questions and complaints of
customers;
- revision and generalization of the credit system
for the installation of new connections.
4.4. Setting up of a campaign to sensitize the population
against waste and vandalism.
Article 5: ObJectives in the area of administrative management.
RIGIDESO is comitted to decentralizing the general
accounting system at the level of the regions.
5.1 To improve the accounting system by having better
control in the areas of management and tariffs.
5.2 Putting into place a budget accounting system in each
center.
5.3 Implementation of their computerization
plan.
Article 6: Objectives in the area of personnel.
6.1 Quantitative aspects - - with regard to the concern
of improving its productivity, R$GIDEBO is comitted
to increasing its staff by no more than 1% per year



Annex .1-1
- 50 -                       Page 3 of 3
until 1990.
6.2 Qualitative aspects - the social and economic success
of REGIDESO is tied to the ability of all staff to
work to their mnaimum capacity. To this end the
following have been established:
- the training program for staff will be continued in
line with the objectives and priority needs of
REGIDESO at a pace of 25% of staff per year;
- the social dialogue will be maintained and
encouraged with the representatives of workers
associated with the Union Nationale des Travailleurs
due Zaire (UNTZa);
- the system for motivating staff will be continued
and improved.
Article 7: Financial objectives.
REGIDESO is committed to maintain the steady effort that will
result in the achievement of the following objectives:
7.1 To generate a margin of autofinancing between 15 to
20 X of its investment program;
7.2 To obtain a rate of return of at least 7% on its
revalued net fixed assets;
7.3 To maintain a working ratio less than 50X;
7.4 To maintain a level of debt that is in keeping with
Its capacity to reimburse.
7.5 To guarantee the repayment of on-lent debt.
Article 8: Objectives with regard to tariffs.
The structure and level of all tariffs should be such that
RUGIDESO will be able to cover all of its expenses as well as
attain the objectives listed above in Articles 1 through 7.



- 51 -                                    Ax  1 - 2
Page 1 of 2
REILIC OF ZAIRE
neBiEN
Third Ihter Suply Project
mmary of Leans &  rnts
Aumot          ltb   Maturity 6rm  Isterest Cmitmt   Fully           rdqign  Remks
Perid   Rate      other   Disurse  Eachnt
Chares              Risk
1D  Credit 65 IR         * 21.5 dillien    04/19/76      26      5    6.501      -        ye        ye   Nbujii-ayi, Kiungani, Lanedaka
Ion Credit 1241 R         Ot9 16 shlio    05/05192        35      5    11.602     -        y1n       ye   Ibji-lbyi, Kisaungani, Likasi
3.AD.E.I. I Zl             $10 million      051O0/6       2       5    4.50                yes       ye   Kisni, Kmnga, Nejii-Hyi,
handaka, Lubuabashi, Kimbi
B.A.D. CSIZR/9P/76/004    UiC 5 million     01/21176      16      5     7.752              yn        ye   Kannga I
6.3..D. CSJ317B04         UiC 4 million     04i10178      11      4     7.002              Yes       no   Kananqa I
3.A.D. Cs/RISP/771005     UC 5 sillion      12/27177      12      5     7.002              yes       no   Bovernent grant - Ndjili
3.A.D. MSIRI/SPIJ81010    UC 7.5 dliein    02122/10       12      4     7.001               no       no    bovernumt grat - Kananga 11
B.L.D. CUIR/SPtE1I/013   UtC 20.9 mllion   12/20/35       20      5    13.002               no       yn   6 centers - Natadi, Buova,
ndaka, Luebo, Kole, Ikela
F.A.D. CSIZR/UP(BJ)195112  UC 33.9 dillin   12/20195      50     10    0.001       0.715    no       ma   6 centers - hkauu, bandaks,
Ikela, LLbo, Kole, Natadi
F.A.D. EF/CSI/VSPIE)8418 UC 4.31 dillion   07127194       40    10    1.00  U1I yars)   no           yes  11 centers - Lubumbashi, Kindu,
3.002 (fre yer 12)                Kolmil,Lisala, Kamins, Samoa,
Kalelde, Dunla,isangaui(R.6.,
idro, Son
F.A.D. EFICSIMRISRE)I9419 UC .66 million    071271/4      40    10      1.001 (it years)   no        yn   4 centers - Kikbit, Bm, Inkisi,
3.001 (f re  year 12)             Ibana-Igungu
F.A.D. CS/ZRISP/918114    UC 6.95 million   02113/1       40    10      1.002 (11 yes)   yn          no   Governmt grant - 5 centers -
3.002 (from year 12)              Ubunda,Punia,Oepal, Iran,  okehqu
F..D. CStZUWSP/81/5       UC 1.65 million   02/13/91       7      3     I.OOZ (11 years)   no        no   9orernent gr*at - 8 centers -
3.001 (fre yoeu 12)               Djolu,lole,ikela, Katako-Keoe,
Eoloaba, Luebo, Rungp, LuLts
f.A.D. CIR/SP/946         UtC 1.55 million   04110/4      40     10    10.002               no       no   Governmnt grant - 3 citin -
Natadi, ukavel, flbamaka
O.D.E.B.L.                UC .452 million   04111/86      15      3     9.002               no       yes   Direct crudit BDI6L-REBIESD
I.F.I. 94.65 031          ON 19.1 million   05/09/65      30    10    2.001                 ne       no    Govnmnt grant - 3 cities -
Mhne-Ditu,Gandajika, Tshidul



Annx 1 - 2
-52-                                 Page 2 of 2
K.F.W. no awir            N12 Ailli.       03111186          Brat                          no      no    6vewrnt grat -Okiit & hlnp
Third F.E.9.              OEM 5.8 sillion   12/10174     40      &     1.001             Ye        no   6ovrnmt grat -Kinsbas, &  lhla
Fonrth F.E.t.             U6E .15 millon   10/29/79      14    tO    1.00                yes       nlo    VnrnU t grat -Kinsalstdin)
Fourth F.E.I.             ICE 4.85 illi1   12/07/79      14    10    1.001                no       no   Soernmnt gruat - Kias tur eks)
Fifth F.E.D.              UCE 7.5 illion   10102184          6rat                         no       no   6oewrnnnt grat - Kinuiasa
Canian aid of 193         Cut .249  llim    193              Brant                       Ys        no    6ovenet grant - IKlenie
app.u  aid of 19M         1 1.5 billion       15             Brat                        yes       no   hvernmt grat - lMazi-Nuago
legim aid 62.227.330    Fl 92.2 dillien   01107187       20    11    5.002                no       ye   60overnatt grat - KciSition
of Blgian euipet
IFM RIIEE  11             ON 10.5 I illion                  Credit agrevem t not yet signed              No credit agreeent - Kikuit,
Bulungu, Lodja
Side   panai  193         r 725 *illion     10/30/97         Grat                         no       no   6evernnt grant - Kiepe
IFI - Kikeit              011. 971 dillion   10/211/7        Grant                        no       no   Gownmat grant-ergmy  easures
France - Kinshau          FF 100 dillion    04106/87     10      5    5.001       0.501   no       no
France - atelier copteur FF  midllion      09/15/87          grant                        no       no   bavernnt grant
IFU - 6ulng               iI .498 sillin0                    Brant                        no       no   No credit egrent
Italy - Ibteno            ECU 2.4 million   07/U/87          Brant                        no       no     overnmnt-grant - reoabilitatim
extension ark
CEE - lutobo              ECU 2.0 sillion   09/29187        Not yet in place              no       no
Italy - Lukaya            ECU 15.2 dIllion  0206/97    10.6    10    2.001                no       yes  Governnt grat
Italian Aid               UC 27 sillim                       Grant                        no       no   Acquisition of Italian
equipnt
UIOF                      US 5.5 silli.                      Grant                       yes       no      Grat
France                    FF 150 dillion                    Not yet in place              no       yes  Direct credit CCCE-
REBIDESO
27-Nay-U
1159s31 AN



Annex I - 3
-53 -
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
REGIDESO S PROPOSED INVESTMENT PROGRAM
CURRENT ZAIRE MILLIONS -         --
1988   1989  1990   1991   1992   Total
1. Rehabilitation
First tranche (1)              500    433      0      0       0     932
Last tranche (2)               933  1s200  1,350    616    832   4,931
2. Development
IDA 1241 ZR                   252       0      0      0       0     252
AEP Kinshasa                 1,124  2,635  2,593  1,089    656   8,096
AEP 15 cities (3)            2,260  5,119 13,133  5,581       0  26,094
Likasi                           0    279    340    186       0       0
3.~ Proposed Project              829  4,834  6,120  6,790  4,116  22,689
4. Other New Centers (4)        3,138  2,703  2,676  3,079 15,969  27,564
5. Program of Support (5)       1,369  1,875  1,855  1,682  3,050   9,830
Total Investment            10,404 19,078 28,067 19,023 24,622 100,388
(1)  Kinshasa, Boende, Bumba, Lusambo, Lubumbashi, Kolwezi,
Moanda, Kikwit, Uvira
(2)  Kinshasa, Kimpese, Lukala, Tshela, Bundundu, Inongo,
Libenge, Buta, Aketi
(3)  Soma, Inkisi, Gemena, Lisala, Kisangani Rive Droite,
Bunia, Isiro, Goma, Kindu, Lubumbashi, Kolwezi,
Kaminal Tshikapa, iandundu
(4)  Ikela, Kole, Luebo  Tshimbulu, Gandajika, Mwene-Ditu, Luozi,
Lodia, Bulungu, Katanda
(5)  Includes regular support (training, computerization, reinforcement
of equipment, administration, and operation)



- 54 -
Annex 2-1
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
REGIDESO
Third Water Supply Project
Justification of Centers' Selection
Base Investment
Economic Rate   Discounted Investment        Cost of
of Return     Cost Per Inhabitant        Watervorks
Center            Z                  US $               US$ thousands
1.  ILEBO          20.52               69.14                    3,590
2. MANGAI          16.47               74.80                    1,185
3. DIBAYA-LUBWE    16.16               75.60                    1,255
4. MUSHIE           8.87               76.56                    1,030
5. DEMBA           16.99               78.78                      689
6. GUNGU            4.69               82.78                      740
7. KALIMA          27.01               85.72                    3,005
8. KILIBA          10.02               92.28                    2,177
9.  KAPANGA        13.20               95.24                    1,893
10. WALIKALE       16.10               98.55                     635
11. BAGATA         15.45              105.28                     851
12. BOSOBOLO       16.73              108.17                     743
13. KAMITUGA       21.76              116.26                    1,677
14. KIBOMBO        10.39              116.57                   1,224
15. MARANZA         4.51              121.98                    1,081
16. LUIZA          17.00              145.63                     910
17. BOZENE          5.98              149.80                     810
18. LUKOLELA       11.20              160.33                   1,429
TOTAL BASE INVESTMENT COST                 24,924



- 55 -
Annox 2-1
Page 2 of 2
Eatimate of the Rate of Return
In determining the rate of return the economic value of a liter of
water obtained under present supply conditions was first determined. For
this a survey was conducted in each center to calculate the following:
(i)   the time to haul water;
(ii) the average monthly family revenue; and
(iii) the number of liters of water consumed per inhabitant.
As the proJect would provide easier access to water, an estimate of
additional quantities of water was made. This value was determined by
referring to the economic value of water and the diminishing value of
additional supplies.
To illustrate this for Kamituga, where presently a quarter of an hour
is needed to carry 25 liters of water, one arrives at Z 4.5 for 25 liters
based on an average revenue of Z 5,490 (Z 18 per hour) or US* 3.20 per m3.
The following parameters were then used in determining the rate of
return:
CS        Number of consumers (standpipes)
CH        Number of consumers (house connections)
I         Initial economic value /m3
ILI       Initial consumption - liters per day per inhabitant
IL2       Liters consumed due to easier access
P1        Price (I - price per i3) for standpipes
P2        Price (I - price per m3) for house connections
CL        Liters per day consumed per inhabitant - standpipes
CHC       Liters per day consumed per inhabitant - house
connections
N         Days per year
Benefits for consumers were calculated as follows:
((I-Pl)*CL*N*CSJ+E(I-P2)*ILI*CHsN) + ((I-P2)*CH*N*(CHC-IL1))/2]
Price *   Quantity                +   Price *    Quantity



- 56 -
Annex 2-2
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
REGIDESO
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Forecast of Population in the Semi-Rural Centers and Likasi
Center                       Population/thousands
1988      1993       1998
Lot No. 2 (Equateur)
1.  Bosobolo                     9         10         12
2.  Bozene                       7          9         11
3.  Lukolela                    10         12         14
4.  Makanza                     12         14         16
Sub-Total Lot No. 2              38         45         53
Lot No. 3 (Bandundu-Kasai Occidental)
5.  Bagata                      17         22         27
6.  Dibaya-Lubwe                23         26        30
7.  Gungu                       12         13         15
8.  Mangai                      21         25         30
9.  Mushie                      18         21        24
Sub-Total Lot No. 3              91        107        126
Lot No.4 (Kasai Occidental)
10. Demba                       14          16        19
11. Ilebo                       86          97       109
12. Kapanga                     23          25        28
13. Luiza                       11          13         15
Sub-total Lot No. 4            134         151        171



- 57 -
Annex 2-2
Page 2 of 2
Lot No. 5 (Kivu)
14. Kalima                       39         45         52
15. Kamituga                     17         22         27
16. Kibombo                      12         14         16
17. Kiliba                       27         32         38
18. Walikale                      7          9         11
Sub-total Lot No. 5             102         122       144
Total of centers
(Lots Nos. 2, 3, 4, and 5)    365          425        494
Lot No. 6 (Shaba)
Town of Likasi             210         246        300
May 28, 1988



- 58 -
Annex 2-3
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
REGIDESO
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Existing Water Supply Systems
A.   18 Semi-Rural Centers
The 18 semi-rural centers are not presently provided with any
piped water supply systems except Ilebo where the railway company, SNCZ
(SocigtE Nationale des Chemins de Fer de Zatre), owns a very old and
limited water supply system covering about 15% of the center. At
present, the inhabitants rely exclusively on private wells, sources and
surface water which are generally contaminated, with consequent
predominance of waterborne diseases.
B.   Likasi
Likasi's water supply is partly provided by REGIDESO boreholes
(8,200 m9/day), and partly by the mining company GECAMINES a/which
provides and distributes 18,000 m3/day of treated water, of which
10,000 ml/day are sold in bulk to REGIDESO and 8,000 m9/day are reserved
for GECAMINES' own use, including the company township. REGIDESO's
distribution system includes about 143 km of pipelines which adequately
supply only part of the town. There are 8,400 private connections, of
which a few supply large consumers, the railway company being the major
one, and 32 public standpipes managed by 'concessionnalres"
(para. 1.14 (ii)). Since 1960, expansion of the water supply system
fell noticeably behind the growth of domestic needs, especially in the
areas of the city not linked to the mining and railway compound and
military camps. Water production facilities are operating to maximum
capacity and periodic water shortages occur in the few poor areas of the
city served by the distribution networks. Therefore, notwithstanding
the water facilities provided by the second Bank water supply project, a
further reinforcement of the production and distribution works is needed
to cope with the demand.
a/   GECAMINES: La Genirale des Carrieres et des Mines.



- 59 -
Annox 2-4
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
REOIDESO
TMIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Forecest of Popultion, Water Consumption. and Water Demand
UKASI                                 13 CENTERS
DENOMINATION                                   1988     1938     19 9               1993 198          193
Populatton (thousands)                                40       49        60              a8        425       494
Population Growth Rate                                     4%       4X                         2.81      2.8X
Average Daily Domestic Consumption through
- house connections (thousand m*/day)              994     1847      1814              8180     4006     5a8s
- neighborhood supplies (thous. a$/day             216      245      276               1468     1524      1480
- public standpipee (thousand a8/day)              400      490      6ee               2186     2598     8972
Weighted Averago  Per Capita Consumptlon (lec)      40.8     42.5      44.6              18.5     18.9      20.1
Numbr of Personv served
by house connections (thousands)                   9.2     12.8     16.2                 78       99      114
Number of Persons served by neighborhood
supplies (thousand)                                 10.8    12.8       18.6               124      127      124
Number of Persons served by Public Standpipes
(thousands)                                           20     24.5      8s                 178      209      256
Average consumption. (thousand m8/day):
- domestic                                         1610     2e92     2690               6768     9987     9918
- Industry and cominrce                             210      260      48o                456      656      945
- governmnt inetItutions                            816      4c5       510               255      865      682
Total Average Consumption                           2185     2747      8689              7474     9978    11425
Tot l Demand on Production (m8/.ay)                 2512     8282     4271               8798    196as   18441
Peak Day Water Demand (mn/day)                      8914      8878    5125               9672    11748    14786



-60-                                   Annex 2 - 5
RRPUBLIC 0 ZAIRE
REGIDB8O
Third Water Supply Project
Cost Eoin1iates (January 1988 Prices)
Total       Leel        loroip
., &. ral-prograum                                             1,010,010     i01,000 1e1i1,001
u satl| *e   .A!  specialits  or'i                                                         210sqe     i
elul tw t le eonr        tie tgrgnd
|~~~~2 oufi4  iu r doeWasteY at works royen sido lIH                                                  l 1711
-,  .rr lg  _tr      tder?r3Iud water    -                                             33ai  14H  311
-    b4E5U oi           jrud°f imautw rd                                               21011 0      2,1   252,001
-  lQuiAtioz  f re eu¢  tZlisle rnd costr           rerouct                   10 0        1 J0,1     2151
uoliX tie  o   ar wCIIater code                                               U4            Ifl        j:j
it toC i  n di    ud cortr SM3111::                      31:::o     105m
406,000      406000     36U,666
later opl   ketr------------------------ -----------
mate  uly I                                                                         5,365,06   431,000   3,14,6116
[                   Sd~~~~k-total 3
C.  Studie
jous-termorguauiatiomlm     ae t studr of IIEDIS0                                 141,000  1 5 700          1  U2,0l
-ltudty/master plau    y of ti. dsias1
E                  Po~~~~erase eairomueta 1    rotetl   oJte"                                       ii eIX          44IIOU60       I
-   Iepuratfom  of *mew ea   rMteOtMcu                                                             117 00   j   2I030
Sb-total C                                                                      2,353,000      236,001   2,111,101
3.   ater Spply lacilities
-  llrtreppwwote i ge I-na  cte pc2,X,                                                 6,231,100  1l,t21,11
-   I=0eaMomt"O1 e tle   liwtre'r apply syste                                      z11,lit,00      II,g0I, of     cee
Sub-total D                                                                    21,466,110   6,5i0,16S  20,550,110
1.   Itdet, Supplies md   ebicles for UCDISO
I1s°ceunuica i°oa   og!1ca I euc of U131S1 0                                      111OI:1111|
-   laisteuece          ort                                                          1,10,1                  1, tral   eterliA
-   l~~~~~~~~.jal1 ~~~~~~~~~~330,000                                                     330,600
-   Comter elpu"at                                                                    650,01                   6$56611
Sub-totl I                                                                      2,03i,606            0   2,O32,600
1.  Bus Cot: I * I * C 4D   1:                                                      38,01t,06   1,625,000  36,45,610
.   Piysical Coutiueaices                                                           5,069,006   1,094,200   3,914,600
P. Irice Coeti leacles                                                               6,411,100   1,122,240   6,68,563
1.   Total Coat                                                                     51,556,66  16,441,440  41,109,366
roaded h  ilpmj                       51.jjh      10,41         1, 16
LIO                                                  IAI-Ml



- 61 -
Annex 2-6
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
REGIDESO
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
US$
1 . IDA
-    PPF                                                  1,080,000
-    85% of investment cost of waterworks in the 18
semi-rural centers                                 29,236,000
-    85% of investment cost of reinforcement of
Likasi water supply system                           2,904,000
-    90% of T.A., training and studies                    7,910,000
-    100% of equipment, supplies and
vehicles for REGIDESO                               3,870,000
Sub-total      45,000,000
2.   GOVERNMENT
-    15% of investment cost of waterworks in the 18
semi-rural centers                                  5,159,000
3.  REGIDESO
-    15% of investment cost of reinforcement of
Likasi water supply system                            513,000
-    10% of T.A., training and studies                      879,000
Sub-total       1,392,000
4.   TOTAL: 1 + 2 + 3                                         51,551,000



REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
REGIDESO
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Impb kentaolon Schedule
yam       496                4969              4990               M9               1992
_~~~~~~idl                                 2       4B _     2    -34   _      2   3  _-- __ _23   _   _-   2   3   4
1. Rnl De    r & Texdr Documwnt_
2. Tendedn & ContioAcw Md for 4 lot d wce
4sel  aL .t N  I
WNatemdsN for Centsm Lfts Nos 2.3.4and 5
MaUtecitkw UKMS Lot No. 6
& WakaCongiuctio
4xl    Lot N_ I 
.WatrAc  for Canton Lots NoL Z 3.4 od                  , 5         _        _ -  -            -        -        -        _
Valewals t5LSt    Lt No.6 6                                                _ -                   _
4. FeomIyuhl/Maer R      *n for Kh    Swswage,
n9,*       b Prottko Wm& RMomflon d   Water
*TOP&TnderDomn_t_
-Tendring & ConcMdd
& Mebmn and Lo-Un-m O.gozAxlnmogemnt* Study
-TOM RTenrDocune*_
-Twxd" & Conad _t _d
7. &4Vft and Equtm.nt for RMGIES
-TendorDocuments
-Tenkdn &ontct d                                              _w_
. *xx*ctu%ng T.opoi&    |y                                                                                              [
*TORa TenderDocu fts wud be  Wied Wmn cwlolon d toI hIgeimwns Mofter Pln (uded byAFDB)wNchwdll
byftXendtd 1986a%1d  ldbs        od by FtWendd1989.                                                                          WodMlr*-415571



- 63 -
Annex 2 - 8
!RPU'ILIC O ZAIRE
REQIDESO
Third Water Supply ProJoct
Monitoring Idicatore
'                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~13N   IOU   Il   1311  130
|o   tim Cacitl              N.jou                    1t,1W       U 2611   32,601   312,35    313,301
btur   odut i                Olm/jr                   210,241   211,136   221,315   23A,        244,551
tint   tiliutin  ate              1                         T4        141       141        141       i5
Ntr dlstriht                 NM /u                    15,6U    102,45   116,565 11,660   IU,6l
tt   sold                   16,6m1m                     1,16      12,16     13,225    U,6       U4,42
h? tueg  d   utc  muer                                   12.61                10.11 .1A.6
hrt     of grmm   vater                                  2.1        36.0      3.6        30.1      3.1
Utlitio  of cbeal
-      ism u h fate       1/1                                        11                             i
Urn               £133~~e&                         4         4 
eloctolto               12 2                                        2         2                    2
l  of Counetiou            total                      266,460   262,411   2H1,42    311,401   336,4t
h  od  CuoIetio            actiN                      2W3,8    251,66   V,233   218,111   310,611
o of Couuotiou             iuctio                      1,N6    514,126    36,6N1    2,240    16,63
hrctago iaativo/total                                    36.1       13.21     12.21      1.61       5.6
loof Stuaipwo                                           1,486      1,56$     1,56      1,660      I,660
topebtioa usni                                      l4,6tN,6665,601,666  ,366,66 5,3H1,,6N  6,1t 0,611
ot  Stuff                                               3,401      3,531     3,666     31,3         61
vnege turiff               tW                           6.51      35.30    133.41    165.93     251.61
-l   NO0                                                 ii        iL                   iil        ill
-  vormet 4ncia            nt     of sale                3.5        3.4       3.2       3.1       3.t
du jot   e                     165       101        3         04         3f
- Frvate Cu n s           mtb of  ule                    3.5       3.2        3.1       2.1       2.5
duof mule                     IS           1        i3        62         1S
Opeating Rtio                                              S31        521       511       4          4Ul
atrnal hto d ltun                                           is        TX         is        is        is
I5/21/6



- 64 -
Annex 2-9
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
REGIDESO
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ESTIMATED QUARTERLY DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Bank           Quarter    X Cumul.        Cumulative      Each      REGIDESO
FY            Ending   Disbursement    Disbursement   Quarter         FY
FY 89      30 Sept. 88       2.4                1.1      1.1
31 Dec.  88      6.9                3.1       2.0       31 Dec. 88
31 March 89     13.6                6.1       3.0
30 June  89     21.3                9.6       3.5
FY 90      30 Sept. 89      29.6               13.3      3.7
31 Dec.  89     38.4               17.2       3.9       31 Dec. 89
31 March 90     46.4               20.9       3.7
30 June  90     54.2               24.4       3.5
FY 91      30 Sept. 90      61.1               27.5      3.1
31 Dec.  90     67.1               30.2       2.7       31 Dec. 90
31 March 91     72.9               32.8       2.6
30 June  91     78.7               35.4       2.6
FY 92      30 Sept. 91      84.4               38.0      2.6
31 Dec.  91     90.2               40.6      2.6        31 Dec. 91
31 March 92     92.7               41.7       1.1
30 June  92     95.1               42.8       1.1
FY 93      30 Sept. 92      97.6               43.9      1.1
31 Dec.  92    100.0               45.0       1.1       31 Dec. 92



-RECLAWTKX4
L1~.&A1RE?
FDJEwoc,ON
Dr&vnoNo
CQECEN ~     OEC¢NE
PNEN
*CnON DES
DMCES? _*
D.EC.                GE  #N
REG~CNAEDU       I
flEGICAE CU_X 
ffGICtftiE CE                                               _
MGO4AaI CI
I  LOG I n                                          =
RE DK  DU                      _.     
AEGOhIALEU CEOC
TAwL  l         i      2gH                                                E w 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~
COO"
- DE 1  D. CROW _ 
RlGON  DU       F        20 1l
REGONID S        1Il!I                                  1  E 
I ECN  DE
L IMAO
S                |au  DJ DEII|   



-66 -                              Annex 4 - I
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE                                    Page 1 of 2
REGIDESO
Third Water Supply Project
Water Distributed and Sold per Customer Category
Tariffs Cross - Subsidization
Table 1
Increases/Decreases in Water Distributed and Sold
per Consumer Category
Tear                   1985    1985    1966    19866   1967      1967
GroXWt  Rate         Volue  Sales   Volume  Sales   V olue   Sale,
eual average              et      el'     22     3521    11I       41I
domistiC                  SS     211    121 -S 2S                  242
stanlpipes               2          1   -29S    2  1   -112    -172
conmercial              -142    -11S1    30S      1 i  i32         3 2
industrial                62     17s!   -142     452,    17S      51S
Table 2
Annual Distribution of Water Distributed and Sold
per Consumer Category
Tear                   1986    1985 i  1986    1986    1981      1987
Distribution         Volue  Sales   Volue  Sales   Volue   Sales
domestic                 41      16S2    48S     2521    486      122
standpiies                1S   -          1S   -       1I        -
industril                172s    26s2    2T      Il    21 292
ledutrial         llS~17  26111   ITS      33ti    let      53S



Annex 4 - 1
-67 -                                             Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
REGIDESO
Third Water Supply Project
Table 3
Calculation of Crons Subsidization in Tariffs
May 1988 Tariffs
Mterials laterials btrials l terials laterial laterials
reouel Penouel Penouel
Categor                   Tariff au  of    A*U1 I4erce  -----s- --e------Tari- *riffe cover  .S of above cost itte
.183 lr. Z3 lr.a              it, noTO  1/1918    5/1918              ^        1/1988    5/1s88
sTmiS                        6.23      12          10.78       92.6A         351        662        61S        212        402        362
-mc
1 - 15 d/smi -15           46.53    170          13. 5       265.42         26S        962        Y62        15         57S        46
i6 - 25         3.30 31               26.9       254.8          522       186        122         312       1192        902
36.2       190.1          882       254%2                            1502
1ii 5  11              44.48      172.82 11       42       3512       212         ds1       183 2      lis2
a      1      1:       65          52.11      185o.2        12U        3          29S         14
-oboe 180    HER         IT          58.95       2 U.8        134S       m3$        33           9         5S        16
A  a  016             106.27      177.62        2772       7662      6002        1632     4t32        3512
79.1 U18t            149.94       131.02        4502      10132      8462       2652        13        4912
NILIC                       25.06      75          56.58      200.02        1412       4232       3192        832       2562       1682
Averae tariff                                      62.23
GenUdain Cen&Udmin GelAdi. Depreciat.Depreciat.Depreciat.
Materials Materials Materials Gen§Abin Gen&Udmin GenlAdmh
Personnel Personnel Personel Materials Materials daterials
Personnel Personnel Personnel
Category                  Tariff as of    A9:Gn         Increase s -                                            ::::-::--:-:::::
1/1986  5/19188     1988      1/1981 TO 1/1988    5/1988        AVIAI6I  1/1988    5/1988        £I71101
r./al lr./3         r./3        5/18                              196                              1988
SIUIiIPIIS                   6.23      12          10.78       92.62        182        342        302        12S        242        21S
1 - 1S3/al -We   5         46.53    170          138.55      265.41        152        57S        462         92        342       282
:  0L 3j 6  8                   25 . S         26SI                 762         n          6S  
- ~  10:16  51    4    4:46      172.98        5 7       1  S                   402       110         892
66     274        65          52.11      165.82        642       181 S                 12 52     1302       lo4
above 100    23.78      77          58.95      223.82        572       2172       166         172       1542      1162
COmICIL                     49.00    136          106.21      177.62       1382       3822       2992        988       2712       2122
B1StIUl                   719.6    184           149.94      131.02       2242       5172       4122       1592       3672      2992
r8iLC                       25. 0      75          56.58      200.02        70S       211S       1512        502       1502       1132



- 68 -
Annex 4 - 2
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
RZGIDESO
Third Water Supply Project
Income Statenent
Tar sidUg  eceeor 31                             1985      l9ol       1987        198       1989       1916       1111       19
-----  -tl        ----- -------'------------- Forecat ---           _
blue d   bter Sales i '661 .3                118t1i  13io3ri   14i  9ii    154 711   162 435   iio;5s6   1?918 Ui            il
ivrage Tarif  is hii/m                         1          i.,   1i.6;            CI.1.41 .b            H..7                 2H.. 
iU million
lug                          ~~~~~~~~1,665    2,572  3.741     10,444    15,577    22 T64    33,256    47,362
I''1er P  L r                                      211l                3i          93                      i         i37     J7;
lou: bad debt                                   58        83         124         347        511        74T      1,01       1,552
Total lerenes                             1,88      2,694      4,602      11,212    16,526    24,138    35,263    50,186
QFT u6msa
OPIAI  11111515                                                                     0       1  1       1 ;            Z  
fleprenie                                         364       512        868       2,042      2,9        474 5,       957      8,1,4
Fue al  nerg tiy   lzpues                  172       201        320       1,030    11,104        212        3,6        4,235
Chemicals                            111~~~~~~II  200     2168                    719      1,034      1,46       2,8
Tra naportiu  1s¢on e                       29C                  283       2,890 63  115  1  93  571                    14,67
hterialu                            ~~~~~~~~15  332       40        1,023      1,494      2,3         3,s604,2
duistr. lipenses                            232       162        332 916              1           1,893      21
Lreciation                                455       56A      1,311       2,415      3,33        5,1015    7,617    I1t
Total Operating Expenses                  1,592    2,246       3,719       8,322    11,940    17,265    25,108    35,652
Operting Income                             296       448        283       2,890      4,586      6,853    10,155    14,534
lao tItso eIneres                            14                               151        656        625        956 
hdnp  Lm  a  laterogt      0         14        252          04       ~~~582       921      I1,360     1,
ht lacome                                    67       (55)      (330)      2,035      3,348      5,107      7,825    11,558
Operating latio                                 0.84      0.82       0.93         0.74       0.72       0.11         41
rtkighlatlo                                      0.60     0.57        0.60        0.53       0.52       0951       .111       OU



Annex 4 - 3
-69 -
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
REGIDESO
Third Water Supply Project
Funds Flow Statement
It villlZ
lear .41m    ho.hr  31                           1135       1I6I15                 13          1351       111        1111        1112
Actu 3 lalut   --- -----------------foreat-
lilEilsi ~~~~~~~~- suro
DMUL nus CDSEZ
h g    fr u   Oser i                               411       US       1,311       i"'8       1:11!6        ZS1     1 1          1S  it 5
635 Jital Cub                                762    1,136       1,594        5,305      1,921    1A7  In,112    25,I36
~aiE~Pitall~tb kb.tu                         11         j         101         f3 ''6
rs t2 0   3 21 14i9 6} 5  no },            1117    2,631   3, 26
Total Onratiag kbpiunsi ts                   313       646        542       2,431       4,69 3     5,44U      5,710       7,129
oI isttomal CaiIftlos                        360       4o         752       2,385       3,311      6,420    12,032    18,515
he                                                                        325      4,3t        6,12       6          4,1
1,56t 25 142         6,613       9 1,41   214          21         11,367     13 15
Total 1.41mg Ibqiue..tt                    1,565    2,313       6,615      10,44    13,015    21,063    11,022    24,621
hlnlu       to fiance                           1,197    1,822        5,923       7,53      15,767    21,t6         6,990      5,31I
?ropo              Capta  C1to                                                 6518W   1,164  tl  223,0 32    4,          2,31S
e, trio..                                                                          13'    II m   3 l5} 36  124a'2 1 , 513
535 =                 IT =                           II: 110
701    1,0615      7,614       40         2,      3  332            3       1,266
rluadlmg                                 ~~~~~~~~~105  53                                                        I  
Tota  Ilamiug                              1,236    1,633       7,716       6,603    16,031    22,01          7,443      6,250
~~~~jariid                          U    iii~~~~~~ 1:174  (1,535)   32 1 J3    153i  I'll!



- 70 -                                          Annex  4  -  4
REPUBLIC O  ZAIRE
REGIDESO
Third Water Supply Project
Balance Sheet
Mlr iii       eif  1I5                                  0ii       Inv      tins"lsin                                  i
D"ret Plai                                    INSru   1,62 15,1  21,13     12,3        13,3    11126    111,5    24,12
um ~ ~     ~     ~     ~ ~ ----  kh                ---------,--     w---  -----------------
------------~::::--:::-:::::    -        :  
Imaml:&wrclatiet                            12w  `2:'  3|l3   ff,'5 Wm   NO    1a3251 112SW  IM2
bt plut 1  Sentee                            i,11i    is,in    2i,35       52,335    11,131    111,2S2    171,S3S   2U,112                 |
Other   uts                                     56      221        Vs 4m                 s4        In3      12        1.762
hor  b  M      seu                           1,66     2,13"    1,521        I1,56    2H,3S    31,36        21,S4     3,35
Tota flid luau                          1,525   16,633    31,535      64,863    11,661   141,416   261,116   215,252
Cu    t lAe
Iaveatorles                       ~~324     31          6          3        ,2       2,P         ,6        ,1
jdu                                            165       62       413       1,733      1,:1      1:I7       3, 41  3,424
16       la   1      566543                       4'11      1,5
Utter lahter                    16  ~~~~ ~~Ii     21         I#          1 1 , 17  1,5
I  I           2:~~1561
Total Cnet A..t                        2,631    2,45       4,7"        6,813    11,363    16,611    22,141    26,165
Lfrred Chaes                                   65     1,256      3,135      5,381    12,553    24,6       41,6       61,166
TOWU  AU;S                            12,U    21,745    4,1           1,645   123,625   11, 116    1,2   385,451
__:__:::3       -------      -   -----   --  --------:::-- :-::-:-::-:::::-:=-- :::----::-
DILMIIS
Ifhh!|certu1 1 1.            7n 1,   i .j   lii   I:t32 21t1:13  7?3    I:X  'f:fl
levaLaatla mmli.                7161   14 4Ul    26,632                    41.. i,l51    66,44  13,t11    134,612   IN,612
lataiued Earthy               1416)1311)~~~~~R M121            6       4,154     1,266    1,1,66     26,13
Total  Ity                              1,261   15,561    21U,41      52,651    85,722   134,521   116,14   214,561
Leu  Tem  ebt                                2,N2    4,7N       14,346     18,U6     21,311    4,412    68,124   161,214
Currt Liabilitie
Eatarltleg                                     5257t    261S       3133     2U1        'i"       2,66il2    L261 1,W; !t
Accent raysits                             561       61                            1: 4I     4:23       l4I
IIIle    215  11                        2,4I                I,lj
0t1   Pajables                    ~~~~~~~215  411      56       1,241      1.66?     2,511      3,61      ihi
Total Cbrrt Liabilities                   16?    1,466     2,115       5,712     7,163    11,711    14,341    11,3381
Total Liabilities                      3129    6,11       16,523      2,313     3,33    56,242    62,18    121,153
TT   LIIILLITIES  AD  3661??          12,226   21,145       ,6n       11,64    I,625   11,116   211,6ll   35,415
::::--::::---::---   -::: ----::::::: -_ :- ----   - ---------- ---
Ittemal lte of etan                            1.31     3.33      1.2         71.6      7.33       1.62      7.61       1.6
total  an  sot am he to r_diyg



- 71 -
Annex 4-5
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
REGIDESO
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Assumptions Underlying Financial Projections
General Note
REGIDESO's fiscal year corresponds to the calendar year. The first
period shown in the income and expenditure statement, the balance sheet and the
flow of funds statement represents REGIDESO's operating history. While the
statements for FY 1985 and FY 1986 reflect the audit for those years, the
statements for fy 1987 are preliminary and will, upon finalization, be audited
in accordance with existing covenants. All statements were prepared using the
local currency, the Zaire, and were subject to the following inflation rates:
Year            1987      1988      i989       1990      1991       1992
Annual
Inflation Rate  91%       65%       35%        35%       35%        35%
A. Income Statements
The growth of water sales was, after discussions with the appraisal
mission, derived from REGIDESO's estimates of demand projections to be met by
existing production facilities, by other projects either nearing completion or
to be completed during the forecast period and from the proposed project. The
following overall growth rates were assumed:
Year           1988       1989      1990       1991      1992
Annual
Growth Rate     6.0%           5.0%      5.0%       5.5%      6.0%
Revenues
Tariff increases in line with the proposed rate of return (7% on the
average value of net revalued fixed assets) would lead to the following average
tariffs (see Annex 4-1, Table 3 for the existing tariff structure):
Year            1988      1989      1990       1991      1992
Zaire/m3
Annual Tariff
in current value    67.51      95.90     133.47    185.70    251.87
increase in Z       163.40     42.10      39.20      39.10     35.60
in real terms       26.30      26.00      26.80      27.70     27.80
increase in 2        2.7%      -1.1%       3.1%       3.1%      3.1%
May 28, 1988



- 72 -
Annex 4-5
Page 2 of 4
Income from meters and charges for new connections which would
follow increases similar to those of tariffs Was determined to
correspond to 6% of water sales.
Operating Expenses
Forecast operating expenses are based on the existing cost
structure of REGIDESO and were adjusted for inflation. As there is
still the possibility to reduce and contain costs, appropriate
adjustments were made in arriving at the following average rates of
growth in real terms over the period from 1988 to 1992:
1988 to 1992
average annual rate
Personnel                      3.2
Fuel/Energy                    5.0
Chemicals                      5.5
Transport                      5.5
Materials                      5.0
General & Administration       4.4
Personnel
Payroll expenses reflect modest increases in the number of
REGIDESO's staff, which will grow from the present 3,490 staff members
to 3,670 from 1988 to 1992.
Fuel and Energy, Chemicals
These are directly correlated to the water produced.
Transport
Savings from greater cost control will be modest and increases
should in general follow the increase in water produced.
Materials
Use of materials is forecast to decrease slightly and would be
below the increase in water produced.
General and Administrative Expenses
General and administrative expenses are expected to decrease
by about 1.2% annually from 1988 to 1992. This is in accordance with
REGIDESO's stated objectives to contain operating costs.
Depreciation
The average depreciation rate of 3.5% which was used in the
projections, represents REGIDESO's depreciation charges. REGIDESO uses
the degressive depreciation method with the following rates:



- 73 -
Annex 4-5
Page 3 of 4
Average life
-    5%   for buildings                            50 years
-    6%   for treatment plants and reservoirs            40 years
-    7%   for networks and connections                   33 years
-   11%   for electro/mechanical installations, pumps  20 years
-   37%   for vehicles                                    5 years
Taxes
REGIDESO does not pay any income taxes. Taxes represent a
variety of small and insignificant taxes and contributions.
B.   Funds Flow Statements and Balance Sheets
Construction Program
The appraisal mission reviewed with REGIDESO's staff its
five-year investment program, which is shown in Annex 1-2.  This
investment program is the result of a wider review of the Government's
investment program, including those of its parastatals which covers the
investments up to end 1990. Additional investments are foreseen by 1992
for which, apart from self-financing from REGIDESO, so far no sources of
finance have been identified. The overall investment program is
realistic and tries to strike a balance between the need to expand water
systems in rural areas and to meet the continuously growing demand in
the urbanized areas.
Assets
Assets were revalued in e4ich year with the inflation rates
shown above.
Accounts Receivable
The estimated values of accounts receivables were derived at
in forEseeing improvements in REGIDESO's collection of overdue accounts.
They represent the following number of months of sale for
1988      1989      1990       1991      1992
Private customers    3.5        3.2       3.0        2.7       2.5
Government agencies  3.5        3.4       3.2        3.1       3.0
Inventories
Inventories which consist primarily of materials, spare parts
and chemicals represent a stock of about 10 months supply which is
considered adequate in the context of Zaire.
Advances and Other Creditors
Advances are advance payments to contractors and are based on
REGIDESO's investment program. They were assumed at 5%. Other debtors
represent accounts receivables including prepayments.



- 74 -
Annex 4-5
Page 4 of 4
Liabilities
Annex 1-1 provides information on REGIDESO's long-term debt.
A great Dortion of this debt was contracted by the Government which
passed it on to REGIDESO in accordance with the various lending
agreements. REGIDESO carries for most of this debt the foreign exchange
risk for which substantial amounts have to be collected. The forecasts
reflect this fact in as much as the debt has been revalued.
Accounts Payable and Other Payables
Accounts payable represent about 5 months of related
purchases. Other Accounts Payable represent various deposits other than
from customers.



- 75 -
Annex 4-6
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
REGIDESO
ZAlRE - THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Computer Component
The first study of the computer needs for REGIDESO was
conducted in 1984 and financed under the Second Water Supply Project
under IDA credit 1241. A plan for the period 1985-1990 was the product
of this study. During the period 1985-1987, REGIDESO acquired two
minicomputers installed in Kinshasa and Lubumbashi, as well as several
microcomputers which are located mostly in the Central Administration
offices. The computer in Kinshasa was financed by IDA credit 1241,
while the computer in Lubumbashi was acquired through self-financing.
Technical assistance, financed by IDA credit 1241, was instrumental in
setting up more suitable systems and procedures.
An update of this study was carried out by SAUR in October
1987. The study outlines a plan to further computerize REGIDESO's
activities. It outlines the hardware, software and training necessary
to realize the Plan Informatique and covers the period 1988-1992.
Although at present there are a number of operations that are
computerized, the consolidation of information is cumbersome at best and
does not allow for the management of REGIDESO to respond in a timely
fashion nor to make important decisions based on reliable and up-to-date
information. The objective of putting into place a modern information
system at REGIDESO's headquarters is to give management access to
accurate and timely data on water statistics (consumption, production,
billing and arrears), as well as to accounts, inventory and payroll.
The system envisioned is a decentralized one. This decentralization
will be put in place by progressively installing computers and software
in Kinshasa, as well as the other regional centers.
Four stages have been outlined in the "Plan Informatique".
The first phase, 1983-1986, saw a minicomputer (HP 3000/48) installed In
Kinshasa. Management of customer accounts (updating customer files,
billing, collection, etc.) as well as payroll,
analytical/general/budgetary accounting and inventory are processed on
this computer for Kinshasa, Bas-Zaire, Haut-Zaire, Kivu and Equateur.
In addition, this computer is used to consolidate all the data for
REGIDESO for the whole of Zaire.  In order to process all the data
(Kinshasa accounts for 50% of all water sales), there are three teams
who work in eight hour shifts thereby allowing the machine to be used
twenty-four hours a day.  In spite of rhese efforts, the machine has
reached its maximum zapacity.



- 76 -
Annex 4-6
Page 2 of 2
For the period 1987-1988, it is foreseen to install mini-
computers in three regional zones of REGIDESO - Lubumbashi, Kisangani
and Matadi. Part of this objective was achieved by the installation of
HP3000/42 minicomputer in Lubumbashi at the end of 1985.
The computer in Lubumbashi processes all the billings for the
Shaba, Kasai Oriental and Kasai Occidental regions aS well as the
general accounting. These regions account for 30% of all water sales.
The data for these regions is consolidated on magnetic tape and
forwarded to the regional office in Kinshasa for further processing.
The third phase, 1989-1990, will see the installation of
Iicrocomputers in all regional centers not yet equipped.  The fourth
phase 1990-1992 will see the installation of microcomputers in all of
the large stations of the regional centers.
The proposed project will finance a minicomputer to be
installed in REGIDESO's Central Administration, as well as twelve
microcomputers. The proposed project will also finance technical
assistance for which an information specialist, as well as a management
specialist are foreseen. The information specialist will train REGIDESO
staff and will prepare studies and programming of applications related
to Central Administration offices. The management specialist will be
responsible for organizing the information center at the Central
Administration office as well as the information centers in the regional
centers. This expert will also be responsible for training of staff on
new applications that are put into place as well as the setting up of
standards for the gathering of information.
All consolidation of records, as well as the development of
software, processing of payroll and inventory will be processed on the
computer financed by this proposed project. Additionally, all
transactions for those regions not yet computerized will be processed as
well. The acquisition of this computer will therefore provide the much
needed relief for the computer at the regional office in Kinshasa. It
will also improve the administration of REGIDESO by reducing to a
minimum the delay in treatment of all applications and will allow for
the computerization of further activities such as management of
investments, budget and maintenanci of equipment.



- 77 -
ZAIRE
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
REGIDESQ
Selected Documents in Proeut File
1. Contrat-Programme entre l"Etat at 18 REGIDESO (signed on
May 5, 1988).
2.  Arrete departemental No. DENI/CAD/Oll of May 5, 1988
concerning new water tariffs to be enfore d starting fr,m
May 23, 1988.
Etudes de factibilit6 de lalimentation an eau de 24 centres
et Likasi (by REGIDESO).
4. Actualisation du Plan Informatique de la REGIDESO (by
RESIDESO and SAUR).
5.  Strategie de Developpement a lthorizon 2010 - Sect-ur eau et
assainissement au Zaire - Document provisoire (by REBIDEBO
and consultant).
6.  T-rmes de r4ikrence pour *tude d'organisation et
gestion (by REBIDESO).
7.  Pr-visions financieres 1988-1992 (by REBIDESO).
S.  Alimentation en eau potable du Camp Leopard.
Dossier d'appel d'offres - Lot li fournitur-.
Synthese et justificatif (by REeIDESO).
9.  Materiels de chantiers pour la Dlrection des Travaux en
R4gie (DTR)u Termes de r-fer-nce et devis (by RESIDESO).
10. Assistance technique a la formation des chefs d'atelier de
j          forage.  Terme- de rif6rence (by REGIDESO).
11. Assistance Technique a I& Direction des Travaux en R-gi-.
Termes de refirence (by REGIDESO).
12. Composante informatique, Dossier d'appel d'offres
fourniture, assistance technique et formation des
informaticiens (by REGIDESO).
13. Materiels et equipements de surveillance des travaux per la
CEMDAEP (by REGIDESO).



- 78 -
14. Termes de reference des etudes du code de l'eau (by
REGIDESO).
15. Equipements du centre de formation: Synthese et
justificatif (by REGIDESO).
16. Formation continue, recyclage et perfectionnement des
formateurs + synthese et justificatif (by REGIDESO).
17. Dossiers d'appel d'offres pour la 4ourniture d'equipements du
centre de formation (by REGIDESO).
16. Fiches techniques et financieres des projets - 2 volumes.
Vol 1 (fiches techniques) and Vol 2 Cfiches financieres) (by
REGIDESO).
19. Contrat pour etude retrospective and prospective du secteur
eau et assainissement en Republique du Zaire (entre REGIDESO
et M. Stevens).
20. Termes de reference pour les prestations d'assistance
technique au Departement des Finances et de l'Administration
-   (DFA) pour la. maitrise.. d-l a gest.ion des. -abonnes (by
REGIDESO).
21. Contrat entre REGIDESO et SAUR AFRIQUE concernant
1'amelioration de la gestion des abonnes.
22. Note technique et devis sur la composante renforcement des
moyens logistiques (by REGIDESO).
23. Montage fonction analyse financiere (by REGIDESO).
24. Equipements de bureau et consommables speciaux (by REBIDESO).
25. Programmation financiere du plan quinquennal 1987-1991 (plan
d'investissement public prioritaire) (by REGIDESO).
26. REGIDESO - rapport et bilan 1986 (by REGIDESO).
27. Rapport d'evaluation de l'alimentation en eau potable de 24
centres et Likasi (by REGIDESO).
28. Zaire - Population , Health and Nutrition Sector Review
(World Bank - November 12, 1987).
All the above mentioned documents were prepared during 1987 and
1968.



MAUy~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N    R4r'     
s    -   _os.t  ~~CHAD                      ,AFRICAN                                                                   C                                    SU A 
i     NIGERI                                   ET       0,H                                                         L4IOUPIA                                                  , 
| 5~~~~CETA ZAFRCA REP'                   C\%                                                                                                                                % Il  
|                  -zA         i)CAIEROON'> N|BAS                                                                              UELE                     RE><           d 
EQ.ANOL 'LINE4t  .W  >14G  DaT ER SH O* PO
It_                    r                ArG/  I                        ;vv                      V, H/    X        eEvi
X~~~~~~~~O                                 i MONG SHALA  <S s       oKV 
G  A IS O N | PEOPLESI ,,   /I                                  1W 
|~~~~~~~~~~~~ T, $ ANZ U MANIA                                  M|                                                                                 'ITURI 
i;~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                       ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A U ZN T     
ANGOLA~ ~   ~          ~                                           R?    S!w                       ^   A<K 
Zj                                         'E  UA TEU EUGAND,ALO  AM       <
@ pineeoRGDs lAGL   XZAMBIA                                                                      p RA.                                                       l
~~Rilrood 67o > ozHAA rk /i
- v -  Rivers                                        , (,+_3  "{ \   ,  %,              / flangweulu #~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ak Edar
*  Su-reionCaptol              ,,t.,,b,,,,}   _{                               '<\  +sAPAT
0  Region Capitals -Ir _,, ____ , , _ _ , ¢ lr-KIV
@   Ncitional Capitols      i i i                  #            ) ~~~LOTN.6                            -
GABON     ~      ubreio PEOPLrE'S                                                      ,. .5 
--^-   egionBoundREP                                                                        ;     ZA                 r  .  
--- ~ ~ O            THrrwfoo BurEs
20   1             24*                           2av                                 JUNE 1K



