Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1939 ZR
                   (Third Water Supply Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated July 11, 1988
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1939 ZR
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July 11, 1988, between the REPUPLIC OF ZAIRE
(the Borrower) and the  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Project will be carried  out by the Borrower's Regie
de Distribution d'Eau de  la  Republique  du Zaire (REGIDESO) with
the Borrower's assistance  and,  as  part  of such assistance, the
Borrower will  make  available  to  REGIDESO  the  proceeds of the
Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Association has  agreed,  on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and  conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and in the
Page  2
Project Agreement of  even  date  herewith between the Association
and REGIDESO;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.O1. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the  last  sentence  of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Project  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between the
Association and REGIDESO of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to  time,  and  such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (b)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means the agreement entered
into between the Borrower  and  REGIDESO  pursuant to Section 3.O1
(b) of this Agreement, as  the  same  may  be amended from time to
time, and such term includes  all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and
     (c)  "Project   Preparation   Advance"   means   the  project
preparation advances granted  by  the  Association to the Borrower
pursuant to exchanges of  letters  dated  June 22, 1985, August 7,
1985 and October 1, 1985; January  30, 1986 and June 16, 1986; and
March 14, 1987, April 25, 1987  and  August 6, 1987 (with telex of
November 3, 1987); between  the  Borrower  and the Association, to
the extent they were allocated  to the preparation of water supply
components, and aggregating $1,080,000.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to  thirty  two  million  six  hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 32,600,000).
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in  accordance with the provisions of this
Section and of Schedule 1  to this Agreement for expenditures made
(or, if the Association shall so  agree, to be made) in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount  of   the   Project   Preparation   Advance  withdrawn  and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of  the  authorized  amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.O3. The Closing  Date  shall  be  April 30, 1994 or
such  later  date   as   the   Association  shall  establish.  The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
Page  3
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
or at such other rates as may  be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year, as specified in Section  2.06 of this Agreement, except that
the rate set as of June  30,  1988  shall be applied as of July 1,
1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.O6. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on  each  March 1 and September 1
commencing  September  1,  1998  and  ending  March  1, 2028. Each
installment to and including  the  installment payable on March 1,
2008 shall be one percent (1%)  of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
Page  4
     Section 2.09. REGIDESO is designated as representative of the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  taking  any  action  required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.O2 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end,  without any limitation or restriction
upon any of  its  other  obligations  under the Development Credit
Agreement and in  close  cooperation  with  the Association, shall
cause REGIDESO  to  carry  out  the  Project  and  to  perform, in
accordance with the provisions  of  the Project Agreement, all the
other obligations of REGIDESO  therein  set  forth, shall take and
cause to be taken  all  action,  including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate
to enable REGIDESO to perform such obligations, and shall not take
or permit to be taken any  action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  relend  the  proceeds  of the Credit
allocated to and withdrawn under  Categories other than (1) (a) in
the table set forth in Schedule 1 of this Agreement and shall make
available to REGIDESO as a  contribution  to capital the amount of
the Credit allocated to and withdrawn under Category (1) (a) under
a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered  into  between the
Borrower and REGIDESO,  providing  for  terms and conditions which
shall have been approved  by  the Association, which shall include
for the proceeds relent a  rate  of  interest  of 7.72%, a term of
twenty years including  five  years'  grace  and the assumption by
REGIDESO of the exchange risk,  except for amounts used to finance
Part B.1 of the Project, which risk will be borne by the Borrower.
     (c)  The  Borrower  shall  exercise   its  rights  under  the
Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  in  such  manner  as  to  protect the
interests of the Borrower  and  the  Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the  Credit,  and  except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.02. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 1 to
the Project Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower shall not  permit the Convention specifique
de mandat  between  the  National  Trading  Company (SONATRAD) and
REGIDESO dated April  7,  1987  to  be  amended  without the prior
concurrence of the Association.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of  the  General  Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of  goods  and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and
reports, maintenance and land  acquisition, respectively) shall be
carried out by REGIDESO  pursuant  to  Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
     Section 3.04. The  Borrower  shall  carry out its commitments
under its contrat-programme with REGIDESO dated May 5, 1988, shall
exchange views annually with the Association on the performance of
the parties thereunder, and shall,  on the basis of such exchanges
of views, make such modifications thereto as shall be appropriate.
     Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower  shall ensure that amounts due
to REGIDESO by the Borrower and  its agencies for water supply and
related services be paid promptly at  the end of each year so that
arrears not  exceed  3.5  months  of  sales  by  the  end of 1988,
Page  5
declining progressively to 3.0 months by the end of 1992.
     (b)  Payments under paragraph  (a)  of  this Section shall be
made by transfers of funds to  REGIDESO and not, unless such funds
be insufficient, by set-off  against  amounts owed to the Borrower
by REGIDESO.
     Section 3.06. The Borrower shall act on proposals by REGIDESO
for adjustments  in  its  tariff  structure  within  two months of
receiving from REGIDESO the  reports  referred  to in Section 2.05
(c)  of  the  Project  Agreement  or  any  other  proposal  for an
adjustment in such structure.
                            ARTICLE IV
                          Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. The Borrower shall  take such measures as shall
be necessary  on  its  part  to  enable  REGIDESO  to  comply with
Sections 4.02 through 4.05 of the Project Agreement and to achieve
the performance targets set forth in Schedule 2 to such Agreement.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.O1. Pursuant  to  Section  6.O2  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  REGIDESO  shall  have  failed  to  perform  any  of  its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development  Credit  Agreement,  an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen  which  shall  make  it improbable that REGIDESO
will  be  able  to  perform  its  obligations  under  the  Project
Agreement.
     (c)  The  Statuts  of   REGIDESO   or  any  other  applicable
legislation  shall  have   been   amended,  suspended,  abrogated,
repealed or waived so  as  to  affect materially and adversely the
ability of REGIDESO to  perform  any  of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of REGIDESO or for the suspension of its operations.
     Section 5.O2. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after  notice  thereof  shall  have  been  given by the
Association to the Borrower; or
     (b)  the  events  specified  in  paragraphs  (c)  and  (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The  following   event  is  specified  as  an
additional  condition  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section  2.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has
been executed on behalf of the Borrower and REGIDESO.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
Page  6
furnished to the Association.
     (a)  that the Project Agreement  has  been duly authorized or
ratified by  REGIDESO  and  is  legally  binding  upon REGIDESO in
accordance with its terms;
     (b)  that  the  Subsidiary  Loan   Agreement  has  been  duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and REGIDESO and is legally
binding upon the  Borrower  and  REGIDESO  in  accordance with its
terms; and
     (c)  that the subsidiary loan  agreement between the Borrower
and REGIDESO under which the  proceeds  of Credit No. 1241-ZR were
relent has been  amended  to  provide  for  a  rate of interest of
7.72%.
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.04. The obligations  of the Borrower under Sections
3.02  (b)  and  3.04  through  3.06  of  this  Agreement  and  the
provisions of  Section  5.O2  of  this  Agreement  shall cease and
determine on the date  on  which  the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on the date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. Except  as  provided  in  Section  2.O9 of this
Agreement, the Commissioner of  State  of the Borrower responsible
for finance is designated  as  representative  of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.O2. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Departement des Finances
          Boite Postale No. 12997
          Kinshasa 1
          Republic of Zaire
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               DENFIN                            21161 KIN GOMBE
               Kinshasa
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INDEVAS                           44OO98 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
Page  7
                    REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
                    By /s/ Mushobekwa Kalimba Wa Katana
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Construction                                100% of foreign
     of water-supply                             expenditures and
     systems, well-                              80% of local
     drilling, civil                             expenditures
     works:
     (a)  Part B.1 of           17,350,000
          the Project
     (b)  Part B.2 of            2,030,000
          the Project
(2)  Vehicles, equipment,        2,470,000       100% of foreign
     supplies, for                               expenditures
     REGIDESO
(3)  Consultants' and            3,620,000       100% of foreign
     experts' ser-                               expenditures and
     vices; training,                            90% of local
     studies                                     expenditures
(4)  Refunding of                  830,000       Amount due
     Project Prepara-                            pursuant to
     tion Advance                                Section 2.02 (b)
                                                 of this Agree-
                                                 ment
(5)  Unallocated                 6,300,000
                               ___________
          TOTAL                 32,600,000
2.   To the extent that the  amount  allocated to Category 4 above
exceeds  the  amount  due,  the  excess  will  be  reallocated  to
Category 5.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
Page  8
withdrawals shall be made in  respect of payments for expenditures
made prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods and services  supplied  from  the  territory  of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the  Project  are to improve and strengthen
planning of investments,  expenditures  and  revenue in the water-
supply sector, to formulate  policies  and programs to address key
issues in such sector, especially rural water supply and community
participation, and  to  strengthen  REGIDESO's  capacity for cost-
recovery and its operational efficiency and financial position.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Technical Assistance, Training and Studies
1.   Definition of water and sanitation sector strategy, including
an assessment of  the  achievements  of the International Drinking
Water and Sanitation Decade.
2.   Preparing a sector strategy and updating the sector study.
3.   Preparing the  final  designs  and  tender  documents for the
proposed water works.
4.   Supervision of works.
5.   Training of REGIDESO staff in computer skills.
6.   Training of trainers and managers for the new systems.
7.   Training   of   staff   of   the   planning   unit   of   the
Multidisciplinary Center  for  the  Development  of Drinking Water
Supply (CEMDAEP).
8.   Training of master well-drillers.
9.   Organizing exploration for, and managing of, ground water.
10.  Strengthening of planning unit of the CEMDAEP.
11.  Preparing national water legislation.
12.  Strengthening the Directorate of Force Account Works.
13.  Analysis and control  of  accounting and financial operations
and their management.
14.  Improving the management of consumer relations at Lubumbashi.
15.  Strengthening the planning unit  of  REGIDESO to enable it to
assist  the  operations  of  the  National  Rural  Water Resources
Services.
16.  Carrying out feasibility studies  and preparing a master plan
Page  9
for sanitation, drainage and  environmental protection systems for
the city of Kinshasa.
17.  Conducting a long-term  organization  and management study of
REGIDESO.
Part B:   Works
1.   Construction and installation of  new water supply systems in
25 semi-rural centers: Makanza, Lucolela, Bozene, Bosobolo, Gungu,
Mushie,  Bagata,  Dibaya-Lubwe,   Mangai,   Ilebo,  Demba,  Luiza,
Kapanga,  Walikale,  Kibombo,  Kalima,  Kamituga,  Kiliba, Befale,
Bikoro, Bolobo, Kamanyola, Lubero, Nyunzu  and Samba, the first 18
being  ranked  as  priority,  each  system  consisting  of intake,
transmission line, reservoir, slow  filtration treatment plant for
surface   water,   chlorination   plant,   distribution   network,
individual  connections  and   public   standpipes  with  adequate
drainage  and  waste   water   disposal,  office  and  operational
buildings, and staff housing.
2.   Reinforcement of the water supply system at Likasi, including
the source intake,  transmission  line,  pumping station, tertiary
pipelines and additional house connections.
Part C:   Logistics, Equipment and Supplies
     Strengthening of  maintenance,  training  and data-processing
capabilities of REGIDESO through  the  procurement of equipment in
the following categories:
1.   Data-processing equipment and software.
2.   Workshops,   maintenance,   office   and   works  supervision
equipment and vehicles.
3.   Radio  equipment  for  inter-system  links,  including  solar
panels.
4.   Equipment for  maintenance,  including  vehicles, spare parts
and tools.
5.   Training equipment, furnishings and supplies.
                            *    *    *
     The Project is expected to be completed by November 1, 1992.
