Page  1
June 5, 1991
The Minister of Finance and
Economic Planning
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
P.O. Box 2092
Khartoum, 1
The Republic of Sudan
          Re: 2011 SU Emergency Flood Recovery Project
              1867 SU Southern Kordofan Agricultural
              Development Project
              1640 SU Western Savannah Project - Phase II
              1939 SU Agricultural Research, Extension and
              Training Project
              AMENDMENTS TO DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENTS
Dear Sir:
    We refer to the Development Credit Agreements between the
Republic of Sudan (the Borrower) and the International Development
Association (the Association), for the above mentioned projects, and
to your letter dated May 8, 1991 requesting amendments to the said
Development Credit Agreements and other arrangements in order to
assist the Borrower to deal with the drought.  The Association agrees
to your request and consequently proposes to hereby make the following modifications:
A.  2011-SU - EMERGENCY FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
    We refer to the Development credit Agreement dated May 25,
1989 between the Borrower and the Association and to the ABS Project
Agreement between the Association and the Agricultural Bank of Sudan,
also dated May 25, 1989.
    1.    The closing date appearing in Section 2.03 of the
Development Credit Agreement is amended to read *October 31, 1992'
    2.    The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement is amended
          a.    in the first column of Category 10 by the
addition of the words: "including associated transport costs"; and
          b.    in the first column of Category (22) by the
addition of the words "and overseas training".
    3.    Part A.2 of the description of the Project in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read:
    "Distribution of the items referred to in paragraph 1 above
to farmers and cooperatives in the Northern, Central and Eastern
Regions on a cash sale basis or through the provision of credit and to
persons throughout the States of Kordofan and Darfur affected by
drought."
    4.    The Association has also considered your request to
procure seeds on an emergency basis to avoid disastrous consequences
for the 1991 planting season.  In view of the circumstances, the
Association accepts to waive the requirement for International
Competitive Bidding an set out in Part C of the Schedule to the ASS
Project agreement.  The Association will have no objection to the 
use of Limited International Bidding using procedures to be approved
by the Association.
B.        1867 SU - SOUTHERN KORDOFAN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
                    PROJECT
    The Development Credit Agreement dated February 4, 1988 is
am @ ad as follows:
Page  2
    1.    The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement is amended:
          a.    by the addition thereto of two now categories
as follows:
                               Amount of the
                             Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in SDR       expenditures
    Category                   Equivalent)         to be financed
(11)    Agricultural inputs,        380,000        100% of foreign
        supplies and equipment                     foreign expenditures
        under Part B.3 of the
        Project
(12)    Equipment and             1,150,000        100% of foreign
        supervision of                             expenditures and
        works under Part F.3                       90% of local
        of the Project                             expenditures."; and
    b.     by the deletion of the figure appearing in the
second column of Category (2) and the substitution therefor of the figure
"3,310,000"; and by the deletion of the figure appearing in the second
column of Category (10) and the substitution therefor of the figure "0".
    2.    The description of the Project set out in Schedule 2
to the Development Credit Agreement is amended:
    a.    in Part B by the addition thereto of the following
new paragraph: "3.  Acquisition of agricultural inputs, supplies
and equipment and their distribution to persons affected by drought
throughout the State of Kordofan."; and
    b.    in Part F, by the addition thereto of the following
new paragraph: "3.  Rehabilitation and expansion of wateryards and
construction of wells in the areas affected by drought
throughout the State of Kordofan and construction of sanitation
facilities in camps for displaced peoples."
    3.    Paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 3 to the Development
Credit Agreement is amended to read in follows: "(a) the term
"eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (8) and
categories (11) and (12) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement."
C.        1640-SU - WESTERN SAVANNAH PROJECT - PEASE 11
    The Development Credit Agreement dated March 10, 1986 in
amended an follows:
    1.    Section 1.02 (d) in amended to read: "Project Area"
means the Central, Eastern, Southern and Southwestern Districts of the
Borrowers South Darfur Province, and, until March 31, 1993, the other
areas in  Darfur State affected by the drought."
    2.    The table in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement is amended:
    a.     by the addition thereto of two now categories an
follows:
                                 Amount of the              % of
                                Credit Allocated        expenditures
                                (Expressed In SDR       to be financed
Category                           Equivalent)
(10)Agricultural inputs           480,000               100% of foreign
    supplies and equipment                              expenditures
    under Part A.3 (a) of the
    Project
Page  3
(11)Equipment and                 480,000               100% of foreign
    supervision of                                      expenditures and
    works under Part B.5                                90% of local
    of the Project                                      expenditures."; and
    b.    by the deletion of the figure appearing In the second
column of Category (1) and the substitution therefor of the figure
"2,820,000"; and by the deletion of the figure appearing in the second
column of Category (3) and the substitution therefor of the figure 
"160,000"
    3.    The description of the Project sot out in Schedule 2
to the Development Credit Agreement is amended:
    a.    in Part A by the addition thereto after paragraph 3
of the following now paragraph: "3 (a) Acquisition of agricultural
inputs, supplies and equipment and their distribution to persons
affected by drought."
    b.    in Part B by the addition thereto of the following
now paragraph: "5.  Construction of wells in areas affected by
drought and construction of sanitation facilities in camps for displaced
peoples."
    4.    Paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 3 to the Development
Credit Agreement in amended to read as follows: "(a) the term
"eligible Categories" means categories (1) through (7) and Categories
(10) and (11) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement."
D.  1639-SU - AGRICULTURAL, RESEARCH EXTENSION AND TRAINING
              PROJECT
The Development Credit Agreement dated March 10, 1986 in
amended as follows:
    1.    The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement is amended:
    a.     by the addition thereto of a now category after
Category (7) as follows:
                                 Amount of the              % of
                                Credit Allocated        expenditures
                                (Expressed In SDR       to be financed
Category                           Equivalent)
"(8)  Fuel under                  1,420,000             100% of
      Part E of the                                     foreign
      Project                                           expenditures.";
and
    b.    by the deletion of the figure appearing In the second column of 
Category (2) and the substitution therefor of the figure "5,810,000"; and
by the deletion of the figure appearing in the second column of Category
9 and the substitution therefor of the figure "0".
    2.    The description of the Project in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement is amended by the addition thereto of the following now
part:
"Part E:  Emergency Drought Recovery Assistance
Acquisition and distribution of fuel for agricultural production and
transportation in areas affected by the drought".
    3.    Paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit
Agreement is amended by the deletion of the figure "(7)" appearing
therein and the substitution therefor of the figure "(8)".
Page  4
    If you agree to the above amendments, please countersign and date the
duplicate original of this letter in the space provided below and return
the countersigned original to-us for our records.  These amendments shall
come into effect on the date of countersignature by you.
                                     Yours very truly,
                                    Callisto E. Madavo
                                         Director
                                 Eastern Africa Department
                                       Africa Region
CONFIRMED
THE REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
By
  Authorized Representative
