Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1939 ZR
                   (Third Water Supply Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
           REGIE DE DISTRIBUTION D'EAU DE LA REPUBLIQUE
                        DU ZAIRE (REGIDESO)
                        Dated July 11, 1988
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  July  11,  1988  between  the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION  (the  Association)   and  the  REGIE  DE
DISTRIBUTION D'EAU DE LA  REPUBLIQUE  DU ZAIRE (hereinafter called
REGIDESO).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the  Republic  of  Zaire  (the  Borrower) and the
Association, the  Association  has  agreed  to  make  available to
the  Borrower  an  amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent  to
thirty-two million  six  hundred  thousand  Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 32,600,000), on the  terms  and  conditions  set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but  only on condition that REGIDESO
agree to undertake such obligations  toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower  and  REGIDESO,  the  proceeds  of the credit
provided for under the  Development  Credit Agreement will be made
available to REGIDESO on  the  terms  and  conditions set forth in
said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS  REGIDESO,  in  consideration  of  the  Association's
entering into the Development  Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has  agreed  to  undertake  the  obligations  set  forth  in  this
Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section  2.01.  REGIDESO  declares   its  commitment  to  the
objectives of the Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the
Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project  in  close  cooperation  with  the  Association,  with due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate
administrative,   financial,   engineering   and   public  utility
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources
required for the Project.
     Section  2.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. REGIDESO  shall  carry  out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03,  9.04,  9.05,  9.06,  9.07 and 9.08 of the
General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and
services, plans and  schedules,  records  and reports, maintenance
and land  acquisition,  respectively)  in  respect  of the Project
Agreement.
     Section 2.04. REGIDESO shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except  as the Association
shall otherwise agree, REGIDESO  shall  not  take or concur in any
action  which  would  have  the  effect  of  amending, abrogating,
assigning  or  waiving  the   Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  or  any
provision thereof.
     Section 2.05.  (a)  REGIDESO  shall,  at  the  request of the
Association, exchange views  with  the  Association with regard to
the progress of the  Project,  the  performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  REGIDESO shall promptly  inform  the  Association of any
condition which  interferes  or  threatens  to  interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance  by  REGIDESO  of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     (c)  REGIDESO shall furnish to  the Association, at the times
indicated, the following information for exchanges of views:
          (i)  annual reports  beginning  April  30,  1989 showing
               the  performance  of  REGIDESO  in  respect  of the
               indicators  set  forth   in   Schedule  2  to  this
               Agreement; and
         (ii)  promptly following each  annual audit assessing the
Page  3
               adequacy  of  the  tariff  structure,  any proposed
               adjustments thereto resulting from such assessment.
     (d)  Following the exchange of  views with the Association on
the adjustments in  tariffs  proposed  under  subparagraph (ii) of
paragraph (c) of this Section, and taking into account the results
thereof, REGIDESO shall promptly make such adjustments.
     Section 2.06. In carrying  out the Project, house connections
to the water distribution  network  shall be installed by REGIDESO
only on condition that each beneficiary commit himself formally to
provide an adequate waste water disposal system.
                            ARTICLE III
               Management and Operations of REGIDESO
     Section 3.01.  REGIDESO  shall  carry  on  its operations and
conduct  its  affairs  in  accordance  with  sound administrative,
financial,  economic  and  public   utility  practices  under  the
supervision of qualified  and  experienced  management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
     Section  3.02.  REGIDESO  shall  at  all  times  operate  and
maintain its plant, machinery,  equipment  and other property, and
from time to time, promptly  as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof,  all  in  accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.
     Section 3.03.  REGIDESO  shall  take  out  and  maintain with
responsible insurers, or make  other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such  risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
     Section 3.04.  REGIDESO  shall  fulfill  all  its obligations
under its contrat-programme with  the  Borrower dated May 5, 1988,
shall  exchange  views  annually   with  the  Association  on  the
performance of the parties thereunder  and  shall, on the basis of
such exchanges of views, make  such modifications thereto as shall
be appropriate.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section  4.01.  (a)  REGIDESO   shall  maintain  records  and
accounts adequate to reflect  in  accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations  and  financial  condition, including all
operations under the Project.
     (b)  REGIDESO shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than five months after
               the  end  of  1988   and  four  months  after  each
               succeeding  year:  (A)   certified  copies  of  its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Association
               shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
Page  4
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, REGIDESO shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain,  until  at   least   one   year  after  the
               Association has received  the  audit for the fiscal
               year in which the  last  withdrawal from the Credit
               Account was made,  all  records (contracts, orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such  records  and accounts be included
               in the annual audits  referred  to in paragraph (b)
               of this Section and that the reports of such audits
               contain separate opinions  by  said  auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
     (d)  REGIDESO shall keep  separate  accounts  for each of the
water-supply systems included in the Project.
     Section 4.02. REGIDESO shall  take  such measures as shall be
necessary to ensure  that  its  accounts  receivable from sales of
water:
          (i)  to domestic  consumers  and  public  standpipes not
               exceed 3.5 months  of  sales  by  the  end of 1988,
               declining progressively thereafter to not more than
               2.5 months by the end of 1992; and
         (ii)  to governmental consumers not  exceed 3.5 months of
               sales by the  end  of 1988, declining progressively
               to not more than 3.0 months by the end of 1992.
     Section 4.03. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree REGIDESO shall earn an  annual  return of not less than 7.0%
of the average current net value of the REGIDESO's fixed assets in
operation.
     (b)  Before the end of October  in each year, REGIDESO shall,
on the basis of forecasts prepared by REGIDESO and satisfactory to
the Association, review whether it would meet the requirements set
forth in paragraph  (a)  in  respect  of  such  year  and the next
following fiscal year, and  shall  furnish  to the Association and
the Borrower the results of such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such review  shows  that  REGIDESO would not meet
the requirements set forth in  paragraph  (a) for the fiscal years
covered by such review, REGIDESO  shall promptly take all measures
necessary, consistent with its contrat-programme with the Borrower
(including, without limitation,  adjustments  of  the structure or
levels of its rates), in order to meet such requirements.
     (d)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The annual return  shall  be calculated by dividing
               REGIDESO's net operating income for the fiscal year
               in question by one half  of  the sum of the current
               net values of its fixed  assets in operation at the
Page  5
               beginning and at the end of that fiscal year.
         (ii)  The term "net operating income" means total operat-
               ing revenue less total operating expenses.
        (iii)  The term  "total  operating  revenue" means revenue
               from all sources related to operations.
         (iv)  The  term  "total  operating  expenses"  means  all
               expenses related to  operations, including adminis-
               tration, adequate  maintenance,  taxes and payments
               in lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation on
               a straight-line basis at  a  rate  of not less than
               2.5% per annum of  the  average current gross value
               of REGIDESO's fixed  assets  in operation, or other
               basis acceptable to  the Association, but excluding
               interest and other charges on debt.
          (v)  The average current gross value of REGIDESO's fixed
               assets in operation shall be calculated as one-half
               of the sum of the  gross values of REGIDESO's fixed
               assets in operation at the beginning and at the end
               of the fiscal year, as  valued from time to time in
               accordance with  sound  and consistently maintained
               methods   of   valuation    satisfactory   to   the
               Association.
         (vi)  The term  "current  net  value  of REGIDESO's fixed
               assets  in  operation"  means  the  gross  value of
               REGIDESO's  fixed  assets  in  operation  less  the
               amount of accumulated  depreciation, as valued from
               time  to  time   in   accordance   with  sound  and
               consistently   maintained   methods   of  valuation
               satisfactory to the Association.
     Section 4.04. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, REGIDESO shall not  incur  any  debt unless its net revenue
for  the  fiscal  year  immediately  preceding  the  date  of such
incurrence or for a later  twelve-month  period ended prior to the
date of such incurrence,  whichever  is  the  greater, shall be at
least 1.5 times the estimated maximum debt service requirements of
REGIDESO for any succeeding fiscal year on all its debt, including
the debt to be incurred.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "debt" means  any indebtedness of REGIDESO
               maturing by its terms more  than one year after the
               date on which it is originally incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms of payment, on the date of such contract,
               agreement or instrument; and  (B) under a guarantee
               agreement, on the date  the agreement providing for
               such guarantee has been entered into.
        (iii)  The  term  "net   revenue"   means  the  difference
               between:
               (A)  the sum of revenue from all sources related to
                    operations, adjusted to  take account of rates
                    in effect at  the  time  of  the incurrence of
                    debt, even  though  they  were  not  in effect
                    during the twelve-month  period  to which such
                    revenue relates, and net non-operating income;
                    and
               (B)  the sum of all expenses related to operations,
                    including   administration,   adequate   main-
                    tenance, taxes and payments  in lieu of taxes,
Page  6
                    but  excluding   provision  for  depreciation,
                    other non-cash operating  charges and interest
                    and other charges on debt.
         (iv)  The  term  "net  non-operating  income"  means  the
               difference between:
               (A)  revenue  from  all  sources  other  than those
                    related to operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                    of taxes, incurred  in  the  generation of the
                    revenue in (iv) (A) above.
     Section 4.05. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, REGIDESO shall maintain, for each of its fiscal years after
its fiscal year  ending  on  December  31,  1988,  ratios of total
operating expenses to total operating  revenue not higher than the
levels shown in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, item 4.
     (b)  Before the end of October  in each year, REGIDESO shall,
on the basis of forecasts prepared by REGIDESO and satisfactory to
the Association, review whether it would meet the requirements set
forth in paragraph  (a)  in  respect  of  such  year  and the next
following fiscal year and shall  furnish to the Association a copy
of such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such review  shows  that  REGIDESO would not meet
the requirements set forth in  paragraph (a) for REGIDESO's fiscal
years covered by  such  review,  REGIDESO  shall promptly take all
measures necessary (including,  without limitation, adjustments of
the structure or  levels  of  its  rates),  in  order to meet such
requirements.
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "total  operating  expenses" means the sum
               of all  expenses  related  to operations, including
               administration,  adequate  maintenance,  taxes  and
               payments in lieu  of  taxes, but excluding interest
               and other charges  on  debt, depreciation and other
               non-cash items.
         (ii)  The term  "total  operating  revenue" means revenue
               from all sources related to operations.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and  of  REGIDESO  thereunder  shall  terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the date 21 years after the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  If  the  Development   Credit  Agreement  terminates  in
accordance with its terms  before  the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this  Section,  the  Association shall promptly notify
REGIDESO of this event.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
Page  7
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex, radiogram or facsimile  to  the party to which it is
required or permitted to be given  or made at such party's address
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by  notice  to  the  party  giving  such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
        Cable address:       Telex:              Facsimile:
           INDEVAS             440098 (ITT)      (202)-477-6391
           Washington, D.C.    248423 (RCA) or             8164 or
                                64145 (WUI)                8451
     For REGIDESO:
        B.P. 12599
        Kinshasa 1
        Zaire
        Cable address:       Telex:              Facsimile:
           REGIDESO            21077 REGIDO-ZR   243-12-25868 or
           A.C. KINSHASA       21325 REGIDO-ZR          26071
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of REGIDESO,  or  by REGIDESO on behalf of the
Borrower under the Development  Credit  Agreement, may be taken or
executed by its President-Delegue General  or such other person or
persons as REGIDESO shall designate in writing, and REGIDESO shall
furnish to the  Association  sufficient  evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
Page  8
                    REGIE DE DISTRIBUTION D'EAU
                        DE LA REPUBLIQUE DU ZAIRE
                    By /s/ Mushobekwa Kalimba Wa Katana
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Bidders for the works included in Part B of the Project shall
be prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof,  goods  manufactured in Zaire may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
     Goods which, after grouping in lots for bidding purposes, are
valued at less than  the  equivalent  of  $100,000 may be procured
under contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of  competitive bidding,
advertised  locally,  in  accordance  with  paragraph  3.3  of the
Guidelines; provided, however, that  the  aggregate value of goods
so  procured  shall  not,  without   the  prior  approval  of  the
Association, exceed the equivalent of $500,000.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
     With respect to the  prequalification  of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 hereof,  the  procedures  set  forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to  each  contract  for  works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $40,000  or  more, and to each contract for
goods estimated to cost  the  equivalent  of  $20,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs  2  and  4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph (a), the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b)  shall  not  apply  to  contracts  on  account  of  which  the
Association has  authorized  withdrawals  from  the Credit Account
Page  9
on the basis of  statements  of  expenditure. Such contracts shall
be retained in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii) of this
Agreement.
3.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to  assist  REGIDESO  in  carrying  out the Project,
REGIDESO  shall  employ   such   consultants  and  experts,  whose
qualifications, experience and terms  and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the  Association, as shall be agreed with
the Association.1  Such consultants  and experts shall be selected
in accordance with principles  and  procedures satisfactory to the
Association on  the  basis  of  the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
_________________________
1/ A supplemental letter will list the positions and tasks.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                      Performance Indicators
1.   Implementation  of  measures  contemplated  in  the  contrat-
programme;
2.   Average system efficiency (ratio  of  water consumed to water
produced): not less than:
     -   74% in 1989, 1990, 1991; and
     -   75% in 1992.
3.   Percentage of non-working meters; not more than:
     -   25% in 1989;
     -   20% in 1990;
     -   15% in 1991; and
     -   10% in 1992.
4.   Working ratio; not more than:
     -   0.51 in 1989;
     -   0.50 in 1990;
     -   0.49 in 1991; and
     -   0.48 in 1992.
5.   Rate of return: not less than 7%.
