Document of
FILE COPY                            The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2070-AL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOR A
SECOND PORT PROJECT
May 9, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



1/
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency l,nit        :      Algerian Dinar     (DA)
US$  0.2439           :      DA  1.00
ITS$  1.0                    DA  4.1n
ITS$  243,900         :      DA  1 million
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CNAN                   Companie Nationale Algerienne de Navigation
DI                     Direction de l'Infrastructure
MET                    Ministere d'Etat Charge des Transports
MPWC                   Ministere des Travaux Publics et de Construction
ONP                    Office National des Ports
SEP                    Secretariat d'Etat au Plan
SNS                :   Societe Nationale de Sid6rurgie
SONAMA                 Socifte Nationale de Manutention
SONAREM                Societe Nationale des Recherches et
d'Exploitation Minieres
SONATRAM               Societe Nationale des Travaux Maritimes
SONELGAZ               Societe Nationale de l'Electricite et du Gaz
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPITBLIC OF ALG,ERIA
FISCAL YFAR
January 1 - December 31
1/ Adlusted as of January 1, 1977



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOR A SECOND PORT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria, for the equivalent of
US$80.0 million to help finance a second port project. The loan would have
a term of 17 years, including 3-1/2 years of grace, with interest at 8.2
percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "Memorandum of the Current Economic Position and
Prospects of Algeria" (1315-AL) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on February 10, 1977, which was based on the findings of the updating eco-
nomic missions which visited Algeria in April and November of 1976. The main
conclusions of the missions are given in the following paragraphs. A further
updating economic mission is planned to visit Algeria in May/June 1977.
Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        In 1966, Algeria's Revolutionary Council defined the fundamental
objectives which the country intended to pursue during the period ending
1980. These were reaffirmed in detail in the National Charter approved by
referendum in June 1976. In brief, these objectives are (i) to expand and
organize the production base, enabling the economy to reach, by about 1980,
a stage of self-sustained growth with full employment; (ii) to achieve
economic independence, which implies that the country would rely first on
its own resources for development, although international economic relations
would be expanded and diversified; and (iii) to improve income distribution,
particularly among regions. These objectives, and the strategy which has,
evolved towards their implementation, take into account the country's physical
and socio-economic potential; the country's leadership is deeply committed
to them.
4.        The rapid establishment of a diversified and highly integrated
industrial base, the education and training of all Algerians for the require-
ments of modern tasks and austerity in consumption are the main elements
of Algeria's long-term development strategy. The National Charter places
emphasis more particularly, however, on the following aspects of the strategy.
Whereas priority goes to-hydrocarbon development as a means of accumulating
financial resources, investments in other industries must henceforth be
tailored more closely to the national capacity to prepare and implement
1/   Substantially identical to the Part I of the Second Highways project.
I This document has a remtricted distribution and may be sd by fecipients only in the performance  |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
projects, to the availability of financial resources, and to the rates of
development in non-industrial sectors. The National Charter specifically
underscores the importance of agriculture for creating jobs, for increasing
incomes and improving their distribution and for substituting agricultural
imports. Decentralization is to be implemented in all areas of economic and
social life so as to achieve the country's development objectives with maximum
efficiency, while the principle of central planning of the economy will be
maintained. Workers' participation in new management structures, which were
introduced in 1971, is to be progressively expanded. The control of people's
assemblies over economic planning and management, which was already effective
at local government level, has been introduced at the national level by the
new constitution approved in November 1976. Private enterprise's contribution
to national economic development will be encouraged in small agricultural,
industrial and retail trade enterprises.
5.        Algeria is implementing currently its second four-year Plan (1974-77).
The Plan estimates that total investment should reach at least DA 85 billion
(US$20.4 billion) in 1973 prices during the 1974-77 period, and thus be about
2.3 times larger than it was during the 1970-73 Plan. The Plan also specifies
a maximum investment target of DA 110 billion ($26.4 billion), with supple-
mentary projects to be undertaken if the implementation capacity could be
raised above the estimated maximum level. The share of industrial investments,
including hydrocarbons, is expected in the Plan to decrease to 44 percent in
the 1974-77 period, from 54 percent in 1970-72, while the share of other
sectors is to increase. The Plan fixes a minimum of 10 percent, and a maximum
of 12.5 percent, for the GDP growth target during 1974-77, based on expected
output from sectoral investment programs. A decline to 4 percent in the non-
agricultural unemployment rate in 1977 and a marked reduction in agricultural
unemployment is anticipated in the Plan, as a result of new employment to be
created. The Plan also provides for an acceleration of consumption growth
(7.7 percent per capita a year) and a reduction of regional disparities.
6.        Algeria's financial situation improved substantially when the price
of crude oil, its main export product, rose sharply during the last quarter
of 1973. The country's hydrocarbon export receipts rose from $1.7 billion
in 1973 to $4.3 billion in 1974. Algeria increased its foreign reserves to
$1.3 billion at the end of 1974 and repaid in advance a part of its debt to
commercial banks contracted in 1972 and 1973, despite rises in its import bill
due to sharp increases in import requirements (24 percent) and import prices
(33 percent). The domestic financial situation also improved, particularly
the position of the Treasury which captures most of the oil revenues. Based
on this improvement, the Revolutionary Council decided to accelerate imple-
mentation of planned development projects and structural reforms in the
second Four Year Plan (1974-77).
7.        During the first two years of the Plan period, 1974-1975, the
country scored solid successes in regard to investment and employment, by
comparison with the Plan objectives. Investment increased from US$3.3 billion
in 1973 to $6.4 billion in 1975 at current prices. Employment creation was
also substantial. The unemployment rate in non-agricultural sectors dropped



to 11 percent in 1975, from 15 percent in 1973. In the agricultural sector,
Agrarian Revolution cooperatives provided new permanent jobs to some 100,000
beneficiaries. Although precise data are lacking, the increase in employment,
coupled with the tax and budget measures taken in 1974 and 1975 (tax relief
measures, higher producer prices for agricultural products, substantial price
subsidies for basic commodities, and large expenditures on rural public
services) seem to have raised, as planned, living standards and consumption
levels of the least privileged population groups. As envisaged in the Plan
and emphasized in the National Charter, initial measures to decentralize and
improve economic and financial management were implemented with vigor. For
instance, in agriculture, increased autonomy was given to self-managed farms,
which, like the cooperatives of the Agrarian Revolution, are now responsible
for their own production and investment plans, under supervision of the
regional authorities and the local branches of the agricultural credit bank.
In industry, procedures for the socialist management of enterprises, including
wider responsibilities in financial management, are now in effect in most
national enterprises. Domestic trade in industrial products, like that in
agricultural commodities, is currently being reorganized with a view to giving
the production units more responsibility for selling their products and pur-
chasing their supplies. Finally, in the context of regional development
policy, the wilayate (provinces) have been granted extensive financial and
economic powers, and they now have planning units and technical directorates
to prepare, implement and supervise local plans covering all economic sectors,
under supervision of the wilayate people's assemblies and the coordination,
at national level, of the Secretariat of State for Planning.
8.        Some less satisfactory results were also obtained.   Due to unex-
pected technical and commercial difficulties, hydrocarbon export receipts
declined from $4.3 billion in 1974 to $4 billion in 1975, falling short of
the Plan targets. Due mainly to absorptive capacity constraints, investment
in the non-industrial sectors was insufficient. Consequently, imbalances
in 'the pattern of Algeria's development persisted. Fixed investment became
very high in relation to GDP (49 percent in 1975) and the availability of
skilled labor. Investment in industry continued at too rapid a pace as
compared to investment in other sectors. Overall GDP growth in 1974-75 was
relatively slow (Annex I, page 3). Hydrocarbons, registered a decline in
output in 1974 and 1975. Real'growth in other sectors was less than 7 per-
cent per annum. This rate was of the same order as that achieved in 1970-73,
quite modest in relation to investment for-two main reasons. Firstly, the
investment program included a large number of projects in capital intensive
industries, in agricultural infrastructure and in urban and social services,
wihch had long gestation periods. Secondly, difficulties were experienced
in bringing industrial projects into operation, due to insufficient industrial
experience, skilled labor shortages, limited management capability and, espe-
cially, to constraints caused by delays in developing the sectors accompanying
industrialization -- economic infrastructure, housing and social infrastructure.
9.        As a result of the unexpected shortfall in export receipts and ex-
pansion of domestic demand and imports, pressure on the country's domestic
and external financial resources increased sharply in 1975. After a surplus
in 1974, the balance of payment current account showed a deficit of $1.6
billion in 1975, more than 12 percent of GDP. Despite increased external



- A -
borrowing, net foreign exchange reserves decreased by $250 million in 1975.
The Government's budget also showed a large deficit. Although price subsi-
dization made it possible to moderate increases in external and domestic
prices to consumers, especially of essential foodstuffs, the consumer price
index accelerated its growth to 11 percent in 1975, from an average of 6.5
percent a year in 1971-74.
10.       The Government introduced an investment stabilization program in
1976 to bring the economy back into real and financial balance. Industrial
investment was held almost at the same level ($3.2 billion) as in 1975, while
investment in other sectors increased to $3.4 billion, from $2.3 billion in
1975, indicating marked progress in implementation capacity. The proportion
of investment in non-industrial sectors achieved in 1976 was, thus, more in
line with the Plan objective, while total investment growth decelerated
markedly. There was also an appreciable acceleration of GDP growth in 1976
(about 11 percent in real terms) and an increase in hydrocarbon exports, in
both quantity (13 percent) and prices (6 percent). Together, these factors
reduced the resource gap in 1976 and eased the pressures on the balance
of payments that had developed in the course of 1975. External borrowing
requirements decreased substantially in 1976 and net foreign reserves rose
to $1.9 billion at the end of the year, representing more than three months
of 1976 imports. There were corresponding developments in the domestic
financial situation. While government investment in infrastructure rose by
45 percent, total budgetary expenditures increased only by about 7 percent,
since transfers to public enterprises and price subsidization were reduced
from their high 1975 levels. The overall Government deficit remained stable
in relation to GDP, and to cover it the recourse to financing from the banking
system remained moderate. The employment situation further improved in 1976
with the unemployment rate in non-agricultural sectors declining to an esti-
mated 9 percent.
11.       A new increase of about 10 percent in crude oil export prices in
early 1977 gave the country additional resources (about $0.5 billion) to
step up investment. Following the slowdown in investment growth which took
place in 1976, the 1977 Government Budget provides for a rather large in-
crease in total public investment expenditure (about 30 percent in current
prices over the 1976 level). Despite improvements in implementation capacity,
the budgeted amount is however not likely to be entirely spent. The trend
begun in 1976 towards a more balanced sectoral distribution of investment is
accentuated in the 1977 budget. The bulk of the increase in capital expendi-
ture is budgeted in the non-industrial sectors, especially transportation,
education and training, housing, infrastructure and regional development.
A decrease is budgeted in real investment in non-hydrocarbon industry. As a
result, investment in the non-industrial sectors would account for 52 percent
of total investment in 1976-77, compared with 40 percent in 1974-75 (Annex I,
page 3). Current Bank forecasts are that, in view of the above, the balance
of payments current account deficit and the overall budget deficit would
remain of the same order of magnitude as in 1976.



- 5 -
12.       Algeria's economic and financial prospects beyond 1977 will be
reflected in the next Plan (1978-1982) currently in preparation. Algeria's
prospects depend upon three main factors: the growth of hydrocarbon produc-
tion and exports, the level and composition of the country's investment and
the pace of improvements in the efficiency of the economic system. Prospects
for the hydrocarbon sector, which accounted for 84 percent of exports and 30
percent of GDP in 1975, seem assured in both quantities and prices. The
sector's export receipts are conservatively projected to rise to $9.9 billion
in 1980 and $18.4 billion in 1985 from the estimated $4.9 billion in 1976. In
these totals exports of liquefied natural gas (LNG) would rise to $1.5 billion
in 1980 and $5.6 billion in 1985, based on sales contracts under implementation
or signed for future exports. Regarding investment, the government is expected
to pursue the policy of overall and sectoral balance developed in 1976-77.
Investment requirements will remain large, however, in the next five to six
years, to develop hydrocarbon exports, particularly gas. Investment in eco-
nomic and social infrastructure, where there are considerable investment needs
to ease the constraints on the use of existing and planned production capaci-
ties, is also expected to increase. Investment in non-hydrocarbon industry
would, by contrast, remain moderate until the early 1980's. Overall, total
fixed investment would gradually decline in relation to GDP.
13.       Recent improvements in planning and management (para. 7) prov'de
grounds for expecting progress in economic efficiency. Policies are being
implemented to accelerate training of technical and middle level management
staff. Considerable efforts are being made to improve project preparation,
implementation and operation, and to develop intersectoral and intrasectoral
project coordination. Under the 1976 and 1977 Finance Laws, measures towards
an economically more rational price and fiscal system are being introduced.
Financial institutions are strengthening their supervisory role vis-a-vis
production enterprises. Decentralization, which involves shifting the focus
of central supervision from day-to-day management to programming and follow-
up of the operations of decentralized enterprises and institutions, is being
increased. The investment program, however, include capital intensive proj-
ects in industry (hydrocarbons especially) and substantial investments in
infrastructure, which imply that the capital-output ratio of the economy will
remain high.
14.       Under these circumstances, GDP growth may average 8 percent yearly
in 1977-80, accompanied by sizeable but manageable external borrowing re-
quirements. After 1980, GDP growth would slow down because crude oil output
is expected to level off close to the maximum technical raté.   Growth in the
non-hydrocarbon sectors would, however, remain rapid, especially in industry,
during the 1980-85 period. Consumption growth would be relatively rapid,
considering the effects of continued Government policies to foster living
standards of the low income groups, the projected growth of domestic supplies,
and employment creation. With population growing at 3.3 percent per annum,
per capita real consumption could increase by 5 percent a year during 1977-
1985. Based on detailed projections of exports and import requirements, the
resource gap of the economy is projected to average $1.2 billion during
1977-80. This deficit is likely to diminish thereafter and turn into a



- 6 -
surplus by 1984 due to the combined effects of declining import requirements
for gas development, large increases in gas exports and import substitution.
15.       Algeria is expected to pursue an active external borrowing policy;
it faces total borrowing requirements at a decreasing, but still relatively
high level, well into the 1980's. Requirements are tentatively projected by
the Bank to average around $3.0 billion yearly in 1977-82, on a disbursement
basis. Large inflows of external capital will be required in the next five
to six years to expand LNG export capacity. Gas contracts which Algeria has
entered into or which are under negotiation, provide for the financing of gas
liquefaction plants, and there should not be major problems for Algeria to
mobilize the amounts involved for gas development. Such amounts could
represent, on the basis of Bank projections, more than 50 percent of total
external loan disbursements in 1977-82. Suppliers' credits should be avail-
able to finance other industrial investments most of which will probably be
implemented by foreign contractors. Borrowing from official sources would be
relatively small. Official sources include OECD and centrally planned coun-
tries, the African Development Bank, the World Bank, and the EEC, which signed
a financial and trade agreement with Algeria in April 1976. Algeria would
cover any remaining financing gap by recourse to commercial bank loans which
should be easily available in view of its borrowing capacity, long-term
creditworthiness and good relations with commercial banks.
16.       Algeria's total external debt, outstanding and disbursed, was $4.5
billion ($9.0 billion including undisbursed), equivalent to 34.5 percent of
GDP, at the end of 1975. Debt service has fallen in relation to the substan-
tially increased exports of goods and non-factor services from 14.2 percent
in 1973 to 9.3 percent in 1975. With the likely new borrowings, debt service
would rise to a level somewhat above 20 percent of exports by the early
1980's. It would follow a gradually declining trend subsequently, as the
large gas and petrochemical projects, presently underway or planned, begin
to generate increasing export revenues. By 1985, the likely receipts from
gas exports alone would exceed projected total debt service payments.
Algeria's external borrowing needs will be large in the next few years, but
can be accommodated in view of the considerably enhanced capacity to carry
debt which the country has acquired as a result of the new relationship be-
tween the prices of hydrocarbons and other commodities in world markets,
and of the long-term prospects for gas exports. Algeria is creditworthy for
continued Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ALGERIA
17.       Lending to Algeria resumed in FY1973 and the Bank has since lent
$380.5 million in ten loans for transport, power, education, industry and rural
development. In addition, two loans, in education ($48.5 million) and high-
ways ($41.5 million) are expected to be signed mid-May. Annex II contains a



-7-
summary statement of Bank loans as of March 31, 1977 and notes on the execu-
tion of ongoing projects. While the physical execution of most projects is
progressing well, effectiveness and disbursements for some loans have been
slow.
18.       The Bank's future lending to Algeria can only meet a small part of
its considerable external financial requirements, as mentioned above, though,
in FY1976 it substantially exceeded the relatively low FY1975 level of $48
million (which resulted from delays in project preparation) and reached
$150.5 million. In the present fiscal year proposals for new commitments
will remain equally important as a result of Algeria's increasing familiarity
with Bank procedures and the Bank's increasing understanding of the Govern-
ment's economic and social development policies. At the end of 1975 the
portion of Algeria's total debt outstanding and disbursed owed to the Bank
was estimated at one percent; this share will rise somewhat over the next
years, but is projected still to be below 5 percent at the end of the decade.
19.       The provision of technical assistance and institution building sup-
port in connection with lending operations is a major objective in the Bank's
strategy in Algeria, to which the Government attaches special importance.
The aim is to assist the Government to relieve bottlenecks in lagging sectors,
such as transportation, education, urban public services, and rural develop-
ment, and to expand the contribution of institutions in these areas to national
development. Bank operations are expected also to be associated with the
introduction of sounder criteria for financial performance and for project
preparation, appraisal and implementation, and to aid Algeria in making more
economic use of its resources. Finally, future lending will aim at reducing
sectoral imbalances in support of the socio-economic transformation of Algeria
which the Government is undertaking, particularly in the rural areas.
20.       In past years, the level of awareness and understanding of the
Bank's methods of work and objectives varied considerably among government
agencies and the establishment of a program of Bank lending operations proved
a complex'task.  The recent increase in lending has substantially improved the
dialogue with the Government and is leading to closer cooperation in project
preparation with the executing agencies.
21.       In FY1977, the Executive Directors have already approved the above-
mentioned loans for a third education project and a second highways project.
In subsequent years, projects are contemplated in education, highways, power,
industry, urban public services including sewerage and water supply, and agri-
culture (including rural development); those projects will continue to stress
objectives going beyond the mere transfer of resources. As the pipeline of
projects is strengthened, the lending program is expected increasingly to
include directly productive projects and those with a social character.
22.       Most projects to be presented to the Executive Directors are expected
to have one or more technical assistance components. This is also exemplified
in the project proposed in the present report. In addition, special technical
assistance activities have included a joint Bank-IMF mission which visited
Algeria in the spring of 1974 at the request of the Government, to study the
financial planning system. Acting on one of the mission's recommendations, in



- 8 -
late 1974 the Economic Development Institute held a course in Algeria dealing
with various aspects of financial planning at the central government, banking
and project levels. The authorities showed considerable interest in this
course. At their request, the EDI organized two industrial project courses,
with the Government bearing the cost, during 1976, and is now organizing
further courses as well.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT AND STEEL SECTORS
The Transport Sector
23.       The Algerian transport system consist of 80,000 kilometers of
national, regional and local roads, eight major ports, 6,000 kilometers of
petroleum and gas pipelines, 4,000 kilometers of railways, and four inter-
national and ten secondary airports. The country has one national shipping
company and one national airline. The road and rail networks connect all
major Algerian cities and regions and connect Algeria with Tunisia and
Morocco. Road freight represents about two thirds of the total land trans-
port while 90 percent of railways traffic consists of long-distance bulk
cargo. About forty-six percent of the road network is paved but mainte-
nance, particularly of regional and local roads, is often inadequate to
meet the increasing traffic demand. The cost of road improvement and con-
struction works is high compared to neighboring countries. The government
is aware of this and, as a first step, has recently encouraged the forma-
tion of joint ventures of foreign and domestic construction firms to improve
efficiency and reduce construction works. Government also intends to under-
take a comprehensive study of the domestic construction industry's efficiency
and has expressed interest in advice from the Bank in defining and organizing
this study.
24.       The Algerian transport system, mainly concentrated in the densely
populated northern coastal region, needs rehabilitation and to some extent
expansion to meet the burgeoning needs of the economy. Since the mid-1960's,
the Algerian development effort has generated a rapid increase in transport
demand. However, expenditures to improve and maintain existing transport
facilities have been relatively low. As a result, operations in commercial
ports and sections of the road and rail networks, which already have insuffi-
cient design standards, have deteriorated and are at present inadequate in
view of the traffic they carry. As a first step towards improving the situa-
tion, the Government is according high priority to maintenance and improvement
of the infrastructure and purchase of new equipment.
25.       The Bank is involved in three transport projects now in execution.
The first, involving a $18.5 million loan and signed in June 1973 (912-AL),
comprises road improvement, studies and equipment. In June 1974, two loans
were signed - $70 million for the construction of a port at Bethioua for the
export of liquified natural gas (995-AL) and $49 million for a railways proj-
ect to procure rolling stock and rehabilitate track (996-AL). A fourth loan
of $41.5 million for road improvement was recently approved by the Executive
Directors.



- 9 -
26.       Transport planning is the responsibility of the Ministry of Trans-
port, while the final decision on transport investment policy is taken by the
Plan Secretariat in the overall framework of development plans. The Ministry
of Public Works and Construction (MPWC) is responsible for the preparation
of investment proposals and execution of infrastructure works in highways,
ports and airports. Planning still suffers from insufficient data and coor-
dination between agencies as well as a shortage of qualified staff, although
improvements have been made through the Bank projects in the transport sector.
For instance, the first port project included a provision for technical
assistance to prepare a master plan for all Algerian commercial ports. The
study, carried out by EASAMS Ltd. (UK), was completed in 1976 and the Govern-
ment is examining its recommendations in its current efforts to improve
performance of existing ports and creation of others. The proposed project
also provides technical assistance and support for training activities (see
paragraph 29).
27.       The Ports Subsector.  Algeria has eight major ports:   Algiers,
Annaba, Arzew, Bejaia, Ghazaouet, Mostagenem, Oran and Skikda; in addition,
there are several small ports. Over the past ten years, port traffic, ex-
cluding hydrocarbons, has been increasing at an annual rate of about six
percent. Imports have increased annually at an average rate of 17 percent,
while exports have decreased, mainly due to reductions in wine, fruits and
general cargo exports. Port development aims at providing sufficient general
cargo capacity and the establishment of specialized ports. The western part
of Algeria has a port capacity which seems sufficient to handle present and
cargo volumes forecast until 1985. On the other hand, the central and eastern
parts are short of port capacity, especially for general cargo. This could
not be economically met by expanding existing ports. With the construction of
the steel complex in Jijel, additional port capacity of about 4.6 million tons
annually will be needed to handle the steel complex traffic, and this cannot
be met without a new, specialized port. The proposed Jijel port would meet
this requirement, and would also cover some of the needs for additional
general cargo capacity at a lower cost than expanding existing ports.
28.       Port operations are shared among three agencies:   the Office
National des Ports (ONP), which is responsible for port operations and devel-
opment; the Compagnie Nationale Algerienne de Navigation (CNAN), which con-
trols cargo movement and operates tugboats; and the Societe Nationale de
Manutention (SONAMA), which is responsible for cargo handling. A state
enterprise, Societe Nationale de Travaux Maritimes (SONATRAM) has a virtual
monopoly on port construction and major port maintenance works.
29.       Until recently, port operations were characterized by cargo conges-
tion in transit and storage areas as well as exceptionally long ship turn-
around times. In addition, the lack of a clear separation of responsibilities
and functions among the agencies involved, often worsened the situation. How-
ever, over the last few years there has been a marked improvement, partly as a
result of Bank involvement, innovations introduced by energetic new managements
at ONP and SONAMA, and Government action: a number of decrees and ordinances
aimed at increasing the efficiency of port operations have been enacted, and
the whole question of port organization and operating responsibilities is now



- 10 -
under review by a Government commission. Notwithstanding recent progress,
the Government is aware of the need for further improvement in port operating
procedures and in training. As a result, a series of technical assistance and
training programs are being developed by the operating agencies. Some train-
ing programs are already being financed under the first Bank loan, (Port of
Bethioua), and others are a continuation and extension of the requirements
then envisaged. Provisions are made in the present project for the necessary
funds to complete the programs (Loan Agreement, Schedule 2).
30.       The proposed loan would be the second Bank loan for a port project
in Algeria. A first loan of $70.0 million (995-AL) was made in 1974 as a
co-financing operation with the Arab Fund for Social and Economic Development
(AFSED) and Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (KfW), to finance a new port at
Bethioua for export of liquefied natural gas and its by-products. The con-
tract for constructing the port was awarded in September 1974 to a joint
venture of German and Dutch firms and SONATRAM. Construction started in early
1975 and work is progressing satisfactorily although certain parts are a few
months behind schedule: the timetable originally envisaged for the construc-
tion of the LNG berths has proven to be too tight, and has now been adjusted.
Nevertheless, completion is still scheduled for end 1978.
The Steel Industry
31.       Algeria's industrial development strategy consists of four lines of
action: (i) processing of domestic natural resources for export (essentially
oil and gas) as a means of accumulating foreign exchange, (ii) developing
industries required to meet the population's needs for mass-produced consumer
goods, (iii) initiating and expanding integrated industries producing inter-
mediate and capital goods for the local market and, (iv) expanding light and
medium industry at the local level. This strategy appears sound in view of
Algeria's vast natural resources, market size and abundant labor force. In
addition, industrial development is to be dispersed in all regions of the
country to provide a base for regional development by means of employment
and income generation, and development of infrastructure, subcontracting
and service activities at the local level. In the context of the first two
elements of this strategy, expansion of the steel industry has been given
high priority by the Government in successive development plans. This is
not unusual, since countries in their early stages of development tend to use
more of their steel consumption in investment, which is especially dynamic in
Algeria, than is the case later in the development process, when the share
of steel used in investment tends to decline and that used in consumption to
increase. Availability of steel at stable prices is thus critical in the
early stages of Algeria's industrial development.
32.       Algeria benefits from two main advantages in developing its steel
industry: a cheap source of energy with its vast reserves of natural gas and
the existence of major domestic iron ore deposits. The use of gas for steel
production permits the direct reduction process which requires lower investment
and operating costs by comparison with the traditional process. Algeria's gas
reserves are sufficient (proven reserves are 3,000 billion cubic meters, with
an additional 4,000 to 5,000 billion cubic meters in probable reserves) to
easily meet liquefied gas export opportunities and domestic demand of gas as
a source of energy and raw material.



33.       Domestic deposits of iron ore for producing steel are located in the
Ouenza-Bukhadra area north of Tebessa along the Tunisian border and in the Gara
Djebilet region in the southwestern corner of the country. Proven reserves in
the Tebessa area are estimated at 160 million tons of which 40 million tons,
from the Bukhadra mines, represent higher grade ore suitable for use with
direct reduction technology. There are indications that additional reserves
of this higher grade ore exist. The Gara Djebilet ore deposits are estimated
at four to five billion tons; a further large deposit of high grade ore has
recently been discovered in the same area. All the current output is produced
in three mines: Ouenza, Bukhadra and Klangnet. Estimated 1976 production of
iron ore was 3.0 million tons. Of this, about 800,000 tons was consumed by
the El Hadjar steel complex and the rest was exported. With the completion
of the planned expansion in steel production capacity, all ongoing local pro-
duction in the 1980's would be used by Algerian mills.
34.       A rapid increase in steel demand is expected in view of the accel-
erating development of the Algerian economy. Bank projections estimate that
the demand in liquid steel equivalents, which in 1976 was 1.5 million tons
(against 418,000 tons in 1970), would reach 3.5 million tons by 1985. Over
the same period, productive capacity would expand to 2.5 million tons, leaving
a gap of about one million tons in liquid steel equivalent to be covered by
imports. This expansion would involve increasing capacity at the El Hadjar
complex to 1.4 million tons, and the construction of the Jijel complex with
a liquid steel capacity of 800,000 tons, and a steel mill at Ain M-Lila with
a liquid steel capacity of 300,000 tons.
35.       Responsibility for the steel industry in Algeria has been given to
Societe Nationale de Siderurgie (SNS), which has a monopoly on manufacture
of and trade in steel and non-ferrous metals in Algeria. It is a well estab-
lished national company under competent, though overextended, management. For
planning, implementing and operating projects, it utilizes the support of con-
sultants. At present, SNS operates two steel mills with a total production
capacity of 480,000 tons of liquid steel (El Hadjar 450,000 tons, Oran 30,000
tons). In addition, it operates a number of factories producing various non-
ferrous metals and metal products. The rapid expansion of the steel industry
cited above may be costly and delays could be encountered in the completion of
some projects. However SNS's investment program, based on projected growth
of the Algerian economy appears to be sound. It is expected to provide about
32,000 new jobs by 1985, but the main employment impact is expected to derive
from backward and forward linkages in industry and other sectors, especially
construction.
The Jilel Steel Complex
36.       The Jijel steel complex will consist of four basic installations:
pelletizing, direct reduction, steel making and ferroalloy plant. The esti-
mated present cost is about $800 million, including about $520 million in for-
eign exchange. Some 80 percent of the foreign expenditures are expected to
be provided through export credits offered in the framework of the bids for
the construction of the complex. The complex will use the relatively new



- 12 -
direct reduction technology in which natural gas, instead of coke, is the
principal reducing agent and supplies all energy requirements. The process is
highly competitive, especially in countries with a plentiful supply of natural
gas and suitable sources of high-grade ore in reasonable proximity. It was
chosen taking into account the availability of suitable ores (Algeria is part
owner of a rich Guinean iron ore mine, and suitable local ore exists in the
Bukhadra mine) and the fact that Algeria possesses large reserves of low cost
natural gas. According to present planning, the complex would be built in two
phases. The first phase is scheduled for completion in mid-1982 and would
reach full capacity in 1985. It is designed to produce two million tons of
pellets. Of this amount, 1.6 million tons will be used to produce 1.2 million
tons of sponge iron. The remaining 380,000 tons will be used in the El Hadjar
steel mill. 730,000 tons of the sponge iron will be used to produce 800,000
tons of liquid steel; 350,000 tons will go to a special steel mill to be
erected at Ain M'lila and the remaining 150,000 tons to El Hadjar or exported
to the Mediterranean area. The liquid steel will be cast into 755,000 tons of
billets. All billets will be consumed at rolling mills to be constructed in
the western part of the country, which will also be the market for the finished
product. SNS has already invited tenders for two such mills. The ferroalloy
plant is designed to produce 110,000 tons of four different types of alloys,
of which 75,000 tons will be exported to the Mediterranean area. A second
phase of the complex is contemplated for completion in mid-1995 and would, as
presently conceived, result in a doubling of production capacity. The complex
will be served by a large power station and the project port.
37.       The proposed project port, the SNS steel complex, and the SONELGAZ
power station, are interrelated; furthermore, the provision of adequate rolling
facilities and the construction of the specialized steel mill at Ain M'lila in
a timely manner are necessary to provide outlets for the billet and sponge iron
production of the steel complex. Because of the complexity involved in the
above works, there is a risk that the schedule of construction of one or more
elements would not be met. This would temporarily have some adverse effect on
the start-up of the steel complex and the marketing of its production. The
Government and SNS are well aware of the importance of timely coordination
of construction schedules. This was discussed during negotiations and is
reflected in the Loan Agreement (Sections 4.02 and 4.06) where the Govern-
ment agreed to take the necessary measures to ensure the functioning of the
various components in a timely manner. To ensure sound project preparation,
implementation and initial operations, SNS will depend on the assistance of the
consulting firm Tractionel (Belgium) and individual experts with experience in
steel works design, execution and operations. In addition, SNS will maintain
an exchange of views with the Bank during execution of the works. With the
assistance of Tractionel, SNS prepared tender documents for international
competitive bidding and received preliminary bids in early 1976. The tenders
included a requirement that each bidder would assist SNS in operating the
complex for five years after start-up and in training SNS' personnel. Bids
are being analyzed and selection of the successful bidder is expected by the
middle of 1977, and a contract by the end of 1977.
38.       The complex will be situated on the coast 15 km east of the town of
Jijel. Its location has been determined largely by regional policy considera-
tions and by the location of the port. It is expected to have a substantial
economic impact on the region, which is one of the poorest, most densely



- 13 -
populated and least developed in Algeria. When completed, it will provide
employment for about 10,000 people, of whom 3,200 will be working in the com-
plex itself. This will create additional purchasing power in the region of
about US$25 million equivalent annually, as well as increase the per capita
income in the Jijel area from about US$300 in 1976 to about US$525 in 1984.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       In 1975, the Algerian Government asked the Bank to help finance the
Jijel port. The project was appraised in November 1976, and negotiations took
place in Washington in April, 1977. The Algerian delegation was headed by
Mr. Hassam, Director General of the Ministry of Finance. A detailed descrip-
tion of the project is given in the report entitled "Appraisal of Jijel Port
Project - Algeria" (No. 1455c-AL) dated May 2, 1977, which is being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately. A Loan and Project Summary is
attached as Annex III; a Supplementary Project Data Sheet, Annex IV, and a
map are also attached.
Description and Objectives of the Project
40.       The proposed project includes the construction of a new port near
the town of Jijel, acquisition of cargo handling equipment and associated
consultants' services. The proposed port would mainly serve the new Jijel
steel complex to be built adjacent to the port. Traffic generated by the
steel complex is estimated at 4.6 million tons annually (iron ore and scrap
iron unloading; sponge iron and billet loading). The port will also handle
1.2 million tons annually of general cargo traffic intended for the eastern
region of the country. As the steel complex is envisaged in two phases, the
port layout has been designed to allow gradual expansion. The project would
continue the action initiated under the first project to pursue the further
development of port institutions, policies and investment programs. It would
also provide technical assistance for studies and training needed for port
operations, equipment, maintenance and workshop management for ONP, SONAMA
and CNAN. Moreover, the project would include support to SONATRAM. Estab-
lished in 1970, SONATRAM employs about 2,000 people, and is constructing port
facilities in ten Algerian ports, including the Bethioua port, where it par-
ticipates with a 26 percent share. However, it is in need of substantial
modern port construction equipment in order to adequately carry out its
growing responsibilities. Hence, the project provides for urgently needed
port construction equipment for SONATRAM, training of its personnel and tech-
nical assistance for organizing civil works and improving dredging techniques.
Project Cost and Financing
1.       Total project cost is estimated at $352.4 million, including contin-
.encies (24 percent), local taxes and customs duties (17 percent), but excluding
interest on external loans during construction (details are given in Annex
III). The foreign exchange component is $200.5 million or 57 percent of the
total cost. The proposed Bank loan of $80.0 million equivalent would cover 40
percent of the foreign exchange costs (see para. 43). The Government has the
capability and is willing to provide the balance of the foreign exchange, as



- 14 -
well as all local currency needed for the project (Loan Agreement, Section
3.01). However, the Government may approach other sources in the framework
of its overall external borrowing program to explore the possibility that a
portion of the foreign exchange costs might be thus provided.
Project Implementation
42.       The Directorate for Infrastructure of the Ministry of Public Works
and Construction will be responsible for port construction. Consultants will
supervise construction, and they will work with qualified Algerian counter-
parts. When completed, the port would be managed by ONP which has the com-
petence and experience to take over responsibility of the port. Consultants
would be responsible for realizing the technical assistance provided to ONP,
CNAN, SONAMA and SONATRAM under the project. The contract for the construc-
tion of the port will be put to tender in June 1977. Bids are expected to be
received by September 1977 and construction would begin early in 1978. The
port would be ready in mid-1982.
Procurement and Disbursement
43.       The contract for the construction of the port would be awarded on
the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Guide-
lines. It is expected that a joint venture of foreign firms and SONATRAM will
win the contract (see para. 28). Although SONATRAM is not considered expe-
rienced enough to have prime responsibility for constructing the port, it is
suitable for participation in a joint venture, which would give it the oppor-
tunity to increase its capabilities and acquire experience and train staff.
Cargo handling equipment and port construction equipment for SONATRAN would
also be acquired on the basis of international competitive bidding according
to Bank Guidelines. Disbursements from the proposed Bank loan would be on
the basis of (i) 22 percent of the total cost for civil works and dredging;
and (ii) 40 percent of the foreign exchange cost for equipment, consulting
services and support to SONATRAM.
Financial Analysis
44.       ONP is the principal agency responsible for all ports in Algeria,
and the entity to which the proposed port of Jijel will be transferred upon
completion. Its financial accounts show a healthy situation. ONP has con-
tracted with consultants for an inventory and valuation of all fixed assets,
including infrastructure, and for a tariff study. It will be some two years
before these are completed (January 1, 1979, has been agreed upon as comple-
tion date), and costing systems installed, to enable cost-based tariff charges
to be assessed on all facilities and services operated or provided by ONP.
This will enable ONP to achieve acceptable financial objectives in accordance
with Government policy.    Such objectives include pricing policies based on
current values of total investment in fixed assets, an acceptable return on
investment and mobilization of the resulting generation of cash resources to
facilitate nationwide planning and financing of development projects. In
view of this, it was agreed during negotiations that ONP would set cost-based
tariffs at the project port, including a concession fee from SNS, calculated
to earn a rate of return of 8-1/2 percent on the investment in port facilities
allocated to SNS traffic. With regard to general cargo traffic, tariffs would
be set upon completion of the tariff study, and would include an adequate rate



- 15 -
of return to be determined at that time. It was also agreed, that ONP's pay-
ments to the State in any one year out of cash generated at the port should
not exceed the sum of such cash generation in that year from income and depre-
ciation (Loan Agreement, Sections 5.02 to 5.05).
Ecological Considerations
45.       Neither the port nor the steel complex is expected to have marked
adverse effects on the ecological conditions in the region. As compared
to conventional blast furnaces and oxygen converters, the direct reduction
process is substantially less a polluter of air and water. Consultants have
carried out elaborate studies of potential pollution problems and their recom-
mendations have been incorporated in the tender documents and will be installed.
Detailed studies of prevailing winds and air currents have provided data for
locating individual facilities in places that will prevent pollution hazards
to populated areas. Assurances were obtained from the Government that it will
take all reasonable measures to ensure that the execution and operation of the
project port, the steel complex and the SONELGAZ power station are carried out
with due regard to the safeguarding of the biota and the environment, includ-
ing avoidance of pollution of the air, the land and the sea (Loan Agreement,
Section 4.03).
Benefits and Risks
46.       The location of the proposed port is a result of the Government's
decision to build the steel complex in this economically underdeveloped area
and the fact that this is a good location for a deep-water port along the
eastern coast of Algeria. The port will relieve the shortage of port capacity
in the eastern part of the country: on the basis of projections of future
general cargo traffic in the area, the existing ports will not be able to
handle the expected growth, even after modernization and improvements in
operational efficiency. In addition, there would be benefits relating to the
steel complex as set out in para 37 above. In determining the exact location
of the port, several locations in the vicinity were studied and different port
layout concepts and alternative designs were analyzed. As a result, the pro-
posed project was found to be the least cost solution for the port facilities.
Particular advantages of the present site were found to be (i) the availability
of deep water needed for iron ore carriers; (ii) the presence of sand which
can be removed by normal dredging, suitable for reclamation and capable of
safely supporting the proposed port; and (iii) an appropriate area in the
proximity for building the steel complex. Nevertheless, there are certain
constraints involved in the site, essentially a limited transport infrastruc-
ture and the relative distance to raw material sources and markets. The Gov-
ernment is aware of this, and within the context of the project, measures will
be taken to improve the transport infrastructure (Loan Agreement, Section 4.02).
47.       The risks associated with the project mainly relate to the timing of
execution of the various elements pertaining to the steel complex, which the
project will serve (see para. 36).



- 16 -
48.       The economic evaluation of the project was carried out in three
ways: first, an examination of the steel complex plus the entire port complex;
second, an examination of the steel complex and only those portions of the port
related to handling its raw materials and products; and third, an examination
of only those portions of the port related to general cargo traffic. In the
first two cases, the economic rate of return was about 12.3 percent and 10.4
percent, respectively, and in the third case 27.0 percent, indicating that
each of the elements is justified on its own merits. The entire port/steel
complex would be viable even only if the first phase of the steel complex were
to be constructed.
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
49.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Democratic and Popular Republic
of Algeria and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a draft
resolution approving the proposed loan are being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.
50.       The draft agreement conforms to the normal pattern for port projects.
Features of the draft Loan Agreement of special interest are referred to in
paragraphs 37, 41, 44 and 46 of this report. Special conditions of the project
are listed in Section III of Annex IV.
51.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATIONS
52.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 9, 1977



ANNX 
TABLE 3A                                    Pige I of 4 pages
ALELRIA            - SOCIAL hDtILATORS DAT. rtirr'
LAND AREA (THOU KN21
---------------                 ALGERIA                            REFERENCE COUNTRIES 119701
TOTAL     2381.7                                    MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     442 1                     1960      1970   ESTIMATE         TURKEY        YUGOSLAVIA     ROMANIA o
GNP PER CAPITA IUST                   460.0     520.0     780.0             480.0       820.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION IMID-YR, MILLION)         10.1      13.4       15.7              35.6       20.4       20.3
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KN.                      4.0       6.0       7.0               46.0       80.0       85.0
PER 50. KM. AGRICULTURAL LANO      23.0      30.0                         67.0      138.0      134.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE I/THOu. AVI       50.9       50.0     48.7               40.6       21.0       19.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)        22.6       18.4      15.4              14.4        9.1        8.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE 4/THOUI      e6.0/a      ..        ..             145.0       55.5        49.4
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT FIRTH IYRSI     45.6       50.7      53.6              54.4       67.7       67.7
GROSS REPROOUCTION RATE              ..       3.5       3.5                2.6/. b    1.3        1.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE IS)
TOTAL                               2.1       2.9       3.2                2.5        1.0        1.0
URBAN                               7.2 /b     7.0      6.7                4.9/       4.6        3.4
UReAN POPULATION It OF TOTAL)        3C.7      45.4       52.0              38.5       38.7       40.8
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
C T0 14 YEARS                     44.0      47.Z/a     48.0              41.8       28.3       25.9
15 TO 64 YEARS                     52.0      4e.47tj    48.e              53.9       64.3       65.5
65 YEARS AND OVER                   4 .0      4.4Ea      3.2               4.3        7.4        8.6
AGE DEPENOENCY RATIO                  0.9       1.1/-      1.0               0.9        0.6        0.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY PATIO             1.8/c     2.AE       2.4k              1.1/d      *.         0b
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUNULATIVE, THOuI         ..         ..
USERS (T OF MARRIED WOMEN)           ..         ..        ..               8.2
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)       2700.0    2600.0/a.b3300.0            14500.Ole       *-     9900.0
LAROR FOPCE IN AGRICULTURE II)       67.0       50.0 /ab  46.0              67.0         ..       49.0
UNFMPLOYED II OF LABOR FORCE)          ..       15.0 a    9.0                4.0/f
INCOME DISTPIBUtION
Z OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHEST  5T OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..         ..        ..              32.8/R     15.1
HIGHEST 200 OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..         ..        ..              6.06       41.4
LOWEtT  20T OF HOUSEHOLOS            ..        ..         ..               29         6.6
LOwEST  40T OF HOUSEHOLOS            ..         ..        ..                         18.4
OISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
____ _____ __ _____ __________
T OWNFD BY TOP 101 OF OWNERS           ..        .-        ..               53.0       15.1 /I
T OWNEO BY SMALLEST 10S OWNERS          ..        ..        ..               0.9       84.9 /b
HEALTH ANO NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           7930.0 Jd 7690.0     7180.0Li          2250.0     1000.o      680.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PEFRSON         ..     2400.0        *             1770.01.    350.0/c    200.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          20s.o /  330.0        ..              500.0      180.0      120.0 Ic
PER CAP ITA SUPPLY OF -
CALQOIES (t OF REQUIREMENTS)       73.0       71.0      72.0 /b          110.0      124.0      118.0
PPOTEIN IGRAMS PEP DAY)            47.0      45.0       46.0              78.0       92.0       92.0
-lF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       14.0Li     9.0         *.              22.01!     29.0       28.0
DEATH RATE I/THOUl AGES 1-4             ..      12.0 1é     ..              IS.0jb      2.6        2.4
EDUCAT ION
ADJUSTED FNPOLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                     46.0       75.0      85.0 /a          111.0       94.0      112.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                    8.0       11.0      15.0 /a           28.0       45.0       46.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVELI           15.0a      15.0     15.0               11.0       12.0     12.0-13.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
1% OF SECONDARYI                   29.0.LL   20.0       19.0 /a           14.0       72.0       58.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE III                ..       26.0        ..              55.011     85.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PEP ROOM OURBAN)               ..        2.8a.d     .1.9                                   1.3/d
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATFP 171                      *-       77. 0/                      64.0         *-       88.0/de
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
Il OF ALL DWELLINGS)                         34.0/        ..              41.0         *-       49.01d
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (1)                   ..       12.0/a                      18.0         *-       27.0/d
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP$        54.0      52.0      46.0              89.0      163.0      152.0
PASSENGER CARS IPER THOU POP)         17.0      11.0      12.0               4.0       35.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PeR CAPI         123.0     138.0     200.0             247.0     1288.0      1615.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)              0.6        ..       0.5               0.7        4.3         2.6
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS QN REVFRSE



Align I
Page 2 of 4 page.
NOTES
Uls otberwiss noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 sod 1961, for 1970 between 1966 and 1970, and for Most Recent Estimate between
1973 end 1975.
-*  Rom~ania has been selected as an objective coun.try for Algeria beea.se both countries have centrally planned enooesand d-veipment strategies
giving high priority to industriali-ation, perticulerly beavy industry,        hile Roeais has had * larger      eperienc   of development than Algeria.
ALGIERIA              1960    1.   1965, Algerian population   only;    Lb   1954-60;     /.  Retio of population under iS and 65 end over to totai labor
force;     /d  1963;     Ls  1962;    77f  Secluding private vocational schools.
1970     /.  1966;     /b  Secluding military personnel in barracks and 274,663 nationals abroad of whom 229,020 are econmicaly
active, also eoluding 1,200,000 f-nale       nainly occu.pied in agioiue;          I  1964-66;     /d  Totai, urban an    rural
MDST RECENT ESTIMATE:      14   1972;    1b   1969-71 average;      IC  Rotio of population onder 15 and 65 and over- to totsl labor force.
TURKLEY               1970    Is   SEcludes 17 eas tern provinces ;     b   1965-67;     /L.  1965-70;    /d   Ratio of populetion under 15 end 65 and over to
labor force 15 years and over;      L.   15 years and ovr, escludes unmnployed;         /f  Regisisred only;      14   Disposa ble
incone      th  Including sas iatant nurses and midwives;       /i   1964-66;    Li   Persons sic Years old and ovr who tell
the. census tabors that tbey ca recd ond write..
YUGOSLAVIA            1970    1   Agriculture land held by social sector "Kubinate-;          /b  AgrIculture land held by private e,nII-hoIdera, "10 bectares
nalno'; 1   Including midwives, assiatant midwives ..   se..stant nurses and nursing anlais
ROMANIA               1970    1   The calculation of this figure Is under discuss ion;        Lb  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 sod over to total labor
force;     Li  G-versn-t hospitals;       14   1966;    /.   Inside only.
R7 January 25, 1977
land Ar.. (~~~~~~~~hoo 12L                                          %"~~~~Pouitlam  ner nu-sia paro  -P Pplatiion divded by ntsnbr of prsuctinig
Tel-Total      so.1.frtc  rares cpriing 1snd srcs and inlamd ussa                           aesd f_I. grsdusto curses,",ersted" or          rereified" -nre, end
kharm.  M- a   rce..nt astimnte of -gutrlea         used tenporarily or Peso-              sumiliary personne   with training ore-   ries
neatly for ornpa, psaruras, mratlo  6 kitchon gardens or t   lis fslim,.               Preda.tion  oar hasnitl bed - PePlistism  divded by n-ber of boapital bed.
aeslishle in public and pritest gemer-1 and apanitalisd hospital and
GNP mer osoita (0MU   - GNP Par capita eartmatas at torrent norkot prices,                 rehabilita tion nentar; 'ealdes nursing home     and eatsblihleeta for
calculatd by sn      --nsriet mthod sa u.Cld Bank Atlas (1973-75 baste).                 cuacdial and preventive Cate
1960; 1910 sed 1975 data.                                                              Per cPnts aunoly of c          Cors   it  f reaairomsta) - Computed frn enegy
equinslent.o.fp at.food. supia    vilable in coutry par tapirs per day,
Poultomsd vital staistic                                                              avIaIa supple       opiedosait Production, Import less seprts, and
r..usIli  (eld-near tilli"n)     cofJuly frt       if nout -sislobl, svnrsn               changes in seonk. not suPplies -alads animal fend, scads, quatities usod
of ru  end- year os1inte 6;0h, 1970 end 1975 da ta,                                      in food PrC_oaIng ad losen. In distribution; raquirenots       ea ettiasted
by FAO bhs..d an phymioIgicsl meedo for on-I sCtivty and health cosaid-
yopulatian density - per suwre ho - Mid-year population Per square kilaeter                 eIng enirotaltprtus              body seights, aE. end see diatribotimss of
fINO hectare) of tota    area,                                                           p   ulatin   end slmeng lo    for wate at houshold lane.
Pov.latiom density -earsusre ho of antic, land - Compuc-d as shee       for        r          cnia    unl   of orotain fene    an  da) - P-oeto nontast of per rapits
sorioultural land only.                                                                   stupply offod per day; mat suplyoffod I. defined as above; enquir-
ments Pf ccl o  -toneIes atsbIiahed bYy 0100l _caomit Essa.r-h Services
Vital statistics                                                                            provde fo a" olinu    ailments of 60 greas of totsi protsin per dsy, and
Crude bi.rth.rste par thouad     avrag  - Anul1ive birthopotl thusnd of                     20 gnns of anim sod pu lse Protein, of which 10 gras should ho salsal
eId-ya     popultian; remyea;r"ariCR'trmtnavtgnand Ing in 161 sod 1970,                   protein; rfess atmdarda are lent than these fof 75 gras of total protefo
sod  t r-yeaavrsg   endin  in 1975 foLn-iaet otisat.                                an.3ia        faim_l protti     a  an avrage   o  the aeId, propusd by FAO
Crue dathrat  nr toosnd.avean-onus   dethspe     thousand of  id-y-n           In rho Third World Food Surv_.Y
populstion; to -yos atitt.tic averages ending in 1960 and 1970 end fIve-                Per capita proteinaupply from animal sad pnles - Protein supply of food
year .vermg   enigi      97  .o et recant eatinate.                                       derived fro  anial    and pulses in grC    Per day.
Ifn motltyrate f/thou) - Anul deaths of infants uodr one year of age             Death rat.e f/thou) ames 1-4 - AnnusI destha per thousad in agn group 1-4
per thousand liv   hirteh.                                                                yet, tooldren In this ag        grop; suggested aanindicator of
Life ennecta..y a .t birch (yen) -Avorags n-oh- ofY""r of lifo roMining meMalntriltion.
birth; us_slly five-yemr avrgsending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for daveIp-
Ing caete.Educatia
Groes reprodution rate - Average rnshr of Ive daughtere . .o.an cU.ll heat                Adbusted enrollso t rtuio - priar    school - Enrollment of all ages on per-
le her noma   reproductiv   prIod if she enoroo        pr.s.nt age-pcfc                    eng    o   emvyabs-aoppltion,I1 nludna              hitldran aRd 6-11 years
fertility rsrt..; -susly fin-yea    avrsgas ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                 hot adjoted for differoot lengths of primary odunaCio; fur countries wlbh
for develping contrios.                                                                   unvru      dcton      enlatmy eacend 100% siecs som         pupils see helm,
Pueclatian 1r_Ch rote C.,      total - Compound annual grouth rate of old-year              or shove rh  oficIal school ag..
population for 1950-0    190-1 sod 1970-75.                                             Adlusted,-nrllmat.ratio -     eonaY school- Computed as      hov; aeCodary
Popuetiu  ninh rte C) - rba  - omputed lihe grcth taco of coccieduractan reqaras at Inautt four yea                         of approved primary intruction.
population; different definitions of urban meae nsy affect comporshility of               provides general., voca.tional or teac.her terminig int-crtions for pupils
daeamn  cutieof 12 to 17 yeses of age; currespodsn... noursas ste generally                                                                           -Icded.
Urbaneeuatia   ft ftotal) -ttic of urban to rural Popoistion , different             Isr     f  colnseoied(istIacodlvl) - Total yasrs of
dafinitisma of urban areas    yaffect coparability of data -ng tounerims.shoIn;C at asendary Is_,                          onaioma   inatrutin may be partially o
AK: strutue    (pet"te)-Cidn(Ilyar, onu-.g. (15-64 years),                                Vocational enro   en   ft of secondary) - VostionaI iorticutian    nld
and rucired (65I years and over) as percentages of mid-year popule1  n.technical, industrial or other poregan                     shIth operate Independentlyora
00. dependenc y ratia - gatic of popolatiom  under 15 and 65 snd on   to those              dep_mnnts of socondary Ina-I_tieute
of agon 1) through 6i,                                                                  Adul.t 'irtrocy rare It) - Literate adults (able to red and write) as per-
Economic depend eccy ratio - Ratio of population under 1) and 65 and aver to                cencg   of total adlt population aged 1) years end over.
the labor force in ag   gop of I5-h    year
Fonily pl-noien-acnPtC_       f_,,otive   Choc) - C.-ulative nunhr of eccoptorn           Hus.ing
of birth-cotrol devices under supirc     of national family planning progrec            Prospr roo        (rban  -Aversge nubr of Parsoma pot rom      in -onpicd
since incoptmon                                                     cannen~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PM tiona  dwellin.gs. in orb.e res  dwellings eec lode non-permanet
famly  lanin-unrs  t o mrriod womn) - Percents9a cifusr1iod ameen oatccmendunupied parts.
child-hearing ago (15-44 yer)wootbirth-conto             ov  ut    al    -are           Otoed      dali     wtout piedwter-           Orcupiod Conveotioa1 dwellings
oeoIno age group.                                                                 In urba  anrra     areas without inside or   nte Ide piped cater facilities
A... ptrctcage ofiallCoccu,pied dwlIngs.-
E.ployonot                                                                                Acea   t e    tneiniyf    f all:I deiimn) - Convetionaldwe1Iinfs with
Toto1 labor force (thousand) -,fEaon icallIy active pedrao,   Iloldingiarmed                electriitty inlnnIuteeasprcto                  oa      dwlings in urban and
fortes end neM payd     o  ecdIgbasiv,otdesec.. definitiosralre.
In various countries a,re  o  conpareblo.                                               iota) dullies    conncted to electricity  C1-Copotsd as shov      for rural
labor force  in sor.It.utr      - AgricuIural Imbor force (in farming, forestry,            dwellings only.
butn  n  iahi)a    ecnt.ag oftona      la bor force
Umnplayed f(Io Isbor) foc)       - oplfyed are    -ssly defined as persan   who           Casuprbon
are able an    ilng to isbe s )oh, outof 5 ObhnagIven day, remaind out                  Radio receves(nt      hu-or       All ty-pes of receivers for radio broedrasta
of job, and snaking wotk fare specifid 1ninim     peiod not oaceedtng one               o gneral    M pbic pa  thousand of populetion; e-oldes unlicense.d re-ivere
wek, mY not he comprable      atwoen countries doetnofdifferent definitions               in countries andyin years wh.. regitra-tian of radio sets wa in effect;
of unomplayd and source of data, e..g., aploynet      ff oose Iciets     oP'.             data for r.eet years may nor ho nomprabla since most countries abolished
-.onYs, compulsory une-ploymet insurance..ltnig
P...ens   r.cr  (net then non) - Passanger oars comprise motor Cars seating
Itomee  distibution1  - P-erntoge of private Incom  (bath in cash und.kiod)            less than eight persons; secludes ombu1.ece., hearses and military
recive  b   riches 5t, richest 201, poorest 201, and poorest 40    of house-             vehicle..
holds                                                                                   Elrrot       (bo/e    ner P)e  - Annua  -aoption of industrial, co-uecria.j
pubric andpriat nL 1triciry In kilontt hours Per o.pita, generally
Ilitriutmn  o  lad  ~sbi- Percntageo  of land ownd by wealthiest 101                 msdoprdtion dt,whotalmeefor looses in grids                      o    ly
and poorest lot of land  -ner.ing f or imparts end                                                             mpot .of eIetrit
Newsprint (ba/yr par cse) - Per capita anulcaeoptian in kilogras
Health and Nutrition                                                                        esti-atad from domatio prodoction Plus set imports of nawprir.t
Popela,tianne    hysician - Popalatio  divided by o,ber of practicing
pbsneaqaIIfied from a mediral school at otiv-rity 1-vs



Page 3 of 4 paes
P~C DEVB~PPUt DATA
(Amouts in milli-4.. ofi U.S.ulve
Actual      ---Est. fl"              Pr.lect*4 I/         1969-    1973-    1975-    1980.
.I62         1973 17       1976     1977     .1980     1985     1973     1975      1980     1985     1969      1975     1985
NATIONA" ACCOUNT                               Amouts in 1975 Prices and Exchange Rate.    1           Aul Aver...e Growth Rate              As p.r.ent of CDY
Gross DoeaTtic product                9.965    12.029   13,055   14,458    15.588   19.645   26,284    4.8      4.2       8.5     6.0      132.6     100.0     93.3
Gain  from Term  of Tr#de (+1        -24       -157                  1 ....7  355      962    1.888   ~                             .       32.6      -         6.7
Gross Dsmtic Ilocome                  7,515    tO,438   13,055   14,645    15,943   20,607   28,172    8.6      11.8      9.5     6.4      100.0     100.0    100.0
Importa (Incl. 87)                    2,976     4,528    6,559    6,867     7,446    8,945   11.282   11.1     20.3       6.4     4.8       39.6      50.2     40.0
Export  (Incl. Import capacity)       2 421     3,078    4,3      5,3       6.279    8.430   11.286   -6.2      26.9     11.3     6 0       32.2      37.8     40.0
Resou.rce Cep                           555     1,450    1,626     1,128    1.167      515       -4      .        .                .          7.4     12.4       -
Consumption Expenditures   1          5,558     6,434    7,470    8,173     8,874   11,528   16,674    3.8       7.6      9.1     7.7        74.0     57.2     59.2
Investment (mdc. ato-km)              2,441     4,798    7,215    7,600    8,236     9,594   11,494   18.4     22.6       5.9     3.7       32.5      55.2     40.9
(Fixed Investment)                   (2,235)   (4,319)  (6,401)  (7,347)   (8.110)  (9.2355  (11.251) (17,9)  (21.7)     (7.6)   (4.0)     (29.7)   (49.0)    (39.9)
Domesetic Saving.                     1,886     3,348    5,585    6,472     7,069    9,079   11,498   15.4      29.2     10.2     4.8       25.1      42.8     40.8
National Saving.                      1,903     3,783    5,674    6,438     7,027    8,781   t1,047   18.7      22.5      9.1     4.7       25.3      43.4     39.2
MERCHANDISE TPADE                                Annu al Date at Currant Prices                                                              A. Percet of Total
Imports
Capital Goods                         307       799    2,200    2,520     3,007    4.428    6,785   27.0     67.0      15.0     9.0       50.4      37.5     33.6
Intermediate Good.                    354       768    1,847    1,940     2,192    3,444    6,917   21.3     55.0      13.3    15.0       35.1      31.5     38.2
Conaumer Goods                        216       366      723      778       893    1,334    2,368   14.1     40.5      13.0    12.2       21.4      12 3     11 7
Food                                  132       305   1..102    1,0       1.137    2.011    4.138   23.5     90.0      12,8    15.5       13.1      18.7     *j5
Total Imports (cii)                 1,009     2238     5,872     6,240    7,229   11,217   20,208   22.0      62.0     13.8    12.5           100.010.      560
Zoports
Hydrocarbons                          666     1,692    4,036     4,851    5,702    9,900   18.420   26.3      55.0     19.7    13.2       71.3      90.2     90.0
Agricultural Products                 189       230      170       220      235      375      737    5.0     -14.0     17.1    14.5       20.2       3.8      3.6
Other Goods                            79        92      267       296   -348        564    1.322    3.9      70.0     16.1    18.6       4.5..L     6.0      6.
Total Exports.(fob)                   93      2014     4,473     5367     6,285   1-0,839  20.479   21.2     49.0      194      3.       100       100      100
Kerchandise Trade Indices (in uS$5                              1975 - 100
Export (incl. NFS) Frice Index       21.4     43,1     100.0     106.5    116.4    158.3    238.7
Import (inc. NFS) Price Indes        43.1     65.0     100.0    102.3     109.8    140.2    198.7
Terns of Trade Index                 49.7     66.3     100.0     103.3    106.0    112.9    120.1
txports Volume Index                 39.2     57,1     100.0     112.6    119.9    150.7    186.4
VAUWE ADDED BY SECTOR                         Annual Date at 1975 prices and Exehane at et   S/        Annual Average Grooth Rate            A. percent of Total
ASriculture                         1,090       887      936     1,030    1,037    1,166    1,386    -5.0       2.8      4.5     3.5      11.8       7.4       5.4
Hydrocarbons                        3,430     4,044    3,972    4,492     4,642    6,798    8,304     4.2      -0.9     11.4     4.1      37.0      31.5      32.6
Non-hydrocarbon Industry            1,021     1,527    1,771     1,912    2,047    2,542    4,002     10.6      7.7      7.5     9.5      11.1      14.1      15.7
Construction,                         537     1,353    1,569     1,858    2,072    2,404    3.058    22.0       7.7      8.9     4.9       5.8      12.4      12.0
Other Sectors                       3.179     3,87     4,5      4,0       59       6.135    8.44      5.1       5.9      7.1     7.3      34.3     34.6       34.3
Total (at factor coot)              9,257    11,690   12,600    13,998   15,088   19,045   25,494     6~.0      3,-8     8.-6    6.0    -100.0O   100.0      100.0
Total, excluding hydrocarbons       59327     7,646    8,628    9,506    10,246   12,247   17,190     7.0       6.3      7.3     7,0      63.0     68.5       67.4
PUIBLIC FINSANCE                          As Percent of GOP at Current prices
(Central Governoent)
Current Receipta                     28.8     34.9     49.2     40.6      38.0
Current Expenditures                 18.5     20.3     25.6      22.6     21.2
Budgetary Savings                    10.3     14.6     23.6     18.0      16.8
Govenosent Investment                 9.1     11.8     10.7      12.6     12.6
Loans & Advances (net)                6.0     13.6     23,5
Overall Treasury Bslance             -4.8    -10.8    -10.6
us $ Million   t current prices
CURRENT EXPENDITURE                              Actual     -    Frelim, Budget               DETAIL ON PUBLIC SECTOR                Actual            Ee-tieate
(Au 7. Total Current Expand.)         1969     1973     1975     1976      1977               INVESTMENT PROGSA2                 1974-75     2     1976-77     1
Education                            24.4     28.5     19,4     21.0      23.0              Agriculture (ci,I irrigation          905      10.1   1,300       8.9
Other Social Services 3/22.1                  18.0     35,8      26.2     19,8                and water works)
Econo.ic Services                    11.5     11.1      6.4       7.1      7.4              Education                             535       6.0     990      6.9
Adacinistration and Defsna.          31,5     24.4     19.1      19.5     21.3              Induatry and Energy                 5,391      60,1   6,988     47.8
Unclas..ified                        10.5     18,0     19,3      26.2     28,5              Transportation mod Co~sniatlo.        829       9.2   1,491      10.2
Total Current Expenditurea          100.0    100.0    100,0     100,0    100.0              Economic and Social Infrastructure 1,085       12.1   3,362     23.0
________________________________________________________________Other Services                              220        2.)     484      3.3
-                        ~~~~~~~Total Expenditures           8,965     100,0  14-,615    100.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                            1969-    1973-     1975-    1980-
1973     1975      i980     1985               FINANCING
Current Budget Surplua              6.845      76.4   5.740      39.3
Average IcOR                                    5.6      9,2      6.0       7,7               Other Domestic Source,                530       5,9   5.052      34,6
loport Elasticity                               2.3      4,8      0.75     0.80               Foreign Borrowing (net)             1.590      17.7   3,823     26.1
Marginal NatIonal Savings Rate                 54.8     78.3     43.7      30,1               Total Financing                     8,965     100.0  14,615    100.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE
',tft PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975                 Value Added               Enplo et                V.A. Per Worker
(us$ m1.)         7.       Thousand           7.      UIS$       7
AgtilcI.ltre                            936            7,5       1,510  2/         53.1        620    14.0
Ind,,atty                             7,312           58.0         435             15.3     16,809   379.6
H ydrocrabone                        3.972           31.5          35              1.2    113.485 2,562.8
-otheri                              3,340           26.5         400             14.1      8,350   188.6
Services                             4.352            34.5         901            31.6       4,830   109.1
Total                                t2,600          100.0       2,846            100.0      4;428   100.0
Not applicable                                                                                                                                    EMENA CF IIB
-Not available                                                                                                                                     Arl17
Nil or negligible                                                                                                                                 Arl17
e/Staff estimate
1/ Excludes etatistical adjuatment of $ 71 oillion and $ 656 million in 1949 and 1973 respectively
2/Labor force
In lcluding consummr prices subsidies.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(amounts in millions of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Actual                       Est. e/          Projected e/
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977   1978    1980    1985
Exports (incl. NFS)                    1,006   1,440   2,106   4,936   4,933   5,909   6,893  8,256  11,822  22,431
Imports (incl. NFS)                   -1,504  -_1836  -2,712  -_4478  -6,559  -7,071  -8,174  -9,738 -12,543 -22,423
Resource Balance                        -498    -396    -606     458  -1,626  -1,162  -1,281  -1,482   -721       8
Net factor services                      101     149     112      85      37     -85     -96   -196    -452    -906
Interest (net)                         -16     -29     -63     -70    -140    -261    -281    -391   -661  -1,191
Workers' Remittances                   192     224     226     202     264     281     305     329     379     531
Other factor services (net)            -75     -46     -51     -47     -87    -105    -120    -134    -170   -246
Current Transfers (net)                  -60      22      89      44      49      50      50     50      50      50
Balance on Current Account              -457    -225    -405     587  -1,540  -      -1,327  -1,628  -1123    - 848
Private Direct Investment                -46      18      51     360    -229      50      52      54     58      68
Official Capital Grants                  199      16     -39    -427     -22      -        7       6      6       8
Public M&T Loans Disbursements           276     413   1,597     780   1,551   2,763   2,498   2,536   2,977  4,454
- Repayments                           -52    -137    -232    -491    -250    -592    -846    -976  -1,617 -3, 211
Net Disbursements                        224     276   1,365     289   1,301   2,171   1,652   1,560   1,360   1,243
Capital Transactions n.e.i.               84      88    -369    -649     272    -200      -       -      -       -
Change in Net Reserves (increaser -)      -4    -173    -603    -160     218    -824    -384       8   -301    -471
Net Reserves (end year)                  329     482   1,096   1,315   1,066   1,890   2,274   2,265   2,609  4,664
(in months of import equivalent)       2.6     3.2     4.8     3.5     2.0     3.2    3.3     2.8     2.5     2.5
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
Official Grants and Grant-like           199      16       3      -       -       -
Public M&LT Loans
IBRD                                    -       -       25     158      48     190
Other Multilateral                      -        3      -       -       -       -
Governments                            171     155     371     142     136     110
Suppliers                              447     119     293     660   1,618
Financial Institutions                 101     303   1,542     399   1,453   2,100)
Bonds                                   -       25      71      61      -
Total Public M&LT Loans                  719     605   2,302   1,420   3       2,400
Actual            Est. e/
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE                      1973    1974    1975    1976
Public Debt Outstanding Disbursed      2,931   3,308   4,526   6,698
Interest on Public Debt                67     218     209     314
Repayments on Public Debt             232     491     250     592
Total Public Debt Service             300     710     459     906
Burden of Export Earnings (Z)
Debt Service Ratio                   14.2    14.4     9.3    15.4
Average Terms of Public Debt
Int. as Z Prior Year DO&D             4.4     7.4     6.3     6.9
Amort. as Z Prior Year DO&D           15.3   16.8     7.5    13.0
IBRD Debt Out. & Disbursed               7.5     6.4     36.3   81.2
IBRD as % of Public Debt O&D             0.3     0.2      0.8    1.2
IBRD as % Public Debt Service            1.2     0.5      1.2    0.6
EXTERNAL DEBT                              Actual Debt Outstanding on December 31, 1975
Disbursed onlv                  Percent
World Bank                                     36.3                          0.8
IDA                                            -                              _
Other Multilateral                             3.5                           0.1
Governments                                 1,045.4                         23.1
Suppliers                                  1,333.7                          29.5
Financial Institutions                     1,975.7                          43.6
Bonds                                        132.3                           2.9
Total Public M&LT Debt                     4,526.9                         100.0
Not applicable                                                                              EMENA CPII B
Not available                                                                               April 1977
- Nil or negligible
e/ Staff estimate



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ALGERIA
A.       STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of Rarch 31, 1977)
Loan or                                                             US $ million
Credit                                                        Amount (less cancellations)
Number       Year   Borrower                  l'urpose        Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Three loans fully disbursed                                   80.5
912  AL      1973    The Democratic and       Highways        18.5              9.2
Popular Republic of
Algeria
913  AL      1973    The Democratic and       Education        6.0              5.2
Popular Republic of
Algeria
995  AL      1974    The Democratic and       Port            70.0             47.0
Popular Republic of
Algeria
996  AL      1974    Railways-SNTF            Railways        49.0             14.0
997  AL      1974   Power-SONELGAZ            Power           38.5             17,6
1158 AL      1975    Banque Algerienne        Industrial      40.0             40.0
de Developpement          Credit
1159 AL      1975    The Democratic and       Tech. Asst.      8.0              8.0
Popular Republic of       Rural Dev.
Algeria
1185 AL      1976    Societe Nationale des    SNMC            46.0             44.0
Materiaux de              Expansion
Construction
1209 AL      1976    The Democratic and       Education       47.0             46.7
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1293 AL      1976   Power-SONELGAZ            Power           57.5             54.9
TOTAL                                          461.0             286.6
of which has been repaid                 80.5
Total now outstanding                          380.5
Amount sold                       34.8
of which has been repaid   34.8
Total now held by Bank                         380.5
Total undisbursed                               286.6            286.6
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS - None (not a member)



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Loan 912-AL Highway Project; US$18.5 million Loan of June 19, 1973; Effective
Date: October 26, 1973; Closing Date: (Original) December 31,
1976, (Current) December 31, 1977.
The overall progress of the project is satisfactory. The project
originally included feasibility studies of the Oran-Arzew and Algiers South-
west expressways, additionaL economic studies of the Trans-Sahara road,
detailed engineering of the Algiers Southwest expressway and feasibility
studies of an additional 400 km of principal roads. Upon Government's request
and with Bank approval, these elements have been replaced by a reconnaissance
study and inventory of about 7,000 km of principal roads, a general, technical
and economic study in the highway sector and feasibility studies and detailed
engineering for improvement of about 600 km of priority road sections. To
allow completion of these additional studies, the Closing Date had to be
postponed from December 31, 1976 to December 31, 1977.
Loan 913-AL  First Education Project; US$6.0 million Loan of June 19, 1973;
Effective Date: October 26, 1973; Closing Date: (Original)
December 31, 1976, (Current) December 31, 1.977.
Implementation of this project is behind schedule, due mainly to
managerial shortcomings. In particular, progress has been slow on equipment
procurement for the Institute of Mining and Metallurgy (University of Annaba)
and the Institute of Agricultural Technology (IAT). However, the preinvest-
ment study for the Institute of Light Industry has been completed, equipment
procurement is well advanced for the technician centers for plastics tech-
nology and natural gas and tenders were invited in December, 1976, for the
construction of workshops and field units for the IAT.
Loan 995-AL Port Project: US$70.0 million Loan of June 19, 1974; Effective
Date: February 10, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Work is progressing satisfactorily and consultants are supervising
construction. Disbursements are somewhat behind schedule but are expected to
catch up in the near future. The project cost, based on contracts already
received, may be slightly below the appraisal estimates of May 1974.
Loan 996-AL Railway Project; US$49.0 million Loan of June 10, 1974; Effective
Date: November 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The execution of the construction works of the project, which sup-
ports the railway's rehabilitation program, is satisfactory and procurement
is proceeding ahead of schedule. Some consultancy studies have been delayed,
and four may not be completed before the present closing date. Passenger
and freight traffic is increasing slowly while the financial situation is
improving.  In March, 1976, Government by decree, dissolved the railway
entity (SNCFA) and established two new entities (SNTF for operations and
SNERIF for construction). A legal opinion, confirming that all obligations
of SNCFA have been transfered to the two new entities, has been received.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4 pages
Loan 997-AL First Power Project; US$38.5 milion Loan of June 10, 1974; Effec-
tive Date: December 20, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The project comprises high voltage substations, gas turbine plants,
dispatch facilities, and consulting services for management and engineering
services. Physical progress of the project is satisfactory. All main con-
tracts have been awarded. Delays have been encountered in the provision of
financial information due to SONELGAZ's lack of experienced staff and inter-
departmental changes of personnel. There are some delays in construction
but the project's completion date is not expected to be affected.
Loan 1158-AL Development Finance Company Project; US$40 million Loan to
Banque Algerienne de Developpement of September 4, 1975;
Effective Date: January 5, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
This project has faced difficulties, but performance is now improv-
ing. The setting up of the project appraisal unit within BAD suffered initial
delays and consequently commitments and disbursements have lagged. In March
1976, the unit started operations with the assistance of one Bank-seconded
expert and as a result of a recent mission it now has an adequate work program.
Consequently, the flow of sub-projects to the Bank for approval has begun, and
commitments amounting to $5 million have already been made.
Loan 1159-AL Technical Assistance (Rural Development) Project; US$8.0 million
Loan of September 4, 1975; Effective Date: January 5, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The credit sub-project is proceeding satisfactorily, and the balance
of the expert team is expected to be installed by end-May. However, the other
three sub-projects are encountering delays. The contracts with the consulting
firms responsible for the mountain and extension sub-projects have still not
been signed. In the case of the steppe-subproject, the Government recently
rejected all consulting firm submissions and is now resuming its search for an
acceptable arrangement. The contract for the expatriate advisor to the project
coordinator is being finalized.
Loan 1185-AL SNMC Expansion Project: US$46 million Loan of January 7, 1976;
Effective Date: April 7, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Construction of the cement plant is underway approximately according
to schedule. Training has been delayed due to lack of Algerian personnel.
The distribution component is being reformulated. Financial measures are
being taken by SNMC and the Government to ensure respect of the agreed per-
formance targets. The contract for the technical assistance program for
the Societe Nationale de Comptabilite (SNC) has been delayed as a result
of managerial difficulties in SNC; lack of housing for consultants may be
a problem during implementation.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4 pages
Loan 1209-AL Second Education Project: US$47 million Loan of March 9, 1976;
Effective Date: June 4, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Implementation of this project is progressing satisfadtorily. The
consultant architects are expected to submit shortly the master plan for con-
struction of the Institute of Electricity and Electronics at Tlemcen thus
completing Phase I on schedule.   Equipment procurement is proceeding ahead of
schedule at temporary accommodation in Boumerdes.    Implementation of most
technical assistance components has commenced and discussions on the execution
of those remaining are under way.
Loan 1293-AL   Second Power Project;  US$57.5 million Loan of July 8, 1976;
Effective Date: December 2, 1976; Closing Date: December 30,
1980.
The Project consists of the transmission/substation component of
SONELGAZ's 1976-1980 program comprising about 3,300 km of transmission lines
and 4,000 MVA of substation capacity, and studies of SONELGAZ's organization
and management methods. Overall progress is satisfactory. Procurement for
substations to be financed from the loan has been approved by the Bank, but
some delays have occurred in construction. SONELGAZ has not yet submitted to
the Bank a financial plan indicating how the financial covenants agreed upon
will be achieved.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ALGERIA
PROPOSED SECOND PORT PROJECT
Borrower:        Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Amount:          US$80 million equivalent
Terms:           Seventeen years, including 3-1/2 years of grace,
8.2 percent per annum.
Project          The proposed project is primarily the construction of a new
Description:    port at Jijel, plus technical assistance.   It consists of
the following elements:
(a) Civil Works:
(i) construction of breakwaters, berths, transit
sheds and supporting facilities;
(ii) dredging and reclamation;
(iii) paving of roads and storage areas;
(b) Cargo handling equipment.
(c) Consultants Services for:
(i)  project design, preparation of tender documents
and construction supervision;
(ii)  technical assistance for improving port planning,
management, administration and operations, and
training;
(iii)  technical assistance for studies and preparation
of a, new port cost accounting system and tariff
structure;
(d)  Provision of port construction equipment.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Estimated Cost:
(US$ Million)
Local   Foreign     Total
Civil works                          63.4     116.8     180.2
Equipment                             0.5       8.5       9.0
Consulting Services                    2.2      7.1       9.3
Support to SONATRAM /1                0.7      10.0      10.7
Local Taxes                           59.0      -        59.0
Physical contingencies                6.6      13.2      19.8
Price escalation                     19.5      44.9      64.4
Total                        151.9    200.5      352.4
/1   SONATRAM = Societe Nationale des Travaux Maritimes.
Financing Plan:
$ (Million)
Bank Loan                              80.0
Government                            272.4
352.4
Estimated
Disbursements:
FY78   FY79    FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83
(US$ Million)
Annual             3.9    11.7   18.8   26.4    16.1    3.1
Cumulative         3.9    15.6   34.4    60.8   76.9   80.0
Procurement       The single contract covering the main civil works will be
Arrangements:    awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank Guidelines. It is expected that a joint
venture of foreign firms and SONATRAM will win the contract.
Consultants:      1920 man-months of consultants' services at a cost of $4,800
per man-month will be provided for: (a) project design,
preparation of tender documents and construction supervision,;
(b) improving port management, administration, planning and
operation, and training; (c) feasibility studies and prepara-
tion of a new port cost accounting system and tariff struc-
ture.
Rate of Return:   No separate economic rate of return has been calculated for
the port, as it is an integral part of an adjacent steel
complex, which it will mainly serve. The return on invest-
ments in the port plus the steel complex is about 12 percent.
Appraisal
Report:          Report No. 1455c-AL, dated May 2, 1977



ANNEX IV
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) The project port has been under preparation since May, 1975, by
the Directorate for Infrastructure of the Ministry of Public Works
and Construction. Numerous studies have been carried out by con-
sultants to prepare the project.
(b) The project port was first presented to the Bank in April, 1975
and the first Bank mission to consider the project took place in
November, 1975.
(c) Appraisal took place in October/November, 1976.
(d) Negotiations were completed on April 25, 1977.
(e). The terminal date for effectiveness is set at ninety days after
the signature of the loan.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Since the port is mainly to serve the steel complex, the Bank
has sought assurances on the coordinated and timely completion
of the port, the steel complex, the power station which will
serve the complex, the special steel mill at Ain M'Lila and
adequate rolling facilities (paragraph 37).
(b)  In order to enable ONP to comply with general Government prin-
ciples regarding financial and economic objectives of state
enterprises, without: jeopardizing its general financial position,
and to enable it to earn revenues sufficient to cover its operat-
ing costs, the Government has agreed that port tariffs, including
concession payments by SNS to ONP, will be set at the Port of
Jijel so as to enable ONP to earn an annual return of not less
than 8 and 1/2 percent on the investment in the port facilities
allocated to SNS traffic. With regard to general cargo traffic,
tariffs will be set upon completion of a general port tariff
study for all ports to be carried out not later than January 1,
1979, and will include an adequate rate of return which will
be determined at that time. The Government also agreed that
total payments that ONP may be required to make to the State
in any one year out of cash generated.by ONP from its operations
at the Port of Jijel shall not exceed' the sum of such cash gen-
eration in that year from income and depreciation (paragraph 44).



I



IBRO 12d78RI
I   i   5  /   08               5                 117-    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAY 1917
ARTUL\      S PAIN
tC...l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RiCTMTAN
Tog'o, t   AT  TUNi  A
Ad~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
N  17~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U 
TRNPRTTO            sNNK.                                                   N _V~>osMssOd \
-,--~~~. NORROWAAUSE HAlLWAYS~~H-         M--
SIC PPELIIIAS                    .A,                   2o~~~~~~~IBY
*    - - SOS PIEIS                I '           I                  t   IIB 
d... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   A,R ,  .
(CVZuf  . ASOATO'OA  ARmA  A  IS  25  30
lMAURITANIA,>\                   \  \.   - s. @ ' t1 i  uA       /     tI, . I5--
ALGERIA    \7 \                                              \    \\'>
TRANSPORTATION                                          A 2  R 
INFRASTRUCTURE        \                      ., A '\A G',  /. 
-0lNNTIONAL ROADS\                 - Z            '. 
NARMRWGAUGE RAILWAYS        9    \  
*  SMO.DARY AIR-ORTS                                          NIGER2 |  ,
_OlLPPELltlES -G /2
_ _GASPIPELINES              })            {{
Rl-ESANG I.TtRMlrE.T MTEAtS|j- X X5W x
_w I .TE-NATI01IAL 80-D-AIES  tZlLO-ET-RS   1r  tt! 3   ∞At      G



