Report No. 1455c-AL                                                                FLE  COPY
Appraisal of
Jijel Port Project Algeria
May 6,1977
Regional Projects Department
Europe, MiddIe East and North Africa Region
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the Wordd Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by
recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



1/
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             =         Algerian Dinar (DA)
US$ 0.2439                =         DA 1.00
US$ 1.0                   =         DA 4.10
US$ 243,900               =         DA 1 million
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Traffic Data - Metric
1 meter (m)               =         3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)          =         0.62 mile (mi)
1 metric ton (t)          =         2,204.6 pounds (lb)
Water Depth - Meters at Mean Low Water Spring Tides (MLWST)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CNAN                            Companie Nationale Algerienne de Navigation
DI                              Direction de l'Infrastructure
MET                              Ministere d'Etat Charge des Transports
MTP                              Ministere des Travaux Publics et de Construction
ONP                             Office National des Ports
SEP                 -           Secretariat d'Etat au Plan
SNS                              Societe Nationale de Siderurgie
SONAMA                           Societe Nationale de Manutention
SONAREM                          Societe Nationale des Recherches et d'Exploitation
Minieres
SONATRAM            -            Societe Nationale des Travaux Maritimes
SONELGAZ            -            Societe Nationale de l'Electricite et du Gaz
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1/ Adjusted as of January 1, 1977



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF
JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .....  i-iv
I.   INTRODUCTION .         .........................................            1
Il.    BACKGROUND ...         ..............................                      2
A.   The Transport System .............................                    2
B.   Transport Policy and Planning .... ...........                        2
C.   The Algerian Steel Industry ....             ..................       3
III.    THE PORTS            .............................................         5
A.   Facilities .......................................                    5
B.  Traffic ..........................                                     5
C.    Organization, Management and Operations              ..........      5
IV.   THE JIJEL STEEL COMPLEX ...............................                     7
A.    The Market             .......................................       8
B.  Location .........................                                     9
C.    Steel Complex Scope              .............................       9
D.    Capital Cost and Financing Plan               ..................    10
E.    Financial Aspects ......        ..........................          il
F.   Management and Training ..l........................                  i
G.    Implementation and Operations                ....................   il
V.    PORT DEVELOPMENT AND THE PROJECT ......              ................     12
A.    Port Development Plan .....           .......................       12
B.    Project Objectives ...............................                  12
C.    Project Description (Map 12479)             ..................      12
D.    Project Cost Estimate ............................                  14
E.    Project Financing ................................                  16
F.   Project Implementation ...........................                   17
G.    Project Disbursements  ............................                 18
H.    Possible Port Expansion .............                               18
I.    Support to Domestic Civil Engineering Industry
(SONATRAM) ..........................................           18
J.    Ecology and Regional Development ....             .............     19
Messrs. A.A. Fateen (Engineer, Deputy Division Chief), S.R. Ditmeyer
(Economist), A.H. Clark (Financial Analyst, Consultant) and G. Perazich
(Steel Specialist, Consultant) prepared this Appraisal Report.
This document has à r.strictd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanct
of their oMcial duties. lI contentu may not otherwie be disclo ed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                      Page No.
VI.  FINANCIAL  ASPECTS   ......... . ..  .    ......................  . ...  ...........  20
A.   The Project Port ................................       20
B.  Office National des Ports - Tariffs, Accounts,
Audits   ....................................................  23
VII.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION ....................................    24
A.   Economic Approach .................. .............      24
B.  Economic Justification ..........................       26
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...............      27
ANNEXES
1.  Supporting Documents and Studies
2. World Demand for Steel - The Algerian Steel Industry
3. The Jijel Steel Complex
4.  Foreign Sources of Iron Ore
5.  The Transport System
6.  Planned Versus Implemented Transport Investments (1970-76)
7. Port Facilities at Algerian Main Ports
8. Traffic through Algerian Ports 1965-1975
9.  Traffic through Main Ports (1973, 1974 and 1975)
10.  Summary of Ordinance Establishing ONP
11.  Ports Technical Assistance Programs and Estimated Costs
12. ONP's Organization Chart
13.  Expenditures on Port Development Plans 1970-1973, 1974-1977
and 1978-1982
14. Mobile Handling Equipment Needed for the Project Port
15. Cost Estimate
16. Estimated Project Expenditure
17. Organization of the Ministry of Public Works and Construction (WB 17243)
18. Work Program
19.  Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursements
20. Support to SONATRAM
21.  Government's Financial and Economic Objectives for Public Elierprises
and Agencies, including those responsible for Transport
22.  Project Costs allocated between General Cargo, SNS Traffic
and Other Investments
23.  Calculation of Port Tariffs (ONP)
24.  ONP/Jijel Port
- Consolidated Revenue Accounts and Cash Flow
- General Cargo Revenue Accounts and Cash Flow
- SNS Traffic Revenue Accounts and Cash Flow



ANNEXES (Continued)
25. ONP/Jijel. Pro Forma Balance Sheets as at December 31
26. Methodology, Bases and Assumptions Used and Other Financial Analysis
27. Summary Analysis of State Budget Receipts and Payments in Respect
of Jijel Port (ONP Administration)
28. ONP's Revenue Accounts
29. ONP's Balance Sheets as of December 31
30. SNS Traffic through the Project Port
31. Percentage of Traffic Handled by Ports in the Eastern, Central
and Western Regions
32. Forecast General and Dry Bulk Cargo Traffic through Eastern Ports
33. Least-Cost Analysis of Port Configuration
34. Analysis of Berth Requirements
35.  Economic Return Calculations Relating to Jijel Port/Steel Complex
MAPS
IBRD 12478R1 Algeria - Transportation Infrastructure
IBRD  12479    Jijel Port Project - General Layout






APPRAISAL OF
JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Since the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria (Algeria) became
ihdependent in 1962, the Bank has been involved in four of its transport proj-
ects. The first, a US$33.1 million project for road improvement, construction
and maintenance, was partially financed by a US$18.5 million loan in June 1973
(912-AL). The second, a US$293.2 million project for constructing a port at
Bethioua for exporting liquified natural gas, was partially financed by a
US$70 million loan in May 1974 (995-AL). The third, a US$127.3 million rail-
way project for procurement of rolling stock and rehabilitation of tracks, was
partially financed by a US$49 million loan in May 1974 (996-AL). The fourth,
a US$101.6 million project for the improvement of about 40 km of Boudouaou
Lakhdaria Highway for which a loan of US$41.5 million was approved by the
Board in April 1977.
ii.       A fifth transport project is the subject of this Appraisal Report.
In 1975, the Government asked the Bank to help finance the construction of a
new port at Jijel, mainly to serve a new steel complex to be built adjacent
to the proposed port. The steel complex traffic through the proposed port is
estimated at about 4.56 million tons annually. The port will handle also 1.2
million tons of general cargo annually of which about 650,000 tons will be
containerized. The proposed port and the first phase of the steel complex
are both scheduled for completion by mid-1982. The steel complex will use
the new direct reduction technology which can be highly competitive with the
conventional blast furnace methods, especially in countries with a plentiful
supply of natural gas and suitable sources of high-grade iron ore in reason-
able proximity. To that effect, Algeria enjoys substantial locational advan-
tages. The low labor cost, even with somewhat lower productivity currently,
adds to these advantages.
iii.      The main elements of the proposed project are the construction of a
new port, and support to the Societe Nationale de Travaux Maritimes (SONATRAM),
the only Algerian company specialized in port construction. As regards the
proposed port, which will handle about 5.76 million tons by 1984, the project
includes civil works, acquisition of cargo handling equipment and consultants'
services. Civil works include construction of breakwaters, berths, transit
sheds and supporting facilities; dredging and reclamation; and paving of roads
and storage areas. Cargo handling equipment includes that needed to handle
general cargo and containers. Consultants' services comprise project design,
preparation of tender documents, construction supervision and studies of and
training in port management, administration, operations and planning. Training
is an essential part of the project and will be provided for personnel from
the three agencies involved in port operations: Office National des Ports
(ONP), Compagnie Nationale Algerienne de Navigation (CNAN), and Societe
Nationale de Manutention (SONAMA). To ensure full use of the port, SNS will



- ii -
finance, procure and install the necessary equipment needed to handle iron ore
and other raw materials, from ship to shore; CNAN will finance and provide the
necessary tug boats and SONAMA will provide the mobile equipment needed to
handle general cargo and containers within the port land area.
iv.       The location of the proposed port responds to the Government's
policy to assist this economically undeveloped area east of the town of Jijel
by building the steel complex. From the point of view of the sources of raw
materials, the markets and location of further processing plants, Jijel may
not be the optimum location but it is an appropriate location for a new port
on the eastern coast. The region is one of the poorest, most densely populated
and least developed in Algeria vith a per capita income of about US$300 in
1976 as compared with US$780 for the country as a whole. The steel complex
will create additional purchasing power in the region of about US$25 million
annually, as well as increase its per capita income to about US$550 in 1984.
The Algerian coast is completely exposed to the sea and is without any natural
protection. This resulted in relatively expensive port projects. The main
advantages of the site are: (a) deep vater necessary for the safety of ships
is available at a relatively short distance from the shore; and (b) the
presence of sand which is readily removable by normal dredging, suitable
for reclamation and capable of safely supporting the proposed port and steel
complex facilities.
v.        The project cost i8 estimated at US$352.4 million, including con-
tingency allowances, domestic taxes, and customs duties but excluding interest
on external loans during construction. The foreign exchange component is
US$200.5 million, or 56.9%. Costs of civil works have been derived largely
from prices of similar wotks now being constructed at Bethioua port (Loan
995-AL); the cost of the consulting services have been based on agreed fees
for project preparation, expected supervision terms of reference and estimated
man-months required for management consultancy services.
vi.       A US$80 million Bank loan (40% of the total foreign exchange cost)
to the Government is proposed for a 17-year term, including 3-1/2 years of
grace. The Government will provide the balance of the foreign exchange com-
ponent estimated at US$120.5 million, and it has the financial capability to
do so. The Government will also provide all local currency needed for the
project, estimated at US$151.9 million equivalent.
vii.      The port project is based on feasibility studies, layout, and
designs carried out by foreign consultants acceptable to the Bank. Project
implementation will be the responsibility of the Directorate for Infrastruc-
ture of the Ministry of Public Works and Construction, which is experienced
and competent. Consultants will be employed for construction supervision
in accordance with the "Uses of Consultants by the World Bank and Borrowers";
they will be assisted by qualified counterparts. The contract will be put to
tender in June 1977 based on international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank Group "Guidelines for Procurement". Most probably, a joint
venture of foreign and Algerian firms will vin the contract. Construction is
expected to start in early 1978 and to be completed by mid-1982. The project
port will be managed and operated by ONP.



- iii -
viii.     The steel complex will be built and operated by SNS which is a well
established national company with more than 10 years of successful experience.
It is managed by competent executives. Numerous studies have been carried out
by foreign consultants and local authorities to design and evaluate the steel
complex. Bids have been received from three consortia (American, French and
German) and construction is scheduled for completion by mid-1982. SNS is
the only importer, exporter and manufacturer of steel in Algeria and has the
authority, under Government supervision, to set the prices for its products.
Its total employment reached about 22,000 workers in early 1977. It owns and
operates factories at Oran, El Hadjar, Reghaia, Ghardaia, Arzew, Ghazaouet,
Kouba, Algiers, Constantine and Annaba. When in full production in 1985 the
steel complex will produce about 23% of Algeria's demand for steel and will
provide direct employment to about 3,200 people. About 96% of the products
could be consumed locally and the complex does not have to depend on export
markets except for 4% of its products. Earnings from the complex will
contribute to savings and to development of other essential economic and
social activities. The steel complex will be beneficial to the Algerian
economy.
ix.       No separate economic return has been calculated for the project port
alone since it is an integral part of the steel complex except for the facili-
ties assigned for general cargo. The economic rate of return on investment
in the steel complex plus that part of the project port which supports it
is about 10.4%. The marginal investment of providing general cargo traffic
facilities within the harbor area necessary for the steel complex, and the
associated internal transportation costs, are together less than the costs
of expanding and using one of the other ports in the region, namely Annaba,
Skikda or Bejaia. The economic rate of return on this part of the investment
is 27%. The economic rate of return on the whole port plus the steel complex
is about 12.3%.
x.        The SNS steel complex is amply justified financially.  Calculations
show that, on a financial accounting basis, the financial return for a repre-
sentative full production year would be about 21% on gross investment in fixed
assets, and about 17% on total capital employed. Using discounted cash flow
techniques, and assuming an economic life of 25 years for the first phase of
the steel complex, the internal financial return on total capital employed
would be about 14%. A sensitivity analysis, taking the most probable
variables into account, indicates that the lowest internal financial return
would be about 13%.
xi.       The Government has agreed that port tariffs, including concession
paynents by SNS to ONP, will be set at the Port of Jijel so as to enable ONP
to earn an annual return of not less than 8-1/2% on the investment in the Port
facilities allocated to SNS traffic. With regard to general cargo traffic,
tariffs will be set upon completion of a general port tariff study for all
ports to be carried out not later than January 1, 1979, and will include an
adequate rate of return which will be determined at that time. The Government
also agreed that total payments that ONP may be required to make to the State
in any one year out of cash generated by ONP from its operations at the Port
of Jijel shall not exceed the sum of such cash generation in that year from
income and depreciation.



- iv -
xii.      SONATRAM which was established in June 1970 is now constructing
port facilities in 10 Algerian ports and participates by 26% in the port of
Bethioua. Although SONATRAM has legally a monopoly of port construction in
Algeria it has not grown to the size where it could undertake responsibility
as prime contractor for construction of a major port. Because of this the
Minister of Public Works and Construction is authorized to issue an exception
to the monopoly and allow foreign contractors to carry out major works.
SONATRAM is in urgent need of modern port construction equipment if it is to
play its role in the economy of the country and the project therefore includes
US$10 million in foreign currency to acquire construction equipment and to
provide technical assistance for this company. The Bank's share of the US$10
million is approximately US$4 million.
xiii.     Port operations, which ONP shares with CNAN and SONAMA, have improved
considerably largely as a result of technical assistance provided under the
first Port Project (995-AL, May 1974), however, additional improvement is still
needed and the project includes management consultant services for this purpose
and to provide necessary training.
xiv.      On the basis of agreements reached during loan negotiations, the
project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$80 million to the
Government of the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria for a 17-year
term, including 3-1/2 years of grace.



APPRAISAL OF
JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In 1975 the Government of the Democratic and Popular Republic of
Algeria asked the Bank to help finance a port project at a location 15 km to
the east of the existing town of Jijel and this report appraises the project.
The purpose of the port is twofold. It vould in the first place support a
steel complex to be built near Jijel and would in addition handle general
cargo for which there are presently inadequate facilities in the eastern
part of the country.
1.02      Since the Algerian Coast is completely exposed to the sea and without
any natural protection any new port is an expensive project and from the point
of view of construction costs, except for soil conditions, no location is more
favorable than another. What therefore determined the location of the port is
the location of the steel complex. From the point of view of the sources of
raw materials, the markets and location of further processing plants Jijel
may not be the optimum location. However, the Government has determined that
the complex should be located at Jijel in order to meet the criteria of its
regional development policy and in particular the economic development of
that part of the country and has started work on preparing the site. Never-
theless even if no regional development benefits are allocated to the project,
and taking into account certain constraints of the proposed location, the
project as proposed produces a reasonable 12.3% economic rate of return to
the country and should therefore be supported by the Bank.
1.03      Oxher Bank involvements in the transportation sector are a highway
loan for US$18.5 million (Loan 912-AL, June 1973), a port loan for US$70 mil-
lion (Loan 995-AL, May 1974), a railway loan for US$49 million (Loan 996-AL,
May 1974), and a highway loan for US$41.5 million approved by the Board in
April 1977.
1.04      This report is based on:  information from the Ministries of
Finance, Transport, and Public Works and Construction; the Secretariat d'Etat
au Plan (SEP); the Office National des Ports (ONP); the Societe Nationale
de Manutention (SONAMA); the Compagnie Nationale Algerienne de Navigation
(CNAN); the Societe Nationale de Siderurgie (SNS); the Societe Nationale des
Travaux Maritimes (SONATRAM); a 1975 master plan study for ports by the con-
sultants EASAMS (UK); a 1975/76 feasibility study by the consultants Trac-
tionel (Belgium) for the proposed port; a 1976 master plan study, preliminary
engineering and cost estimate for the project port by the consultants Port
Autonome du Havre (France), Tractionel, Organisation et Amenagement (France)
and Delft Hydraulic Laboratory (Holland); numerous studies on steel produc-
tion, processes, marketing, etc. and findings of a November 1976 Bank appraisal
mission composed of Messrs. A.A. Fateen (Engineer, Deputy Division Chief),
S.R. Ditmeyer (Economist), A.H. Clark (Financial Analyst, Consultant) and



-2-
G. Perazich (Steel Specialist, Consultant). Supporting documents and studies
are listed in Annex 1. Information on world demand for i; eel and Algerian
steel industry is given in Annex 2. Information on the Jijel steel complex
and foreign sources of iron ore is given in Annexes 3 and 4 respectively.
II. BACKGROUND
A. The Transport System
2.01      The transport system (Map 12478R1) consists of:  eight commercial
ports and about 20 fishing ports; a fleet of 50 seagoing ships totalling about
one million dwt; about 4,400 km of petroleum pipelines and about 1,600 km of
natural gas pipelines; 4,000 km of railways and about 80,000 km of national,
regional, and local roads connecting major Algerian cities, and conne--ing
Algeria with Tunisia and Morocco; and four international and 10 secondary
airports and one national airline. Ports are discussed further in Chapter III
and details of other transport modes are given in Annex 5.
B.  Transport Policy and Planning
Policy
2.02      Since Independence in 1962, the Government has aimed at developing
the economy along socialist lines, under strong central control and with most
of the transport sector in the hands of public enterprises. The main instru-
ments of development policy have been Four-Year Development Plans as well as
ordinary and investment budgets.
Planning
2.03      The Secretariat d'Etat au Plan (SEP) is responsible for preparing
the Development plans. In the first Four-Year Development Plan (1970-1973),
low priority was accorded to development of transport infrastructure. But in
the second Plan (1974-1977), transport investments increased from 29Z of total
investments in the first Plan to 59% so that arrears in renewal works for
roads and railways can be eliminated. Expansion of port facilities and
rehabilitation of roads and railway track and equipment will play a greater
role in the next Plan than in previous ones. Planned versus implemented
transport investments (1970-1976) is given in Annex 6.
2.04      Investment planning suffers from several weaknesses, including in-
adequate data collection and project implementation as well as unsatisfactory
coordination and exchange of information between government agencies and
transport modes, so that in the past SEP and DI have been preparing port
investment plans on different bases. Governxment's attempts to improve the
quality of its planning have been hampered by a severe shortage of qualified



local staff. Until more are available, Algeria will need assistance fron
foreign consultants both for studies and to help project implementation.
To enable the government to properly prepare its port development plan, the
Bethioua port project included provision for consultancy services to prepare
a master plan for all Algerian commercial ports based on realistic traffic
forecasts. The study carried out by EASAMS LTD (UK) was completed in 1976
and included both a blaster Plan and recommendations for reorganization of
the port sector. The Master Plan which has been reviewed by the Bank and
found satisfactory will be used by SEP in preparing its next four year plan.
The recommendations for reorganization are under study by the Government
(para 3.07).
2.05      The detailed four year development plans for port infrastructure
are prepared by DI, and ONP prepares four-year capital expenditure budgets
for renewal replacement and improvement of its fixed assets. The next plan
will be on the same basis as that used by SEP.
C. The Algerian Steel Industry
2.06      The iron and steel industry in Algeria is dominated by the Societe
Nationale de Siderurgie (SNS), a state enterprise responsible for the develop-
ment and operation of all primary metal producing activities.
2.07      SNS, the largest of the enterprises in the iron and steel sector,
was established in 1964 and with its present work force of about 22,000
people operates facilities for primary steel making, rolling mills, tube
mills, tin plating and facilities for finished products such as gas bottles.
2.08      With headquarters in Algiers, SNS is managed by a Director-General
who is assisted by four directors responsible respectively for engineering,
finance, personnel and administration. The Director-General is directly
responsible for management of the steelmaking units and the sales division.
Like other Algerian enterprises, SNS has grown rapidly, although its growth
has tended to lag behind total domestic steel consumption. Details on the
Company and its existing facilities are given in Annex 2.
2.09      Consumption of steel in Algeria, between 1970 and 1976, rose from
380,000 tons to 1.36 million tons illustrating the rapid growth of the sector.
During the same period, domestic pig iron production only rose from 381,000
tons to 432,000 tons and hot and cold rolled steel production from zero to
350,000 tons, which indicates the country's increasing dependence on imports.
It should, nevertheless, be noted that prices in the steel sector - which SNS
may change only with the approval of the Government - have increased only 14%
since 1969 in current terms while world steel prices have increased approxi-
mately 45% in real terms over the same period.
2.10      As part of Algeria's policy of rapid industrialization high priority
has been given in the country's Development Plans to iron and steel sector
investments. Under the 1967-69 Development Plan, approximately DA 1.3 billion



-4-
(US$317 million) was invested in the sector and about 108% of the Plan target
was achieved. Under the 1970-73 Plan, about DA 2.9 billion (US$707 million)
vas invested - approximately 150% more, in current terms, than the Plan had
authorized. Under the 1974-77 Plan, DA 5.1 billion (US$1.24 billion) has been
allocated to the iron and steel sector and plan targets for steel have so far
been exceeded. Investments in the sector are approximately a year ahead of
schedule. SNS's investment projections are detailed in Annex 2. Apart from
the Jijel plant (Chapter IV), major items include a plant expansion in El
Hadjar comprising hot and cold rolling mills as well as a rebar mill, and
miscellaneous projects for production of gas bottles, special steels and
aluminum at various locations.
2.11      In addition to these projects, a third large steel plant is pro-
jected for the Oran region in the early nineties; SNS's plans indicate this
will have an annual capacity of 10 million tons. No serious consideration of
this plant has yet been given at the Government level; however if this figure
is accurate it would have a considerable impact on the market for Jijel's
production and the attention of the Government has been drawn to this. The
Government intends to take a decision on this plant only after its economic
justification has been demonstrated.
2.12      One of the rationales for the rapid expansion of the Algerian steel
industry is the existence of major domestic iron ore deposits at Ouenza-
Boukhadra, in the East, and Gara Djebilet in the South-West of the country.
The Ouenza-Boukhadra deposits are estimated at about 160 million tons with
indications of additional reserves. An estimated 40 million tons of the
reviewed deposits are suitable for the Jijel-project, but only if mixed
with about 65% of imported higher-grade ore. By utilizing energy-intensive
iron and steelmaking techniques, Algeria will benefit from substantial foreign
exchange savings.
2.13      Estimates of overall liquid steel demand show an average annual
increase of 16% through 1985. While this figure is very high, it is reason-
able in view of the Bank's most recent economic projections and would still
leave a substantial deficit of up to 1 million tons annually to be filled
by imports. This hypothesis would stand even if the growth rate were cut back
somewhat and even if all projects currently planned were to come on stream as
scheduled.
2.14      The overall Algerian steel strategy of import substitution appears
sound since - notwithstanding the expansion of SNS so far - iron and steel
imports, by current value, increased at an average annual rate of almost 50%
between 1969 and the first quarter of 1975. Clearly, the objectives of
Algeria's development plans could be in jeopardy if rapid steel expansion
is not forthcoming.
2.15      Additional information on the Algerian steel industry is given in
Annex 2.



- 5 -
III. THE PORTS
A. Facilities
3.01      Algeria has eight main ports (Algiers, Annaba, Arzew, Bejaia,
Ghazaouet, Mostaganem, Oran and Skikda), as shown on Map 12478R1. A new port
is being constructed at Bethioua and partly financed by a Bank loan (995-AL),
mainly to export liquefied natural gas (LNG) and condensate. In addition
to the main ports, there are several small ports including the existing port
of Jijel which handled about 153,000 tons in 1975. Information on facilities
in the most important ports is given in Annex 7. The western part of Algeria
has a port capacity sufficient to handle present as well as 1985 traffic fore-
cast. On the other hand, the eastern parts, at present served by the ports of
Annaba, Skikda and Bejaia, are short of port capacity, especially for general
cargo. There is a need for developing additional port capacity in that region
where rapid industrial development is taking place.
B. Traffic
3.02      Imports excluding hydrocarbons increased from 1.78 million tons in
1965 to 8.72 million tons in 1975, an average annual increase of 17%. Exports
excluding hydrocarbons and minerals declined from 2.6 million tons to about
one million tons during the same period mainly due to reduction in wine,
fruits and general cargo exports. Exports of minerals and petroleum products
increased from 20.15 million tons in 1965 to 41.92 million tons in 1975.
Algiers handles about 28% of all general cargo traffic and Arzew handles
about 50% of all petroleum traffic. Detailed information on traffic through
Algerian ports is given in Annexes 8 and 9.
C. Organization, Management and Operations
Organization of Port Operations and Functions
3.03      Responsibility for port operations is divided between three enter-
prises - ONP, SONAMA, and CNAN.
3.04      ONP is the principal agency responsible for administration, opera-
tion and development of all ports in Algeria, as well as pilotage, police
and security. It was established by Ordinance No. 71-29 of May 31, 1971 (see
Annex 10), and took over responsibility for the port assets and liabilities
of the former private concessionaires at the main ports together with Govern-
ment installations, including infrastructure, at all ports. It also owns
all quay cranes. The proposed port of Jijel will be transferred to ONP on
completion.



-6-
3.05      SONAMA, created by Ordinance No. 71-16 of April 9, 1971, has a
monopoly on cargo handling operations in all ports, both on ship and shore.
However, certain bulk cargoes, mainly iron ore, are handled by the national
enterprises that import or export those cargoes. SONAMA owns and operates
all mobile cargo-handling equipment, and by contract vith ONP dated April 28,
1976, now has a concession to operate and maintain ONP's quay cranes.
3.06      CNAN, an established ship-owning shipping agent and forvarding
company, in which the Government is sole shareholder, is responsible for
berth allocation and cargo movement and disposition, and provides towing
services.
3.07      There are obvious disadvantages in the separation of functions
between the various agencies and the Government has taken steps to improve
coordination by a series of ordinances and decrees:
(i)  Made ONP's Port Directors responsible for good port
operations and gave them powers of coordination and
decision over all port services (Ordinance No. 75-40
of June 17, 1975);
(ii)  Created permanent committees to program and coordinate
port operations; these are in place of the consultative
committee provided for in Article 15 of the ONP Law
(Annex 10) (Ordinance No. 75-72 of June 17, 1975); and
(iii)  Promulgated the internal regulations of the permanent
port committees (Decree No. 75-178 of May 14, 1976).
In addition EASAMS study (para 2.04) included recommendations for reorganiza-
tion of the port sector under ONP and the Government in late 1976 through
the Secretariat d'Etat au Plan (SEP), set up a committee to review the ques-
tion. Thus satisfactory arrangements now exist for coordination that are
likely to be further improved.
Efficiency of Port Operations
3.08      Prior to 1975, port operations vere very inefficient.  There was
serious cargo congestion in transit and storage areas, ship turn around
time was unusually long and ships experienced serious delays waiting for
a berth. This has changed. New management at ONP and SONAMA have introduced
energetic innovations which together with the measures mentioned in para 3.07
have raised efficiency.
3.09      Notwithstanding the present improvement, responsible Government
Departments (in particular, NET and SEP), as well as the three port operating
agencies, are fully aware of the need for further improvement in port operating
procedures and in training. As a result, a series of technical assistance and
training programs is being developed by the operating agencies. Details of
these programs are given in Annex 11. The total foreign exchange cost of the
series amounts to some US$3.2 million of which some US$1.7 million is being



-7-
provided under the Bethioua Port Project. Provision is made in the present
project for the US$1.5 million necessary to complete the whole series. During
loan negotiations the Government undertook to cause management consultants
acceptable to the Bank to be appointed before June 30, 1978 to carry out the
program, under terms of reference to be drawn by the responsible agencies in
cooperation wîth the Bank, and according to a timetable to be agreed with the
Bank.
3.10      ONP's top management including financial management is good.  At
lower levels there is a need for training (see para 3.09). The Director
General appointed by Decree on the proposal of the MET, ils responsible for
all policy-making decisions and executive action, subject to approval of the
Minister on certain matters. The Director General has all powers necessary
to fulfill his functions and is assisted by a Secretary General, appointed
by order of the Minister. The Minister may appoint commissions to enquire
into ONP's management and its compliance with his directives. Permanent
committees have been set up to program and coordinate port operations (para
3.07 ii). ONP is experienced and competent to take over the responsibility
of the new Jijel port upon its completion. ONP's organization charts for
head office and individual ports are given in Annex 12.
Project Port
3.11      The proposed port is a specialized port designed mainly to handle
the steel complex traffic of 4.56 million tons annually. In addition, it
will handle about 1.2 million tons annually of general cargo imports intended
for the eastern region of the country, of which 650,000 tons will be container-
ized. It is possible that the Government may wish to increase the capacity
of the steel complex by 1995 and the port layout has therefore been designed
to allow for this possibility as well as the long term general cargo traffic.
ONP will be responsible for port administration (para. 3.04), SONAMA for cargo
handling operations (para 3.05), and CNAN for towage, berth allocation and
cargo movement (para 3.06). SNS will be responsible for handling the steel
complex's raw materials and products.
IV. THE JIJEL STEEL COMPLEX
4.01      The steel complex will comprise mainly:
(a)  a pelletizing plant with an annual production capacity of
about two million tons of pellets;
(b)  three direct reduction units with an annual production
capacity of about 1.2 million tons of sponge-iron;
(c)  four electric furnaces with an annual production capacity
of about 800,000 tons of liquid steel;



-8-
(d) four continuous casting machines with an annual production
capacity of about 755,000 tons of billets; and
(e) a ferroalloy plant with an'annual production capacity of
about 110,000 tons of different types of alloys.
Detailed information on the steel complex is given in Annex 3.
A. The Market
4.02      Macroeconomic indicators show that total Algerian steel demand
should be more than sufficient to abBorb the entire domestic projected
liquid steel production envisaged for the mid-1980's.
4.03      The Jijel Steel Plant, at full capacity, would produce for sale
annually 380,000 tons of pellets, 500,000 tons of sponge iron and 755,000
tons of billets. The pellets would be consumed in El Hadjar steel mill.
Of the sponge iron 350,000 tons would be consumed in a new electric furnace
(EF) to be built at Ain M'lila, for which work is already underway. The
remainder would either be consumed at El Hadjar or exported. Since the
tonnages involved are small, there should be no problem in disposing of the
sponge iron as a high grade scrap substitute among Mediterranean basin EF
operators.
4.04      Domestic demand for billets and billet equivalents is expected
to rise from 525,000 tons in 1975 to about 1.5 million tons by 1985 (average
annual growth rate of 11%). Such a rate of increase seems reasonable and
indicates that exports should not be necessary. Assuming production of
500,000 tons of billets from the expanded shop at El Hadjar and 755,000 from
Jijel, there will be a deficit of some 240,000 tons of billet equivalent to
be met by imports.
4.05      The problem is, therefore, not so much whether sufficient demand
for billet equivalents will exist but rather whether sufficient rolling capac-
ity has been envisaged fully to utilize domestic billet production. During,
loan negotiations the Government undertook to cause SNS to build, not later
than June 30, 1982, rolling mills at appropriate locations capable of con-
suming all billets produced by the Jijel steel complex.
4.06      The ferroalloy plant of the Jijel complex, at full capacity, would
produce for sale annually: ferromanganese (50,000 tons), ferrochrome (15,000
tons), ferrosilicon (15,000 tons) and silicomanganese (30,000 tons). However,
assuming full implementation of planned projects at El Hadjar and Ain M'lila,
there would only be a domestic market for about 35,000 tons annually of these
products. SNS would, therefore, have to export about 75,000 tons annually
until a proposed steel plant at Oran comes on stream. The size of the ferro-
alloy plant is dictated by economies of scale and consultants' studies indicate
the possibilities of exporting ferroalloys in the Mediterranean region.



- 9 -
B. Location
4.07      The steel complex will be located on the coast 450 km east of Algiers
and 15 km from the town of Jijel, in one of the most densely populated and
poorest areas of the country. The choice of the site responds to the Govern-
ment's consistently applied policy of dispersing industrial investments as
widely as possible to assist underdeveloped regions and to contribute to
income distribution. It is an appropriate location for a new port on the
eastern coast, although it may not be optimal either from the point of view
of raw materials or in terms of distribution of finished products. This
policy of regional development has been promulgated in the last two Four-Year
Plans and applies in all industrial sectors, including the construction sector,
to which the Bank recently made a US$46 million loan (SNMC Expansion Project,
874-Al). SNS investigated a number of possible locations within the area
bounded by Bejaia in the West and Skikda in the East. The site finally
selected is situated on a flood plain to the East of the town of Jijel in
a locality which is not particularly suitable for agriculture.
4.08      In addition to the need for expanding port capacity on the eastern
coast of Algeria, the main advantage perceived by the Government for the site
is its developmental impact since it will act as an industrial catalyst for
the region. The complex will initially create about US$25 million annually
in additional purchasing power in the region, through backward and forward
linkages, and will raise the area's per capita income from about US$300 in
1975 to US$550 by 1984. The main constraints of the site are: (a) limited
transportation infrastructure; and (b) distance from raw materials and
markets. The Government is certainly aware of these constraints and notwith-
standing them, has deliberately chosen the Jijel location, as part of its
general policy of regional industrialization and diversification.
C. Steel Complex Scope
4.09      As presently envisaged, the steel complex is the focal point for
a larger industrial development. At full capacity, the plant will require
2.34 million tons of iron ore annually, approximately 65% of which is to be
imported from Guinea. Since Guinean ore may not be forthcoming in the first
2-3 years of Jijel's operation, SNS is in the final stages of securing alter-
native ore supplies from Brazil which are fully compatible with the chosen
technology.
4.10      The present design of the plant shows a pellet plant with a capacity
in excess of steel complex requirements. However, some new direct reduction
plants in the world operate optimally on a mixture of lump ore and pellets
and others even operate on lump ore alone. SNS is investigating the alterna-
tives of: (i) using lump ore; and (ii) reducing the size of the pellet plant.
It should be noted however that lump ore, besides being more expensive than
ordinary ore, is not available in Algeria.



- 10
4.11      The present scope of the steel complex does not include rolling
facilities integrated into its operations. The location of adequate rolling
capacity has been discussed with the Government and SNS, in view of the
relative cost of transport and handling of billets as opposed to finished
products. The decision to separate rolling facilities from the steel complex
and locate such facilities in the western and central parts of the country
is based on regional development policies and the existence of a substantial
market for finished steel products in those parts.
4.12      According to SNS, the iron and steelmaking capacity of the Jijel
plant will be doubled by 1995. The port layout has been designed 80 that
its facilities could be expanded, if necessary, to handle Phase II traffic.
Certain imbalances in the steel complex may have been accepted with a view
to that envisaged expansion although its full details are not known. Also,
in view of the steel tentative plans for an integrated steel plant of 10
million tons annually in the early 1990's near Oran, further analysis may
show that the scope of Phase Il at Jijel should be reconsidered and the
Government's attention has been drawn to this point.
D. Capital Cost and Financing Plan
4.13      The capital cost of the steel and ferroalloy plants is detailed
in Annex 3 and summarized below:
SNS:  Jijel Steel Complex   Surmary of Capital Cost Estimates
DA Million    US$ Million    %
Steel Plant, Base Cost                          1,917           468          58
Ferro Alloy Plant Base Cost                       325            79          10
Total Base Cost                           2,242           547          68
Physical Contingencies                            225            55           7
Price Escalation                                  523           128          16
Total Fixed Assets                        2,990            730         91
Working Capital                                   309            75           9
Total Plant Costs                         3,299           805         100
Interest During Construction                      418           101
Total Financing Required                  3,717           906
The estimate for the steel plant is based on earlier feasibility studies
carried out by FERRCO (Canada) and on the bids received so far. For the
ferroalloy plant, the cost estimate is based on a 1974 feasibility study.
These capital cost estimates are reasonable when compared with similar
projects elsewhere.
4.14      In the Algerian context, all projects that are individualized for
execution in the Four-Year planning framework, and realized, are assured
financing. In the case of Jijel steel complex, 80% of the foreign exchange
costs would be met by export credits, and the rest in the framework of over-
all external borrowing and through annual state budget allocations.



- il -
E. Financial Aspects
4.15      The steel complex is financially well justified.  The financial rate
of return on gross fixed assets in the first full year of operations after the
start-up period would be about 21%, and 17% on total capital employed. On
a discounted cash flow basis over a 25-year operating period, the internal
financial return on total capital employed is about 14%.
F. Management and Training
4.16      Information on SNS management and training is given in Part B of
Annex 2 (paras. 1.1 to 1.9).
G. Implementation and Operations
4.17      Bids on the steel plant, split into five packages, were called for
in November 1975 and SNS's evaluation is currently taking place with the assis-
tance of Tractionel (Belgium). It is understood that three consortia bid for
the entire plant and one for the direct reduction units alone. Although
detailed negotiations with the bidders are expected to begin in mid-1977, it
is unlikely that a final decision on the award of the contract will be taken
before the end of 1977. However, a contract for site preparation is expected
to be signed shortly.  Apparently no bids have yet been invited for the ferro-
alloy plant. It is understood that the successful bidder will be required to
provide: (i) training on site and in the suppliers' own plants for SNS staff;
and (ii) operating assistance during start-up and initial operations.
4.18      SNS does not have the numbers of engineers and designers needed to
implement its ambitious expansion program; consequently it has in the past
made extensive use of foreign consultants. At Jijel however, although FERRCO
did carry out a feasibility study for a single unit direct reduction plant in
1973, such assistance is presently limited to the contract with Tractionnel,
providing help on bid evaluation. Limited technical assistance supplemented
only by reliance on equipmént supplies may, however, lead to imbalances in
plant design and problems in project implementation and start up. Even if
SNS should settle for an overall turnkey contract for the plant, it is recom-
mended that SNS engage the services of qualified consultants to assist in
obtaining (i) an optimal scope of plant, (ii) a balanced design of facili-
ties; (iii) quality of supply contracts; (iv) minimal costs of execution;
(v) minimal implementation delays; (vi) efficient start up procedures and
early operation. The Government's attention has been drawn to this.
4.19      During loan negotiations, the Government undertook to cause SNS to:
(a) build the steel complex as described in para. 4.01 and Ain M'Lila special
steel mill referred to in para. 4.03 before June 30, 1982, and thereafter



- 12 -
operate and maintain them, all with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with appropriate administrative, financial and industrial prac-
tices; and (b) procure and install all mechanical equipment needed at the
port for handling iron ore, scrap iron, other raw materials and steel products
before June 30, 1981. The Government also undertook to cause SONELGAZ to pro-
vide in a timely manner, as the need arises, energy for the steel complex and
the port of Jijel, including the installation of an adequate power station.
In addition, the Government agreed to keep the Bank informed on the progress
of work on the steel complex, rolling mills and the Ain M'Lila special steel
mill.
V. PORT DEVELOPHENT AND THE PROJECT
A. Port Development Plan
5.01      The Port Development Plan for 1978-81, proposed to the Government
by the DI and ONP totals DA 4,400 million (US$1,073 million) as compared with
the 1974-77 Plan for DA 1,735 million (US$423 million) and the 1970-73 Plan
for DA 601 million (US$146 million). Details of these Plans are given in
Annex 13. The 1978-81 Plan will allocate DA 1,600 million for the proposed
port project. Financing of the 1978-82 Port Development Plan is expected to
be as follows:
Source of Finance                               DA Million
State Budget                                        3,412
ONP's Own Resources                                   660
IBRD (Proposed Project)                               328
Total                                               4,400
B. Project Objectives
5.02      The proposed port will mainly (a) permit the import or coastwise
shipment of iron ore and other raw materials needed for a new steel complex
to be built adjacent to the port and the export or coastwise shipment of the
steel products; (b) allow the import of some of the general cargo intended for
the eastern part of the country; and (c) assist in improving port management,
administration, operations, planning, accounting and tariff setting.
C. Project Description (Map 12479)
5.03      The proposed project is primarily the construction of a new port
at Jijel. The proposed port is relatively big mainly because of the size
of ore carriers expected to use the port (60,000 dwt at the first stage, and



- 13 -
125,000 dwt later) and the diversity of cargo necessitating specialized berths
for each type. The proposed project is technically sound and consists of:
(a) Civil Works
(i) Construction of:
- a main breakwater about 2.8 km long with 17 m
depth of water at Mean Low Water Spring Tides
(MLWST 1/);
- a secondary breakwater about 0.9 km long with 13 m
depth of water;
- five berths for the steel complex imports and exports,
four berths for general cargo, two berthing facilities
for roll-on/roll-off and one berth for containers,
totalling about 2.1 km long;
- two transit sheds totalling about 25,000 m2 area and
one container consolidating shed about 10,000 m2 area;
and
- shallow draft basin for harbor craft;
(ii) Dredging the leading channel and turning circle to
15.2 m, the general cargo/container basin to 11.0 m,
the steel complex basin to 10.5/14.7 m and the harbor
craft basin to 7.0 m, totalling about 2.8 million m3
of dredged spoil.
(iii) Provision of supporting facilities (access road, potable
water, sewage treatment, power and lighting, telecommuni-
cations, fire protection and administrative and social
buildings).
(b) Equipment
(i) Provision of eight quay cranes for general cargo, a
container crane, navigation aids and four pilot boats.
(c) Consultants' Services
(i) Project design, preparation of tender documents, and
construction supervision;
(ii) Technical assistance for improving port management
generally, administration and operations, and training
of personnel for ONP, CNAN and SONAMA; and
1/   Water depths in this report are related to MLWST.  Tidal range is
0.6-1.0 m.



- 14 -
(iii)   Technical assistance for feasibility studies for three
ports and for preparing new port cost accounting systems
and tariff structure.
(d) Support to Domestic Port Construction Industry
(i) Provision of port construction equipment and technical
assistance urgently needed for SONATRAM.
5.04      The project does not include acquisition of tugboats because CNAN
intends to finance and acquire an adequate number of suitable tugs and assign
them to the proposed port. This was confirmed during loan negotiations.
SONAMA will finance and acquire the mobile cargo handling equipment necessary
for moving general cargo within the port area (Annex 14). This was also
confirmed during loan negotiations.
D. Project Cost Estimate
5.05      The location of the proposed port has been determined by the Govern-
ment's decision to build the steel complex in the region and by the fact that
the site is a good deep water location for a new port. Except for soil condi-
tions, the cost of building the port would be the same anywhere along the
Algerian coast which is completely exposed and is without natural protection.
The result is relatively expensive ports with breakwaters accounting for about
40% of their total costs. The project cost is estimated at US$352.4 million.
It includes contingency allowances (about 24% of total project cost) and local
taxes and customs duties (about 16.7% of total project cost). The Governnent
does not intend to waive the taxes or duties. The cost excludes interest on
external loans during construction. The foreign exchange component is esti-
mated at about US$200.5 million equivalent or 56.4%. Details of the cost
estimate, which is summarized below, are given in Annex 15, and phasing of
expenditure spread in 1978-82 is given in Annex 16.



- 15 -
Summary of Project Cost Estimate
-----DA Million----  ----US$ Million----   Foreign
Local Foreign Total  Local  Foreign Total   Exchange
A.   Civil Works
1.  Construction       233    441       674   56.8   107.6  164.4         65.5
2. Dredging and
Reclamation       27      38       65    6.6      9.2   15.8       58.2
Subtotal A      260    479      739   63.4   116.8  180.2         64.8
B.   Equipment                 2      35       37    0.5      8.5    9.0       94.4
C.   Consulting Services
1. Design and Super-
vision             7      23       30    1.7      5.6    7.3       76.7
2.  Training and
Studies            2       6        8    0.5      1.5    2.0       75.0
Subtotal C        9      29      38    2.2       7.1    9.3       76.3
D.   Other
1. Support to
SONATRAM           3      41      44    0.8    10.0   10.8         92.6
Subtotal A-D   274    584       858   66.8   142.4  209.2         68.0
E.   Contingencies
1.  Physical             27     54       81    6.6    13.2   19.8        66.6
2.  Price                80    184      264   19.5    44.9   64.4         69.7
Subtotal E      107    238      345   26.1    58.1   84.2         69.0
F.   Local Taxes             242      -      242   59.0       -     59.0        -
Total Project Cost    623    822   1,445  151.9   200.5  352.4           56.4
5.06      Basic cost estimates for civil works have been derived largely from
prices of similar works being carried out at Bethioua port and reflect cost
levels in April 1977. Costs of the consulting services have been based on
agreed fees for project preparation, expected supervision terms of reference
and estimated man-months required for management consultancy services.   Costs
of equipment have been based mainly on costs of similar equipment acquired
recently under other Bank port loans. Detailed engineering of the project



- 16 -
is being prepared. Physical contingencies of 10% on civil works and 5% on
equipment have been allowed. The 10% physical contingency on civil works is
reasonable especially since the breakwaters (45% of total cost) have already
been designed. Price contingencies of 9% for 1977, 1978 and 1979 and 8% for
1980 and thereafter for both local and foreign costs of all project elements
have also been allowed.
5.07      The foreign exchange component is reasonable considering conditions
in Algeria and abroad and is based on the assumption that a foreign contractor
will win the contract for civil works. Most probably, however, a joint venture
of foreign firms and SONATRAM (see 5.13) wili win the contract. In this case,
major works are expected to be assigned to the foreign firm and no change in
the foreign exchange component would arise. During loan negotiations, the
Government and the Bank discussed and confirmed the project cost estimate.
E. Project Financing
5.08      In Algeria, the development of economic infrastructure, including
ports, with respect to planning, execution and financing, is the responsi-
bility of the Government. The projects and programs are inscribed in the
country's multi-year development Plan and their financing is effected through
the financing plans laid down in individual project approvals. Government
capital expenditures are financed from the budget and the Treasury assumes
responsibility for any foreign loans that are allocated to the financing of
such expenditures. For the Jijel port project a Bank loan to the Government
of US$80 million is proposed, for a 17-year term, including a 3-1/2 year
period of grace. The balance of the foreign exchange cost (US$120.5 million
equivalent) and the local currency cost (US$151.9 million equivalent) will
be financed through the Government budget. The Government might approach
other sources to explore the possibility that they provide a portion of the
foreign exchange cost. Its capability to carry the amount involved, however,
is not an issue, as shown in the following paragraph.
5.09      The Bank economic report projects Algeria's total fixed investment,
which is mostly public, at $65 billion (in current prices) for the five years
1978-82. Under conservative assumptions, national savings, the bulk of which
is generated by the Government, is projected to finance 88% of total invest-
ment. Investment foreign component is projected at 36% of the total and would
thus be covered in the main by national savings. Jijel port investment is
estimated at $352 million over 1978-82, or 0.6% of Algeria's total fixed
investment. The Government is expected to finance $120.5 million of the
project foreign component, or 0.5% of total country investment foreign com-
ponent. The smallness of this amount compared to the projected government
:-avings shows there is no doubt that the Goverument has the capacity to
finance it. Nonetheless, if the Government wants to seek additional external
financing for the Jijel project, it will largely be within its borrowing
capacity. According to the Bank economic report, Algeria would have to
borrow - and has the capacity to do so in terms of creditworthiness and



- 17 -
access to international financial markets - about $3.2 billion annually,
on a commitment basis, in the form of suppliers credits, commercial bank
credits and official loans during 1978-82.
5.10      During loan negotiations the Government undertook to provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, services and other resources required for
the project.
F. Project Implementation
Responsibility
5.11      A consulting group comprising Port Autonome du Havre (France),
Tractionel (Belgium) and Organization et Amenagement (France) designed the
port, and Delft Hydraulic Laboratory (Holland) carried out the hydraulic
model study. The same group started the preparation of tender documents
in January 1977. The DI will be responsible for carrying out the project.
It has both the organizational structure (see Annex 17) and the experience
in ports, including the Port of Bethioua, to enable it to do so. DI will
nevertheless employ consultants for supervision of construction. During
loan negotiations the Government undertook to: (a) employ qualified engi-
neering consultants under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank to
assist in construction supervision; and (b) make qualified counterparts
available to work with them.
5.12      Land needed for the project is owned by the Government and will be
available for the project as needed. Borings under water and on land at the
project site indicate the presence of loose sand which is readily removable
by normal dredging, suitable for reclamation and capable of safely supporting
the proposed port structures. During loan negotiations the Government under-
took to take all necessary measures to ensure the safety and suitability of
the works included in the project.
Procurement
5.13      Apart from acquisition of equipment, procurement involves one main
contract for all civil works under the port project. Preparation of tender
documents started in January 1977 and the contract is expected to be put to
tender in June 1977, based on international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank Group "Guidelines for Procurement". The only Algerian firm with
experience in port construction is SONATRAM (see para 5.17) but it does not
yet have the capability required to enable it to bid as prime contractor.
However, it is likely that foreign consortia will wish to associate SONATRAM
with them.



- 18 -
Construction Schedule
5.14      Tenders for civil works are expected to be received in September
1977. Construction is expected to start early in 1978 and be completed in
mid-1982. The work program and critical path are shown in Annex 18. During
loan negotiations, the Government and the Bank discussed and confirmed the
timing of project execution.
G. Prolect Disbursement
5.15      The proposed Bank loan represents 40% of the total foreign exchange
component. Therefore, disbursement from the Loan Account would be made on the
basis of: (a) 40% of the foreign exchange cost of the equipment, consultants'
services and support to SONATRAM; and (b) 22% of the total cost of civil
engineering works. In accordance with the foregoing and the construction
schedule of project execution (para. 5.14), an Estimated Schedule of Loan
Disbursements has been prepared as Annex 19. During loan negotiations the
Bank discussed and confirmed the schedule with the Government. Surplus funds
remaining in the Loan Account after the project has been completed should be
cancelled because the proposed project is self-contained.
H. Possible Port-Expansion
5.16      The port has been so designed that its capacity can be increased
by about 100% with relatively minor additional investment to meet the re-
quirements of the second phase of the steel complex, which the Government
may wish to implement in 1995, as well as future increases in general cargo
traffic (IBRD Map 12479). This could be achieved by further deepening of the
channel to 19.0 m below MLWST and constructing additional berths, in parti-
cular those capable of receiving 125,000 dwt ore carriers.
I. Support to Domestic Civil Engineering Industry (SONATRAM)
5.17      In 1970, the Government decided to set up its own port construction
company, SONATRAM, and vested it with the monopoly of port construction and
major maintenance of ports and dams in the country. Recognizing however that
it would be a long time before SONATRAM would be capable of undertaking large
construction contracts as prime contractor, the Minister of Public Works and
Construction was authorized to grant exceptions from the monopoly. He has
done so both in the case of the port of Bethioua and in the case of the pro-
posed port of Jijel. SONATRAM now employs about 2,000 men and is constructing
port facilities in 10 Algerian ports amounting ta about US$130 million equiva-
lent. It also participates with a 26% share of the construction of Bethioua
port project. However, it is in urgent need of substantial modern port
construction equipment to adequately carry out its growing responsibility



- 19 -
which is growing very fast and becoming more important. Funds expected to
be allocated for port construction in the next four-year Development Plan
(1978-81) are estimated at about US$1 billion equivalent, as compared to
US$423 million equivalent in the current Plan (Annex 13). Although SONATRAM
is not judged to be experienced enough to take the prime responsibility of
constructing the proposed port, there is no objection to its participation
in the international tender as part of a joint venture with other (foreign)
company or companies.
5.18      The project cost estimate (para. 5.05) includes US$10 million in
foreign currency to provide SONATRAM with urgently needed port construction
equipment, training of personnel and technical assistance in improving site
organization and dredging. This equipment is needed for SONATRAM's future
port construction and maintenance work; it could not be used at the Jijel
project port since the civil works' contractor will have to have all his
equipment mobilized and on site early in 1978 whereas the equipment proposed
to be included for SONATRAM under the project will not be delivered until
mid-1980. There is, therefore, no question of double financing. SONATRAM's
general manager is a competent engineer/economist experienced in marine works;
the technical staff are good and the quality of their work (e.g. Bethioua) is
satisfactory. However, SONATRAM's financial situation is weak. It depends on
suppliers' credits and Algerian banks to finance its purchase of plant. Its
gross fixed assets increased from DA 33 million in 1972 to DA 125 million in
1975 and as a result its interest payments reached DA 12 million in 1975.
This situation was discussed with the Government which agreed to treat the
above US$10 million as equity capital in the company. SONATRAM is a worthy
subject for Bank assistance and the proposed project is a suitable vehicle
for providing it; furthermore, Bank assistance in this manner will act as a
catalyst for other financial support. Details of equipment to be provided to
SONATRAM under the project are given in Annex 20. During loan negotiations
the Government undertook to cause SONATRAM to appoint before December 31,
1977: (a) marine engineering consultants acceptable to the Bank to prepare
tender documents for the floating equipment; and (b) management consultants
acceptable to the Bank to provide technical assistance for improving site
organization and dredging techniques. All this will be under terms of refer-
ence and according to a timetable to be agreed upon with the Bank.
J. Ecology and Regional Development
5.19      Neither the project port nor the steel complex is expected to have
marked adverse effects on ecological conditions in the area. As compared
with conventional blast furnaces and oxygen converters, the direct reduction
process which will be used is substantially less a polluter of air and water.
SNS consultants have carried out elaborate studies of the pollution problems
that could be caused by the steel complex. Among the many recommendations are
a series of special designs to muffle electric furnace noises and convey gases
to a large dust filtration system. These and similar designs have been incor-
porated in the tender documents and although tending to add to total capital
costs, they will be installed. Detailed studies of prevailing winds and air



- 20 -
currents have provided data for locating individual facilities in places that
would prevent pollution hazards to populated areas. During loan negotiations
the Government undertook to take all reasonable measures to ensure that the
execution and operation of the project port, the steel complex and the SONELGAZ
power station are carried out with due regard to the safeguarding of the biota
and the environment, including avoidance of pollution of the air, the land and
the sea.
5.20      The project port and the steel complex conform to the planned
regional development scheme for the eastern part of Algeria.
VI. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. The Prolect Port
6.01      This chapter gives the salient points of and the conclusions arising
from the financial analysis, together with the undertakings given by the Gov-
ernment during loan negotiations regarding financial matters. Details of the
methodology, bases and assumptions used are given in Annex 26. The allocation
of project costs for calculations of ONP's port tariffs for general cargo and
SNS traffic, and those calculations, are given in Annexes 23 and 24. Forecasts
of Revenue, Cash Flow and Balance Sheets are in Annexes 24 and 25. Annex 27
summarizes the Governpent budget receipts and payments in respect of the in-
vestment in the project port and receipts from ONP derived from the analysis.
Finally, Annexes 28 and 29 summarize ONP's overall revenue accounts and
balance sheets to 1975 and budget estimates to 1977.
6.02      The conclusions of the analysis and the Government's undertakings
conform to the Government's stated general principles regarding financial and
economic objectives of state enterprises (Annex 21), with which the Bank is
in agreement. These principles have not yet been applied to all sectors or
enterprises. The general principles cover a pricing policy on the basis of
current values of total investment in fixed assets, an acceptable return on
investment and mobilization of the resulting generation of cash resources to
facilitate nationwide planning and financing of development projects. The
principle objectives of this analysis were therefore to:
(a) establish whether ONP by the imposition of reasonable port
charges at the project port, can earn revenues sufficient
to cover its operating costs, including depreciation, and
earn an acceptable financial rate of return on the invest-
ment; and
(b)  propose a formula by which the cash resources generated by
the port could be mobilized in accordance with the general
principles outlined above, without jeopardizing ONP's gen-
eral financial situation.



- 21 -
The analysis also deals with ONP's port tariffs generally, its present finan-
cial situation and audit of its accounts.
6.03      It should be noted that ONP is mainly responsible for management
and operation and ensuring the maintenance of port civil works; it does not
undertake cargo handling or provide towage service. ONP's present tariff
structure is inadequate for this analysis, since it does not cover the
capital cost of infrastructure and the tariff rates are not cost-based (a
tariff study is now proceeding). It vas therefore necessary to calculate
total tariff levels on the basis of financial operating statements prepared
with the assistance of ONP's staff and the financial consultants for the
project feasibility study. This analysis is therefore a proforma one, but it
can be accepted as a reasonable forecast of the financial aspects of ONP's
responsibilities in the port and of the financial implications to the Algerian
Government.
6.04      The analysis (Annexes 22 to 25) shows that ONP would earn a finan-
cial rate of return of at least 8-1/2% per annum on the average net value of
the investment in the port to be assigned to it (when full operation has been
reached), by applying tariffs equivalent to an average of about DA 36.0 per
ton on general cargo passing through the port and of about DA 17.0 per ton on
SNS traffic. These rates are in 1982 current prices and are equivalent to
about DA 28.0 and about DA 13.5 respectively in April 1977 prices. The rate
for general cargo is reasonable, considering that it covers infrastructure
capital cost. The rate for SNS traffic can be met and still leave an accept-
able financial return of 17% on the total investment in the steel complex
(Annex 3). When phase II of the steel complex is undertaken, the rate for
SNS traffic could be reduced to about DA 10.25 per ton.
6.05      As regards mobilization by the Government of the cash resources
generated by ONP from the port, the analysis envisages:
(a)  the replacement of the present system of ad hoc contributions
from profits with a share of revenues by means of a tonnage
user fee, which would be allowed as an operating cost for
income tax purposes; and
(b)  repayment of capital invested out of depreciation charges
by annual percentages related to the depreciable lives of
the assets.
6.06      In the analysis the tonnage user fee has been assumed at DA 21.0
for general cargo and DA 10.50 for SNS traffic (DA 6.0 during phase II).
Capital repayments (excluding local taxes) have been assumed at 1-1/2% p.a.
on port investments for general cargo traffic and 1-1/4% p.a. on investments
for SNS traffic. Local taxes have been assumed to be repaid over 25 years.
By adopting such a formula, ONP would retain a small balance of generated
cash as a safety margin, as a fee for managing the port and to provide funds
for replacement of the shorter-lived assets.



- 22 -
6.07      As regards the Government's budget situation relating to its invest-
ment in the port, the analysis (see Annex 27 for summary of cash streams)
shows that, taking a 30 year operating period, the internal financial return,
using these proposals, would be about 8%. This is satisfactory, especially
considering that it does not take account of additional budgetary receipts
from SONAMA and CNAN that could properly be related to the port investment.
The solution indicated in this analysis is a reasonable one and meets the
objectives.
6.08      During loan negotiations the Government undertook that:
(a)  for the purpose of establishing separate tariffs for SNS
traffic and general cargo traffic the capital costs of
fixed assets will be allocated to the respective traffic
category according to use, with a suitable formula regarding
assets common to both;
(b)  tariffs applicable to SNS traffic will be established and
arrangements made for other concession payments by SNS to
ONP irrespective of traffic volume, at such levels as will
enable ONP to achieve an annual return of not less than 8
and 1/2% on the average net value of fixed assets at the
Port of Jijel to be used for SNS traffic;
(c) not later than January 1, 1979 a review of the general port
tariff structure will be carried out and appropriate tariffs
introduced and charged upon the basis of which an adequate
rate of return will be determined and levels of tariffs intro-
duced with respect to general cargo traffic at the Port of
Jijel;
(d) payments to be made by ONP to the State, including income taxes,
if any, from ONP's operations at the Port of Jijel shall not
exceed in any one year the sum of (i) its combined operating
income from SNS traffic and from general cargo traffic from the
Port of Jijel in that year and (ii) the amount of depreciation
charged for the purpose of calculating said combined operating
income, less any amounts necessary to enable ONP to carry out
its operations and to meet its current obligations, at the
Port of Jijel; and
(e) separate accounting records will be maintained in respect of
operations at the Port of Jijel.



- 23 -
B.  Office National des Ports - Tariffs, Accounts, Audit
6.09      The present tariff system is a carry-over from the former conces-
sionaire period and vas set up to cover the costs and profits related to
services provided by the concessionaires. Under the Algerian system the
State provides and finances the port infrastructure, which it is now ONP's
responsibility to operate. No tariffs were charged to cover those costs and
individual tariffs were not cost-based.  As noted in Annex 11 (see also para
3.10) ONP has contracted with consultants for an inventory and valuation of
all fixed assets, including infrastructure, and for a tariff study.  It will
be some two years before these are completed, and costing systems installed,
to enable cost-based tariff charges to be assessed on all facilities and serv-
ices operated or provided by ONP, which will enable ONP to achieve acceptable
financial objectives in accordance with Government policy.  A new tariff
structure and cost-based tariffs will be set, no later than January 1, 1979,
calculated to earn an adequate return on investment (para. 6.08(c)). The need
to ensure that, so far as is reasonable and practicable, the economic benefits
of investments in port facilities accrue to the economy of Algeria will be
taken into account.
6.10      ONP has submitted financial accounts to the Bank for the first
period of operations to December 31, 1972 and for each of the subsequent
years to 1975. These accounts record only a part of ONP's total fixed assets
(see para 6.09); however, the depreciation policy of ONP is to provide an
annual charge considered adequate to cover replacement of all assets, which
bears no relationship to the values actually recorded. Upon completion of
the fixed asset valuation (para. 6.09), a commercial depreciation policy
will be adopted related to the economic lives of different categories of
assets and taking into account matters such as intensity of use (shift vork),
obsolescence, etc.
6.11      ONP's financial accounts (Annexes 28 and 29) show a healthy situa-
tion, although the incidence of the "special contribution" plus income tax
resulted in a net deficit on income for 1974 and 1975. Nevertheless, ONP's
prudent depreciation policy has permitted a steady growth in Net Current
Assets in spite of ONP's self-financed capital expenditure on fixed assets.
6.12      ONP's financial accounts are not subject to external audit.  The
Ordinance (Annex 10, Art. 28) provides for an "agent comptable", appointed
by the Minister of Finance under Decrees of 1965. The "agent comptable", who
comes under the authority of the Director General of ONP, makes his report to
the Minister of Finance. Article 29 of the Ordinance also provides for the
designation of a "Commissaire aux Comptes" by the Minister of Finance, but
this functionary has not been appointed; however, it seems that his functions
would not constitute an audit. The Societe Nationale de Comptabilite (SNC)
is a State auditing and accounting enterprise which is receiving technical
assistance under the SNMC Expansion Project (Loan 1185-AL). It would be able
to undertake professional audits satisfactory to the Bank when its training
program has progressed sufficiently. During loan negotiations the Govern-
ment undertook that ONP's financial accounts and statements be audited by
independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank.



- 24 -
VII. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Economic Approach
Traffic
7.01      The project port is an adjunct to the Steel Complex.  The steel
complex traffic through the port after the completion of each of the first
and second phases is given in Annex 30. Though the basic port capacity
created is meant to handle the increased traffic during the second phase,
the economic analysis takes no credit for such increase and assumes that
only the first phase traffic will be handled during the life of the project.
Imports during a normal year of operation of the first phase are estimated
at 2.82 million tons annually, of which 0.97 million tons will come from
Algerian ports by coasters; and exports are estimated at 1.74 million tons
annually, the majority of which will go by coasters to Annaba, Skikda, Algiers
and Oran. Domestic iron ore (from Bukhadra), estimated at 800,000 tons
annually, will be shipped from the mines to Annaba port by the existing
railway, loaded into 5,000-ton coasters by existing mechanical handling
equipment, and unloaded at the project port by the same equipment that will
unload imported ore. This is more economical than if new railway segments
were to be built to connect the Bukhadra mines to Jijel port, especially since
the coasters will return,loaded to Annaba and Skikda with certain products of
the steel complex that will be consumed or reprocessed locally.
7.02      As for the general cargo traffic, the consultants Tractionel
(Belgium) carried out a feasibility study in 1975 to assess the forecast
general and dry bulk cargo traffics that will pass through: (a) the eastern
ports; 1/ (b) the central port; 2/ and (c) the western ports. 3/ The percent-
age of traffic handled by each group in 1968, 1973 and 1975 is given in Annex
31. Forecast general and dry bulk cargo traffic through the eastern ports in
1980, 1985, 1990 and 2000 has been assessed on the basis of the expected eco-
nomic development of the country, local production and consumption, origin
and destination of cargo, population, inland transport costs and ports'
hinterland. General cargo traffic through the eastern ports is expected to
reach about 3.40 million tons in 1980, 3.52 million tons in 1985, 3.78 million
tons in 1990 and 4.35 million tons in 2000; details are given in Annex 32.
However, existing general cargo berthing facilities at those ports can only
handle a total of 2.02 million tons annually (770,000 tons at Annaba, 700,000
tons at Skikda and 550,000 tons at Bejaia). Thus, by 1985, additional berthing
capacity will be needed to handle the balance of 1.5 million tons annually.
Of this amount, about 300,000 tons are intended for the ongoing industrial
J   Ports of Annaba, Skikda, Bejaia and the project port.
2/   Port of Algiers.
3/   Ports of Mostaganem, Arzew and Oran.



- 25 -
development at Skikda and should be handled there. Capital, operating, main-
tenance and depreciation costs of providing additional berthing facilities
to handle the remaining 1.2 million tons annually (of which 650,000 tons are
containerized and Roll-on/Roll-off traffic) at Annaba, Skikda, Bejaia or the
project port were compared taking into consideration also inland transport
costs to the hinterland. Providing such facilities at the project port was
found to be the least-cost solution. In order to move this traffic efficiently
to the hinterland and to reduce transport costs the existing road connecting
Jijel with Constantine will have to be rehabilitated and the Government intends
to do so. During loan negotiations the Government undertook to do this before
June 30, 1982.
Least-Cost Analysis
7.03      Port layout is constrained by the oceanographic environment as well
as by operational, navigational, and safety requirements, and it is a func-
tion of cost optimization principles. Several locations in the vicinity of
the site chosen by the Government for the construction of the steel complex
were studied, and the advantages and disadvantages of each were assessed.
Several port layout concepts were analyzed, based on operational requirements,
performance characteristics, phasing of construction of the steel complex and
capital cost of port facilities. Various alternative designs were considered
for the port and its major components. The objective of the analysis was to
find the least-cost solution for the port facilities. For reasons explained
below, the proposed project was selected as the best solution.
7.04      The optimum sizes of ore carriers that will serve the requirements
of the first and second phases are 60,000 dwt and 125,000 dwt respectively.
The two most important variables in the port's design were thus: (a) whether
to locate the main breakwater in 15 m deep water to safely receive the 60,000
dwt ore carriers and later extend it in 1992 to 18 m deep water (or build
another one at that depth) to safely receive the 125,000 dwt ore carriers; or
(b) locate such breakwater in 17 m deep water as part of the proposed project.
The latter solution was found to be the least-cost solution. Details of the
analysis are given in Annex 33.
7.05      An analysis of non-containerized general cargo traffic, estimated
at 550,000 tons annually, and cargo handling times, indicated that four berths
are the optimum number needed to handle that traffic. The analysis showed
that while three berths could handle the traffic, ship waiting time would
be excessive; the investment in a fourth berth would yield a rate of return
of 20% on the basis of a reduction in ship waiting time. Further reduction
in waiting time through the investment in a fifth general cargo berth would
not be sufficient to justify such berth. An additional berth is needed to
handle container traffic estimated at 350,000 tons annually, and another
berth is needed for the Roll-on/Roll-off traffic estimated at 300,000 tons
annually. The marginal cost of providing a second Roll-on/Roll-off berthing
facility was found to be minimal. An analysis of traffic intended for, and



- 26 -
generated from, the steel complex indicated that five berths are needed to
handle the estimated traffic of 4.56 million tons annually. Details of the
analyses are given in Annex 34.
B.   Economic Justification
7.06      The investment in the port project has two interrelated components:
first, relating to the steel-port facilities (for handling the raw materials
and finished products of the steel complex), and second, relating to the
general cargo facilities. The economic value of the former component, further,
depends entirely on the economies of the steel complex. In view of this inter-
dependence, the economic return calculations for the port project have been
carried out in three parts as follows: (1) for the steel complex including
the steel port facilities, (2) for the general cargo facilities alone, and
(3) for the steel complex plus the entire port complex.
7.07      A summary of the results of the analysis is presented below:
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Tests
Steel Complex                   Steel Complex
Plus        General Cargo         Plus
Steel Port          Port         Full Port
Component        Component        Prolect
1.  Base Cost                            10.35           27.25           12.25
2.  Benefits Increase 5%                 11.55           28.35           13.45
3.  Benefits Decrease 5%                  9.05           26.05            10.95
4.  Capital Cost Increase 5%              9.85           26.15            11.65
5.  Capital Cost Decrease 5%             10.85           28.35           12.85
6.  Operating Cost Increase 5%            9.55           27.15           11.55
7.  Operating Cost Decrease 5%           11.05           27.25           12.85
7.08      Details of the assumptions made and the methodoloy adopted for the
above analysis are presented in Annex 35, and summarized below.  The cost and
benefit streams are expressed in end-1976 prices. Local taxes and price con-
tingencies were excluded from the capital costs, while physical contingencies
and working capital were included. The port investments were allocated
between general cargo facilities and steel facilities on the basis of actual
incidence of cost for special facilities, and a pro-rata division of the
common investments (particularly for breakwater) according to the traffic
(see Annex 22). The operating costs for steel complex use the long-term real
price of iron-ore imports (US$25/ton c.i.f.), compared to the current price
of US$23/ton c.i.f.; the cost of local ore has been taken at US$16/ton, being
the opportunity cost of exports foregone, compared to the financial price of
US$11/ton. For the base case, no shadow price adjustments were made for gas,
electricity, labor or foreign exchange. The life of the project has been



- 27 -
assumed to be 20 years from the first year of partial production; full produc-
tion is expected to be achieved in the fourth year. At the end of 20 years, a
salvage value of 10% has been assumed for the steel complex, and 40% for port
facilities.
7.09      For the calculation of economic benefits from the steel complex, the
estimated long-term accounting prices of the steel products have been used,
with necessary adjustments for reflecting the opportunity cost of imports,
which would have been necessary in the absence of local production. For cal-
culating benefits from the general cargo facilities, a queueing analysis vas
carried out to estimate the level of ship-waiting costs under: (a) the
"without project situation" where an additional 1.2 million tons of general
cargo will have to be handled in the other eastern ports of Annaba, Skikda
and Bejaia; and (b) the "with project situation" where the new Jijel port
could handle such additional general cargo traffic. The reduction in waiting
costs under the latter case vas taken as benefits due to the general cargo
port facilities; only 75% of these benefits was assumed to accrue to Algeria,
though the full waiting costs would have to be met by Algeria either as
demurrage payments or congestion surcharges on ships. No credit was taken
in the project benefits for the net saving in internal transport costs under
the "with project situation".
7.10      The use of shadow prices for electricity and gas lowers the economic
rate of return on the steel complex and port by 0.2%, whereas the use of shadow
prices for labor raises the rate of return by 0.9%. Even though the capital
costs for the steel complex and port include a provision for the Phase II
expansion of the steel plant in 1995, no account of these built-in economies
of scale has been taken in the benefit calculations, which are based only
on the Phase I level of production; inclusion of this element in the benefit
stream will increase further the rate of return. On the negative side, a
decline in prices from the levels assumed would depress the rate of return
(see para. 7.07). These situations are expanded upon in Annex 35. On balance,
the basic rate of return presented in paragraph 7.07 could be considered
reasonable.
7.11      It is important to emphasize that the economic rate of return
presented above takes no account of the economic benefits to Algeria from
creation of new employment opportunities, from the industrial development of
a backward area with significant impact on reducing regional income dispari-
ties, or from the diffusion of new technical know-how through training and
experience. These constitute significant economic gains to a developing
country, which however are difficult to quantify.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Agreements having been reached on the principal issues discussed
in Chapters III, IV, V, VI and VII, and in particular:



- 28 -
(a)  technical assistance for improving port planning, management,
and operation and training of personnel (para. 3.09);
(b) implementation of the steel complex, rolling mills and special
steel mill (paras. 4.05 and 4.19);
(c) project financing (para. 5.10);
(d) technical assistance for SONATRAM to improve site organization
and dredging techniques (para. 5.18); and
(e)  establishment of port tarif fs to earn an adequate return on
investment (para. 6.08).
The project is recommended for a Bank loan of US$80 milion to the Government
for a 17-year term, including 3-1/2 years of grace.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Supporting Documents and Studies
A. Documents Related to "Ports"
P-1    -   Textes Officiels Concernant L'ONP Depuis 1971
P-2    -   Nouvelle Organisation Portuaire, Ordonnance No. 75/40
du 17 juin 1975
P-3    -   Règlement Intérieur Des Comités Portuaires, 14 mai, 1976
P-4    -   Barème Des Manutentions, Société Nationale De Manutentions,
17 août 1976
P-5    -   Brochure of CNAN, 1976
P-6    -   Instruction Générale No. 1 Relative Aux Opérations De
Recensement et D'Evaluation Des Fonds Fixes Des Organismes
Publics - Ministère Des Finances, janvier 1972
P-7    -   Etude Sur les Ports Algeriens - EASAMS, Phase 1 (Rapport
Général and 8 volumes, one for each port) and Phase 2
(3 volumes), 1975/76
P-8    -   Note Sur les Infrastructures Portuaires, Direction De la
Planification Et De L'Urbanisme, Ministère Des Travaux
Publics Et De La Construction, 28 mai 1975
P-9    -   Pole Industriel De la Région De Jijel, Prévisions De
Trafic De Marchandises Divers Du Nouveau Port De La
Région De Jijel, Volume I - Synthèse Générale - Trac-
tionel, avril 1975
P-10   -   As above, Volume II - Rapports Particuliers, Avril 1975
P-ll   -   As above, Volume 4  - Port, Eléments De Conception, janvier 1975
P-12   -   Avis D'Appel d'Offres Pour L'Etude Du Port Siderurgique De
Jijel, avril 21, 1975                   2/
P-13   -   Offre D'Etude (Somission) - PAH1!/, Oct k and Tractionel,
août 7, 1975
P-14   -   Rapport De Présentation, Consultation Internationale
Pour L'Etude D'Un Port Siderurgique A Jijel - S.E.T.I.
P-15   -   Etude D'Un Complexe Portuaire Régional A Jijel, Marché
D'Etude (Le Laboratoire D'Hydraulique De Delft).
P-16   -   Port Siderurgique De Jijel, Rapport Préliminaire, Choix Du
Site - PAH, Oct A and Tractionel, décembre 1975
P-17   -   Port Siderurgique De Jijel, Rapport De Plan - Masse, Port
De Djendjen (Jijel) - PAH, Oct A and Tractionel, mai 1976
P-18   -   Port Siderurgique De Jijel, Rapport De Prise En Considération
Du Port De Djendjen (Jijel) Par La Banque Mondiale, PAH, Oct A,
aI,o 'ractionel, mai 1976
P-19   -   As above (Rapport Complément), octobre 1976
P-20   -   As above (Rapport Complément, Analyse Financière) - octobre 1976
P-21   -   Société Nationale de Travaux Maritimes, Commentaires Sur
L'Activité De La SONATRAM, novembre 1976
P--22   -   Société Nationale Des Matériaux De Construction, Catalogue
Des Prix, novembre 1976
P- 23   -   110 Plan Quadriennal 1974-1977, Rapport Général
1/ Port Autonome Du Havre
2/ Organisation et Aménagement



ANNEX 1
Page Z
B. Documents Related to "Steel Complex"
S-1   -   Detailed statistics on past and projectcd production of pig iron,
liquid steel, zinc and aluminium ingots, ferro-alloys and some
two dozen fabricated metal products. Société Nationale de
Sidérurgie. SNS.
S-2   -   Past and projected employment by several categories of skills for
all SNS operations. SNS.
S-3   -   Past and projected demand for steel and aluminium products by
several major categories. SNS.
S-4   -   A list of all existing SNS facilities as well as those now under
construction and in advanced stages of planning. For each unit
data is provided on location, capacity and current or prospective
employment. SNS.
S-5   -   Detailed flow sheet of the Jijel complex providing inputs and
outputs at each stage of processing. Also includes analysis of
metallic balance. SNS.
S-6   -   Detailed layouts of plants and facilities.  SNS.
S-7   -   Detailed breakdown of projected employment of the Jijel complex
by several categories of skills. SNS.
S-8   -   Detailed implementation schedule beginning with site preparation
to the start-up of the steel-making furnaces. SNS.
S-9   -   Etude de l'Agdlomération en Boulettes d'un Mélange de Minerais - 50O
Bou-Khadra and 50% Mifergui.  2 volumes.  IRSID (Institut de
Recherches de la Sidérurgie Française).
S-10  -   Two volumes but using a mixture of 25% Bou-Khadra and 75% Mifergui.
IRSID.
S-1l  -   Pôle Industriel de la Région de Jijel - Choix et Structure
d'Implémentation - Vol. 4 - Port Eléments de Conception. Tractionel.
S-12  -   Société Nationale de Sidérurgie.  SNS.
S-13  -   Le Développement de la Métallurgie Ferreuse et Non-Ferreuse,
1962-1972. SNS.
S-14  -   Catalog of spiral welded tube plant.  SNS
S-15  -   Catalog of the pig iron plant at El Hadjar.  SNS.
S-16  -   Catalog of Tractionel's activities in Algeria.  Tractionel.
S-17  -   Catalog of the steel plant at El Hadjar.  SNS.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
S-18   -   Catalog of the hot rolling mill at El Hadjar.  SNS.
S-19   -   Besoins en Eau - Rapport de Synthèse.  Tractionel.
S-20   -   Market Study of Algerian Demand for Billets, 1977-1990.  SNS.
S-21   -   Consommation  en Gaz Naturel du Pôle Sidérurgique de Jijel.
Tractionel.
S-22   -   Contrôle de la Pollution dans les Acieries Electriques.
Tractionel.
S-23   -   Prospections Géomécaniques.  Tractionel.
S-24   -   Programme de Construction de Logements.  Tractionel
S-25   -   Installations Administratives et Sociales.  Tractionel.
S-26   -   Projet de Localisation et d'Aménagement.  SNS.
S-27   -   Besoins et Possibilités d'Alimentation en Eau.  Tractionel.
S-28   -   Choix et Structure d'Implantation Vo1.1 - Synthèse Générale
Tractionel.
S-29   -   Scheme Directeur d'Aménagement Urbain.  SNS.
S-30   -   Pôle Industriel de la Région de Jijel. SNS.
S-31   -   Directions to Bidders - Direct Reduction Plan.  Tractionel.
S-32   -   Miscellaneous SNS Documents & Notes
S-33   -   General Conditions Relating To The Construction of "Turn Key"
Industrial Units - Volume I. Tractionel.
S-34   -   Special Conditions Relating To The Site - Volume II.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALOERIA
A. World Demand for Steel
1.        World steel production, according to most recent projections pre-
sented at the May 24, 1976 Bucharest seminar held by the Steel Committee of
the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe, is expected to increase
from 743 million tons in 1975 to about 1.1 billion tons in 1985 (Table 1);
steel-making capacity is about 15% higher than the above figures. However,
total new capacity to be added by world steel makers between 1975 and 1985
is estimated to be limited to 800 million tons, about 50% of which will be
ta replace worn-out facilities and the other 50% will be actual expansion.
Regional Growth
2.        While most of new capacity will be installed in the highly
developed regions (Western Europe, North America and Far East), Africa,
Middle East and Latin America will also experience a very rapid growth.
Introduction of the new direct reduction technology using natural gas is
one of the principal reasons for the expected trippled output in Latin
America and quintupled output in the various African and Middle East
countries. Between 1975 and 1985 these two regions are estimated to add
125 million tons of new steel-making capacity or about 22% of total world
expansion. Whereas these two regions had only 4.3% of total world capacity
in 1975, their share is expected to increase to nearly 10% in 1985.
Sponge Iron Capacity
3.        Recent developments in direct reduction technology which requires
substantially lower investments per unit of capacity as compared to those
needed for blast furnace process, are especially suitable to regions with
ample supplies of natural gas and accessibility to high-grade iron ore.
Shortage of scrap iron together with precipitous rise in the price of coke
have stimulated the expansion of sponge iron capacity to be used in the
rapidly growing electric steel industry. On a world-wide basis such capa-
city of sponge iron production is projected to increase from about 6.0
million tons in 1975 to 60 million tons in 1985 (see attached graph 1/).
1/   This includes projects being considered by different steel manufacturers
using either solid or gaseous reductants. A recent study performed for
the Bank by Prof. Hogan of Fordham University (US) concluded that for
gaseous reductants alone, the estimated 1980/81 production of sponge
iron will be in the order of 21 to 22 million tons.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Much of this new capacity is either under construction or in advance plan-
ning stages. In addition to the 1.2 million tons planned to be produced
at Jijel some 2.5 million tons are in various phases of planning and con-
struction in Iran. A similar amount of new capacity is expected to be
constructed in Venezuela.
B. The Algerian Steel Industry
1.   Responsibility
1.1       Responsibility for the steel industry in Algeria has been confided
to SNS. It is a well established national company and has now more than 10
years of experience. It is managed by highly competent, young but dynamic
executives. It has a record of success and is capable of adequately carrying
out the planned expansion of its operations. However, because of the complexi-
ties encountered in planning, implementing and operating metallurgical project,
SNS generally employs an adequate number of foreign consultants to assist in
those fields.
1.2       Organized in 1964 as one of the several major National Corporations,
reporting directly to the Ministry of Industry and Energy, SNS manages and
operates, plans and develops all Algerian metallurgical industries. It is
headed by a Director General and is organized into five major departments:
(i) personnel; (ii) finance; (iii) industrial operations, development and
engineering; (iv) general administration; and (v) commercial (principally
sales).
1.3       SNS is the only importer, exporter and manufacturer of steel and
nonferrous materials in Algeria; it has the authority to set the prices for
its products. SNS is very active in the field of manufacturing steel and
nonferrous metals. It owns and operates factories at Oran, El Hadjar,
Reghaia, Ghardaia, Arzew, Ghazaouet, Kouba and Alger. It produces pig
iron (blast furnace), oxygen steel, zinc, lead aluminum products, ribbed
sheets, etc.
1.4       At present, SNS operates two steel mills, one zinc-lead refinery,
two welded pipe establishments, two metal container factories and 17 small
plants producing industrial gases. It also produces a wide variety of
intermediate and final metal products, and fabricates certain copper and
brass products from imported materials. Now under construction are two
metal container establishments, three factories to produce flanges and cor-
rugated galvanized sheets, six installations to generate industrial gases
and two plants which will make welding electrodes and related wire products.
In addition, there is a big expansion underway at the integrated El Hadjar
steel mill which will more than triple its present liquid steel capacity.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
1.5       In addition to the Jijel steel complex and a small mill to pro-
duce special steels at Ain M'Lila, near Constantine, firm commitments
also have been made by SNS management, and contracts are expected to be
signed soon to build a large aluminum smelter and a medium-size aluminum
rolling mill. As the demand grows for electrodes and refractories by
new metallurgical enterprises, SNS is now studying the possibilities
of erecting new plants to produce such products.
1.6       In addition to these manufacturing activities, SNS is responsible
for importation and distribution of all semi-finished metal products con-
sumed in Algeria. It maintains distribution varehouses throughout the
country. The latest published report indicates that total SNS sales in 1974
vere 1.4 billion DA with a total estimated investment in fixed assets in
operation in the neighborhood of 1.3 billion. In 1976 SNS sales reached
about DA 2.0 billion.
1.7       In November 1976 total employment was estimated at over 22,000
workers of which about 12% are engaged in import-export and sales activities.
The industrial operations department is by far the largest, employing more
than 75% of the total labor force.
1.8       The development and planning department has a staff of 300, who
are now working on 25 industrial projects. The management also makes wide
use of large international consulting firms for design and construction and
at times has hundreds of foreign specialists in residence working with local
teams of engineers and other professionals. In addition SNS has a control-
ling interest in three joint-venture enterprises involving both foreign and
domestic partners. These firms specialize largely in a variety of construct-
ion activities as contractors to SNS.
1.9       SNS supports several large training centers and many of their
executives are educated abroad. Extensive training on continuous basis is
needed for SNS personnel especially for technicians, supervisors and skilled
labor.
2.   Investment Plans
2.1       Expansion of its steel and non-ferrous metals industries is assigned
high priority by the Algerian Government. In the First Development Plan
(1967-79) DA 1.3 billion were invested in these industries, and in the Second
and Third Plans (1970-73) and (1974-77) this sum was raised to DA 2.9 and 5.1
billion respectively. Transformation of domestic ores into a variety of steel
and non-ferrous metal products is one of the principal objectives of the devel-
opment plans. This will result in: (a) making the country less dependent on
imports and permit the expansion of durable goods industries; (b) upgrading
the value of domestic resources and create new jobs; and (c) raising the per
capita consumption of locally produced steel from about 60 kg in 1976 to about
double this amount ten years later.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
3.   Ore Resources and their Exploitation
3.1       All minerals are owned, and mines are operated by SONAREM which is
a vell established large National Corporation under the Ministry of Industry
and Energy.
3.2       Two major domestic deposits of iron ore are available to Algerian
steel makers. One is located in the Ouenza-Bukhadra area north of Tebessa
along the Tunisian border and the other in the Gara Djebilet region south
west of Bechar in the Western Sahara. Proven reserves in the Tebessa area
are estimated at 160 million tons of which 40 million tons, from Bukhadra
mines, represent higher grade ore suitable for use with direct reduction
technology. There are indications that additional reserves of this higher
grade ore will be proven in the future. The Gara Djebilet ore resources
are estimated by SONAREM at four to five billion tons; another large deposit
of high grade ore has also been discovered recently in this general area.
These deposits are not yet developed but plans are underway to begin exploit-
ing them during the late 1980s.
3.3       In addition to two small mines producing several thousand tons of
iron ore annually, all the current output is produced at three mines: Ouenza,
Bukhadra and Klanguet. Estimated 1976 production is 3.0 million tons. Of
this about 800,000 tons was consumed by the El Hadjar Steel complex near
Annaba and the rest has been exported. This steel mill is now undergoing a
large expansion by adding a new 1.2 million ton blast furnace (which will
have a capacity of 900,000 tons of liquid steel in addition to pig iron).
When completed in about 1981/82, it will be consuming about four million
tons of iron ore, all of which is expected to come from the Ouenza area. At
about the same time Bukhadra mine will be procuring 800,000 tons which will
begin to feed the proposed Jijel Steel Complex.  All local production in the
1980s is expected to be used by Algerian mills and exports will temporarily
cease.
4.   Growth of Steel Making Capacity
4.1       As is the case with the entire Africa-Middle East region which
expects to add 46 million tons of new steel capacity between 1975 and 1985
(Table 1), Algeria's growth prospects of steel making capacity are very
promising. With the expansion of liquid steel capacity at the El Hadjar
complex from 450,000 tons in 1976 to 1.35 million tons in 1981/82 (para.
3.3 above); the construction of the Jijel steel complex with a liquid
steel capacity of 800,000 tons; the construction of a steel mill at Ain
M'Lila scheduled for completion in 1982/83 with a liquid steel capacity
of 300,000 tons; and the existing small steel mill at Oran with a liquid
steel capacity of 40,000 tons, total Algerian capacity of liquid steel
will reach 2.50 million tons in 1985 when Jijel and Ain M'Lila mills are
in full production. This is equivalent to 2.20 million tons of steel
products.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
5.   Algerian Market for Steel Products
5.1       With the ongoing development of the Algerian economy, steel demand
is expected to increase at a rapid rate. In liquid steel equivalents, between
1970 and 1976, the consumption increased 3.6 times from 418,000 tons to 1.496
million tons (Table 2). Using conservative growth rates, and based on the
latest Bank economic report for the growth of manufacturing, construction and
mining industries, the projected demand in liquid steel equivalents is expect-
ed to reach 3.5 million tons by 1985 (as compared to SNS estimate of 5.1
million tons).  This is somewhat greater than the planned capacity of 2.45
million tons, which could produce a maximum of 2.20 million tons of fabricated
steel products. Thus, when all steel making capacity, now under construction
or in advanced planning stages, is completed, Algeria will continue to import
some about one million tons of steel (in liquid steel equivalents).
5.2       The ongoing expansion of El Hadjar mill will produce about 510,000
tons of billets. The projected new mill at Jijel vill produce about 755,000
tons of billets. Thus the maximum production of billets by the Algerian
steel industry in 1985 will be about 1.26 million tons.
5.3       The demand for billets is, however, expected to grow rapidly from
about 162,800 tons in 1970 to 1.5 million tons in 1985; details of such demand
by end products are summarized in Table 3. Thus under conservative assump-
tions, Algeria will need to import some 240,000 tons of billets (or equival-
ents in semi-finished or finished products) annually when all steel mills
operate at maximum attainable capacity in 1985. According to SNS estimates
the import requirements would be even larger than above estimate.
5.4       From data summarized in Table 2 the demand for non-flat products is
expected to grow from 706,000 tons in 1976 to about 1.66 million tons in 1985.
Using the growth rates mentioned above corresponding rise in flat products is
projected to increase from 278,000 to 652,000 tons as compared to SNS estimate
of 2.16 million tons. SNS projected demand for pipes has been accepted be-
cause they are based largely on planned construction by SONATRACH of new
gas and oil pipelines.
5.5       Construction and mining industries are expected to be the largest
consumers of non-flat products. Projected shipyard and rail car manufactur-
ing establishments as well as truck and bus making enterprises and a large
program for producing welded pipes for oil and gas industries are expected.
to be the principal consumers of flat products.
5.6       Table 4 gives location, capacity and overall 1976 employment of
existing plants, as well as those under construction and in advance plan-
ning stages.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
6.   Employment
6.1       Including certain fabrication activities such as pipes, wire pro-
ducts, metal containers and similar items, total employment in the Algerian
metallurgical industry is projected to grow from 18,000 in 1975 to 50,000 in
1985 (Table 5). This is a considerably slower growth than that of production,
which indicates an expected appreciable increase in labor productivity and
improved management. The substantial modernization of the El Hadjar complex
and a well planned training program will make major contributions to improv-
ing labor efficiency. This, together with the construction of new mills at
Jijel and Ain M'Lila and the projected installation of several small rolling
mills to produce rebars, wire rod and wire as well as light structural shapes,
welded pipes and metal containers, will provide about 32,000 new jobs.
7.   General Conclusions
7.1       Because of lack of enough experience, the rapid expansion of the
steel industry cited above may be costly and delays are expected to be en-
countered in the completion of some projects. However SNS's program seems
sound. It is based on projected growth of the Algerian economy. Not only
will steel be required for many large programs in urban development includ-
ing the construction of 1,000 new villages, but building new dams, roads,
railroads and pipelines, developing mines and constructing new factories
will create additional demands. Planned expansion of foundry and machine
building industries on which Algeria places high priority is another sub-
sector which will consume large varieties of iron and steel products.
7.2       Utilizing locally available iron ores and adapting new techno-
logies which favor energy-intensive industries, will not only result in
substantial savings in foreign exchange and creation of new jobs, but as
in the case of electric steel, sponge iron and ferroalloys, Algeria will be
exporting energy in the form of metal.  This will mean creating local value
added by upgrading the prices of local resources. In the case of the Jijel
complex, the value of natural gas in the form of steel billets, ferroalloys
or sponge iron will be substantially greater than it would be if only gas
were exported. Most energy-rich countries are doing the same and such
policies have resulted in accelerating their economic development.



ATTACHMENT TO ANNEX 2
APPRAISAL OF
JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
1 0!.                         _      _       _1.                                                           0
Crude Steel          -       Pg  on          , >,.                             ;
0ti  ===                             5~~~~~~~~ponge Iron   ,  
1.01 ~   ~      .0
10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
a)
c    1 0
c   la:                                                 _ _ _ _ _ _ __. _
____r                      _    _ _ACTUAL                                          FOR  CAST
no     _==__ __               1        _ _.__I
1950          1 255          1 960          1 965          1 970          1 975          i 980,         1 985
Development of sponge iron capacities în comparison  with pellet,
pig iron, and crude steel production in the worid.
SoDijrce Present State andl Further Developmenm ot Direct Reducion Piccesses U Kdiiar anc R~ Stefter - Seminar on Ihe UtliizaL,on ot pre-;eouC ec
Materials n ircn, anc Steel Makmg. Bucharest May 24-28 t 976-Economic Comrmission for Europe, Stee! Committee
Aprii 1 977                                                                                                VoJ   ak          61
I~~~~~~~~~~oi asl61



ANNEX 2
Table 1.
9  *9   N   N    -  _9           N ,__1
-   o    a   <9   9   'a         ew r
c                                          I 
.    o  C o  9   (  N v %  Io        0 NIX 
1    a %                      I  \ -1 i
r-                e                           °I r i^1`
oe.
r~~~~ 8I
t.~~~~~~~~~~~ C
-u    0   4   (9  (9     (9                 O~~~~~~4 >
a.ca~~~~~~~~~~~                                a  
4<  <'<              I~~~~~~~~l
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                      c 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c N
O~~~~~   -                                 D c
O.> C   C   N                                                  -- |9   Nr a '
4<   ~    0%  (9   N               '           C (9   N         <J
cd   ~          :                       -                       -  i     ..
E-.                t. o        C        c   'a o       N   'a  -? C1  
,1 ~  ~     - 6e       (9 , c m  9   (9   c   -s   'a -l   'a 
u"                                                          -
CJ              _GcN                    V e -    
_j~                      _          (     N     9C -
_.'         I.  O    N                  -         'a-  N  O 
Oc -
3 2 _ «: 5 < "c



ANNEX 2
Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Past and Projected Demand for Steel (1970-1985)
Products                  1970      1975       1976       1980        1985
----------(thousand metric tons)-------------
Non-flat Products         167.1    493.1       706.0    1,030.8    1,659.6
Flat Products              34.0    120.6       277.6       405.3       652.5
Pipes (Welded and
Seamless)                178.9    270.5       376.4       509.0      556.9
Special Steels               -         -          -        157.3       315.7
Total                380.0    884.2    1,360.0    2,102.4    3,184.7
Estimated Liquid
Steel Equivalent         418.0    972.6    1,496.0    2,312.6    3,503.2
SOURCE:  1970-1976 from data supplied by SNS (1970 and 1975 figures are actual,
and 1976 figures are estimated based on actual first nine months of 1976).
1980 and 1985: SNS projections for pipes and special steels were
accepted. For non-flat and flat products projections are linked
to growth rates of manufacturing, construction and mining industries
as shown in IBRD economic report-of August 30, 1976. Assumption
was made that the steel growth will be 10% per year as compared
with about 9% for these industries.



ANNEX 2
Table 3
APPRAISAL OF
JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Past and Projected Demand for Billets by End Product
Products                           1970       1975       1980         1985
--    --(thousand metric tons)------
Rebars                              44.0      123.3       363.6        454.5
Light Profiles
(including short products)         65.0     230.6        371.3        597.7
Wire Rod                            24.0       70.6        113.7       183.0
Merchant Bars                       15.0       53.2         85.7       138.0
Total                        148.0      477.7        934.3    1_373.2
Billet Equivalent                  162.8      525.4     1,027.7      1,510.5
SOURCE:  1970 and 1975 figures ar-.-based on SNS data.  Growth of rebars
is linked to projected cement consumption (see IBRD Report No. 874-AL
dated November 25, 1975) by assuming 22 kg of cement per kg of steel.
For other products as.timed growth rates are the same as for non-flat
products (Table 1).



ANNEX 2
Table 4
APPRAISAL OF                       Page 1
JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
SNS Metallurgical and Metal Fabricating Factories
(Products, Location, Theoretical Capacity and Employment)
Estimated
Theoreticàl Capacity Employment
Factory and Products                        Location (and 1976) M Tons/yr   (end 1916?'
A. In existence in 1976
Pig iron                                El Hadjar        500,000
Liquid steel                                "            45O>'K0 )
Hot rolled products (flat)                  "            450,000 )
Cold rolled products (fiat)                 "            150,000 )
Galvanized steel sheets                     "             40,000 )
10,000
Tin plate                                                 40,000 )
Flanges                                                   10,000 )
Corrugated sheets                           "             30,000 )
Welded pipe (spiral)                                     100,000 )
Seamless tubes                                            85,000 )/
Welded pipe (spiral)                    Reghaia           18,000 )
Welded pipe (longitudinal)                  "             20,000 )         1,100
Cold rolled profile                                      100,000 )
Metal cans                              Kouba             30,000 )
Propane gas bottles                                      500.O c  )       1,400
units )
per year)
Metal cans                              Arzew             11,000 )           lOi
Welded pipe (spiral)                    Ghardaia         110,000 )           700
Liquid steel                            Oran              30,000 )
Reinforced concrete bars                    "             40,000 )
Welded wire screen                          "             10,000 ).-
1/ Not including managerial and central office positions.



ANNEX 2
Table 4
Page 2
Factories and
Products
Refined zinc (ingot)                    Ghazaouet       40,000            900
Aluminum sheet                          Kouba             3,000 )
Corrugated aluminum sheet                  "                200 )         600
Aluminum kitchen utensils                  "                600 )
B. Under construction in 1976
Pig iron                               El Hadjar    1,200,000 )
Liquid steel                               "           900,000 )
Hot rolled products (flat)                 "           870,000 )
10,000
Cold rolled products (flat)                "           550,000 )
Galvanized steel sheet                     "           200,000 )
Tin plate                                               40,000
Rolled steel products
(non-flat)                           El Hadjar       600,000 )
Welded Wire screen                         i            14,000 )        2,00C
Light steel beams                                       12,000.>"
Steel panels, flanges                  Oran             32,000            500
and corrugated steel sheets
Steel panels, flanges and              Alger            32,000            500
corrugated steel sheets
Welded wire screen                     Alger            14,000
400
Light steel beams                          "             6,000
Steel panels, flanges and              Annaba           32,000            500
corrugated steel sheets
Metal cans                                              10,000            400
Propane gas bottles                    Batna           750,000 units      700



ANNEX 2
Table 4
Page 3
Factories and
Products
Steel wire                         El-Eulma        32,000 )
700
Welded electrodes                     "            12,000 )
C.   Projects expected to be completed by 1982-83
Oxydized pellets                   Jijel        2,040,000 )
Sponge iron                           "         1,230,000 )
3,000
Liquid steel                          "           800,000 )
Steel billets                         "           755,000 )
Ferroalloys                           "           130,000           250
Special steels                     Ain M'Lila    300,000            500
Rolling Mills at Batna, Kouba and Saida
D.   Projects expected to be completed by 1985-86
Aluminum smelter                   M'Sila         140,000         2,100
Aluminum rolling mill              Bordj           70,000           800
Source: SNS
April 1977



APPRAISAL OF
JT.JEI. PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Actual and Projected Employment in Algerian Metallurgical Industries 1973-1985
(in numbers end of year)
Actual                                         Projected
Type of Emnployces                      1973      1974     1975      1976      1977     1978      1979      1980      1982     1985
1. Managers, Engineers and
Otiher Professionals                  288      400       446       590       730 
2. Skilled and Semisk311ed               798    1,118    1,374    1,830    2,260         -         -         -        -         -
3. Uinskilled                          8,276    9,973   f12046   15,290   19,000         -         -         -        -          -
Total Manufacturing               9,353   11,491   13,866   17,710   21,980   27,000   30,000   33,000   35,000   40,000
4. Professional (Administrative)         252       380      466       600       750      -         -         -         -        -
5. Sub-professional
(Admiinlistrative)                  436      538       737    1,240    1,500        -         -        -         -         -
6. Clerical and Sales                  1,690    2,167    2,770    3,000    3,600         -         -         -         -        -
Total IJon-Manufacturing          2,378    3,085    3,973    4,840    5,85n           6,500    7,400    8,000    8,000   10,000
Crarnd Total                     11,731   14,576   17,839   22,550   27,830   33,500   37,400   41,000   43,000   50,000
Source: SNS
April 1977
I1tT
IoD P



ANNEX 3
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
The Jijel Steel Complex
1.   Responsibility
1.1       SNS is responsible for the planning, construction and operation of
the steel complex at Jijel and is considered competent to carry out such
responsibility. Information on SNS's responsibility, organization and ex-
perience is given in Part B of Annex 2 (paras. 1.1 to 1.9). SNS employed
foreign consultants to prepare the project; it will employ foreign consult-
ants to supervise its construction and assist in its operation and in train-
ing SNS's personnel.
1.2       In 1974 SNS contracted with the Canadian consulting firm, Ferrco
Engineering Ltd. (which is affiliated with Co-Steel Int. Ltd.) to carry out
a feasibility study for the Jijel steel complex. The study included assess-
ment of future prospects of the world steel industry and estimate current
production costs in various parts of the world, both by the conventional
blast furnace-oxygen converter methods and by the direct reduction (DR) tech-
nology. Ferrco concentrated on the preparation of the feasibility study,
while the consulting firm, A.D. Little Inc., (US) under a subcontract with
Ferrco, contributed the world steel assessment report. A comprehensive
two-volume report and two summary volumes were submitted to SNS in February
1975. While taking into account both domestic and imported ore prices as
well as Algerian energy and labor costs, this study was confined to one
direct reduction furnace. of 400,000 ton sponge iron capacity together with
pelletizing facilities, electric melting furnaces and continuous casting
machines.
2.   Project Background
2.1       The choice of the DR process was recommended by Fcrrco taking
into account that: (a) Algeria is a part owner of a rich Guinean iron ore
(Mifergui mine); (b) from Bukhadra mine a local ore was found to be suitable
for the process; and (c) Algeria possesses large rese ves of low cost natural
gas, a significant portion of which is now being flared.
2.2       To ascertain the suitability of an ore feed consisting of various
mixtures of Algerian-Guinean ore, extensive laboratory tests were made by the
Institut de Recherches de la Siderurgie Francaise. Based on these tests it
was decided that a 65-35% mixture of Guinean and Algerian (Bukhadra) ore
respectively would give the most satisfactory results. Pilot plant tests



ANNEX 3
Page 2
for pelletizing this mixture were carried out by Dravo and Allis Chalmers
(US), as well as by Lurgui (Germany). The chemical analysis of the two
ores (in per cent) is as follows:
Ore         Fe   SiO2  CaO  A1203    MgO   P        Mn    S      C02  H20   Fe++
Boukhadra  57.0  3.48  3.25  0.59   0.77  0.02  2.30  0.06  4.57  4.55  0.90
Mifergui   68.6  0.35  0.18  0.97   0.08  0.04  0.04  0.03  0.22  0.85  0.80
2.3       Based on the above studies, SNS decided to install three DR furnaces
capable of producing 1.2 million tons of sponge iron annually. With the as-
sistance of the consulting firm Tractionel (Belgium) SNS prepared tender docu-
ments for international competitive bidding and received, in early 1976, pre-
liminary bids from three internationally known consortia: Thyssen Stahlwerke
(Germany), Creusot-Loire (France) and Pullman-Swindell (US). In addition to
standard engineering and pollution safeguard specifications, the tenders in-
cluded a requirement that each bidder would be obligated to assist SNS in
operating the complex for five years after start-up and buy back, if the
Algerian Government so wishes,nearly 50% of total billet production. Bids
are being analyzed. This analysis requires comprehensive and lengthy discus-
sions and additional data because the work involves some 36 individual sup-
pliers as part of each of the three consortia. Bid review is carried out
under the supervision of 6 SNS engineers assisted by about 50 resident con-
sultants' personnel. Selection of the successful bidder is expected by mid
1977 and a contract by end of 1977.
2.4       A second phase of the steel complex which will result in doubling
its capacity is scheduled for completion by mid-1995.
3. Location
3.1       The steel complex will be located on a 1000-ha site some 15 km east
of the town of Jijel on the Mediterranean Coast. The steel complex will be
served by a large power station and a medium-size new port which will also
handle general cargo mainly destined for and originated from the Constantine
region. In addition to coastal shipping, the area is accessible by highway
connecting Algiers with the ports of Bejaia, Skikda and Annaba. Another
major highway that needs rehabilitation connects Jijel with Constantine.
Plans for improved local roads and a 25 km rail line are being prepared to
handle freight and passenger traffic in the immediate region around Jijel.
3.2       The location chosen for the construction of the steel complex is
probably not the optimum one, and ideally might well be located at a dif-
ferent point along the coast either nearer to source of supply of local ore
or nearer to the markets. This might increase the rate of return of the
steel complex by reducing the cost of internal transport. Nevertheless,
the steel complex as proposed is economically and financially viable. It
should be noted:



ANNEX 3
Page 3
(a) None of the existing Algerian ports could handle the iron
ore carriers serving the steel complex (60,000 dwt for the
first phase and 125,000 dwt for the second phase), and
none of them could be expanded, within their harbor areas,
to receive such carriers. Consequently a new port has to
be built. Since all the Algerian coast is without any
natural protection and is subject to the same hydrographie
conditions, the cost of building a new port anywhere along
the coast would be approximately the same. Cost of con-
structing the steel complex will not differ so long as its
location is adjacent to the port. Operating and maintenance
cost of the port and the steel complex would also remain the
same.
(b) The proposed location has the advantage of the presence of
sand which is readily removable by normal dredging, suitable
for reclamation and capable of safely supporting the pro-
posed port and steel complex facilities. Other locations,
having soft or rocky soils, would be more costly.
(c)  The proposed location conforms to the planned regional devel-
opment scheme for the eastern part of the country. Government
economic policy is geared to diversification of industrial
centers and raising the standard of living of all people,
especially those living in undeveloped areas. The steel com-
plex will create additional purchasing power in the Jijel re-
gion of about US$25 million annually, as well as increasing
per capita income from about US$300 in 1975 to about US$550
in 1984 as compared to the country's 1976 average of US$780.7.
4.   Population and Income
4.1       The 1976 population of the existing town of Jijel and the villages
of Kaous, Emir-Abdel Kader and Taher, all within 20 km distance from the
complex site, is estimated at 54,000. With the new jobs created by the steel
complex and port activities the population is expected to increase to 110,000
in 1984. Foreign consultants have prepared several comprehensive housing and
urban development studies; these are adequate to accommodate the rapid in-
crease in population.
4.2       The Jijel region is one of the poorest, most densely populated and
least developed in Algeria. The per capi a income in that region, including
state assistance, was about US$300 in 1976 as compared to the country's aver-
age of US$780.7. Substantial share is derived now from emigrants' remittances.
Approximately one-third of the labor force is at present underemployed.
Another third have emigrated and the remainder is working on marginal sub-
sistence farms, cork harvesting, and a small Food processing plant.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
5.   Energy and Water Supply
5.1       SONELGAZ will finance and construct the electric power station which
will supply electricity to the steel complex. A large transformer station
within the complex will be installed by SNS and will provide appropriate volt-
ages as needed. SONELGAZ will own the power station and will sell electricity
to the complex at industrial rates established by the Ministry of Industry and
Energy and estimated at DA 0.06 per Kwhr. Power station design is well ad-
vanced; site preparation is underway and contracts for key equipment are being
negotiated. The plant is scheduled for completion late in 1980.
5.2       By tapping the trunk line, feeding the power station, SONELGAZ will
also provide all natural gas needs at appropriate pressures. SNS has been
assured by the Ministry of Industry and Energy that the natural gas rates will
be DA 0.03 per m3 which represent marginal cost of production and transporta-
tion. These rates are the same as those charged to all other large Algerian
industrial consumers. Considering the very large reserves, extensive flaring,
costly conversion into LNG and long-term export commitments adequately pro-
vided for from lHassi R'Mel and other fields, these relatively low rates appear
to be justified.
5.3       Water will be supplied by the Jijel Water Authority.  With an average
annual rainfall in the region over 60 inches, consultants' studies indicate
that existing and planned reservoirs would provide adequate water supply for
all needs.  SNS and SONELGAZ will require about 4 to 5 nillion m3 annually wlwo
the complex operates at full capacity.  Consultants' studies estimate resouris
fron which these supplies are expected to come at 6.5 million m3 annually.
6.   Products
6.1       The steel complex will encompass four basic installations:  ore pre-
paration and pelletizing, direct reduction, steel making and ferroalloy plant.
Tlhree intermediate iron and steel products and four ferroalloys will be pro-
duced. Pellets, sponge iron and steel billets will be produced by tHie steel
miil, whiie alloys of manganese, chrome and silicon will be produced by hie
ferroalloy furnaces; following Table gives details. All of these products
are made by energy-intensive technologies wlhere natural gas and electrie powor
represent a substantial part of total production cost.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
Products offered for Sale
Steel Complex                                                   Tons
Pellets (67OFe)                                                380,000
Sponge iron (90% Fe)                                           500,000
Billets                                                        755,000
Subtotal                                               1,635,000
Ferroalloy Plant
Ferromanganese (Fe Mn)                                          50,000
Ferrochrome (Fe Chr.)                                            15,000
Ferrosilico (Fe Si)                                             15,000
Silicomnanganese (Sitin)                                        30,000
Subtotal                                                  110,000
Total                                                   1,745,000
7.   Processes
7.1        For each type of product separate facilites are used.  l'Ihe optui.
of one facility is used as raw material for makirng anothler product.
7.2        Pellets are made fromn a mixture of imported and domnestic iroi t it
(65% and 35% respectively) which is crushed and groutid by separatu wat1tri.iJ
preparation facilities.  With the addition of water anid grotuind heutt)niite the
"green" pellets are made by a specially designed pelletizing  Iisaijine.  [Jiîîg
a continous conveyor belt these green pellets pass Lthrough a gas-li tred  îî111î<e
or a rotary kiln where moisture is removed and part of t Ue oxygen  is buriied
out.  Tliis results in upgrading the iron content and hardnîiiing thi  pt. llets.
7.3        To produce sponge iron (or sonietimes called redtucel  pellets), thie
hardeined pellets (containing about 67% Fe) are fed by conîveyors into tliree
direct reducttion furnaces.  By heating natural gas at about 8u50Co telmperatt i,
iin the preseince of a suitable catalyst, and passiing it- thlrourg,i a beul ot
pellets, a cheittical. reaction sets iin whereby tlie oxygeii is5 rewotvedl.  A 1 lhtiglh
its shape and size remain approximatLely tlie same at thie distta rge end(J of 1 lie
fturnace, the netal contenit of thle produce sponge iroin is raisud Lo ove i r
'IliUs, thie so-called spoiige iroii hafis te samne characterist i u au lui gtl gratde
scrap.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
7.4       Using conventional electric steel making technology, the sponge iron
is smelted in four 85-ton electric furnaces to produce liquid steel which is
then cast into billets of 100 and 150 mm2 sections by a continuous casting
machine attached to each furnace.
7.5       When operating at normal capacity, the Jijel steel complex will
consume 2.34 million tons of iron ore and 14,000 tons of bentonite to produce
2.04 million tons of hardened pellets. Of this amount 1.66 million tons will
be fed to direct reduction furnaces to produce sponge iron and the remainder
(380,000 tons) sold in the form of pellets. From the charge fed into direct
reduction furnaces, 1.23 million tons of sponge iron will be produced. Of this
output 730,000 tons will be charged into four electric furnaces which, when
mixed with 156,000 tons of scrap, will produce 800,000 tons of liquid steel.
The remaining 500,000 tons of sponge iron will be sold to other electric steel
makers. When processed through the continuous casting machines, the liquid
steel will be cast into 755,000 tons of billets.
7.6       Ferroalloys are produced by charging various combinations of raw
materials (manganese ore, chrome ore, coke and quartzite) into two small
electric furnaces where coke, rather than natural gas, is used as a reducing
agent. Variaus elements are fused at very high temperatures. Alloys are used
by steel mills and foundries for improving strength, hardness and corrosion
resistance.
8.   The Market for the Jijel Complex Products
8.1       Of the 2.04 million tons of pellets produced annually, 1.66 million
tons will be used by the complex to produce 1.23 million tons of sponge iroan;
the remaining 380,000 are expected to be shipped by coasters and rail to the
El Hadjar mill which could consume the entire tonnage, however, some may also
be exported. This upgraded kind of iron ore is an ideal feedstock for blast
furnaces.  SNS has already receive inquiries from Italian and French steel
makers about the availability of this product. This excess pellet making
capacity could be used to supply future requirements when the DR and steel
making capacity is expanded in the Second Phase.
8.2       730,000 tons of sponge iron will be used by the Jijel steel making
facilities to produce 800,000 tons of liquid steel (see attached flow sheet)
and the remaining 500,000 tons will be sold. As in the case of pellets, this
excess sponge iron capacity is built in anticipation of future expansion
during the Second Phase, at which tine the majority of the product will be
consumed locally. Of the 500,000 tons that will be sold, 350,000 tons will
be shipped by coasters to Skikda and rail to a new electric steel mill to be
built by SNS at Ain M'Lila, 25 km south of Constantine. This mill will pro-
duce initially special steels and various alloys the majority of which are
to be used by another large national company (SONACOME) in building a variety
of machinery. The Ain M'Lila mill is now being designed by a team of SNS



ANNEX 3
Page 7
engineers assisted by foreign consultants. It is expected to be completed
in 1982 at about the same time as the Jijel complex and vill begin consuming
sponge iron during that year. A Second Phase is also envisaged for this mill,
which by adding new electric steel capacity, planned in the late 1980s, vill
be able to consume the entire sponge iron surplus produced at Jijel.
8.3       For the relatively short period (four to five years) until the Ain
M'Lila's mill capacity is expanded, part of the remaining 150,000 tons of
sponge iron vill be fed to the recently installed seanlese pipe mill at El
Hadjar, and the rest vill be exported. Considering chronic shortages of scrap
iron in the Mediterranean area there should not be any difficulty in exporting
some 100,000 tons annually. SNS plans to commission a comprehensive market
study for sponge iron in this area.
8.4       The entire production of billet (755,000 tons) could be absorbed by
the Algerian market. The Algerian demand for billets is projected to reach
1.5 million tons by 1985 uhereas the maximum production of all steel mills,
assumed to be vorking at full capacity, vill reach about 1.26 milion tons only
(Annex 2, paras 5.2 and 5.3). Thus the Jijel complex does not have to depend
on export markets except for 75,000 tons of ferroalloys that have to be tem-
porarily exported. Additional rolling capacity is planned to be built in the
near future in various marketing areas. The plans call for the construction
of three rolling mills at appropriate locations capable of consuming all
billets produced by the steel complex.
8.5       Algeria imports all current ferroalloy requirements.  When the ex-
panded El Radjar complex as vell as the special steel mill at Ain M'Lila
achieve full production and the Jijel mill begins to produce 755,000 tons of
billets annually, domestic market is expected to absorb about 35,000 tons of
ferroalloys. Economies of scale, to a large extent dictate the construction
of facilities capable of producing in the initial period substantially in
excess of Algeria's demand.  The U.S. conaulting firm, The Battelle Nemorial
Institute (Geneva Office) han performed tuo studies for SNS: one entltled
"Possibilities of Exporting Ferroalloys from Algeria" and the other "Future
Developments in the Ferroalloy Industry". These studies have confirmed that
a substantial export market in the Mediterranean area vill be available in
the 1980s, and considering Algerian advantages of low cost energy for these
highly energy intensive industries, Battelle has concluded that the construc-
tion of ferroalloy plant capable of producing 110,000 tons annually is justi-
fied. Thus temporarily Algeria vill need to export about 75,000 tons of
ferroalloys. In the long run Algerian market vill be able to absorb the
entire 110,000 tons output envisMged for the planned ferroalloy facilities.



ANNEX 3
Page 8
9.   Financial Analysis
Cost Estimates
9.1       The total capital cost estimate (suma-rized in Table 1) for both the
steel mill and the ferroalloy plant is DA 3,717.19 million, including price
contingencies. Of this total cost, DA 2,988.70 million is for fixed assets,
DA 419.01 million for interest during construction and DA 309.48 million work-
ing capital. The costs of the steel mill are based on (a) earlier feasibility
studies, (b) a review of bids submitted by three consortia, (c) consultants'
current data and (d) independent checks by Bank staff with steel experts and
current literature, on certain major items. For the ferroalloy plant the cost
estimate is based on a 1974 feasibility study updated to reflect 1976 prices.
9.2       To calculate total capital employed, allowances have been made for
vorking capital and notional interest of 7% p.a. on total asset cost (see
Table 2, which also gives expenditure phasing by year).
9.3       The cost estimates are considered reasonable.
Operating Costs
9.4       All physical inputs for both the steel mill and the ferroalloy
plant are based on SNS data which were checked with published sources and
modified in some cases by Bank staff in agreement with SNS. An allowance
of 20% has been provided for ore losses, etc.
9.5       The prices of imported iron ore are based on data supplied by SNS
and modified by reference to recent Bank documents and commodity price fore-
casts of November 1976. Manganese and chrome ore prices are based on data
from the American Metal Market issue of August 26, 1976. Electrode and
refractory prices were supplied by SNS, checked with literature and in
some cases modified by Bank staff.
9.6       Local prices for iron ore, energy, water, dolomite, quartzite
and lime, and wages for labor were supplied by SNS; they are reasonable.
9.7       Other operating costs, as derived by multiplying physical inputs
by prices and wages, were checked with Bank and other experience elsewhere,
including plants using direct reduction technologies. Additional comparisons
were made with the papers presented at the Bucharest Seminar May 24-28, 1976,
on the "Utilization of Pre-reduced Materials in Steel Making" sponsored by
the Steel Committee of U.N. Economic Commission for Europe. When allowing
for differences in local costs, the operating costs used in this analysis are
reasonable. All 1976 prices have been adjusted by the foreign and domestic
inflation factors from 1976 to 1982.



ANNEX 3
Page 9
9.8       Depreciation has been charged at 7% p.a. for equipment and 3% p.a.
for structures. Port charges at Jijel are assessed at DA 17.0 per ton (see
Chapter VI of Report).
Sales
9.9       The selling prices for steel products have been assumed on the basis
of 1976 international market prices, adjusted for freight and insurance for
delivery in Algeria on a c.i.f. basis, and further adjusted for the transport
cost from Jijel to other Algerian ports. The prices therefore generally cor-
respond to the opportunity cost of alternative imports. As to ferroalloys,
the 35,000 tons are assumed to be sold in the domestic market and 75,000 tons
exported. However, prices have all been assumed on the basis of export prices,
taken to be about 5% less than domestic prices in the U.S. market. The 1976
prices, calculated as above have been adjusted by the average inflation factor
from 1976 to 1982.
Profitability
9.10      To assess the profitability of the steel complex as a whole, in-
cluding both the steel mill and the ferroalloy plant, the profits for a
representative year of full production (Phase I) have been calculated and
related to: (a) gross fixed assets, and (b) total capital employed. The
financial return on gross fixed assets is about 21% and on total capital
employed about 17% (Table 3). These rates of return are before charging
interest and taxation. the terms and amounts of borrowing are not known;
however, cash generated should be more than sufficient to cover debt service
on possible suppliers' credit terms with the probable exceptions of 1982 and
1983, the first two years of the start-up period.
9.11      A discounted cash flow analysis has also been made, based on total
capital employed and for an operating period of 25 years for Phase I from
July 1, 1982. The internal financial return is about 14%, which is good. A
sensitivity analysis was also prepared, which, taking into account the most
probable variables as described in para. 9.12 indicates that the lowest
internal financial return can be expected to be about 13%.
Sensitivity Analysis
9.12      The most probable variables are as follows:
(a) Investment costs increase 10% x DA 3,719.19 million = DA 371.92
million.



ANNEX j
Page 10
(b) Additional ocean freight costs in the event that 8tart up of the
Guinea iron ore mine i8 delayed four years, alternative source is
Tubarao, Brazil.
DA 10.5 x 1,540,000 tons (1985)        =   DA 15,785,000
1982 -  55%                 DA  8,681,750
1983 -  68%                 DA 10,733,800
1984 -  90%                 DA 14,206,500
1985 - 100%                 DA 15,785,000
(c) Additional operating costs (excluding iron ore) due to greater in-
efficiency in the earlier years than the 10% allowed:
1982 - 10%                  DA 47.68 million
1983 -  8%                  DA 47.16 million
1984 -  6%                  DA 46.81 million
1985 -  4%                  DA 34.68 million
9.13      The internal financial return is not sensitive to other inputs that
might normally be expected to have an effect:
(a) Annex 2(B) demonstrates that the domestic market can absorb
all the production of the steel complex, with Algeria con-
tinuing to be a net importer. The calculated production
and sales volumes will therefore be met. As to selling
prices, SNS has a monopoly in importing and selling all
types of steel and ferroalloys and has considerable latitude
in fixing domestic prices.
(b)  Operating Costs - Raw Materials - Increases in world market
prices of raw materials, 43% of total operating costs, would
result in compensations in domestic selling prices of products.
(c)  Operating Costa - Other - Only some 17% of total operating
costs can be considered as fixed. Of these, 11% is depre-
ciation, for which a variation of 10% has been allowed for in
para. 9.12 (a). Considering the assurance of production a-d
demand, the analysis is not sensitive to variations in other
fixed costs. Local currency variable costs (energy and water,
15%, and labor, 8%) would not distort the analysis, since
variations would also be compensated for in selling prices.
Increases in prices of foreign exchange variable costs
(electrodes, refractories and consumables, 15%) would have a
negligible effect if any, considering the latitude in fixing
selling prices. Jijel port charges, 5-1/2%, are a function of
loading and unloading volumes; elimination of foreign exports
would not affect total costs since charges per ton would be
adjusted accordingly to produce the same total annual cost.



ANNEX 3
Page 11
10. Management and Organization
10.1      Following established practices in other SNS plants, Jijel steel
complex will be headed by a director-general to whom will be reporting four
division heads: production and technical services, administration, finance,
and commercial. This latter will be concerned primarily with sales and
purchases. In addition to the supporting activities such as studies, stores
and general services, the production and technical services division will
also be responsible for four operating groups: (a) pelletizing plant;
(b) direction reduction complex; (c) melting and billet casting shop, and
ferroalloys plant. Security service, food preparation, health clinics
and information will be performed by the administrative division. Out of
some 3,250 employees who will be working in the steel mill and the ferro-
alloy plant, about 430 will be engaged in supervisory and administrative
services. The accepted bidder for the construction of the steel complex
will assist in its operation during the first five-years.
11. Implementation Schedule
11.1      The following is the implementation schedule for the steel complex:
(a) One of the consortia will be selected by mid-1977 and contract
will be signed by the end of 1977.
(b) Bidding invitations were sent out late in 1976 to potential
local contractors for site preparation. Contract will be
concluded by mid 1977 and work will be completed by the end
of 1978.
(c) Tenders will be issued in January 1978 to potential suppliers
of ore-unloading equipment. All SNS port equipment is expected
to be installed by mid-1981.
(d) Start-up of the melting shop is scheduled for early 1982.
(e) Normal capacity is expected to be attained by 1985.
11.2      The implementation schedule for the ferroalloy plant (which is
much smaller and will use well-established conventional technologies) is
as follows:
(a) Bidding documents to be sent out by mid-1977.
(b) Contracts with successful bidders to be signed by end 1978.
(c) Start-up production is scheduled for early 1982.
(d) Normal production achieved by 1985.



ANNEX 3
Page 12
12. Environmental and Urban Impact
12.1      As compared with conventional blast furnaces and oxygen converters,
direct reduction process is substantially less a polluter of air and water.
SNS consultants have carried out elaborate studies of the pollution problems
that could be caused by the steel complex (Annex 1, Documents S22 and S31).
Among the many recommendations are a series of special designs to muffle
electric furnace noises and convey gases to a large dust filtration system.
These and similar designs have been incorporated in the tender documents
and although tending to add to total capital costs, they will be installed.
Detailed studies of prevailing winds and air currents have provided data
for locating individual facilities in places that would prevent pollution
hazards to populated areas.



APPRAISAL OF
JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
The Steel Complex - Flow Sheet
Attachment to Annex 3
r MPORTEO
1.4~~~~0C000 r 00.D
I IRON
1.200.000 7    10.0T
|SOREEN
1,1620,000                                   fA~~~~~~~1.ANGANESE ORE 140,000 T
CHROME ORE 40,0O0OT
380,000 T  r7EDUCTION FURNACES                                                    COKE GG,OOOT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OE  00<
EL HIADJAR MARKET
DOM ESTI C
35,000 T
SPONGE IRON                     1,200,000 T                                                                               E'IPORT
25.000 T                                                                    0
RLCKZETTING
lji r
EL HADJAR EXPORTS 150.GOOT           350,000 TMAIN
(AIS M'LILAI
LI ME 20,000 T
SPONGE
iRON
700,000 T
OXYOELSRP IP 08LTES         ,':'',' T        LIME
20.000 T 1,620,000MANGEELECTROES 000 T                                  T
RETRACTORIES 6.000 T 
F|  RACREES     |                                           |                             16- 9,
E     1 n                                               |SPANT
_   SPONGEIhON               1,2~~~~~00,001                                          5JT0 2500T                  L     EPR
221            3                     1                  3RICKETTTININU
s >           S  *                                        MACHINECSTIN
EL HAOJAR EXPORTS 150,G00T  350,000T                LET
_  3                                                                 LIME 20,000 T ~~~~75,00 



ANNEX 3
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Detailed Cost Estimates - SNS Steel Complex
A. Steelmill
D.A. Million
Basic         10%          Price       Total
Physical    Contingency
Contingency            3/
1.  Pelletizing Plant                                  240.00        24.00        55.79          319.79
2.  Direct Reduction Furnaces (3 units)                400.00        40.00        92.99          532.99
3.  Melting - Billet Casting (incl. Oxygen Equipm.)640.00            64.00       148.79         852.79
4.  Calcinating Plant                                   40.00         4.00         9.30           53.30
5.  Transformer Sub-Station                             50.00         5.00        11.63           66.63
6.  Cas System                                          30.00         3.00         6.97           39.97
7.  Water System                                        60.00         6.00        13.95           79.95
8.  General Services Equipment±/                       300.00        30.00        69.74          399.74
1,760.00       176.00       409.16       2,345.16
Engineering                                      157.20        15.70        36.54         209.44
Total Fixed Assets 2/                       1,917.20        191.70       445.70       2,554.60
Interest During Construction                                                              358.15
Working Capital & Training                                                                250.68
Capital Employed                                                                      3,163.43
B. Ferroalloy Plant
1.  Site Preparation                                    10.00         1.00         2.36           13.36
2.  Structures and Storage Facilities                   90.00         9.00        21.21         120.21
3.  Equipment and Installation                         200.00        20.00        47.14         267.14
300.00        30.00        70.71         400.71
Engineering                                       25.00         2.50         5.89          33.39
Total Fixed Assets                            325.00        32.50         76.60         434.10
Interest Dur:ring-Contrûction                                                              60.86
Working Capital                                                                            58.80
Capital Employed                                                                        553.76
TOTAL CAPITAL EMPLOYED                                                                  3.717.19
1/ Includes: Port equipment, conveyors, etc.; maintenance shops, laboratories, offices,
food and health facilities, etc.
2/ Includes: All infrastructure except housing and population-related facilities.
3/ Local Cost: 5% p.a.
Foreign Cost: 1978-9%; 1979-1982 - 7% p.a.
Source:  Bank Staff Estimates based mainly on data supplied by SNS.
March 1977



ANNEX 3
Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
SNS Steel Complex
Total Capital Employed and Expenditure Phasing
(DA Million)
Fixed          Working         Interest during
Assets         Capital          Construction               TOTAL
1978        451.50                               15.80                  467.30
1979        649.60                               54.34                  703.94
1980        690.90                              101.19                  792.09
1981         734.90                             151.16                  886.06
1982        461.80           309.48              96.52                  867.80
2,988.70          309.48             419.01                3,717.19
Source:  Bank Staff from various data
March 1977



ANNEX 3
Table 3
APPRAISAL OF
JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
SNS STEEL COMPLEX
Full Year's Operating Account at 1982 Prices
DA Million
Steelmill      Ferroalloy Plant         Total
OPERATING COSTS
Raw Materials:
Iron Ore - Domestic                 57.38                                 57.38
Imported               303.07               -                 303.07
Scrap Iron, Other Ores,
Minerals and Alloys              104.50             138.11             242.61
464.95             138.11             603.06
Gas                                   23.77               -                  23.77
Coke                                   -                 68.59               68.59
Electricity                           56.98              47.30              104.28
Water, Oxygen, Lime                    7.50               1.02                8.52
Electrodes, Refractories             111.62              23.76              135.38
Labor                                 84.99               9.65               94.64
Consumables and Molds                 35.40              11.61              47.01
General Expenses                      55.39               9.08               64.47
840.60             309.12           1,149.72
Port Charges - Jijel                                                         77.59
Depreciation                                                                159.30
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS - Full Year                                        1,384.61
SALES - Full Year                  1,603.89             425.00           2,028.89
Volume (Tons)            1,635,000             110,000
OPERATING SURPLUS                                                           644.28
WRITE-OFF - Interest During Construction                                     20.95
NET SURPLUS - Before Tax                                                    623.33
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN:
On Gross Fixed Assets of DA 2,988.7 million                                21.5%
On Total Capital Employed of DA 3,717.2 million                            16.8%
Source:  Bank Staff from various data
March 1977



ANNEX 4
APPRAISAL OF
THE JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Foreign Sources of Iron Ore
1.        The Mifergui-Nimba area in Guinea contains very large deposits of
high grade iron ore. Studies by Swedish consultants (LKAB) indicate a reserve
of at least 600 million metric tons. A corporation has been formed to develop
these deposits in which 50% of total shares is being held by the Guinean gov-
ernment and 50% by a consortium of several international concerns. LKAB has
estimated that with an investment of some $315 million (1975 prices) in mine
development and the construction of new 17 km rail link to connect this site
with the Liberian port of Buchanan, however, this estimate seems unrealistically
low. This mine could produce and export annually about 15 million metric tons
of high grade (67% Fe) ore.
2.        As a member of the consortium Algeria owns 7% of total shares which
is equivalent to 14% of annual output (it is assumed that Guinea will not use
any), thus entitling it to over 2 million tons of ore annually. SNS has esti-
mated that, in 1976 prices, this ore could be delivered at Jijel for about $22
per ton, which price is supported by independent evidence.
3.        An agreement between Liberian and Guinean govers-ents to use Liberian
railroads has been drafted but not signed as of the end of November 1976.
Moreover the consortium has recently been reorganized and considering the time
required to raise investment funds, build the railroad and develop the mine
SNS is not certain that in the initial year or two of its operation the Jijel
Steel Complex can depend on this source of supply.
4.        To assure adequate ore supplies at the time the steel complex is
ready for production SNS has conducted a world-wide survey of potential iron
ore suppliers. They have received written assurance from Brazil that they
would be willing to supply to SNS an equivalent grade ore, in any required
amounts. SNS estimates that such ore could be delivered to Jijel at US$22/
ton (in 1976 prices) which is about the same as the Guinean ore. This is
reasonable mainly because the increase in freight rate due to longer distance
(about US$2.5 per ton) will be offset by using bigger ore carriers. Tentative
assurance has also been received from Venezuela. There is enough evidence
that suitable iron ore will be available as soon as the Jijel Steel complex
starts operations.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
THE JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
The Transport System
1.   Pipelines
1.1       Algeria has an extensive network of pieplines (Map 12478R) for trans-
porting petroleum and natural gas from the Sahara to several Mediterranean
ports. Petroleum production increased substantially after 1956 following dis-
coveries of major fields in the Sahara. Crude oil exports reached 43.7 mil-
lion m tons in 1975 and are to increase to 60 million m tons by 1985. Natural
gas exports reached 4.75 billion m3 in 1973, and 5.5 billion m3 in 1976.
Based o-n contracts already signed by SONATRACH, gas exports are expected to
rise to about 20 billion m3 in 1980 and 56 billion m3 in 1985.
2.   Railways
2.01      Up to March 1976, the Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer Algeriens
(SNCFA), an autonomous company in which the Governnent was sole stockholder,
was responsible for railways planning and operations. These are now the re-
sponsibility of a new company, the Societe Nationale des Transports Ferroviaires
(SNTF).  A new company, the Societe Nationale des Etudes des Rellisations des
Infrastructures Ferroviaires (SNERIF), is responsible for construction and
renewal of railways. The network consists of about 4,000 km of track, includ-
ing 2,700 km of standard gauge and 1,300 km of narrow gauge. It comprises an
east-west axis linking Algeria with Rabat (Morocco) and Tunis (Tunisia), with
branches to the coast, and three lines into the interior, including an electri-
fied ore line to the port of Annaba of 320 km. Passenger and freight traffic
has been increasing since the mid-1960's, and is expected to cLrntinue expanding
with further development of the economy. It is mainly concentrated in the
northern region. Most freight traffic is ore and phosphates.
2.02      Several track sections are in poor condition and require rehabilita-
tion. Motive power and rolling stock are partly obsolete and insufficient in
capacity. The Government has been aware that additional rolling stock and
increased track rehabilitation are urgently needed to avoid decreased effi-
ciency, and supported a US$108 million project prepared by the railways for
this purpose; the Bank loan of May 1974 for US$49 million was to help finance
the project.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
3.   Roads
3.1       Northern Algeria has a well developed network of six major highways.
Only a few lower class routes penetrate the vast arid Sahara desert in the
south. The classified network consists of about 80,000 km of national,
regional and local roads, 45% of which is paved. In addition, an unclassified
network of tracks penetrates the Sahara. Traffic is largely concentrated in
the coastal area, with most national roads carrying average daily traffic of
more than 1,000 vehicles.
3.2       Development of the road network has not kept pace with the rapid
economic growth since the mid-1960's and roads have also deteriorated because
of poor maintenance and delay of essential improvement works. The Bank-
financed project (para. 1.04) will help to overcome some of the deficiencies.
A second highway project was appraised in December 1976, and is scheduled for
board presentation in June 1977.
4. Aviation
4.1       The country has 4 international airports (Algiers, Annaba, Constantine
and Oran), 10 secondary airports with paved runways, some smaller local public
airports, and numerous private airports built mostly by oil companies. One
airline, Air Algerie, offers international and domestic flights.  Although air
transport has been increasing most rapidly and plays a vital role in serving
the more isolated centers, its total share in the transport market is still
modest. In recent years, expenditures have been essentially for maintenance
works and strengthening of runways at major airports.



ANNEX 6
Aan:RI5A  OF
JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Planned versus Implemented Transport Investments (1970-76)
(millions DA)
Firet Four-Year Development Plan
--------1970 ------    -------1971-------  --------1972-----               - 1973 -
Description              Planned Implemented   Planned implemented  Planned Implemented   Planned Implemented
National Roads             69.0       64.4         90.0      84.9         73.0      129.6         117.0      198.7
/5
Railroads                  n.a.        0.7         90.7      15.0        110.0       83.5         150.0      148.8
Ports                     130.0       69.8        130.0    142.9         150.0      151.5         120.0      146.5
Airports                   23.0       16.5         25.0      21.2         22.0      24.4           22.0       17.0
/1
SNTV                       n.a.       n.a.         n.a.      n.a.         25.0      12.3           34.0       25.7
/2
SNTR                       n.a.       32.5         38.5      35.4         36.3       8.9           64.6       47.3
/3
Air  Algerie               n.a.       50.5         52.1      22.2          11.5     26.8           61.5       76.5
/4
CNAN                       n.a.       84.9         91.0    116.7          90.2    173.6          101.7       152.8
Total                    n.a.       n.a.         n.a.      n.a.        518.0    610.6         670.8       813.3
Second Four-Year Development Plan Through September 1976
--------1974-------   --------1975-------  -----1976-
Description              Planned Implemented   Planned Implemented  Planned Implemented
National Roads             n.a.      184.8         n.a.     217.6         n.a.    200.0
Railroads                 161.4      157.5        366.0    217.4         578.9    152.1
Ports                      n.a.       47.0         n.a.    165.9          n.a.    152.3
Airports                   n.a.       17.4         n.a.      23.3         n,a.      19.0
/1
SNTV                       77.0       n.a.        120.0      42.2        443.0    137.6
/2
SNTR                      105.0       82.1        172.6      94.6         71.4      32.6
/3
Air Algerie               120.0       98.6        119.8      99.5        125.0      47.1
/4
CNAN                      231.1       97.7        430.0    349.4         793.0    298.3
Total                   n.a.       n.a.         n.a.  1,209.9          n.a.  1,039.0
/l Societe Nationale de Transport de Voyageurs
72 Societe Nationale des Transports Routiers
73 Including its Subsidiàry Travail Aerien
74 Compagnie Nationale Algerienne de Navigation
75 Not available
Source: Ministry of Finance
March 1977



ANNEX 7
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
THE JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Port Facilities at Algerian Main Ports
1.   At Algiers
1.1       The port has two entrances and is protected by five breakwaters
totalling about 5 km long:
-    from north-east by a breakwater 1,290 m long;
-    from east by a breakwater 1,500 m long;
-    ffrom south-east by a breakwater 1,304 m long; and
-    ffrom south by a breakwater 1,000 m long.
1.2       All breakwaters are of the mound type protected by 50 to 250 t con-
crete blocks. The port comprises three basins:
-    the old port having an entrance 176 m wide and 22 m
deep, a water area of 74 hectares (ha), and berths
totalling about 3 km long and are 2.5 to 12 m deep;
-    the Agha basin 6.5 to 10 m deep having berths totalling
about 2.8 km long; and
-    the Mustapha basin having an entrance 240 m wide and
16 m deep, a water area of 75 h and berths totalling
about 2.7 km long and re 7 to 11 m deep.
1.3       The port has 48 berths totalling about 10 km long, of which 37 are
for general cargo and 11 for special cargo. Out of the 48 berths, 15 have
depths exceeding 9 m.
1.4       The port land area is 119 ha and is served by railways 27 km long.
There are about 30 transit sheds totalling about 77,000 m2 in area, 30 refined
oil tanks totalling about 160,000 m3 capacity and eight wine tanks totalling
36,000 m3 capacity.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
1.5       The port has several slipways and two dry docks one for ships of up
to 136 m long and 8 m draft and the other for ships up to 75 m long and 5 m
draft.
1.6       The floating equipment available in the port includes five water
barges, 10 tug boats 150 to 1,000 hp, five pilot boats, two floating cranes
85 and 400 t capacity, 76 barges 20 to 250 t capacity, one small suction
dredger and two hopper barges. Cargo handling equipment includes 56 quay
cranes 2 to 12 t capacity, 30 mobile cranes, 55 tractors, 280 trailers and
220 forklift trucks.
2.   At Annaba
2.1       The port has two basins:
-    the small basin having a water area of about 10 ha and
berths totalling about 1.3 km long and 8.5 to 10 m deep;
and
-    the main basin having a water area of about 40 ha and
berths totalling about 2 km long and 8.75 to 10 deep.
2.2       The port land area is about 107 ha, 50% of which is occupied by the
industrial zone. Transit sheds are limited having a total area of 2,100 m2.
There is a grain silo 18,000 t capacity and a wine tank 300 t capacity.
2.3       Equipment available in the port includes special handling equipment
for iron ore, coal and phosphate; two tug boats 700 hp each; two floating
cranes 110 and 8 t capacity; 15 quay cranes 3 to 12 ton capacity; 60 forklift
trucks and 10 mobile cranes 3 to 7 t capacity.
3.   At Arzew
3.1       The port has an entrance 400 m wide and 20 m deep and is protected
by two breakwaters 1.2 km and 1.1 km long extended to a depth of about 18 m.
3.2       The port land area is limited to 24 ha.  Berths are highly spe-
cialized and include one pier with two berths for loading LNG, one berth for
loading ammonia, two berths for loading crude oil and refined oil 13.5 and
15.5 m deep and four berths for general cargo totalling about 700 m long and
are 9 to 10 m deep.  There are three mooring stations for loading crude oil.
They are situated in 20 to 25 m deep water, 850 m apart and at about 1.5 to
1.8 km distance from the shore. They are connected to the shore by several
sea-lines 20 to 40 inches in diameter.
3.3       Equipment available in the port include six tug boats 1,500 to
2,500 hp, four floating cranes 10, 50, 100 and 125 t capacity, 10 forklift
trucks and 12 cranes 2 to 25 t capacity.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
4.   At Oran
4.1       The port is protected by two breakwaters 2.8 and 0.5 km long.  The
entrance is 190 m wide. The port comprises six basins; 7, 10, 15, 16, 17 and
24 m deep.
4.2       The port water area is about 120 ha and its land area is about 71 ha
of which about 43 ha are used for storage purposes. The port has 37 berths
totalling 5.2 km long of which about 3.5 km having a depth from 9 to 12 m.
There are 38 transit sheds totalling about 70,000 m2 in area, a grain silo of
30,000 t capacity and four wine tanks totalling 534 m3 capacity.
4.3       Equipment available in the port includes two tug boats 500 and 750 hp,
fuel-oil barge 600 t capacity, three floating cranes 30 to 100 t capacity, 28
quay cranes 1.5 to 6 t capacity, 21 mobile cranes 2 to 13.5 t capacity, 28
tractors and 75 forklift trucks 1.5 to 4 t capacity.
5.   At Skikda
5.1       The port is proteced by two breakwaters 1.75 km and 0.6 km long.  It
comprises two harbors: the old one for general cargo and the new one completed
in 1973 for LNG, LPG, ammonia and crude oil exports.
5.2       The new port comprises eight berths:  three for crude oil exports,
two for LNG exports, one for LPG export, one for ammonia export and one for
general cargo import and export. The port land area is about 42 ha. There are
nine transit sheds totalling 7,900 m2 in area, a grain silo 20,000 m3 capacity
and a wine tank 150 m3 capacity. Equipment available in the port includes two
tug boats, a floating crane 100 t capacity, eight quay cranes, 5 mobile cranes
4 to 10 t capacity, 21 tractors, 84 trailers and 40 forklift trucks 2 to 8 t
capacity.



APPRAISAL OF
JIJLw kRT PR0OECT
ALGERIA
Traffic Through Algerian Ports 1965-1975
(Thousand tons)
1965   1966   1967   1968   1969   1970   1971   1972   1973   19741  1975
Imports
Hydrocarbons              2,345  1,994  2,715  2,775  2,971  3,371  2,034  1,339  1,674  1,490  2,281
Cereal                      252    601    794    736    582    640    746  1,059  1,198  1,941  2,235
Cement                       10       8     17     20    243    502    634    881  1,198  1,786  2,255
Timber                      130    108    125    134    198    768    245    169    221    287    339
Metallurgic                  126    121    163    309    319    584    552    542    682    925    924
General Cargo             1,229  1,812  1,422  1,780  2,010  2,454  2,521  2,923  2,825  3,015  4,559
Total Imports               4,092  4,644  5,236  5,754  6,523  7,819  6,732  6,913  7,798  9,444 12,593
Exports
Hydrocarbons             16,564 24,802 30,678 35,863 37,045 39,387 32,439 39,212 41,949 39,851 39,899
Wine                         768  1,068    617    740  1,012  1,054    637    689  1,020    615    472
Fruits and Vegetables       322    280    254    254    284    228    221    214    176    158        93
Dry Bulk (minerals)       3,585  2,283  2,736  3,685  3,394  2,770  2,583  2,777  2,456  3,946  2,059
General Cargo             1,518  1,340    566    442    736  1,032    674    877    605    252    397
Total Exports              22,757 29,773 34,841 40,984 42,471 44,471 36,554 43,769 46,206 44,822 42,920
Exports and Imports        26,849 34,417 40,077 46,738 48,994 52,590 43,286 50,682 54,004 54,266 55,513
_   
Source:  ONP
March 1977



APPRAISAL OF
JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Traffic Through Main  orts (1973, 1974 and 1975
(Thousand Tons)
A. Excluding Oil
--1973- -------- 1974 ------                         --     --- -- 1975 --
Iports   Exports  _ rTotal        I rt1/ Exports2'  Total            Imports'/  Exports2-ota1
Algiers           2,337        607      2,1944       2,444        191      2,635        2,624        123   2,747
Annaba            1,285      2,248      3,533        1,494      3,532      5,026        1,597      2,256   3,853
Arzew                12         66         78           58         29         87           68         15       83
Bejaia              484         48        532          768         84        852          777         45      822
Ghazaouet            65        176        241          166        145        311          268         74      342
Mostaganemn         259        289        548          396        221        617          563         -       563
Oran              1,039        555      1,594        1,549        433      1,982        1,582        307   1,889
Skikda              536         63        599          838         35        873          908         33      941
Total           6,017     4,052    10,069          7,713     4,670    12,383          8,387     2,853  11,240
B.  Including Oil
Algiers           2,710      1,923      4,633        2,685      1,605     4,290         2,829      1,339   4,168
Annaba            1,824      2,247      4,071        2,014      3,531      5,545        2,031      2,068   4,099
Arzew               171    19,151    19,322            149    21,089    21,238          2,282    21,568  23,850
Bejaia              581      9,789    10,370           902      9,775    10,677           916    10,240  11,156
Ghazaouet            65        176        241          166        145        311          268         74      342
Mostaganem          266        289        555          401        221        622          577        213      790
Oran              1,411        568      1,979        2,014        433      2,447        2,031        307   2,338
Skikda              662    11i859    12,521            981      7,877     8,858         1,268      7,030   8,298
Total           7,690    46,002    ;3,692          9,312    44,676    53,988         12,202    42,839  55,041
1/   Imports include Cereal, Cement, Timber, Metallurgic and General Cargo
2/   Exports include Wine, Fruits and Vegetables, Dry Bulk (mainly minerals) and General Cargo.
Source: ONP
March 1977



ANNEX 10
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
THE JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Summary of Ordinance Establishing ONP
No. 71-29 of May 13, 1971
No. of
Article
1.     Name              Called Office National des Ports (ONP).
1.     Status            ONP is a public legal entity, with financial
autonomy, subject to laws in force.
2.     Responsible to   ONP is under the responsibility of the Ilinister-
in-charge of Transport.
3.     Domicile          Head Office shall be in Algiers (or elsewhere by
order of Minister).
4.     Purpose           ONP shall assume responsibility for management,
operation and development of all Algerian ports,
including port police and security services.
5.     Assigned Assets  State shall assign to ONP all installations,
machinery, equipment and other movable or im-
movable property within port area.
5.     Geographical      Geographical limits to be subsequently decreed.
Limits
6.     Rights            ONP shall have same rights an obligations as
State in matter of public domain.
7.     Management        Management shall be by a Director-General (DG)
appointed by decree at proposal of Minister.
Assisted by Secretary-General (SG) appointed
by order of Minister.
8.     DG's Powers       DG shall be vested with all powers needed to
run ONP, carry out all operations an fulfill
its purpose. DG may delegated some powers to



ANNEX 10
Page 2
SG and Port Managers*. DG is also entitled to
exercise power over all public services in respect
of matters concerning port operations and police
services.
9.     Port Directors'  Under authority of DG, each Port Director shall be
Powers          responsible for (a) operation of port and mainte-
nance development and renewal of port superstruc-
ture; and (b) hiring and firing of staff (except
those appointed by DG).
9.     Port Managers'   Port directors' appointment shall be by order of
Appointment    Minister at proposal of DG.
10.     Personnel         DG has authority over all personnel and shall
appoint all except SG and Port Managers.
I1.     Emergency         DG or Port Directors (if power expressly delegated)
Powers          shall, subject to consultation with Minister, take
any appropriate measures to remedy situations
caused by port congestion.
12.     Annual Budgets   DG shall prepare annual budgets for all expendi-
& Half Yearly  tures of ONP, recommend and execute work programs
Reports         and studies and each half-year-end report "to the
superior authority" with an operational account
and activity statement.
12.     Contracts         DG shall enter into all contracts for ONP and rep-
resent it at law and in all civil matters.
13.     Ministerial       The minister shall supervise ONP's activities and
Powers          is required to approve the following, among others:
(i)  ONP's internal organization
(ii) Personnel regulations
(iii)  Tariffs and general conditions of equipment hire
(iv) All contracts exceeding DA 100,000 (US$25,000
equivalent).
The Minister is also required to approve, in conjunc-
tion with the Minister of Finance:
(v)  Annual budgets
(vi) End-of-year financial accouats
(vii) Loans
(viii) Purchase/sale of real property
* Termed Directors in ONP's Organization Chart.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
(ix) Acceptance of donations/legacies
(x) Annual and multi-annual investment programs.
(xi) The financial system.
No. of
Articles
14.    Ministerial       Minister may send representative to investigate
Investiga-     ONP and check that it is being run satisfactorily.
tions
15.    Consultative _/  Committee comprises one representative from each
Committee       of nine Cabinet Ministers, two workers' representa-
tives and possibly two experts qualified in ship-
ping matters.
16.    Committee 1/      DG and SG shall attend Committee meetings in ad-
Advisers        visory capacity.
17.    Committee 1/      Committee shall issue its opinion on reports pre-
Functions       pared by the DG on the following aspects, among
others:
(i)  Personnel regulation
(ii)  Annual budgets
(iii) End-of-year financial accounts
(iv)  Loans
(v)  Annual and multi-annual investment programs
(vi)  The financial system
(vii) The by-laws
(viii) The operations of the services
18.    Committee 1/      Appointment of Committee members is by Ministerial
Appointments   order at proposal of authority which they repre-
sent.
19.    Committee 1/      At least three Committee meetings per year, con-
Meetings        vened by Chairman.  Extraordinary meetings at
request of superor authority or DG, or one-third
of members.
20.    Committee 1/      Seven members constitute a quorum except that if
Quorum          meeting reconvened because of lack of quorum,
opinion of second meeting shall be valid regard-
less of attendance.
1/   The Consultative Committee has been replaced by Permanent Port Committees
by Decree No. 75-72 of June 17, 1975.



ANNEX 10
Page 4
No. of
Article
21.    Committee 1/    (Committee opinions shall be communicated to the
Opinions        Minister within one week.
22.    Committee 1/      Chairman has casting vote.  All opinions based
Voting          upon majority decision of members present.
23.    Financial         Wharf dues, conservation charges, tolls, fees
Resources       and other charges levied under current regula-
tions, funds from loans and state grants shall
constitute ONP resources from which to meet
expenditures in executing its tasks.
24.    Accounts          Accounts shall be in commercial form in conformity
with the General Accounting Plan.
25.    Annual Budgets   DG shall prepare annual budgets for 12 months from
January 1, comprising two sections - operations
and capital - for submission to Ministers of Trans-
port and Finance for approval upon the Committee's
recommendations before October 1, of the previous
year.
26.    Annual Accounts  Annual accounts shall be submitted by DG to Min-
isters of Transport and Finance for approval within
six months of year-end.
27.    Loans             ONP may contract medium and long-term loans subject
to Articles 13 and 17 above.
28.    Financial   (a)  An "Agent Comptable" is appointed and his functions
Control         governed by Decrees Nos. 65-259 and 65-260 of Octo-
ber 11, 1965. ie comes under DG's authority, but
is an officer of the Ministry of Finance, to which
he reports.
29.    Financial   (b)  A Commissaire Aux Comptes, designated by the Min-
Control         ister of Finance, is attached to the Office.
30.    Former Auton-    Autonomous ports of Algiers, Annaba and Oran-Arzew
omous Ports    are hereby dissolved.
31.    Port Conces-      Port concessions granted to Chambers of Commerce
sions           and Industry bare hereby terminated.
1/   The Consultative Committee has been replaced by Permanent Port Committees
by Decree No. 75-72 of June 17, 1975.



ANNEX 10
Page 5
No. of
Article
32.    Transfer of       All assets, rights, equipment and obligations
Rights, etc.   belonging to former autonomous ports (Article 30
above) and all other Algerian ports shall be
transferred to ONP.
33.    Expansion of      Provisions of this Ordinance shall, if necessary,
Ordinance      be established in further detail in subsequent
texts.
34.    Repeals           Any provisions contrary to this Ordinance are
hereby repealed.
35.    Publication       This Ordinance shall be published in the Official
Gazette of Algeria.



APPRAISAL OF
JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
1/
Ports Technical Assistance Programs and Estimated Coste
(DA or US$ Thousands)
Actual        Expected
Consultants        Signature       Signature       Commencing   Completion                   Local             Foreign
Agency               Description                     (Statue)             Date           Date             Date          Date                  Currency             Exchange           Total Cost
DA       US$        DA       US$        DA           US$
Eauiv.             Enuiv                    Eauiv.
1.  SEP       Port Study, Organization and                                                                                                  /2                                         /2
Operation                             RASAMS (UK)         May 1974                       June 1974        Jan 1976       2,256        550      3,509      856      5,765          1,406
2.  ONP       Valuation of Superstructure
Assets                                COURTOY (BELG)       May 1976                      Sept 1976        Dec 1977          340         83     1,378      336      1,718            419
3.  ONP       Tariff Study                          Henderson, Hughes
& Buaby (UO)        Sept 1976                      Jan 1977        Dec 1977          340         83        550      134        890           217
4.  oIP       haendsnt to Contract 2 above
to include Infrastructure             COURTOY (BELO)                     JA&  1979                        Dec 1977          140         34        262      64         402            98
5.  ONP       Master Plan Study for Algerian
Commercial Ports                      (Not decided)                      Feb 1977        Mar 1977         Feb 1978          857        209      1,644     401       2,501           610
6.  ONP       General Technical Assistance          Port Autonome de                                                                                                                    /3            /3
and Training                          Marseille (FR)                     Feb 1977        Mar 1977         Dec 1979          874        213      1,660      405      2,534           618
(i)    operations
(ii)   Equipment
(iii)  Control, Budgets
(iv)   Training Study (Needs)
(v)    Training (Implementation)
7.  ONP       Internal Control and
Internal Audit                        (No action yet) -                                                                     287         70        541      132        828           202
8.  ONP       Costing System                        (No action yet)                                                                       283         69        537      131        820           200
9.  SONANM   Equipment Organization and
Maintenance                           (Under negotiation)                Jan 1977         Feb 1977        Jan 1980          562        137      1,062      259      1,624           396
10.  SONA4MA   Reorganization Cargo Control
Systems                               (Under negotiation)                Mar 1977        Apr 1977         Dct 1978          242         59        459      112        701           171
11.  SONAMA   Port Operations & Training             (Under negotiation)                Mai 1977         Apr 1977        Apr 1979          685        167      1,312      320      1,997           487
12.  CNAN      Training (Port Operations)             (Program being
prepared by CNAN)                                                                   213         52        402       98        615            150
TOTAL                                                                                                                     7.7/2                            24      20.395         4.974
/1   Including contingencies and local taxes.  Man-year costs are DA 100,000 for technicians; DA 250,000 for engineers, economists and financial
analysts and DA 300,000 for project managers.
/2   Including DA 1,452 million local taxes
/3   Total estimated cost of items (i)-(v)
Source: Contracts, Agency Estimates and Bank Staff
April 1977



cn
c
Service du Personnel     t
Service des Etudes  O c        _                       «' r
<    et de la             Ft (D       Service des Affaires     c
t  Planification   '1 O        Générales et Moyens             .
rb0 _  t>7 Généraux              (D
Service des Etudes
Juridiques            w                       -_ _ ._ __*i
c_       Service des Plans
Service de la         CD       et Budgets
Formation Pro-                                          CD
fessionnelle                                           Or
f  Service des Etudes    a s.'
-  et Contr le
Division                      | I Service Financièr
IDivîsion Adminis-              et Comptable., 
trative et                     e  Comptable
Financière>
Division de la                                                                          0 .  O
Capitainerie        og,,æ|  
ai n e      Service des Capi-        t       i
taineries, Pilotage             .                      N   t.r
Division de          _          kaarrage et Remor       O
l'Exploitation                                          >    ~     0t
.?   * t 4Service Commercial       »             ' c                   ' |
O   I     __I____          _             . ~      c]l
«   | I  Service des Installa-        _                     _    
Division Technique  c       |           des   s         x       !    o      ||
r.     t~ions et de             ro
s...   [ l 'Outillage                      i    
Om                                 o
X~ ~~~~rUt 1   1 a- eo                  !    n
_  | | Service des            r
Statistiques
Service   Etudes               ______._____________|
Conception et
Organisation,                   Service des Marchés   |H
et Programmes
Service Analyse et    n
|Programmation     l l * | | t Services des Travaux, |
_______g____                    GC,   BT,  et  de  la
Marine                 i
Service Exploita-   c    |'
tion Technique                  Service des Travaux     A
c
Electro-mëécaniques î
I aBe
Zl X{NYé



o                         
ni                 &Subdivision des Af f aires         H g U
*                   Administratives et du              H -,
Personnel
Subdivision Financière
et Comptable
tDH                                        T~~~~~~~~~~
_
Subdivision de la               H H
Capitainerie
tTl
Subdivision Pilotage            c-g
Amarrage et Remorquageo
o~~~~~                                          o  S
H~~~~~~~~
|Subdivision                 |rU |         ll                T25;
Commerciale                      C)                                       pu. b
Pol
'.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ itiaC.                 
>~~~~~~~
Subdivision des
Installations et de 
l'Outillage._ 
. Subdivision études et       H                                     S
Travaux Neufs                  H 
Mo                                          g
Subdivision Ouvrages           Z
et Bltiments e
.~~~~                                           H
Subdivision Outillages
z aS'
ZT tâ"



ANNEX 13
APPRAISAL OF
JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Expenditures on Port Development Plans 1970-73, 1974-77 and 1978-82
DA Thousands
Port
1/               1/               2/
A.  The DI Plan (State Budget)         1970-73          1974-77          1978-81
Annaba                             135,000           60,000           80,000
Algiers                             17,000           50,000             -
Arzew                               10,000          150,000             -
Bejaia                                -                -             300,000
Bethioua                              -           1,000,000
Ghazaouet                             -              35,000             -
Jijel                                 -                -           1,600,000
Mostaganem                          18,000           20,000             -
Oran                                15,000           21,000             -
Skikda                             277,000           30,000        1,200,000
Tipaza                              12,000             -                -
Fisheries Ports                     38,000           50,000          100,000
Navigational Aids                   20,000           10,000           30,000
Studies                               -              46,000           60,000
General Port Rehabilitation           -              40,000          370,000
B. ONP Plan (Own Resources)
3/
Ail Ports                           59,000          233,000          660,000
601,000       1,735,000        4,400,000
I/ Actual
2/ As proposed by Directorat des Infrastructures to the Secretariat d'Etat
au Plan.
3/ About 39% for Algiers, 18.5% for Oran, 14% for Annaba, 10% for Skikda and
18.5% for other ports.
Source: Directorat des Infrastructure
February 1977



APPRAISAL OF
JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Mobile Handling Equipment
Needed for the Project Port
(Not financed by the proposed loan)
Unit Price (FOB) Number  CIF Price + 15% CIF Price + 15%   Customs             Total
for Spare Parts for Spare Parts   Duties
DA'OO                   DA '000           US$ '000         DA '000        DA '000
a) General Cargo
Fork Lift Trucks
4 tons                        132           18           2970              724            446           3416
5 to 8 tons                   225            6           1686              411            253           1939
9 to 15 tons                  495            6           3714              906            557           4271
16 to 20 tons                  770            3           2889              705            433           3322
30 tons                1210             5           7565            1845           1135            8700
b) Containers
Fork Lift Trucks
16 to 20 tons                 770            5           4815            1175             722           5537
Mobile Cranes
30 to 50 tons                1100            1           1375             335             206           1581
80 to 100 tons               1850            1           2313              564            347           2660
c)  Ro/Ro Tractors                226             7          1981              483            792            2773
TOTAL                                               29308            7148           4891           34199
Source: SONAMA
February 1977



APPRAISAL OF                 ANNEX 15
JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Cost Estimate
PROJECT COST
Project Element                     DA Million                   US$ Million         % of Foreign
Local    Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total    Exchange
A. Civil Works
1.  Breakwaters          99         251        350      24.1      61.3      85.4        71.8
2.  Berths               73         147        220      17.8     35.8       53.6        66.8
3.  Transit Sheds        13          12         25       3.2       2.9       6.1        47.5
4.  Buildings             4           4          8       1.0      1.0        2.0        50.0
5.  Roads & Paved Ar.   32           il         43       7.8      2.7       10.5        25.7
6.  Dredging              7          16         23       1.7      3.9        5.6        69.6
7.  Reclamation          20          22         42       4.9       5.3      10.2        52.0
8. Supporting
Facilitiesi/       12          16         28      2.9       3.9        6.8        57.3
SUB-TOTAL A           260         479        739      63.4     116.8      180.2       64.8
B. Equipment
9.  Cranes                2          25         27       0.5        6.1       6.6       92.4
10.  Navigation Aids        -          8          8        -         1.9       1.9      100.0
11.  Pilot Boats           -           2          2       _          0.5       0.5      100.0
SUB-TOTAL B             2          35         37       0.5       8.5        9.0       94.4
C. Consultancy Services
12.  Design & Superv.      7          23         30       1.7        5.6       7.3       76.7
13.  Technical Assist.    2            6          8       0.5        1.5       2.0       75.0
SUB-TOTAL C             9          29         38       2.2       7.1        9.3       76.3
D. Other
14.  Support to SONAT.   3             41        44       0.7      10.0        10.7       92.6
SUB-TOTAL A-D         274          584       858      66.8    142.4       209.2        68.0
E. Contingencies
15.  Physic/l&/            27          54        81       6.6      13.2        19.8      66.6
16.  Price-3               80         184       264      19.5       44.9       64.4      69.7
SUB-TOTAL E           107          238       345      26.1      58.1        84.2      69.0
F.  Local Taxes             242          -         242      59.0       -         59.0        -
TOTAL PROJECT COST  623            822      1,445   151.9    200.5         352.4      56.9
1/  Fresh water, electricity, telephone, drainage etc.
2/ 10% on civil works and 5% on equipment.
3/ 9% for 1977, 1978 and 1979 and 8% thereafter on both local and foreign costs.
Source:  Consultants' PAH, Tractionel and O & A as revised by Bank Staff.
March 1977



ANNEX 16
APPRAISAL OF
JLJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Estimated Project Expenditure
Calendar            -DA Mllibn-----  -    - -----US$ Million-
Year        Local        Foreign    -Total         Local      Foreign      Total
1977          12.0        17.5        29.5            2.9        4.3         7.2
1978         44.1         55.5        99.6          10.8        13.5        24.3
1979        133.1        173.0       306.1          32.4        42.2        74.6
1980        184.4        242.0       426.4          45.0        59.0      :104.0
1981        193.5        258.0       451.5          47.2        62.9      -110.1
1982          55.9         76.0      131.9          13.6        18.6        32.2
Total     623.0        822.0    1,445.0L'        151.9       200.5       352.4
/1 Of which DA 242 million (US$5920 million) is local taxes and DA 264 million
(US$64.4 million) is price contingency.
Source: Consultants' Estimate as revised by Bank Staff.
March 1977



ALGERIA
APRAISAL OF
JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND CONSTRUCTION
Sentrofo Gow nmera
fflmi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Sobd,recrorete. for                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Office for li rfstrooture ProjeteSbirooe    for
Generel Adminiefref on fffer.                                    ~~~~Sotrdiroctort. for                 uijo for                                         Subdjrororf t" for                      Sudrerree fr-  resiP for Nrion1
Aoooorting, Bodget 0fgcid                                                              P oad                               I..Arprt    Uodace  Arprt                               Honeroorg                          PlanniMg end Laird U.                                   Co- 'i
E|.ip".t                           st'.ao                                             -urbr Hooriog                                                                   Dte Prooe.f   ed Regoltror
-Profeeconel Teinieg                                                                                                       -Regoltione
ooc:Diretrorat for oreforr
April 1977                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Wofld Bank-17243
Gen l Ad mi nie rwt ive bitt ni ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~Wrd  Ofk174



APPRAISAL OF
JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Work Program
1978             1979             1980              1981             1982
ITEM                        2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4
MOBILIZATION OF EQUIPMENT
EXPLOITATION OF QUARRIES                 _ r    _         _   _   __
CONSTRUCTION OF WESTERN                      - _       -     _  _
BREAKWATER
CONSTRUCTION OF NORTHERN--                                                      --
BREAKWATER
CONSTRUCTI'ON 0F EASTERN                                                   I--          
BREAKWATER 
CONSTRUCTION 0F SNS BERTHS
CONSTRUCTION 0F GENERAL                                                         ."       - - -
CARGO BERTHS 
FILLING BEHIND SNS BERTHS                                              - -       L_        
FILLING BEHIND GENERAL CARGO                                                    -  1 _
BERTHS
DREDGING                                             L r _ _ _ _ _ ,  _
MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT FOR                                                            '
SNS TRAFFIC                                           r
QUAY CRANES FOR GENERAL             _   _             _                         _        _
CARGO TRAFFIC
Y  Date first berth for the steel complex traffic couid be put into use.
Critical Path                                                                                            World Bank- 16779
Sou,   Consultants' estimates as Revised by Bank Staff



ANNEX 19
APPRAISAL OF
JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                         at end of Quarter
and Quarter                             US$ Thousand
1977-1978
March 31, 1978                                 2,400
June 30, 1978                                  3,900
1978-1979
September 30, 1978                             5,300
December 31, 1978                              7,200
March 31, 1979                                11,400
June 30, 1979                                 15,600
1979-1980
September 30, 1979                            18,600
December 31, 1979                             24,000
March 31, 1980                                28,300
June 30, 1980                                 34,400
1980-1981
September 30, 1980                            40,600
December 31, 1980                             47,500
March 31, 1981                                54,700
June 30, 1981                                 60,800
1981-1982
September 30, 1981                            66,400
December 31, 1981                             72,700
March 31, 1982                                75,000
June 30, 1982                                 76,900
1982-1983
September 30, 1982                            78,500
December 31, 1982                             80,000
Source:Bank Staff
April 1977



ANNEX 20
APPRAISAL OF
JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Support to SONATRAM
----DA Million -----     -----US$ Million
Local Foreign Total      Local  Foreign  Total
A. Floating Equipment
1.  One tugboat 2,000 HP               0.2    6.8    7.0         0.05    1.65    1.70
2. One sea-going barge
2,500 dwt                          0.1    4.0    4.1         0.03    0.97    1.00
3. One clam-shell
dredger                            0.2    6.2    6.4         0.06    1.50    1.56
4. One self-propelled flat
pontoon with fixed crane           0.1    2.0    2.1         0.02    0.48    0.50
5.  Dipper Dredger 6m3 capacity        0.8    8.2    9.0         0.19    2.00    2.19
B. Workshop Equipment, Spare Parts
and Miscellaneous Equipment            0.9   11.8   12.7         0.20    2.90    3.10
C.  Technical Assistance                   0.7    2.0    2.7         0.15    0.50    0.65
Total                 3.0   41.0   44.0         0.70   10.00   10.70
Source: SONATRAM/Bank Staff
April 1977



ANNEX 21
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
THE JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Government's Financial and Economic Objectives for
Public Enterprises and Agencies, Including Those
Responsible for Transport
1.        The Government takes a practical approach when determining finan-
cial and economic objectives of public enterprises and Government agencies,
including those responsible for transport. Its policy is to mobilize capi-
tal resources so that nationwide planning and financing is facilitated for
new productive assets and for replacement and improvement of existing produc-
tive assets. Funds are to be generated by the enterprises or agencies through
an adequate return on capital investment and capital recovered through depre-
ciation. To ensure that depreciation charged is adequate for purposes of
pricing and capital recovery, productive assets have to be assigned rational
economic lives and to be valued on a real basis.
2.        In practice, fixed assets are in two categories.  The first is
assets for which historical costs are known, including those transferred from
former owners. These are valued by applying Government financial correction
indices to historical costs. The second is assets for which historical costs
are not known, including infrastructure, which historically have been treated
as State assets. These are to be valued on a replacement cost basis accord-
ing to prescribed formula. Valuations have to be as at December 31, 1971.
3.        The Government mobilizes resources by fiscal appropriations, such
as income tax (at the rate of 50% of profits), by special contributions to the
State budget from revenue, and by the use of capital (depreciation and reserve)
funds. The principles have been established, but detailed regulations have
yet to be prepared; meanwhile, the principles are being applied on an ad hoc
basis. The system is flexible and allows for special treatment in appro-
priate circumstances.
4.        In the case of enterprises having a monopoly position, the special
contribution takes the form of a percentage on turnover; in other cases, it
is based on the costs of each production unit, taking into account fixed
assets employed, turnover, and other elements relating to the specific type
of activity. The rates have not yet been established. The contribution is
not an operating cost and does not reduce any income tax liability.
5.        As regards capital funds, enterprises and agencies are required
to deposit them in a special account at the Treasury, when they are known as
"Equipment Bonds". Normally these deposits may not be withdrawn for 5 or 10
years (depending on the option chosen), and carry interest at 5% and 6%,



ANNEX 21
Page 2
respectively. Payment of the "Special Contribution" and the requirement to
deposit capital funds in special accounts was suspended for 1976.
6.        Funds for new investments are financed from public resources, such
as the Treasury, banks, or the Algerian Development Bank. Regulations for
financing other capital expenditures, such as replacing, renewing, or improving
assets, have not yet been issued, but will probably include exemption (partial
or whole) from deposits of reserves, early withdrawal of deposits, and bank
financing.



ANNEX 22
APPRAISAL OF
JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Project Costs Allocated Between
General Cargo, SNS Traffic and Other Investments
DA Millions
JIJEL PORT/ONP
General
Total         Cargo         SNS Traffic      Other
Breakwaters                         511             88             423
Berths                              322           134              188
Dredging                              34             6              28
Reclamation                          62            44               18
Subtotal Infrastructure           929           272             657
Roads and Paving                      64            40              24
Services                             41            20               21
Buildings                            il              5               6
Transit Sheds                        37             37              _
Subtotal Superstructure           153           102              51
Cranes                               37            37
Pilot Boats                            2             1               1
Subtotal                           39            38                1
TOTAL JIJEL PORT/ONP
Excluding Local Taxes             1,121           412              709
Local Taxes                         218             78             140
Subtotal                        1,339           490             849
Others
Navigation Aids                       10                                          10
SONATRAM Equipment                   62                                           62
Technical Assistance-Ports           10                                           10
82                                          82
Local Taxes                           24                                          24
106                                         106
TOTAL PROJECT COST                1,445           490              849           10
Source: Bank Staff
March 1977



ANNEX 23
APPRAISAL OF
JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Calculation of Port Tariffs (ONP)
General          ---SNS Traffic---
Cargo           1985         1995         Total
/l
Investment (DA Millions)                    412           709           709        1,121
Phase II                                                                 94            94
412          709           803         1,215
Total Revenue Required (in DA Thousands):
Return on Investment (8-1/2%)          35,020        60,265        68,255
Operating Cost                          4,816         6,728         8,092
Depreciation                            8,240         9,926        11,242
48,076       76,919        87,589
Traffic (Thousand Tons)                   1,200         4,564         8,638
Average Revenue Fer Ton                DA 40.06      DA 16.85    DA  10.14
Deduct: Revenue from Cranes
(SONAMA)                   DA - 4.15
DA 35.91
Say             DA  36.00    DA 17.00    DA 10.25
/1     Excluding import duties and local taxes
SOURCE: Bank Staff, derived from Coneultants' Data and Other Sources
April 1977



ANNEX 24
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
ONP/Ji;el Port
Consolidated Revenue Accounts
and Cash Flow
DA Million
1982     1983      1984       1985       1995
Operating Revenue                                                          ET SEO    ET SEQ
Port Tariffs and Concession Fees          69.06    97.37    109.73    120.79    138.94
Lease of Cranes                            2.49      4.98       4.98       4.98       4.98
71.55   102.35    114.71    125.77    143.92
Operating Expenses
Personnel                                  5.11      7.57       7.57       7.57       8.51
Maintenance                                  .36     1.43       2.50       3.57       4.31
Miscellaneous                                .17       .30        .35        .41        .43
5.64     9.30      10.42      11.55      13.25
Depreciation                               9.08    18.17       18.17      18.17      19.48
14.72    27.47      28.59      29.72      32.73
Operating Surplus                           56.83    74.88       86.12      96.05    111.19
Amortization-Local Taxes                      4.36     8.72       8.72       8.72       8.72
52.47    66.16      77.40      87.33    102.47
User Tonnage Fee to Government              41.79    58.91       66.41      73.12      81.23
10.68      7.25     10.99      14.21      21.24
Income Tax                                   5.34      3.62       5.49       7.11      10.62
Net Income Retained by ONP                    5.34     3.63       5.50       7.10      10.62
CASH FLOW
Operating Surplus                         56.83    74.88       86.12      96.05    111.19
Depreciation                               9.08    18.17       18.17      18.17      19.48
Total Cash Generated                      65.91    93.05    104.29    114.22    130.67
Payments to Governrnent
Local Taxes                                4.36      8.72       8.72       8.72       8.72
User Tonnage Fee                          41.79    58.91       66.41      73.12      81.23
Income Tax                                 5.34      3.62       5.49       7.11      10.62
Capital Recovery                           7.52    15.04       15.04      15.04      16.22
59.01    86.29      95.66    103.99    116.79
Surplus Retained by ONP                      6.90      6.76       8.63      10.23      13.88
Of which:  Income                          5.34      3.63       5.50       7.10      10.62
Depreciation                   1.56      3.13       3.13       3.13       3.26
Source: Bank Staff, Based on Consultants Report
April 1977



ANNEX 24
Page 2
APPRAISAL OF
JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
ONP/Jiiel Port
General Cargo Revenue Accounts
and Cash Flow                    DA Million
1982      1983       1984       1985      1995
ET SEQ    ET SEQ
Cargo ('000 tons)                      700     1,000      1,100      1,200     1,400
Operating Revenues
Port Tariffs                       25.20     36.00      39.60      43.20     50.40
Lease of Cranes                     2.49      4.98       4.98       4.98      4.98
27.69     40.98      44.58      48.18     55.38
Operating Expenses
Personnel                           1.79      2.65       2.65       2.65      2.98
Maintenance                          .20        .80      1.40       1.99       1.99
Miscellaneous                        .06        .12       .15        .18        .18
2.05      3.57       4.20       4.82      5.1.5
Depreciation                        4.12      8.24       8.24       8.24      8.24
6.17     11.81      12.44      13.06     13.39
Operating Surplus                    21.52     29.17      32.14      35.12     41.99
Amortization-Local Taxes              1.56       3.12      3.12       3.12       3.12
19.96     26.05      29.02      32.00     38.87
User Tonnage Fee to Governnent       14.70     21.00      23.10      25.20      29.40
5.26      5.05       5.92       6.80      9.47
Income Tax                            2.63      2.52       2.96       3.40      4.74
Net Income Retained by ONP            2.63       2.53      2.96       3.40       4.73
CASH FLOW
Operating Surplus                  21.52     29.17      32.14      35.12     41.99
Depreciation                        4.12      8.24       8.24       8.24       8.24
Total Cash Generated            25.64     37.41      40.38      43.36     50.23
Payments to Goverriment
Local Taxes                         1.56      3.12       3.12       3.12      3.12
User Tonnage Fee                   14.70     21.00      23.10      25.20      29.40
Income Tax                          2.63      2.52       2.96       3.40      4.74
Capital Recovery                    3.09      6.18       6.18       6.18      6.18
21.98     31_U     àiLi         377.90     43.44
Surplus Retained by ONP               3.66      4.59       5.02       5.46       6.79
Of which Income                     2.63      2.53       2.96       3.40      4.73
Depreciation              1.03       2.06       2.06      2.06       2.06
Source: Bank Staff based on Consultants' Report
April 1977



ANNEX 24
Page 3
APPRAISAL OF
JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
ONP/Jijel Port
SNS Traffic Revenue Accounts and Cash Flow
DA Millions
1982      1983       1984       1985       1995
ET SEQ    ET SEQ
Cargo ('000 tons)                    2,580     3,610      4,125      4,564      8,638
Operating Revenues
Port Tariffs and SNS
Concession Fees                   43.86      61.37      70.13      77.59      88.54
Operating Expenses
Personnel                          3.32       4.92       4.92       4.92       5.53
Maintenance                          .16        .63      1.10       1.58       2.32
Miscellaneous                        .11        .18        .20        .23        .25
3.59      5.73       6.22       6.73       8.10
Depreciation                       4.96       9.93       9.93       9.93      11.24
8.55     15.66      16.15      16.66      19.34
Operating Surplus                    35.31     45.71      53.98      60.93      69.20
Amortization-Local Taxes              2.80       5.60       5.60       5.60       5.60
32.51     40.11      48.38      55.33      63.60
User Tonnage Fee to Government    27.09         37.91     43.31      47.92      51.83
5.42      2.20       5.07       7.41      11.77
Income Tax                            2.71      1.10       2.53       3.71       5.88
Net Income Retained by ONP            2.71       1.10       2.54       3.70       5.89
CASH FLOW
Operating Surplus                 35.31      45.71      53.98      60.93      69.20
Depreciation                        4.96      9.93       9.93       9.93      11.24
Total Cash Generated            40.27      55.64      63.91      70.86      80.44
Payments to Government
Local Taxes                         2.80       5.60      5.60       5.60       5.60
User Tonnage Fee                   27.09      37.91     43.31      47.92      51.83
Income Tax                         2.71       1.10       2.53       3.71       5.88
Capital Recovery                    4.43      8.86       8.86       8.86      10.04
37.03     53.47      60.30      66.09      73.35
Surplus Retained by ONP               3.24       2.17       3.61       4.77       7.09
Of Which: Income                    2.71       1.10       2.54       3.70       5.89
Depreciation              .53       1.07       1.07       1.07       1.20
Source: Bank Staff, based on Consultants' Report
April 1977



APPRAISAL OF
JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
ONP/Jijel Port
Pro Forma Balance Sheets as at December 31
DA Million
ASSETS                       1982          1983         1984          1985           1995          2000
Fixed Assets in Use                       1,121.00      1,121.00      1,121.00     1,121.00      1,215.00      1,215.00
Less Depreciation                           9.08         27.25         45.42         63.59        246.60       344.00
Net Fixed Assets in Use                 1,111.92      1,093.75      1,075.58     1,057.41        968.40        871.00
Local Taxes on Investment,
Less Amounts Amortized                    213.64        204.92        196.20        187.48        100.28         56.68
Net Current Assets                            6.90         13.66         22.29         32.52        138.47        207.87
1,332.46     1,312.33      1,294.07      1,277.41      1,207.15      1,135.55
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Liability for Local Taxes,
Less Amounts Paid                         213.64        204.92        196.20        187.48        100.28         56.68
Government Investment
Less Amounts Repaid                     1,113.48      1,098.44      1,083.40      1,068.36      1,010.78        929.68
Retained Earnings - ONP                       5.34          8.97         14.47         21.57         96.09        149.19
1,332.46     1,312.33      1,294.07      1,277.41      1,207.15      1,135.55
Average Net Fixed Assets in Use           1,116.46      1,102.84      1,084.67      1,066.50        978.14        880.74
Financial Rate of Return:
Operating Surplus to Average
Net Fixed Assets in Use                     5.1%         6.8%          7.9%         9.0%           11.4%         12.6%
Average Government Investment             1,117.24      1,105.96      1,090.92      1,075.88      1,018.89        937.79
Financial Rate of Return to Govt.:
User Tonnage Fee to Average
Investment                                  3.7%         5.3%          6.1%         6.8%            8.0%          8.7%
User Tonnage Fee Plus Income Tax
to Average Tnvestment                       4.2%         5.7%          6.6%         7.5%            9.0%          9.8%
Sourre: Bank Staff
Ar< !1977



ANNEX 26
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
THE JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Financial Analysis
Methodology, Bases and Assumiptions Used
and Other Financial Information
A. The Proiect Port
Financial Objectives - State Enterprises
1.        Financial and economic objectives for state enterprises have been
prescribed in principle by the Government. They cover a pricing policy on
the basis of current values of total fixed assets, an acceptable return on
total investment, payment of income tax presently at 50%, and mobilization
of resources (profits and depreciation) to facilitate nationwide planning
and financing of development projects (Annex 21). However, no precise policy
or objectives have yet been formulated and the Government has used an ad hoc
approach to obtain funds from enterprises by fixing in advance, in the annual
Finance Law, special contributions to the State budget. The "special contri-
butions" are treated as a form of taxation and not allowed as an operating
cost for income tax purposes. This is an unsatisfactory method of mobilizing
resources, since it can, and does, on occasion, result in a net income deficit
(see para. 6.19). The Government is considering possible alternative proce-
dures for achieving its ends without the disadvantages of ad hoc special
contributions, which were in fact suspended for 1976. This analysis is
based on the general principles stated above.
Introduction and Objectives
2.        This analysis is restricted to the investments that will be assigned
to ONP, upon completion, for management and operation. The following project
items (with total costs) have been excluded (Annex 22):
Navigation Aids (SPB)                    DA  13 million
Equipment (SONATRAM)                     DA  79 million
Training and Studies                     DA  14 million
DA 106 million
3.        It should be noted that, because of the relatively short term debt
and the long economic lives of the project assets, tariffs cannot cover debt
service during the earlier years and the burden, including debt service, falls



ANNEX 26
Page 2
initially on the Government. The principal objective of this analysis, there-
fore, is to establish: (a) whether, by the imposition of reasonable port
charges, the port can earn revenues sufficient to cover its operating costs
including depreciation and earn an acceptable financial rate of return on the
investment; and (b) a reasonable method by which the State Budget may, from
cash generated by ONP from its management and operation of the port, receive
an adequate return on its total investment in the port and be recouped for
that investment. The test of the reasonableness of the port charges neces-
sary to achieve the above objectives is whether they are not so high as to
jeopardize the financial justification of the SNS steel complex or to dis-
courage general cargo from using the port.
Tariffs
4.        The existing port tariffs are not suitable for this analysis (para.
6.03), and it was necessary to calculate total ONP charges per ton of cargo
passing through the port by estimating the total annual revenues required to
cover ONP's operating costs and depreciation and to earn an acceptable finan-
cial rate of return on investment (for this purpose the latter has been taken
as 8-1/2%) when the port is in full operation. This analysis is therefore a
pro forma one, but, since the costs were developed with the assistance of ONP
as well as the feasibility study consultants, it can be accepted as a reason-
able forecast of the financial aspects of ONP's responsibilities in the port
and of the financial implications to the Algerian Governnent Budget.
5.        It is also necessary to separate general cargo from SNS traffic.
Part of the cost of the main breakwater has to be borne by SNS traffic, that
is, the additional cost of siting the breakwater in deeper water to allow
entry of large bulk carriers. The balance of breakwater costs has been appor-
tioned between general cargo and SNS traffic on a ratio of cargo tonnage.
Other investments have been apportioned according to use. The allocation
of investment costs, given in Annex 22 and summarized as follows, is
reasonable:
Project Costs (DA Millions)
Import Duties         Net of
Total     and Local Taxes   Duties and Taxes
General Cargo                      490              78                 412
SNS Traffic                        849             140                 709
Total Jijel Port/ONP             1,339             218               1,121
Add Other Project Items            106              24                  82
Total Project Costs            1.445             242               1,203
6.        Calculations on the above bases indicate that for general cargo ONP
would require to earn total revenues of about DA 36.0 per ton in 1982 (Annex
23). These rates are not excessive, considering that they include the co0t
of infrastructure and are equivalent to about DA 28.0 in April 1977 prices.



ANNEX 26
Page 3
SONAMA will pay to ONP about DA 5 million annually in depreciation and return
on investment for the lease of the cranes, under the contract between the two
enterprises. For SNS traffic, the total revenue per ton is about DA 17.0
during Phase I and falls to about DA 10.25 during Phase Il; this includes
a concession fee to be paid by SNS for the exclusive use of the berths, etc.,
built for that traffic. Equivalent 1977 rates are about DA 13.5 and DA 8.1
respectively. According to the analysis of the Jijel steel complex (Annex 3
para 9.1) these port charges can be met and still leave an acceptable financial
return of 17% on the total investment in the steel complex. It should be
noted that the port is a highly capital intensive project, since ONP undertakes
no cargo handling. Also, the investment has a long average economic life. As
a result, the rate of return element represents between about 70% and 80% of
the respective calculated port charges. In the event that the Government
decides not to undertake the Phase Il expansion of the steel mill ONP's port
charges on SNS traffic would continue at the DA 17.0 rate.
Payments to Government
7.        In considering the payments to be made to the State budget from
the cash generated by the project port, the following matters should be
taken into account:
(i) the distinction between general cargo and SNS traffic,
their relative investment, and average economic lives
of those investments, which for general cargo is about
50 years and about 72 years for SNS traffic;
(ii) the high figure for local taxes in the cost estimate: these
taxes represent internal fiscal transfers and should not be
added to fixed assets but written off over a relatively short
period and paid over to the State budget as written off. It
is understood that this is a statutory requirement. In this
analysis this has been done over 25 years;
(iii) the need for ONP to retain a part of the generated cash as a
safety margin, as a fee for managing the port and to provide
funds for replacement of the shorter-lived assets; and
(iv) the incidence of taxation on profits.
8.        Payments should be related to the cash generated from (a) income and
(b) depreciation and neither an annuity basis (equal payments) nor straight
line repayments with interest on the reducing balance would be suitable.
Further, they cannot be directly related to the Government's debt service on
borrowing to finance the project because the debt would be relatively very
short-term. A reasonable solution is that the State budget should share in
net revenues by a user rate per ton of cargo (varying between general cargo
and SNS traffic) and that the Government should recoup its capital by an
annual percentage producing payments somewhat less than the annual deprecia-
tion charge.



14NEX 26
Page 4
9.        For the purposes of this analysis the following bases have been used
to calculate payments to the State budget:
Tonnage (user) fee           -  General cargo  DA 21.0
(treated as an operating       SNS traffic
cost)
Phase I      DA 10.5
Phase II     DA  6.0
Income Tax                   - 50% after charging user tonnage fees
Local Taxes                  - repaid over 25 years
Capital Repayment            - General cargo investment - 1-1/2% p.a.
SNS traffic investment   - 1-1/4% p.a.
Financial Forecasts
10.       The financial forecasts based on the above principles show that the
project port would earn a financial rate of return of about 8% on average net
fixed assets in use in 1984 and 9% in 1985; the rate, of course, increasing
yearly as the book value of the asset base falls. The financial return on
equity capital i.e. the Government's reducing investment, from user fees
and income tax, would be about 7-1/2% in 1985 rising to about 9% in 1995 and
increasing thereafter, because of the reducing capital balance. ONP would
retain a moderate profit share for absorption into its general revenues and
accumulate reasonable reserves for replacement of the shorter lived assets
(for example, quay cranes). For Revenue Account Forecasts and Pro Forma
Balance Sheets, see Annexes 24 and 25.
il.       The effects of procedures on the lines indicated above would be that
the Government would recover its total outlay on the project port (other than
on excluded items) (para 2), including taxes and debt service, from ONP's
operations, by about the year 1998 and that there would be a net annual inflow
to the State budget from about the year 1983, except for the relatively minor
additional investment needed for Phase II. A full analysis of the State
budget cash flow for the whole project is given in Annex 27. It should be
noted specifically that:
(a) It is assumed that all foreign exchange costs, not
financed by the Bank loan, would be financed from
other sources at 6% interest for a period of 25 years,
including five years' grace; and
(b) no account has been taken of budgetary receipts from
operations by SONAMA or CNAN in the new port.
12.       From a discounted cash flow aspect, and taking a 30-year operating
period, (which is a reasonable compromise for the port as a whole) the internal
financial return is about 8%. This is satisfactory, especially considering
the absence of data regarding additional budgetary receipts from SONAMA and
CNAN that could properly be related to the port investment. The solution
indicated in this analysis is a reasonable one and meets the objectives.



ANNEX 26
Page 5
Other Bases and Assumptions
13.       Depreciation has been based on economic lives of various assets
normally used in Bank port project appraisals.
14.       The project port will remain the property of the Government, but
will be handed over on completion to ONP for management and operation.
15.       For the analysis of State budget receipts and expenditures, it
has been assumed that all foreign exchange project costs, other than US$65
million to be financed by the proposed Bank loan, would be financed by
borrowing from other sources at 6% interest for a period of 25 years,
including five years' grace.
16.       The analysis is in terms of 1982 current values.  No provision has
been made for inflation beyond 1982, nor for revaluation of fixed assets
either by replacement cost or other methods, since it is assumed that port
charges. would be automatically compensated for them.
B. Office National des Ports (ONP)
Fixed Assets and Debt
17.       ONP started operations at the end of 1971, taking over the assets
and liabilities (including debt) of the former port entities. Debt consists
of 81 loans, with DA 51 million outstanding at December 31, 1975; interest
rates vary from 3% to 6% annually wîth maturities from 1977 to 1993. The
takeover was piecemeal and no comprehensive opening balance sheet was pre-
pared. Net capital on takeover was not treated as a debt to the former
owners, but as Government equity capital. Recorded fixed assets comprised
only assets actually acquired and owned by the former entities and were
valued according to an adequate formula prescribed by the Ministry of Finance.
However, the bulk of the assets, comprising infrastructures, was the property
of the State and was not recorded. According to law, such assets are assigned,
for operation, management and price-fixing, to nationalized industries which
were required to make inventories and valuations of all fixed assets as of
December 31, 1971 (in accordance with the prescribed regulations). ONP's
valuation will be completed by December 31, 1977.
Financial Accounts and Audit
13.       The Finance Department (Organization Chart, Annex 12) is under an
able and competent Financial Director and the financial accounts are com-
puterized in accordance with a new Plan Comptable established January 1976.
No systens of internal control or internal audit have yet been developed
and technical assistance is required for this (Annex 11).



ANNEX 27
APPRAISAL OF
JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Suumary Analysis of State Budget Receipts and Payments
in Respect of Jijel Port (ONP Administration)
DA Million
----------Payments ----------          -------------Receipts----------------             Net Cash Inflow
Investment   Debt       Total         Loans      Local      Receipts    Total                (Outflow)
Service                             Taxes      from ONP                      Annual   Cumulative
1977          27.4        1.1       28.5                       4.0                    4.0           ( 24.5)    ( 24.5)
1978          92.3        4.5       96.8           66.0       15.0                   81.0           ( 15.8)    ( 40.3)
1979         283.6       11.9      295.5          157.0       46.0                  203.0           ( 92.5)    (132.8)
1980         395.1       24.5      419.6          219.0       65.0                  284.0           (135.6)    (268.4)
1981         418.4       60.2      478.6          234.0       68.0                  302.0           (176.6)    (445.0)
1982         122.2       81.8      204.0           69.0       20.0       59.1       148.1           ( 55.9)    (500.9)
1983                     81.0       81.0                                 86.3        86.3              5.3      (495.6)
1984                     79.1       79.1                                 95.7        95.7             16.6      (479.0)
1985                     77.2       77.2                                104.0       104.0             26.8      (452.2)
1986                     75.3       75.3                                104.0       104.0             28.7      (423.5)
1987                     73.5       73.5                                104.0       104.0             30.5      (393.0)
1988                     71.8       71.8                                104.0       104.0             32.2      (360.8)
1989                     69.7       69.7                                104.0       104.0             34.3      (326.5)
1990                     67.9       67.9                                104.0       104.0             36.1      (290.4)
1991                     66.0       66.0                                104.0       104.0             38.0      (252.4)
1992                     64.1       64.1                                104.0       104.0             39.9      (212.5)
1993                     62.2       62.2                                104.0       104.0             41.8      (170.7)
1994          94.0       48.9      142.9                                104.0       104.0           ( 38.9)    (209.6)
1995                     39.0       39.0                                116.8       116.8             77.8      (131.8)
1996                     39.0       39.0                                116.8       116.8             77.8      ( 54.0)
1997                     39.0       39.0                                116.8       116.8             77.8        23.8
1998                     39.0       39.0                                116.8       116.8             77.8       101.6
1999                     39.0       39.0                                116.8       116.8             77.8       179.4
2000                     39.0       39.0                                116.8       116.8             77.8       257.2
2001                     39.0       39.0                                116.8       116.8             77.8       335.0
2002                                                                    116.8       116.8            116.8       451.8
2003                                                                    116.8       116.8            116.8       568.6
2004                                                                    116.8       116.8            116.8       685.4
2005                                                                    116.8       116.8            116.8       802.2
2006                                                                    116.8       116.8            116.8       919.0
2007                                                                    112.4       112.4            112.4    1,031.4
2008                                                                    108.1       108.1            108.1    1,139.5
2009                                                                    108.1       108.1            108.1    1,247.6
2010                                                                    108.1       108.1            108.1    1,355.7
2011                                                                     54.0        54.0             54.0    1,409.7
Residual
Value        (768.0)               (768.0)                                                           768.0    2,177.7
665.0   1,293.7    1,958.7          745.0      218.0    3,173.4    4,136.4           2,177.7
Source: Bank Staff
April 1977



ANNEX 28
APPRAISAL OF
JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Office National des Ports
Revenue Accounts - Years Ended Decomber 31
DA Million
/1     Actual                    Budget
1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977
Operating Revenues:
Tariff Port Charges               64.52   77.42   95.86   91.30   83.86  104.29
Pilotage, Berthing, Etc.          47.39   47.16   52.79   51.11   50.10   73.63
Miscellaneous                      1.44    1.18    1.15    8.61    3.79   12.04
113.35  125.76  149.80  151.02  137.75  189.96
Operating Costs:
Labor                             29.83   38.49   41.56   51.81   57.25   63.25
Other                              8.40    8.81    Q.03   13.05   24.21   23.81
Sundry Taxes                       5.11    2.71    3.79    7.66    5.59   11.71
43.34   5C.01   54.38   72.52   87.05   98.77
Surplus Before Depreciation         70.01   75.75   95.42   78.50   50.70   91.19
Depreciation Charge                 18.78   19.97   47.56   30.79   19.75   32.67
Operating Surplus                   51.23   55.78   47.86   47.71   30.95   58.52
Interest Expense                     3.13    3.96    3.32    2.70    2.01    3.34
Interest Earned                      1.06    1.23    2.03    2.11    n.a.    n.a.
Sub-Total                         49.16   53.05   46.57   47.12   28.94   55.18
Adjustments in Following Years    (3.71)  (4.92)  (6.90)   n.a.    n.a.    n.a.
Exceptional Profits/(Losses)        (0.31)      _      0.26    0.06    n.a.    n.a.
Bad Debt Reserve                      -         -        -      7.40     -        -
Income Tax L2                       24.43   24.67   20.95   20.86   14.47   27.59
Special Contribution to
State Budget                      10.00   20.00   25.00   30.00        -       n.a.
Balance For Year
Surplus/(Deficit)                 10.71    3.46   (6.02) (11.08)  14.47   27.59
Cumulative                        10.71   14.17    8.15   (2.93)  11.54   39.13
Il   From December 1971
72   Calculated by Bank Staff.  Assessments have not yet been finally settled.
Source: Bank Staff
February 1977



ANNEX 29
APPRAISAL OF
JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Off fce National des Ports
Balance Sheets at at December 31
DA Million
Actual                 Estimated
ASSETS                     1972    1973   1974    1975    1976    1977
Fixed Assets
In Use as Recorded                10.95   16.87  29.70   51.22
Work in Progress                   0.21    5.13  11.82   14.55
11.16   22.00  41.52   65.77   85.00  100.00
Loans and Deposits                   1.52    1.47   1.38    1.40    1.40    1.40
Current Assets
Stocks of Materials                0.47    0.68   2.20    2.82
Receivables - Customers           50.01   60.46  96.71   96.13
- Other               1.86    7.30   8.45    5.60
Equipment and Treasury Bonds    10.04   28.74  33.15   38.20
Blocked Deposit Accounts                   17.54  62.55   71.59
Current Bank Accounts and Cash)153.94  128.09  89.39   57.52
Other                              1.62    0.80
217.94  243.61 292.45  271.e6  291.07  364.92
Less: Current Liabilities         52.25   45.68  59.06   58.37   54.00   60.00
Income Tax Liability       24.43   49.10  70.05   45.83   60.30   87.89
NET CURRENT ASSETS      141.26  148.83 163.34  167.66  176.77  217.03
Total Net Assets                   153.94  172.30 206.24  234.83  263.17  318.43
CAPITAL AND RESERVES
Government Capital (Equity)
Commencing Net Capital            60.41   60.03  61.31   62.42   62.42   62.42
Revenue Account Balances:
(Deficit)                       10.71   14.17   8.15   (2.93)  11.54   39.13
71.12   74.20  69.46   59.49   )3.96  lil.55
Reserves:
Depreciation                      18.78   38.75  86.30  117.06  136.81  169.48
Bad and Doubtful Debts                                      7.40    7.40    7.40
Debt                                64.04   59.35  50.48   50.88   45.00   40.00
153.94  172.30 206.24  234.83  263.17  318.43
Source: Bank Staff
February 1977



ANNEX 30
APPRAISAL OF
JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
SNS Traffic Through the Project Port
(Thousand tons)
Steel Complex First Phase Steel Complex Second Phase
Coastal Abroad  Total       Coastal Abroad  Total
A. Imports
Iron Ore                     800?   1,540  2,340         800    3,740  4,540
Manganese Ore                 -       140    140          -        140    140
Chrome Ore                    -        40      40         -         40     40
Bentonite         .14--'    -                  14         28       -       28
Coke                          64/     -        60         60       -       60
Scrap Iron                   100-'     60    160         200       120    320
Refractories, electrodes
etc.          -         70     70         -        140    140
Total Imports              974    1,850  2,824       1,088    4,180  5,268
B. Exports -/
Pellets                      380-/     -     380         380      380    760
Sponge Iron                  5006 /           500        700       300  1,000
Billets                      755&/     -      755        800       710  1,510
Ferroalloys                   30L.12 -   75    105        60        40    100
Total Exports            1,665        75  1,740      1,940    1,430  3,370
Total Imports and kxports 2,639    1,925  4,564        3,028    5,610  8,638
1/  Quantities to be exported to foreign countries depend on Government's
decision, however, total exports through the port will remain the same.
2/  From Mostaganem
3/ From Annaba
4/ From Skikda
5/ To Annaba
_/  To Skikda
7/  To Skikda, Algiers and Oran
Source: SNS as revised by Bank Staff
March 1977



ANNEX 31
APPRAISAL OF
JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Percentage of Traffic Handled by Ports in
Eastern, Central (Algiers) and Western Regions
------1968 --                   1973 -- -- 1975   -
Region           Western Algiers Eastern Western Algiers Eastern Western Algiers Eastern
Hydrocarbons      49.5     8.1    43.4    43.9       3.6    52.5    53.0       3.3    43.7
Others            32.6    25.3    42.1    28.8    29.9    41.3    23.2    25.1    51.7
Total Traffic    46.0    11.6    42.4    41.6        9.1    49.3    47.2       7.8    45.0
Source: Consultants' Study (Tractionel)
February 1977



ANNEX 32
APPRAISAL OF
JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Forecast General and Dry Bulk Cargo Traffic
Through Eastern Ports (Annaba, Skikda, Jijel and Bijaia)
(Excluding Jijel Steel Complex Traffic)
(Thousand Tons)
A.  General Cargo                      1980       1985       1990       2000
Cement (in bags)                  1,500        600        500        250
Timber                              391        451        513        664
Paper and Paper Pulp                 64        109         64        226
Non-ferrous                          15         23         30         45
Consumables                         365        407        433        778
Manufactured Goods                  824      1,360      1,571      1,532
Fertilizers (in bags)               -          250        300        425
General                             240        320        370        428
Total A                         3,399      3,520      3,781     4,348
B. Goods on Specialized Berths
Cereals                             760        895      1,150      1,390
Sugar                               140        200        225        310
Total B                           900      1,095      1k375     1,700
C. DrY Bulk
Fertilizers (bulk)                   50        150        200        300
Nitrates                             50        100        200        350
Phosphates                          500        500      1,000      2,000
Sulphur                              25         50         75        100
Potash                              500        500        700      1,100
Chemical Products                   200        250        300        400
Iron Ore                          1,650      1,650      1,150     1,150
Cast and Scrap Iron                 210        360        400        400
Total C                         3,185      3,560     4,025      5,800
Source: Consultants' Study (Trcytionel)
February 1977



ANNEX 33
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Least-Cost Analysis of Port Configuration
1.        Because the steel complex is being built in two phases, an increase
in port throughput capacity will be required in 1995 when the second phase of
the steel complex becomes operational. The consultants for the port aspect
of the project originally designed the port layout to accommodate both phases
of the steel complex. Subsequently, however, an evaluation was made of an
alternative approach in which à smaller port would be constructed initially,
and followed by an addition to be completed in 1995. The conclusion of this
evaluation is that the marginal investment in the single phase port yields a
rate of return of about 24%, taking into account savings in port operating
and maintenance costs.
2.        The assumptions of this evaluation were as follows:  (a) costs of
berths, materials handling equipment, navigation aids, buildings as well as
port operating cost will be the same for both alternatives, and (b) the
capital investment for breakwaters and dredging and maintenance costs thereon
will differ.
3.        For the single phase port (the proposed project), with a main break-
water at 17m deep water, the capital investment for breakwaters and dredging
would be DA 410 million, with an additional DA 15 million required for dredg-
ing in 1994. Maintenance costs thereon would be DA 0.385 million annually
from 1983 to 1994, and DA 1.2 million thereafter.
4.        For the two-phase port, with a breakwater of 15 m deep water,
initial capital investment for breakwaters and dredging would be DA 390
million, a reduction of only 5%. An additional investment of DA 401.6 mil-
lion would be required in 1993 and 1994 for a breakwater at 18 m deep water
and for additional dredging. Because the main breakwater will be in 15 m
deep water and the channel has to be dredged to about 19 m, there would be
a greater amount of siltation, and as a result, maintenance dredging costs
would be DA 0.951 million annually from 1983 to 1994, and DA 0.992 million
thereafter.
5.        A second analysis was made to compare the alternative of serving
the proposed project port with 125,000 dwt ore carriers after 1995 with that
of continuing to serve the first as well as the second phase with 60,000 dwt
ore carriers. The assumptions are that after 1995 approximately 1,100,000
tons of ore annually (out of a total of 3,600,000 tons) could arrive at
Jijel on 125,000 dwt ships at a savings in freight charges of DA 8 per ton.



ANNEX 33
Page 2
Therefore, under the first alternative there would be an annual savings in
freight charges of DA 8,800,000. Consequently, the rate of return on the
marginal investment in the project port which would enable it to handle the
125,000 dwt ore carriers is about 14%, making it a sound investment.



ANNEX 34
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Analysis of Berth Requirements
Berths for the Steel Complex Traffic
1.        The berths for steel complex traffic will handle imports of iron
ore, manganese ore, chrome ore, bentonite, coke, scrap iron, refractories and
electrodes, and exports of pellets, sponge iron, billets and ferroalloys.
The capacity and type of cargo handling equipment at each berth differs accord-
ing to the type and quantity of material to be handled. Details of traffic
are given in Annex 30.
2.        Imports and exports will be handled by ships and/or coasters having
the following characteristics:
Imports from foreign countries:
-    Iron ore: ships of 60,000 dwt in 1982 and 125,000 dwt in 1995
-    Manganese ore, chrome ore, scrap iron, refractories and electrodes:
ships of 5,000 to 15,000 dwt
Domestic imports:
-    Iron ore, bentonite, coke and scrap iron:  coasters of 5,000 dwt
Exports to foreign countries:
-    Pellets, sponge iron, billets and ferroalloys:  ships of 10,000
to 15,000 dwt
Exports to local ports:
-    Pellets, sponge iron, billets and ferroalloys:  coasters of 5,000
dwt
3.        SNS will finance and procure all of its cargo handling equipment.
Based on data supplied by SNS, iron ore will be unloaded at an average rate of
900 tons/hour. One berth will be assigned to handle all imported iron ores
(1,540,000 tons foreign and 800,000 tons domestic annually); its berth oc-
cupancy will be about 60%. A second berth would handle other ores, coke and
scrap iron, totalling 400,000 tons annually, at a berth occupancy of 70%.
The third berth would handle pellets and sponge iron exports totalling 880,000
tons at a berth occupancy of 89%. The fourth berth would handle 755,000 tons
of billet exports at a berth occupancy of 82%. The fifth berth would handle
175,000 tons of general cargo (refractories, electrodes, ferroalloays, etc).



ANNEX 34
Page 2
4.        The above berth occupancy rates are relatively high.  However, be-
cause ship operations for the steel complex traffie -- especially those
handling domestie imports and exports -- can be scheduled, the randomness of
arrivals and therefore queuing times will be minimal. Consequently, the five
berths will be adequate for this traffic.
Berths for General Cargo Traffie (Non-Containerized)
An analysis was made to determine the optimum number of general cargo
berths.
Capital costs for one berth were estimated to be as follows (in 1977
prices):-
Berth                                  DA 19.6 million
Shed                                   DA  4.4 million
Cranes                                 DA  6.7 million
DA 30.7 million
Contingency (10%)                      DA  3.1 million
DA 33.8 million
Operating and Maintenance costs for one berth were estimated to be as
follows (in 1977 prices):-
Operations         Maintenance
1982                      DA 154,000           DA  19,000
1983                      DA 229,000           DA  76,000
1984                      DA 229,000           DA 131,000
1985 and beyond           DA 229,000           DA 197,000
General cargo traffic through Jijel was estimated to be as follows (in
thousands of metric tons):-
Non-          Container               Non-          Container
Contain-      & RO/RO                 Contain-      & RO/RO
Year      erized        Traffic        Year      erized        Traffic
1982        200           400          1992        670           860
1983        400           500          1993        680           870
1984        500           600          1994        700           880
1985        550           650          1995        710           880
1986        570           680          1996        720           900
1987        590           710          1997        740           900
1988        610           740          1998        750           910
1989        630           770          1999        760           910
1990        650           850          2000        770           920
1991        660           860          2001        780           920



ANNEX 34
Page 3
5.        The general cargo handling capability of a berth is estimated to
be 800 tons per day.
6.        The average size of general cargo ship calling at Jijel is estimated
to be 8,000 dwt, and the average cost per day in port is estimated to be DA
16,000.
7.        Table 1 shows the ship queuing times and costs for the three, four
and five berth alternatives. The Queuing Time/Service Time Ratio vas obtained
from a table of such ratios calculated by UNCTAD from queuing theory formula
with poisson arrivals and exponential service times with first-come, first-
served queue discipline.
8.        From the traffic estimates, and cargo processing capability estimate,
it is evident that three berths are the least number with which the cargo can
be handled in 1985. However, the rate of return on the investment in a fourth
berth, taking into account the additional operating and maintenance costs and
the savings in ships queuing costs, is approximately 20%, making it clearly
justified. However, the rate of return on investment in a fifth berth is less
than 1%, due to substantially lower savings in ship queuing costs, and is
therefore not justified.



' !0gosoogfi*_w        b3
A 3:                                 :    .:      .      M   n o4 o          n    n    t c   c          
e     tMUi3   
8 c
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                        t-                         t  i M> -    °°n              .4>
. s~
g ~  ~~~ .. .  ,          .                  M.rO                              -  n  r    .^^~          n   o  in   n   t  o.g
Ml~ ~ ..        ;t           -^         U       @      O   S    .- ,o- .. or   r. S.r.r.n               nnne> 
{3 ~ ~         ~        ~        ~        4..4rrtnr   3 O8MMr
i  s4aX N>w<   j       M  4 .                                                       .4    o t        t~  0.  =o >j    fæ
i                  r.cc     4.4.*r.r.5   N   ,    .4   .r.0   r            4.V no 
j1       _                                                                                         S<
I  -
.'  2    °w ~      .    4r-.r...                   M  4.r jor M . 4 r. 4X   4.4..O. =4  o   n  i          i« i   `
eTc 0S                r.a   r.4.° t  *  4   -       n t0  3 o   r.  r.  o  t        on,
I     zs
k           r.   r.r.tr.r.r.r.r.r.. 4 ... 4 t. 4 .... i.^                           r. i4O > s



ANNEX 35
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Economic Return Calculations Relating to Jijel Port/Steel Complex
1.        The following describes the methodology, assumptions and data used
in the economic analysis relating to the project, referred to in Chapter VII.
A. Steel Complex, Capital and Operating Costs
2.        The capital costs (see Table 1 of this Annex) are derived from the
financial costs estimated with reference to end-1976 and exclude local taxes
and price contingencies, but include physical contingencies. The steel mill
costs include the cost of port handling equipment (for raw materials and
products) which will be owned by SNS, as also provision of 34 million DA for
providing training facilities. Working capital of 306 million DA has been
included as a separate element.
3.        The steel port capital costs include mainly the port infrastructure
costs allocated to the steel complex, i.e. the cost of steel complex berths,
breakwater costs for additional depths needed for the steel complex, and a
share in the common breakwater and dredging costs for general cargo and steel
traffic (see Annex 22). The costs include a part of the cost of navigational
aids and technical assistance to ONP. All costs are adjusted to reflect costs
at end-1976.
4.        The operating costs of the steel complex (also in end-1976 prices)
are taken in financial terms with no downward adjustments for taxes and trans-
fer payments. Imported iron ore prices (CIF) were used at $25/ton CIF Jijel
(Grade 68 Fe); this is taken to be the long-term ore price CIF Jijel, compared
to current price levels of Brazilian ore of US$23 CIF Western Europe. An
economic accounting price of US$16/ton was used for local ore CIF Jijel, as
against a financial accounting price of US$11/ton (57 Fe). Costs of gas,
electricity, labor and foreign exchange were not shadow-priced in the base
case. The cost of production of ferroalloys was increased by 10% over the
estimated 1982 levels (adjusted to end-1976 prices), since long-term ferro-
alloy prices were derived by adding 10% to the present price levels. The
steel mill operating costs include about 10 million DA for operating SNS-owned
port equipment. The operating costs shown under steel port (See Table 1) are
only the infrastructure maintenance and operating costs incurred by the ONP
that will be charged to the SNS.



ANNEX 35
Page 2
B. Steel Complex, Revenue/Benefits
5.        Since the production at the Jijel Steel Complex will substitute
imports (with the exception of 75,000 tons of ferro-alloys which will be
temporarily exported) the benefit stream from steel production is valued at
the opportunity cost of importing these products. The opportunity cost of
imports (as given in Table 2) was derived as follows:
(i) Billet: Export price of steel rebars ex-Antwerp (f.o.b.)
during 1977 was taken as the starting point; since the
present price level does not sufficiently reflect required
investments for capacity replacement and expansion at plant
investment costs which increased during the last few years
disproportionately to the general price index (particularly
due to 1973 oil crisis), the long-term real price was esti-
mated by adding 20% to the present price level. The result-
ing price (US$309 per ton, f.o.b. Antwerp, excluding extras)
was adjusted to convert to end-1976 prices of billets (ex-
Antwerp, f.o.b.) of US$210 per ton. This was increased by
freight, insurance and port charges to arrive at the CIF
import prices at Algerian ports; the cost of freight and
port charges for transporting products from Jijel to other
Algerian ports was then deducted to arrive at the long-term
economic accounting price used in the study (US$230 per ton,
i.e. 943 DA/ton).
(ii)  Sponge-Iron.  This price is derived from the price of high-
grade steel scrap reported in US coastal ports in 1976, with
some upward adjustment to cover the added value in sponge-
iron, and transport charges. On this basis, the economic
accounting price of the sponge-iron produced at Jijel, as
delivered at other Algerian ports on an in-warehouse basis,
is estimated as US$89.76/ton (- 368 DA/ton).
(iii) Oxide Pellets. This is based on 1977 international prices
(CIF Algeria), increased by about 8% to reflect the assumed
increase in the long-term price of iron-ore, and adjusted for
transport costs for delivery from Jijel to other Algerian
ports.
(iv) Ferroalloys. Ferroalloy prices were taken on the basis of US
market prices reported in August 1976, and increased by 10%
to arrive at future long-term prices (which was also matched
by 10% increase in production costs), and adjusted for trans-
port costs as in the case of billet prices discussed above.
The resulting economic accounting price is US$630/ton (2583
DA) for domestic sales. For exports, a lower price of US$570/
ton (2337 DA) was assumed, allowing a margin for freight differ-
ential and for entering the competitive export market. After



ANNEX 35
Page 3
meeting domestic consumption of 35,000 tons, the rest of the
production of 110,000 tons is assumed to be exported up to
1990, from when exports will be phased out over the period
of the four subsequent years.
6.        The revenue build-up follows the build-up of production which is
based on the learning curve for the steel plant, as shown in Table 2 of this
Annex.
C. General Cargo: Capital and Operating Costs
7.        The capital costs relating to general cargo facilities are derived
from the financial costs by removing taxes, price contingencies, and by adjust-
ing 1977 prices to end-1976 (see Annex 22, and Table 1 of this Annex). A pro-
rata share (10%) of the technical assistance being given to the ONP is in-
cluded, as also the cost of navigation equipment. The cost also includes the
cost of new mobile equipment to be bought by SONAMA including physical contin-
gencies (31 million DA). The operation costs include both ONP operation and
maintenance costs and the cost of operating the SONAMA equipment.
D. General Cargo Facilities: Benefit Stream
8.        The economic rate of return for the general cargo port investments
was estimated on the basis of the ship-waiting costs avoided due to such in-
vestments. For this purpose, a queueing analysis was made to estimate the
level of ship-waiting costs under: (a) the "without project situation" where
an additional 1.2 million tons of general cargo will have to be handled in the
other eastern ports of Annaba, Skikda and Bejaia, and (b) the "with project
situation" where the new Jijel port could handle such additional general cargo
traffic. The reduction in waiting cost under the latter case was taken as
benefits due to the general cargo port facilities.
9.        As indicated in para 7.02 of the main report, the general cargo
traffic through Algeria's eastern ports is expected to reach about 3.5 mil-
lion tons in 1985, which is well beyond the potential general cargo capacity
of the existing ports of Annaba, Skikda, and Bejaia. The potential capacity
of these ports for handling general cargo is estimated at about 2.0 million
tons in 1977, assuming a berth utilization of 240 days/annum i.e. about 70%
of the maximum operational time of about 340 days/berth. Including likely
improvements, this capacity is estimated to increase to about 2.3 million tons
by 1982, leaving a traffic of about 1.2 million tons to be handled at the new
port facilities at Jijel. In the "without project situation", this additional
traffic of 1.2 million tons will have to be handled at the other ports, creat-
ing extreme port congestion, long ship-queues and resulting high ship-waiting
costs, which costs will have to be met by Algeria either as demurrage charges



ANNEX 35
Page 4
(on charter ships) or as congestion surcharges (on liner ships). Using queue-
ing analysis applicable to such general cargo port situations, an attempt was
made to arrive at a minimal notional estimate of the ship-waiting costs in-
volved in such a situation. For this purpose, the estimated general cargo
capacity of the other three ports of Annaba, Skikda and Bejaia (which consists
of quays of varying limitations, and often not exclusive for general cargo),
was expressed in terms of standard general cargo berths using the widely
accepted norm of 150,000 tons of general cargo per berth per annum. On this
basis, the potential general cargo capacity of the other three ports (2.3
million tons) is equivalent to about 16 standard general cargo berths. The
queueing calculations are summarized in Table 3. Berth utilization at the
other three ports for handling the expected total general cargo of 3.5 million
tons would be above 100% in the absence of Jijel port facilities; this would
result in very long ship-queues; to make the estimate realistic, only the
waiting-time corresponding to 98% of berth-utilization has been used in the
analysis (which corresponds to the cut-off point used in the Bank's Port
Simulation Model). The resulting "waiting-time to service-time ratio" (2.2)
(which is lower than has been observed in some Middle East ports recently)
forms a realistic minimal estimate of ship-waiting time in the absence of the
project.
10.       The waiting-time in the "with project situation" is estimated using
the following queueing channels: (a) 2.3 million tons of traffic on the
equivalent of 16 general cargo berths in the other ports, (b) about 1.2 mil-
lion tons on the new facilities in Jijel (using separate channels for the
groupe of general cargo berths, the container berth and the Ro/Ro berth).
11.       The estimated waiting costs of ships under the two situations are
given in Table 3. The cost of waiting in port is taken as 16,000 DA/ship-day
for the general cargo ships (average size about 8,000 dwt), and about 40,000
DA/day for container and Ro/Ro vessels, based on recent Westinform Ship-cost
data. The forecast general cargo traffic for Jijel is given in Annex 34; the
analysis assumes freezing of the traffic at 1990 level.
12.       The reduction in the ship-waiting costs between the two situations
described above is a minimal estimate of the main benefits produced by the
general cargo facilities at Jijel. The study assumes that only 75% of this
saving would accrue to Algeria, though in reality such waiting costs would
have to be generally fully met by the country concerned either as demurrage
charges or congestion surcharges. This assumed share of savings accruing to
Algeria is credited as a benefit from the project.
E. Sensitivity Analyses
13.       The life of the project is assumed to be 20 years from the start of
partial production in 1982; at the end of 20 years, a salvage value of 10% is
assumed for the steel and alloy plants, and of 40% for the port facilities.
The price of natural gas was assumed to be 0.03 DA/m3, and the price of elec-
tricity was assumed to be 0.0' DA/kwh.



ANNEX 35
Page 5
14.       Sensitivity analyses were made to determine the effects of shadow
prices of gas, electricity, and labor. The shadow price of gas was determined
to be 0.04 DA/m3, which represents an annual increase in operating costs of
5.12 million DA. The shadow price of electricity was determined to be 0.065
DA/kwh, which represents an annual increase in operating costs of 5.3 million
DA. The combined effect of these two increases is to lower the rate of return
by 0.2%. Unskilled labor was shadow priced at 60% of market price for both
construction and operations, and social charges in the nature of transfer pay-
ments amounting to 30% of labor costs in operations have been excluded; these
adjustments resulted in an increase in the base rate of return of 0.9%.



ANNEX 35
Page 6
15.       The results of the various sensitivity tests are shown below:
Steel Complex plus    Steel Complex plus
Steel Port Component   Full Port Prolect
Base Case                                       10.35                   12.25
Shadow pricing of gas and
electricity                                    10.15                   12.05
Shadow pricing of labor                         11.25                   13.15
All revenues
Increase 5%                                   11.55                   13.45
All revenues
Decrease 5%                                     9.05                   10.95
Steel revenues
Increase 10%                                  12.75                   14.65
Steel revenues
Decrease 10%                                    7.65                    9.65
Ferro alloy revenues
Decrease 10%                                    9.75                   11.75
Ferro alloy revenues and
operating costs
Decrease 10%                                   10.15                   12.15
All capital costs
Increase 5%                                    9.85                    11.65
All capital costs
Decrease 5%                                    10.85                   12.85
All capital costs
Increase 10%                                   9.35                   11.15
Operating Cost
Increase 5%                                     9.55                   11.55
Operating Cost
Decrease 5%                                    11.05                   12.85
Steel port operating cost
Increase lOmDA/yr                             10.05                    12.05
Six-month delay in steel
complex start-up                               9.75                   11.55



AFPPAISAL OF
JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Economic Analysis - Cost/Benefit Streams
(DA Millions, Constant 1976 Terms)
Capital Costs                                            Working Capital                                           Operating Costs                             Revenues/Benefits
Steel    Alloy      SuS    Ceneral Cargo          Steel Mill           Alloy Plant            Total            Steel    Alloy    SN5 Port 2   General Cargo           Steel    Alloy    General Cari?
Year       Mill    Plant       Port        Port             w______            ________Working Capital   Working CaPital  Mill     Plant    Handling           Handling          Mill      Plant        Handl
1978       354       59         56           36                    -                   -                  -                 _        _           *                 _               _         _
1979       491       81        117           89                    -                   -                  -                 -        -           -                 -               -         -             -
1980       502       83        155          101                                                     -               -                          -                                   - - 
1981       496       84        164           89                   30                   5                  35                     -         -              -                -            -                  -
1982       300       51         45           20                  130                  20                 150               272       87           2                4              283        85           130
1983        -        -          -            -                    70                  17                  87               338      115          4                 9              472       137           135
1984        -        -                                             20                 14                   34              449       163         4                12              802       228           135
1985        -        -          -            -                     -                   -                   -               497       183          5               12              944       266           135
1986        -        -          -            -                     -                   -                   -               497       183          5               12              944       266           135
1987        _        -          -            -                     -                   -                   -               497       183          5               12              944       266           135
1988                 -          -            -                     -                   -                   -               497       183          5               12              944       266            135
1989                                                                                                                       497       183          5               12               944      266            135
1990        _        _          -            _                     _                   _                   _               497       183          5               12               944      266            134
1991        -        -          -            15                                                            -               497       183          5               12.5             944       266           134
1992        -        -          -            -                     -                   -                   -               497       183          5               12.5             944       271           134
1993        -        -          -            -                     -                   -                   -               497       183          5               12.5             944       276           134
1994        -        -          -                                  -                   -                   -               497       183          5               12.5             944       280           134
1995        -        -          -            -                     -                   -                   -               497       183          5                12.5            944       284           134
1996        -        -          -            -                     -                   -                   -               497       183          5                12.5            944       284           134
1997        -        -          -            -                     -                   -                   -               497       183          5                12.5            944       284           134
1998        -        -                       -                     -                   -                   -               497       183          5                12.5            944       284           134
1999         -       -          -            -                     -                   -                   -               497       183          5                12.5            944       284           134
2000        -        -          -            -                     -                   -                   -               497       183          5                12.5            944       284           134
2001      (224)    (36)       (215)        (121)                 (250)               (56)                (306)              497      183           5               12.5            944       284           134
fl  Replacement investmBnt on soise mobile equipment
Thia does not inelude the oparating conts for the port-handling equipment owned by the SNS and included under the steel mill opereting costa
Prom Table 3
Source: Bank Staff
March 1977



ANNEX 35
Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
SNS - Steel Complex
A. Long-Ternm Economic Accounting Prices Used for the Jijel Complex Products
Annual      Economic Accounting Price
Saleable    Minus Transport Charges
Product          OutD,it      For Domestic Sale              Prices for Export
(Tons)         ($/Ton)   (DA/Ton)         ($/Ton)  (DA/Ton)
Billets           755,000         230.00         943
Sponge Iron      500,000           89.76         368            -        -
Oxide Pellets    380,000           30.40         125            -        -
Ferro-Alloys     110,000          630.00       2,583           570     2,337
(Average)
B. Assumed Production Build-Up (Based on Learning Curve for the Steel Complex)
Percentage of Normal
Year                     Annual Operating Capacity
1982                                30
1983                                50
1984                                85
1985                               100
1986 and after                     100
Source: Bank Staff
March 1977



APPRAISAL OF
JIJEL PORT PROJECT
ALGERIA
Eatihsted Savings in Ship-,.aitiîn   Coat. Produced bv the Proposed Canotai Cargo Faoilitiaa  i  Jiiel Port
(Constapt pricet. end-1976)
Situation I: Without Pro1ect                                            Situation Il. With Proi-ot
Estinated General Cargo    Berth-Doys Needed
Cargo Traffic Thro-gh        (Service Tino) to           Available        Berth         Estinated Waitiag Estiatd SL1waiting                                             Total Savingo in        Algeria' Share in
Year       Eastern Porto LI             Handle Foreoast Tr-£fic    Caoaolty           Oeouoancv       Tisse of Shios      Walrina Costa /4                CoTts /5                   Shis-WSitiPt  Costa    the Savinss  (75%5
(Million Tona)                                       (Berth-Day.)        (X)           (Ship-Daya)          (Million DA)                 (Million DA)                   (Million DA)           (Million DA)
1982                3.45                        5,520                   5,440         Above 100%         11,700                 187.0                           13                           174                    130
1983                3.48                        5,568                   5,440         Above 100%         11,700                187.0                            7                            180                    135
1984                3.50                        5,600                   5,440         Above 100%         11,700                 187.0                            7                           180                    135
1985                3.52                        5,632                   5,440         Above 1007.        11,700                 187.0                            7                           160                    135
1986                3.56                        5,696                   5,440         Above 100%         11,700                 187.0                            7                           180                    135
1987                3.62                         5,792                  5,440         Above 100%         11,700                 187.0                            7                           180                    135
1988                3.68                         5,888                  5,440         Above 100%         11,700                 187.0                            7                           180                    135
1989                3.74                         5,984                  5,440         Above 100%         11,700                 187.0                            7                           180                    135
1990                3.78                         6,048                  5,440         Above 100%         11,700                 187.0                            8                           179                    134
1991 to
2001                3.78 /2                      6,048                  5,440         Above 100%         11,700                 187.0                            8                           179                     134
IL Comn for bath ituations
/2 Ass =ed frozen at this level, thus glightly onder-estitaiing project benefits
3 Based on q.e.eing tables for general cargo port sit.ations, prepared by UNCTAD; assumes asiting .orre8ponding to only 98% of berth occupancy
/4 At the rate of 16,000 DA/ship-day in port; based on Weatinforss ship-rost series (8,000 LWT shipo)
/5 bEstiaated on the basis of separate queueing channels for:  (a)  all ather ports;
(b) Jijel Port goneral cargo berths;
(c) ijel Port container berths; and
(d) Jijel Port Ro/Ro berth. Waiting conta of container and Ro/Ro ahips taken at 40,000 DA/ship-day.
Source:  Bank Staff
M4goh,l977                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1 



IBRD 1247BR
PORTUGAL(                       S  P A  I N  A1F  e  a i > * { t a tf fe ajL
A.GE-IA  N .                    '                             n    SeA
T,douf                                                /                             ad-:                             s                          /     /, /                              /
INFRASTRUCTURE                                                                                                         7
MAIN  IaUM ROULES                                                                                                                                                  NIGER
 AD GSARIOFI OM                                                                                L 1S NI
SO~~ ASOUE GEL UGES   EU MASN ,
nVERS UED STSERMIITEGT STREESPS                                        j                        j                                                       E.A« Tl  O.&Jr s~   1  yin
't   'WMOURrA SOUS AhEAS                 G         IGG       2GO       UO  |           A    L           |.                        'SAi*nleUMlge
-' -   hrTERNAT UI.A  EiUPIESOES                         KILUMEIOERS                                 I             
__ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ _            O   ,  !7    Gy                              I         t         l E   A                                     D






A  L G  E r  1 =A 0o
(    AlCERA L F3L E' Rm   ' Ao"t>FA                                                                                              R A
"__ ' N                                                                                                I J   E       P  Oy                           E C T
=      A  /; E                         :; (                              '' ''-                                ',,,                     _-
.G        -ENERAL5°                         :: BAZOUL
SDNELGAZ~~~~~~~~~~~~~q R' -.dt
-  -  rRAsSsARERUER                                                  S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~seel Co,,pleA
TLETA                        *.       P-od Are.
R-c o,-d L-nd (N\ot P-Ad)
t.                    Concessions ~~~~~To S.N.S
- W.., Depth C-nou Les n Met- (MLWSDD
Fi7ocp G  n
j                                                    KN FAC IIES OUT510E FA COTOOFERNCE ARE NFAT PART IFRHE PROJECT
RA LWAYS SNT  CONVEYeR ANLRS ON THE STEEL COMFIEA BETHS ARE ALEC
Nse PARE 0F 'E PROJE E
T    2E53   4005   60T   8OA
'  EeLLeT121Nfi PLANT                                               New Roruds~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o A   
TÂHER
LZAZANEsSlb e Addi;ionol RO;IWL]YO
`;   \   ReDucTloN                                                Conveyor Belt~ ~ ~~~~~~S
T   \          :                                               Puture Port EYponSlon~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o 
e   - ^   \    rRANsFDRMeR                                    Steel Complex~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



