Document of
The World Bank                   p    G
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3300-RO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMFm"
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
INVESTMENT BANK OF ROMANIA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA
FOR A
VIDELE/BALARIA ENHANCED OIL RECOVERY PROJECT
April 30, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Leu (Plural Lei)
1. Conversion Rate for Traded Goods effective January 1, 1981
Lei 15.00 = US$1.00
Leu  1.00 = US$0.07
2. Tourist Rate effective February 15, 1981
Lei 11.00 = US$1.00
Lei 1.00 = US$0.09
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
EOR         -               Enhanced Oil Recovery
IB          -               Investment Bank of Romania
ICPPG       -               Institute of Research and Design for Oil and Gas
Production
Toe         -               Tons of Oil equivalent
TPB          -              Trustul Petrolului Bolintin (Bolintin Petroleum
Trust)
ROMPETROL   -               Romanian enterprise for international economic
cooperation in oil and gas



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ROMANIA
VIDELE/BALARIA ENHANCED OIL RECOVERY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                    Banca de Investitii (Investment Bank of Romania (IB))
Guarantor:                   Socialist Republic of Romania
Beneficiary:                 Bolintin Petroleum Trust (TPB)
Loan Amount:                 US$101.5 million (including capitalized Front-End Fee)
Terms:                       Repayable in 15 years, including a 3-year grace
period through semi-annual installments. Interest at
11.6 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:             Relending to the Bolintin Petroleum Trust at 12.1
percent per annum, repayable in 15 years including a
3-year grace period. The Government would bear the
foreign exchange risk.
Project Description:         The project aims at reversing the recent sharp
decline in oil production at two important oil
fields, Videle and Balaria by introducing an advanced
enhanced oil recovery (EOR) technique, namely in-situ
combustion. Use of this technique is expected to
result in increasing the ultimate oil recovery from
about 15 percent under current techniques to about 39
percent of the oil initially in place in the
reservoirs. This would result in an annual
incremental production, at full development in 1986,
equivalent to roughly 10 percent of the country's
current net oil imports thereby saving some $0.2
billion (1981 constant dollars) per year in foreign
exchange. The project covers the 1982-86 portion of
a long term EOR program for the Videle and Balaria
oil fields situated West-Southwest of Bucharest. It
consists of: (i) drilling of about 910 new wells for
air injection and oil production; (ii) construction
of 24 oil and gas separation centers nine of which
will be equipped with water injection facilities;
(iii) construction of a central oil treatment,
storage and pumping facility similar to the existing
facility which will also be expanded; (iv)
construction of a treatment facility for water
reinjected into the reservoir; (v) construction of
air injection facilities comprising five compressor
stations; (vi) laying of approximately 1,300 km.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
of pipelines and flow lines for air and water
injection, gas supply and fluid collection and
disposal; (vii) construction of power substations and
distribution lines, and treated water and steam
supply facilities; (viii) construction of about 50
km. of main and 70 km. of access roads and field
offices and laboratories; (ix) laboratory and field
monitoring instruments; and (x) engineering and
technical services. There are risks deriving from
the heterogenous nature of oil reservoirs which
introduce uncertainties in the prediction of
operating results in EOR projects. However, in-situ
combustion is an established commercial EOR technique
and adequate provisions have been made in the project
to minimize operating risks.
Cost Estimates: 1/                           Local        Foreign         Total
---------- US$ Million ---------
Design, Engineering & Supervision             12.4            -            12.4
Land Development & Roads                      18.6           0.6           19.2
Well Drilling                                 46.1          48.8           94.9
Well Completion and Hook-up                   33.0           18.4          51.4
Compressed Air Supply                         74.0          36.5         110.5
Other Facilities                              32.4           11.5          43.9
Base Cost                            216.5         115.8         332.3
Physical Contingencies  ,                     25.4          13.4           38.8
Price Contingancies                           43.6          26.7           70.3
Installed Cost                      285.5          155.9         441.4
Incremental Working Capital                    5.6           5.7          11.3
Front-End Fee on Bank Loan                      -             1.5           1.5
Total Financing Required            291.1          163.1         454.2
Financing;                                   Local        Foreign        Total
----------US$ million----------
TPB Internal Funds                           115.3            -           115.3
State Funds                                  175.8          61.6         237.4
IBRD                                           -           101.5         101.5
291.1         163.1         454.2
Estimated Disbursement:                   ----------- US $ Million ---------
IBRD Fiscal Year                           1983       1984       1985      1986
Annual                                     46.0       37.4       13.5       4.6
Cumulative                                 46.0       83.4       96.9    101.5
Economic Rate of Return:    About 29 percent.
Appraisal Report:             No. 3745a-RO dated April 30, 1982, Energy Dept.
1/ The project is exempt from sales and import taxes.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE BANCA DE INVESTITII (INVESTMENT BANK OF ROMANIA) (IB)
FOR A VIDELE/BALARIA ENHANCED OIL RECOVERY PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Banca de Investitii (IB) with the guarantee of the Socialist Republic
of Romania, for the equivalent of US$101.5 million (including the capitalized
Front-End Fee of $1.5 million) to help finance a Videle/Balaria Enhanced Oil
Recovery Project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including 3 years
of grace, with interest at 11.6 percent per annum.
PART I. THE ECONOMY
2.       The first basic report on Romania (Report No. 1601-RO, "The
Industrialization of an Agrarian Economy under Socialist Planning") was
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 20, 1978. An updating Country
Economic Memorandum (CEM) was circulated to the Executive Directors on August
20, 1980 (Report No. 2757-RO). An economic mission visited Romania in
May/June, 1981; its findings are included in this part of the report. Country
social and economic data are given in Annex 1.
A.  Long-term Trends and Development Strategy
3.       Over the past three decades, Romania has pursued a development
strategy designed to industrialize a primarily agrarian economy. The main
features of this strategy have been (a) a high rate of investment; (b)
development of a broad industrial base, with priority given to heavy industry;
(c) development of local natural resources, including the reorganization and
modernization of agriculture; (d) balanced regional distribution of production
and incomes; and (e) training of a skilled labor force. This strategy has
been carried out through a system of comprehensive central planning and
management, guided by party and government authorities.
4.       Romania's economic development since 1950 has been impressive,
characterized by rapid economic growth and considerable structural change.
According to official statistics, national income has grown in real terms at
an annual average rate of about 9 percent. Per capita GNP in 1980 is
estimated to have been $2,340. Investment has grown at even higher rates than
national income, as a result of which the share of gross investment in GNP had
risen to about 34 percent in 1980. Industry, which grew at 11 percent per
annum over 1970-1980, has been the driving force of economic growth, receiving
around 50 percent of investment, most of which has been allocated to the
capital goods industry. As a result, industry has become the leading sector,
accounting in 1980 for about 62 percent of national income and for 36 percent
of the labor force, compared with agriculture's 12 percent share of national
income and 29 percent of the labor force. With the transfer of labor from
agriculture to industry, the population has become increasingly urbanized.
Standards of living have increased substantially, partly because of the growth
of personal incomes and partly because of provision through the state budget
of expanded and improved education, medical services, housing and social
expenditures of other kinds. Furthermore, Romania's integration into the
world economy has increased, as the level of trade has grown and its
composition altered.



-2
B. Recent Economic Developments
5.       During the last plan period (1976-80), the expansion of the Romanian
economy slowed perceptibly. The average annual rate of national income growth
of 7.2 percent was below that of the previous plan period (11.3 percent), and
growth decelerated, falling from 11.2 percent in 1976 to 2.8 percent in 1980.
National income growth in 1981 is estimated to have been still lower, at 2.1
percent. 1/ These changes reflect the emergence of a number of internal and
external constraints, notably the pace at which improvements in productivity
and efficiency can be attained; the ability of the economy to bring new
capacity into operation as planned and a successively growing shortage of
foreign exchange, which in late 1981 developed into an acute liquidity
crisis. It should perhaps be noted that the very poor agricultural outturn
both in 1980 and 1981 contributed significantly to the low growth rates
recorded for national income in these years.
6.       Industry continued to be the leading sector of the economy.  However,
the growth of gross industrial production also slowed down from an average of
12 percent per annum during 1976 and 1977, to 6.5 percent in 1980. As in the
past, the growth of capital goods production exceeded that of consumer goods
and the fastest growing subsector was machine-building. The need to adjust to
the very tight foreign exchange constraint affected industrial production
significantly in 1981. As a result, industrial output grew by only 2.6
percent in 1981. Gross agricultural production grew at a respectable average
rate of 6.1 percent during the plan period 1976 to 1980 2/, displaying
however, large annual variations due to changing weather conditions. in
particular, in 1980 gross agricultural production fell by about 5 percent.
Preliminary information indicate a further decrease by 0.9 percent in
agricultural output in 1981.
7.       As elsewhere, energy has become a critical sector for the Romanian
economy. In the aftermath of the 1973 fuel price increase, an emergency
decree was issued, fostering domestic energy production and imposing cuts and
stringent restrictions on industrial energy consumption. These steps were
followed by further measures in 1977 and 1979, designed to conserve domestic
oil and gas resources and expand use of domestic coal and hydropower
resources. To the same end, energy prices for both consumers and enterprises
have been increased significantly in recent years. Total domestic primary
energy production was virtually unchanged between 1975 and 1980; increases in
production of natural gas, coal and hydroelectric power compensated for a 20%
reduction in petroleum production. Primary energy imports (oil, coal and
natural gas) increased 2.5 times. This, together with the increased
international price of oil, has been the main reason for the deterioration in            *
the foreign trade balance (see paragraph 10 below).
8.       During the plan period 1976-80 investment fell about 7 percent short
of planned levels. The shortfalls occurred chiefly in industry where the
planned annual growth rate of investments of over 20 percent could not be met,
partly because of the diversion of resources in 1977 to the repair of
earthquake damage. Industrial investment, in fact, grew by 11 percent a
1/ Data for 1981 are preliminary.
2/ Annual average growth rate for the whole plan period compared with annual
average for the previous (1971-1975) plan period.



- 3 -
year--in itself a very respectable achievement. The shortfall in investment
in 1976-1980 was due mainly to domestic supply-related factors, in particular,
capacity constraints of design institutes and, in the construction sector,
shortfalls in the production of construction materials and production delays
for domestically produced equipment. In contrast, the sharp reduction in
investment in 1981, 7.3 percent according to preliminary estimates, is
explained by restrictive measures made necessary by the difficult external
situation.
9.       Changes in the level and distribution of employment accompanied the
growth and structural change of production. The total labor force increased
by only 0.4 percent per year during 1976-80, but large intersectoral shifts in
the labor force continued. During the five year period, the agricultural
labor force fell from 38 percent to 29 percent of the total. The outflow from
agriculture, which is determined chiefly by the needs of non-agriculture
sectors rather than the ability of agriculture to compensate for the loss
through mechanization, h.s led to seasonal labor shortages; recourse has been
necessary to students and other groups to meet short term labor needs. The
Government recognizes that the transfer of labor has to slow down to avoid
adverse effects on agriculture output, and is thus giving even greater
emphasis to increases in labor productivity.
C. External Trade and Foreign Borrowing
10.      In foreign trade, developments in the 1976-1980 plan period have been
substantially different from and decidedly less favorable than those planned.
The five-year plan envisaged growth rates of 13 percent per annum for imports
and 18 percent for exports in real terms, aiming at a trade surplus which
would allow the country to repay some of its foreign debt. During the
1976-1980 plan period, in fact, imports is estimated to have increased at an
annual average rate of 8.8 percent and exports of 5.3 percent in constant
prices. This resulted in a sharply growing trade deficit which in 1980
reached $1.6 billion, virtually all of it in the convertible currency area.
On the import side, the deteriorating trade balance reflects rapidly rising
international prices, especially for petroleum. Export growth was unable to
keep pace with import requirements, partly because of less favorable price
movements in Romania's principal export markets. The insufficient growth of
exports is also explained by the vulnerability of Romanian exports to import
demand fluctuations and import policies of the receiving countries, and to
difficulties in meeting design and quality standards and establishing
marketing policies essential to extend the foothold in highly competitive
product markets. Developments in 1981 represent a sharp break with earlier
trends. Imports from the convertible currency area were reduced drastically
by sharp reductions in investments. As a consequence, the trade balance
improved significantly, resulting in a slight surplus of about $0.1 billion in
1981.
11.      The trade gaps together with rising interest payments led to a
current account deficit in convertible currencies of $2.4 billion in 1980 and
about $0.8 billion in 1981. The deficit has been financed through increased
capital inflows, with total medium and long-term debts rising from $2.8
billion in 1975 to about $7.3 billion at the end of 1980 and about $8.0
billion by end 1981. Most of the inflows have been suppliers credits and



-4-
eurocurrency borrowings. The scale of term borrowing available to Romania has
not been sufficient, however, to finance the current account deficit fully and
the Government had to resort to substantial short-term borrowing between 1977
and 1980. The net inflow of short-term capital in convertible currencies was
particularly large in 1979, $813 million, and by the end of 1980, outstanding
short-term debt had increased to $2.1 billion. This adversely affected the
maturity profile of outstanding debt.
D. Development Prospects
12.      The Five-Year Plan for 1981-85 was approved by the National Assembly
on July 2, 1981. The new plan gives priority to the completion of ongoing
projects. This is reflected in the new investment law, published in December
1980, which includes measures designed to speed up project implementation.
Production gains will come mainly from these projects as they come on stream,
and from a generally higher utilization of existing capacities. Investment is
thus planned to grow at lower rates than production. Overall growth targets
are, however, lower than the levels actually achieved in the preceding plan
period.
13.      Special emphasis is placed on narrowing the energy gap through rapid
development of domestic resources and through further savings in energy
consumption. The plan envisages: (i) stabilizing oil production at the level
of 13 million tons per year and natural gas at approximately the 1980 level;
(ii) more than doubling coal production between 1980 and 1985; (iii)
installing additional hydroelectric capacity for 2,500 MW. The implementation
of the above program would result in an increase in domestic primary energy
production of the order of 25 percent above the 1980 level. It would require
successful implementation of the enhanced recovery program in oil production,
some success in oil exploration and a massive mobilization of technical and
manpower resources for coal production. Energy savings are to be achieved
mainly by giving more emphasis to less energy intensive investments together
with retrofitting and other measures to save energy in existing plants.
14.      In the manufacturing sector priorities will shift from basic products
such as steel or bulk chemicals for which adequate capacities already exist or
will come on stream in the next few years, to more sophisticated goods
including electronic equipment, special-purpose machine tools, specialty
steels and other high technology products. Light industry including food
processing, will continue to expand. A growing share of industrial production
is planned to be exported. Local industries are expected to manufacture most
of the capital goods required for the investment programs.
15.      While industrialization remains the primary objective of the plan,
agriculture will receive greater emphasis than in the past. The share of
total investment for the agricultural sector will, however, be somewhat lower
than in the previous plan period. Agricultural investment will shift toward
increased mechanization, drainage and higher fertilizer application as the
principal means of increasing crop yields. With an improved feed base,
livestock production is also planned to increase. Gross agricultural
production is expected to grow at an annual average rate of 4.5-5.0 percent
over the plan period, lower than the actual growth (6.1 percent) during the



previous plan period. The additional output from agriculture would be partly
exported but would also allow higher consumption levels at home.
16.      The strategy of the plan, which responds well to Romania's economic
challenges, is also reflected in the sectoral composition of the investment
program which gives greater emphasis to energy production and less to heavy
industry than realized in the last plan period. Total real capital
expenditure is planned to grow by only 5.2 percent per year in 1981-1985
compared with an achieved growth rate of 10.9 percent in 1976-1980. About 17
percent of total investment in 1981-1985 is planned to go to the energy sector
compared with about 12 percent in the previous plan; the volume of investment
in energy will be about 85 percent higher than during the previous plan.
Investment in machine building is expected to grow little, and the metallurgy
sector will actually invest less than during 1976-80 since substantial
additions to capacity were initiated during the previous plan. Moderate
increases in investment are contemplated for agriculture, transport and
housing. However, provisions in the annual plans for 1981 and 1982 indicate
that investments in agriculture will get a significantly higher priority than
indicated by the five-year plan.
17.      Another major element of the Government's strategy to eliminate
present imbalances in the economy is an exchange rate and price reform, which
is designed to bring the structure of domestic prices into greater conformity
with prices on world markets. A first step in this direction was taken at the
beginning of 1981 when the exchange equalization fund was abolished and a
limited number of discrete exchange rates were established for foreign trade.
The immediate results of these reforms were a doubling of producer prices for
energy and an overall increase in industrial producer prices of about 13
percent, taking into account both the increases in energy prices and their
effect on the prices of downstream products. These changes were followed by
an adjustment of retail prices by 11.2 percent at the beginning of 1982.
Additional steps to reduce the number of discrete exchange rates and their
spread were taken at beginning of 1982 and consequent changes in producer
prices are in the process of being implemented. Further exchange rate and
price adjustments are expected in 1983 and 1984. By bringing domestic prices
more into line with world market prices, many previously unprofitable
activities - especially in energy and raw material production - will again
become profitable, thereby reducing the need for budget subsidies and
encouraging the expansion of production and economizing on use of inputs. The
simplification of the exchange rate system will allow world prices to be
reflected more directly to users of imports and producers of exports. The
closer alignment of domestic prices with relative resource costs as expressed
in world market prices, should improve the general efficiency of resource
allocation, especially since profitability affects investment proposals made
by enterprises during plan formulation and, conveys information to the central
planners about the relative efficiency of different enterprises, investments,
and mixes of inputs and outputs.
E. Creditworthiness
18.      With the large increase in the current account deficit and the
associated increases in external borrowing described in paragraphs 10 and 11
above, debt service payments in convertible currencies (including interest on



-6-
short-term credits) rose to $2.22 billion in 1981 or the equivalent of 27.5
percent of gross convertible exchange earnings, increasing from 20.5 percent
in 1979 and 23.5 percent in 1980. The deterioration of the current account
balance up until the end of 1980, and the more negative evaluation of Eastern
European countries in general as borrowers on the international capital
markets, have recently led individual bankers and suppliers, including
Romania's traditional banking and trading counterparts in the industrialized
countries, to reduce their exposure by curtailing short-term credit lines to
Romania. The unexpected withdrawal of short term credits and the lack of
alternative financing has created arrears to suppliers and on bankers
short-term credit lines. Following these developments, the Romanian
authorities instituted proceedings for a rescheduling of debts due in 1982,
and these proceedings are underway. Despite these short-term liquidity
problems, Romania's basic external position in the longer term looks more
sound. The exchange and price reforms described in paragraph 17 above will
help to contain future deficits and to keep the debt service burden
manageable. The reform is supported by a three year stand-by agreement with
the IMF. Under this the Fund is prepared to lend up to SDR 1,102.5 million
($1,356 million); part of these funds would be used to consolidate short-term
debts and part to build up the foreign exchange reserves. The program called
for a reduction of the convertible current account deficit to $1.8 billion in
1981 with further reductions in 1982 and 1983. Recent estimates indicate that
the actual deficit in 1981 was reduced significantly to only slightly above
$0.8 billion with a continued improvement expected in 1982. As part of the
program, the rate of growth of domestic expenditure, especially on investment,
will be sharply reduced compared with the past. The measures associated with
the price and exchange reform and possible future steps are aimed at enhancing
exports and economizing on the use of imported inputs and on keeping the
country's debt burden within manageable limits, thus preserving its
creditworthiness for medium-term and long-term borrowing.
PART II. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA
19.      The proposed loan would bring total Bank commitments to Romania to
$2,184.1 million for 33 loans in agriculture, industry, power and transport.
Initially slow Bank loan disbursements have improved considerably since 1976,
and the overall disbursement record for Romania is one of the best among the
Bank's active borrowers. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans
to Romania and notes on the execution of ongoing projects as of March 31, 1982.
20.      Foreign exchange, especially in convertible currencies, continues to
be a major constraint. It remains one of the major objectives of Bank lending
to help alleviate the country's shortage of foreign exchange by providing
long-term external capital and by financing projects which will expand foreign
exchange earnings or savings. The Bank has also assisted the Government to
mobilize cofinancing for appropriate projects. The Bank helped to attract
foreign commercial banks to provide $100 million cofinancing in August 1979
for the Second Livestock Project for which a Bank loan of $75 million was made
in April 1979. Also, syndicated cofinancing loans of $00 million in total
were concluded for the Mostistea and Calmatui Irrigation and Drainage Project
for which a Bank loan of $70 million was made in April 1979 and the Third
Livestock Project for which a Bank loan of $85 million was made in January



1980. More recently, another $200 million syndicated cofinancing loan from
commercial banks was concluded in January 1981 for the Danube-Black Sea Canal
project for which a Bank loan of $100 million was approved in April 1980.
Through their contacts and subsequent negotiations with commercial banks, the
Romanian authorities now appear convinced of the positive value of cofinancing
in the form of financial credits, and have indicated their intention to seek
similar arrangements for future Bank assisted projects.
21.       Bank lending also aims at supporting the steps being taken by the
Government to introduce new industrial technologies, to improve the quality of
products and production efficiency, to reduce production costs and to provide
for necessary electric power development.  Marketing, especially for export
goods, is also emphasized. Special attention is given to agriculture where
production is still unnecessarily dependent upon weather and where
productivity levels are still comparatively low. A number of further loans
are under consideration, including loans for industry, power, regional
agricultural development, drainage and land reclamation, and port construction.
22.       In addition to lending, the Bank (through EDI) has assisted Romania
by conducting training courses on economic and financial evaluation and
methods of analysis in transport and industry. About 240 Romanian officials
have attended these courses, starting with an industrial projects course in
Belgrade in 1973 and in Bucharest where the courses have been held annually
from 1975 to 1980 in collaboration with a Romanian academic institution. The
methodologies taught in these courses are becoming more widely known in
Romania and are expected for some projects to begin to supplement the
methodology normally used by the Romanian planning authorities.
23.       The projects, for which assistance has been committed or is being
considered, represent only a small portion of Romania's total need for
external financing. However, they will provide a substantial net addition to
the inflow of convertible currency, and are helping to set a pattern for
obtaining longer-term convertible finance from other sources. The disbursed
debt outstanding to the Bank constituted 11.2 percent of Romania's total
convertible currency debt at the end of 1981; the Bank's share in Romania's
debt service payments in convertible currencies in 1981 was 5.1 percent.
PART III. PETROLEUM SECTOR
Background
24.      Romania's energy situation deteriorated considerably in the last
decade as the country's need for energy outgrew its domestic supply capacity.
The increasing demand for energy was compounded by a sharp decline in domestic
oil production since the mid-seventies, as well as by substantial shortfalls
in targetted production of solid fuels, particularly lignite. Romania is one
of the oldest oil-producing countries in the world and one of the largest
producers of natural gas in Europe. Nevertheless, it became a net energy
importer in 1973 and a net oil importer in 1976, and will continue to be so
through the 1980s. Net imports of energy in 1980 supplied some 20 percent of
Romania's domestic energy needs, while the oil import bill reached nearly $2.0
billion, seriously draining the nation's foreign exchange resources. Under



-8-
presently practiced recovery methods, production from Romania's existing oil
fields (about 12 million tons in 1980) could be expected to decline by a
further 35 percent over the period 1980-85. However, the large investments in
advanced enhanced oil recovery (EOR) methods in these fields as well as
increased exploration activities, planned as part of the present Five-Year
Plan, could potentially slow this otherwise rapid decline. Increasing energy
production from non-petroleum resources, changing the structure of energy use,
and implementing effective conservation measures are further means the
Government plans to use to move the nation toward greater self-sufficiency in
energy.
Energy Context
25.      Consumption.  The consumption of primary energy in Romania increased
nearly four-fold since 1960 to about 66 million tons of oil equivalent (Toe)
in 1980, and is planned to grow by an additional 15 million Toe by 1985.
Closely linked with the requirements of the national industrialization and
development effort, but offset in part by energy conservation initiatives,
growth in energy consumption in Romania has slowed to an average annual rate
of about 4.5 percent during 1976-80, compared with a rate of over 8 percent
during the sixties.
26.      Per capita consumption of primary energy in Romania today, at about
3.0 Toe, is still below that for Eastern and Western Europe (3.9 and 3.1 Toe
in 1978). However, the intensity of energy use at 1.3 Toe per $1000 of GNP is
higher than averages for Eastern and Western Europe (1.1 and 0.5 Toe in
1978). The energy-intensive nature of the Romanian and Eastern European
ecoriomies sLems in part from the relatively greater importance of the
industrial sectors in these countries (i.e., closer to 60 percent of GNP,
compared with 30-40 percent in Western Europe), arising from the priority
given to industry's development, particularly heavy industry, since World War
II. Industry accounts for some 55-60 percent of primary energy use in
Romania, thermal power production 25 percent, transport less than 5 percent,
and the commercial, services, agricultural, and residential sectors the
remaining 10-15 percent. This structure of energy consumption is somewhat
distorted by Romania's method of reporting energy use on a delivery rather
than final use basis (e.g., energy reported as consumed by transport sector is
only that directly used by public and commercially-hired transport units).
27.      Domestic Energy Resources.  Domestic production of primary energy has
stagnated around 50 million Toe since 1975, while the current Five-Year Plan
shows an optimistic increase in production to nearly 66 million Toe by 1985.
Petroleum constitutes 74 percent of the primary energy used in Romania today,
coal, lignite and related fuels 20 percent, hydropower 4 percent, and wood and
other non-commercial fuels 2 percent. Given its declining oil production,
however, Romania has already begun to adjust its energy supply toward solid
fuels (e.g., lignite), hydropower, nuclear power, and non-conventional
sources, with a target of reducing dependence on petroleum to about 63 percent
by 1985.
28.      Coal resources are limited; the bituminous coal, mostly found in
southeastern Romania, has a relatively low calorific value and is used
principally to supply two thermal power plants, while most of the coking coal



-9-
as well as coke for the metallurgical industry is imported. Lignite and brown
coal resources are more substantial, with deposits distributed throughout the
country although many are not commercially exploitable because of thin seams
and complex geology. An estimated 90 percent of the lignite reserves are
located in Oltenia in southwest Romania. Being of very low calorific value,
exploitation of deposits is largely for use in power plants nearby; production
of lignite for this purpose is to increase substantially (nearly 2.7 times by
1985), and production of an even lower quality fuel, bituminous shale, for the
same use is also planned. The country's hydropower potential is presently
about one-third developed, and is expected to reach nearly 50 percent
development by 1985 and full development by year 2000. Construction of a 660
MW nuclear power plant, the first of four units, has also begun but commercial
operation is not expected until 1987. Other energy resources, in use or
undergoing research/development, include wood, peat, maize stalks, corn cobs
and other agricultural by-products, geothermal potential, solar, wind and wave
energy.
29.      Energy Policy and the Five-Year Plan.  As early as 1973, after the
first oil crisis, Romania responded by issuing an emergency decree which
fostered domestic energy production and imposed cuts and stringent
restrictions on energy consumption in each sector of the economy. These steps
were reinforced by further energy conservation and diversification measures in
1977-80. In the face of an increasing energy deficit, the Government adopted
in November 1979 an energy research and development strategy for the period
1981-2000 based on the premise that Romania should regain energy
self-sufficiency by 1990. The plan calls for: (i) increasing production and
use of domestic non-petroleum energy resources, particularly lignite,
bituminous shale, hydropower, nuclear power, and non-conventional sources;
(ii) emphasizing energy conservation, particularly by reducing industry's unit
energy consumption; and (iii) stabilizing oil and gas production at levels
which ensure minimum use of petroleum as fuel, while intensifying geological
exploration and enhanced oil recovery to arrest the decline in recoverable
reserves.
30.      The overall energy strategy of the Romanians appears for the most
part to be well-founded, albeit overly ambitious as detailed in the 1981-85
Plan. Particularly noteworthy is the shift of primary energy supply toward
solid fuels, primarily lignite; with most of the adjustment in the power
sector, the share of solid fuels in power generation is planned to increase
from 26 percent in 1980 to 47 percent by 1985 while the share of oil and gas
drops from 52 to 29 percent. New coal/lignite/shale mining-cum-thermal power
plant projects are invariably capital intensive, complex, time consuming, and
prone to delays, as demonstrated by past experience in Romania when the 1980
target for lignite production was less than 60 percent accomplished.
Shortfalls in overall domestic energy production can, therefore, be expected
in the projected 66 million Toe for 1985, particularly of the solid fuels but
also of oil. At the same time, demand for primary energy can also be expected
to fall somewhat short of its 1985 Plan target of 81 million Toe due to slower
economic growth than envisaged as well as improved energy efficiency in
industry and additional conservation measures. Nevertheless, net energy
imports can be expected in 1985 and would therefore continue to be a heavy
drain on the country's foreign exchange resources. Alternatively, shortfalls



- 10 -
in domestic supply might be filled by increased production of natural gas
resulting in faster depletion of available reserves, or domestic consumption
of energy might be curtailed potentially slowing economic growth; both means
were employed during the 1976-80 Plan period to minimize energy imports.
31.      Public consciousness of the current energy deficit in Romania is
high. Energy use in the public sector, by far the major user, is controlled
through physical allocations based on established norms and reinforced by
financial penalties. The Government reports that it has exceeded its overall
targets of a 20 percent reduction in average unit consumption of fuels and 12
percent in the case of electric energy over the 1976-80 Plan period.
Romania's energy program to year 2000 calls for a further 40 percent reduction
in industry's unit energy consumption. This is expected to include
improvements in operations, equipment and technology, and longer term changes
in industry configuration and technology, Even given past achievements, such
targets may be attainable in some industries, particularly steel and
chemicals, although it is doubtful whether an overall reduction of such
magnitude is possible within the timeframe visualized. Moreover, our somewhat
limited knowledge regarding reserves and sectoral consumption leaves some
question concerning the Government's long-term policy of conserving petroleum,
in particular natural gas, at the expense of developing less efficient and
more costly energy sources. The Bank expects to continue to address these
concerns in the course of future sector work and in preparing future projects
(para. 44).
Trends in Petroleum Supply and Demand
32.      Romania has a history of over 120 years of petroleum exploration and
production, with domestic oil and gas production presently supplying about 18
and 43 percent, respectively, of total consumption of primary energy (imported
oil and gas supply an additional 11 and 2 percent). Annual production of
petroleum peaked in 1976 at about 15 million tons of oil and 36 billion cubic
meters of gas (29 million Toe). Oil production has since declined to 12
million tons in 1980. Since 1975 additions to reserves have not kept pace
with the depletion rate and the bulk of production is from fields developed in
the sixties and now undergoing extensive secondary recovery operations which
have also peaked. Over 25 percent of current oil production is attributed to
enhanced oil recovery. Natural gas production during the last five years, by
contrast, has remained nearly constant at about 35 billion cubic meters per
year.
33.      The growth of oil consumption during the seventies, although somewhat
sporadic, averaged nearly 8 percent per year for 1971-78, and has generally
exceeded that of overall energy consumption. Largely as a result of stringent
restrictions on both public and private use, consumption was cut back sharply
in 1974 and has been held steady at around 19 million tons per year since
1978; it is expected to remain at or below this through 1985. Net oil imports
which began in 1976 grew to 38 percent of domestic oil consumption by 1980.
Meanwhile, exports of refined products, a profitable business for Romania for
over 30 years, reached nearly 9 million tons in 1980. With the worldwide
excess refining capacity and current depressed market for petroleum products,
however, competition is intense and exports have become substantially less



- 11 -
profitable. Given a refining capacity about 1.5 times its domestic
requirements and with half of the refineries integrated with petrochemical
complexes, a complete match of production with domestic demand is precluded,
necessitating continuation of some product exports.
34.      Romania is presently one of the largest users of natural gas in
Europe. Following 15 years of rapid growth, domestic consumption of natural
gas fluctuated around 35 billion cubic meters (28 million Toe) for the last
five years. Although existing fields have a higher productive potential,
current Government policy is to limit consumption, and hence production, of
non-associated gas to conserve reserves for higher value-added use such as
feedstock for petrochemicals. However, production has been allowed to expand
as much as 10 percent over target during 1976-80 to offset coal/lignite and
oil production shortfalls. While this may continue through 1985, imports
which first began in 1979 are expected to grow by about one billion cubic
meters by 1985 from 1.4 billion cubic meters (net) in 1980.
Petroleum Resources
35.      As of late 1980, cumulative production of oil and gas in Romania
amounted to about 522 million tons and 468 billion cubic meters,
respectively. While official estimates of remaining reserves are not publicly
available information, Bank staff estimate that about 125 million tons of oil
and 350-400 billion cubic meters of gas can be considered as recoverable under
existing extraction methods. Such reserves would correspond to about 6 years
of oil and about 10 years of gas supply in terms of present consumption
levels. With the exception of small quantities of recent production from deep
(3,500 to 8,000 meters) onshore wells, all production is from shallow onshore
fields.
36.      The shallow onshore areas have been extensively explored; deep
onshore exploration as well as offshore exploration therefore offer the best
hope of significant commercial petroleum discoveries in the future. Deep
drilling is extremely difficult and time-consuming. To date, about 200
exploration and appraisal wells have been drilled with about one-third having
oil and gas shows, although most of these have not yet been fully tested or
confirmed. Only 3 or 4 deep reservoirs are currently in production. Offshore
exploration in Romania's Black Sea shelf began in 1969 and about 15 promising
structures have been identified. Of the three structures drilled starting in
1976, two have shown gas while the third has shown oil. However, technical
difficulties have delayed testing and confirmation of this discovery although
there are plans for drilling additional appraisal wells as well as for an
extensive production test. Substantial production from deep onshore and
offshore reservoirs will likely materialize only toward the end of the 1980s;
for the medium term therefore, Romania must rely on EOR programs in its
existing fields to slow the decline in oil production and increase recoverable
reserves.
37.      The Government estimates that with the existing oil extraction
techniques in the country (mostly primary and secondary with a few reservoirs
using advanced EOR methods), the average oil recovery from known reservoirs
would be about 32 percent of the oil initially in place. It is intended to



- 12 -
improve this to 37 percent by the mid-1980s and 40 percent by the 1990s
through implementing several EOR programs. At present, there are two
commercial scale in-situ combustion operations (including the largest in the
world), one steam injection operation, and about 16 pilot-scale operations
involving various advanced EOR methods in progress in Romania.
Petroleum Investment Program
38.      The 1981-85 Plan provides for about $0.4 billion to the Ministry of
Geology for offshore petroleum exploration and about $3.6 billion to the
Ministry of Petroleum for conventional exploration and development ($1.6
billion), EOR programs ($1.0 billion), and deep exploration and development
($1.0 billion). The EOR segment is about evenly divided between routine
secondary recovery operations and 18 commercial and pilot scale advanced EOR
projects, of which the proposed Videle/Balaria EOR project is the largest and
most important.
39.      Oil production under the Five-Year Plan is targetted to stabilize at
about 13 million tons per year during 1981-85, and natural gas to be
maintained at 35-36 billion cubic meters. Bank staff estimate that the
targetted oil production plateau would be attained only in 1986, and the
cumulative shortfall would be about 8 million tons relative to the
Government's target. Estimated oil production in 1985 would be just over 12
million tons, with about 40 percent coming from the advanced EOR programs and
new discoveries arising from Plan investments and 60 percent from current
extraction techniques applied in existing fields. At the same time, the gas
production target could be exceeded if necessary in that even assuming no
major new gas discoveries, non-associated gas production (presently 80 percent
of gas production) could be increased by as much as 15-20 percent by adding
more production wells and some related compressor and pipeline facilities in
existing fields.
Petroleum Prices
40.      The Romanian economic system relies primarily on physical norms and
allocations to control the utilization and consumption of resources. Price
therefore plays a minor role in resource allocation, and energy prices have
traditionally been low reflecting the country's heretofore low cost of primary
energy production. However, given its deteriorating energy situation,
increasing cost of domestic energy production and high cost of imports,
Romania has begun to use prices to complement physical allocations as a means
to control energy use. Thus in 1979, retail prices for fuels, electricity,
and heat were increased with progressive tariff structures. In 1981, an
economy-wide price resetting was implemented with an overall increase in
industrial producer prices (i.e., prices received by an enterprise for its
product) of 13.0 percent, including roughly a doubling of crude oil and
petroleum product prices. While producer prices for domestic crude oil, at an
average of $45 per ton, are still well below the price of imported crude
($265/ton), petroleum product consumer prices in Romania appear to be less
than 10 percent below the average of their border prices (about $251/ton).
However, there is a wide variation in prices among various petroleum products
and between industrial and individual consumers. With the exception of gasoil



- 13 -
and light fuel oil for heating, retail prices (i.e., to individual consumers)
of major petroleum products are well above their border prices, and energy
consumption by this category of users is very low (less than 15 percent). The
bulk of energy and petroleum consumption is by the public or industrial sector
where the domestic mixed-ton price for petroleum products (about $210/ton) is
about 20 percent below the average of their border prices (about $251/ton),
primarily because of the relatively low public sector prices for the middle
and heavy distillates (e.g., fuel oils). The public sector price for natural
gas ($16.70/1000 cubic meters as fuel and $5.30 as feedstock), which is mostly
used as industrial fuel and hence can be substituted by fuel oil, is also
notably low compared to its border price ($159/1000 cubic meters estimated in
fuel oil equivalent terms). The above discussion of relative prices of
petroleum products is based on an exchange rate of LEI ll/$1 rather than
Romania's official trading rate of LEI 15/$l. These prices, in turn, are
based on an imported crude oil price converted at LEI 10/$1. This represents
current practice in Romania and suggests that crude oil imports are subsidized
from the State Budget. However, since the January 1981 price resetting, the
revenues collected from domestic sales as well as from exporting petroleum
products at an appreciated exchange rate should largely offset this State
subsidy.
41.      The substantial increase in producer prices effected in 1981, along
with the abolition of the equalization fund and simplification of the exchange
rate system, was only a first step in Romania's medium-term stabilization
program (para. 17). A major element of this program is an exchange rate and
price reform designed to more fully reflect the cost of imported components in
the structure of domestic prices through eventual unification of the exchange
rate which would result in an elimination of State subsidies. In the domain
of energy prices, it is expected that the Government will apply the official
trading rate to crude oil imports by the end of the standby period (mid-1984);
this would bring the domestic prices of petroleum products closer to world
prices. The resetting and restructuring of retail prices scheduled for 1982
to take into account the recent changes in producer prices has already begun;
for example, gasoline prices have been increased 20 percent and diesel fuel by
75 percent. Producer prices are also in the process of being further
increased, retroactive to January 1, 1982, but after the sizeable increases in
fuel prices in 1981, the major emphasis is expected to be on the relatively
lower priced middle and heavy distillates and natural gas. At the same time
the exchange rate for crude oil imports and petroleum products exports is
expected to be a uniform LEI 12/$l. The progress of the Romanians with
respect to the quantitative performance criteria under the first year of their
program with the IMF has been encouraging and is expected to continue into the
second and third year. The details of the annual programs to be implemented
for 1983 and beyond are to be agreed between the Romanian authorities and the
IMF; the Bank is cooperating with the IMF in this area.
The Romanian Petroleum Industry
42.      The main operations of the petroleum industry are organized under
three ministries - petroleum, geology, and chemical industry. The Ministry- of
Petroleum is responsible for onshore exploration, development, and production
of oil and gas, as well as the operation of petroleum pipelines. The Ministry
of Geology is responsible for offshore oil and gas exploration and all



-14 -
exploratory works for minerals and solid fuels. Finally, the Ministry of
Chemical Industry is responsible for refinery and petrochemical operations as
well as marketing and distribution of petroleum products. Under the Ministry
of Petroleum is a network of semi-autonomous operating units called trusts,
centrals, and enterprises reporting to one of two Deputy Ministers. The main
elements of this network are: six drilling and extraction trusts which
operate the oil fields; one central which operates the non-associated gas
fields; one research, engineering, and design institute (ICPPG) for handling
all oil and gas field projects; and one enterprise (ROMPETROL) which                       4
undertakes foreign contracts for technical services and erection/construction
agreements in all facets of petroleum exploration, production and transport.
Overall, about 100,000 people are directly employed under the Ministry of
Petroleum.
43.      Over the years, Romania has developed a commendable technology and
equipment building capacity for the petroleum industry especially for standard
onshore operations such as the proposed project. Romanian oil field equipment
ranges from tubular goods to seismic and some sophisticated laboratory
equipment. While equipment production is mostly for domestic requirements,
exports of these products have grown rapidly during the last decade but export
markets are beginning to be constrained by quality and lack of up-to-date
technology in some important equipment categories (e.g. deep and off-shore
drilling). This is due to the exclusive reliance on the development of local
technology and equipment and from limited contact with the international oil
industry. This has restrained the industry's development in certain special
areas such as deep drilling and offshore exploration where the country could
benefit substantially from foreign technology, equipment, and experience.
Bank Lending Strategy and Role in the Sector
44.      The Bank's lending for energy consists of four loans in the power
sector: two for thermal power projects (Loan Nos. 1028-RO of 1974 and 1652-RO
of 1979); one for a hydropower project (Loan No. 1242-RO of 1976); and another
to finance part of the 1980-83 investments in the power sector (Loan No.
1936-RO of 1981). Lending commitments under these four loans amount to $305
million, of which about $236 million have been disbursed as of March 31,
1982. Although some technical problems and implementation delays have been
encountered, overall performance under these loans has been satisfactory. The
proposed Videle/Balaria EOR Project would be the Bank's first in the petroleum
sector. In addition, an energy conservation project aimed at equipment and
technology improvements in the metallurgical industry is being considered, and
the Government has requested Bank financing for a second time-slice of power
sector investments in the current Plan. Finally, an energy sector survey is
being planned for later in 1982 which would integrate the Bank's knowledge of
the various energy subsectors, provide an opportunity to review the
developments and prospects for the entire energy sector, and examine the
linkages with the overall macro-economic framework.
45.      The primary rationale for Bank involvement in the petroleum sector
lies in improving the quality and efficiency of project preparation and
implementation activities of an experienced and capable, but nevertheless
ingrown, petroleum industry. While the equipment and materials which will be



- 15 -
used in the project are rather simple and quite standard for the oil industry,
the technical and economic success of the project is critically dependent on
the way in which these tools are applied and the EOR process is implemented,
monitored and controlled. Therefore, during preparation Bank engineering and
geological staff have contributed substantively to improving the overall
configuration and design of the project as well as bringing to the Romanians'
attention the technical and economic considerations affecting project
viability. The final project document prepared by the Romanians further
benefitted from discussions with and recommendations of a joint Canadian-
Romanian consulting team brought in, at the Bank's initiative, to review the
project; particularly critical recommendations were those involving the
phasing of project investments and operations and systemized monitoring of the
ongoing process to improve project economics, reduce operating risks and
optimize subsequent investments. Such cooperation is expected to continue
throughout project implementation in the careful monitoring of the project
both by the Romanians and the Bank. Given their collaboration with Institut
Francais du Petrole in the area of enhanced oil recovery since 1969 and
fruitful exchange with consultants under the proposed project, we will further
encourage the Romanians to continue to seek foreign expertise and technical
cooperation especially in those areas such as deep drilling and offshore
exploration where their own industry's experience is more limited.
PART IV. THE PROJECT
46.      The Bank's involvement in the petroleum subsector was first evaluated
by a mission in November 1980. Following identification in March 1981 and
preappraisal in June 1981, the project was appraised in September/
October 1981. Negotiations were held in Washington in April 1982. The
Romanian Delegation was headed by Mr. Gheorghe Popescu, President of the
Investment Bank and included representatives from the Ministry of Petroleum
and the Institute of Research and Design for Oil and Gas Production (ICPPG).
A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Videle/Balaria Enhanced Oil Recovery
Project" No. 3745a-RO dated April 30, 1982 is being circulated separately to
the Executive Directors. The main features of the project are mentioned in
the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III. A Map (IBRD No. 16066) of
Romania showing the project area is attached.
Project Objectives
47.      Romania's major producing oil fields have long passed their peak
productive years despite the extensive application of conventional secondary
recovery techniques (i.e., water and gas injection). Although the country has
an active exploration program, this is increasingly directed at the more
expensive and time-consuming deep onshore exploration and offshore exploration
in the Black Sea, and has been yielding low returns to date; new discoveries
of oil are quite inadequate to offset the depletion of older fields. However,
there is still considerable scope for increasing the proportion of oil
recovered from known reservoirs by the application of more expensive modern
enhanced oil recovery (EOR) techniques which have become economic after the
large increases in oil prices in the mid-1970s. The application of modern EOR
techniques is considered as offering the best possibility of slowing the
relatively rapid decline of domestic oil production which is likely to
continue if no action is taken.



- 16 -
48.      The project's principal objective is to reverse the recent sharp
decline in oil production at two important oil fields, Videle and Balaria, by
introducing an advanced EOR technique, namely, in-situ combustion. This
technique involves the injection of compressed air, followed by ignition of a
small proportion, usually the heaviest fractions, of the oil in the
reservoir. The combustion is sustained by continuous air injection. The heat
generated reduces the viscosity of the oil near the combustion area, allowing
it to flow toward the producing wells by the pressure of the combustion
gases. A typical configuration involves one row of air injection wells behind
the combustion front and two to four rows of production wells ahead of it.
After the front passes the production wells they are converted to injection
wells. Use of this technique is expected to result in increasing the ultimate
oil recovery from about 15 percent under existing recovery techniques to about
39 percent of the oil initially in place in the reservoirs.
Project Description
49.      The project covers the 1982-86 portion of a long term EOR program for
the Videle and Balaria oil fields situated about 45 km. West-Southwest of
Bucharest. It consists of: (i) drilling of about 910 new wells for air
injection and oil production; (ii) construction of 24 oil and gas separation
centers each with capacity for collecting and separating the fluids and
combustion gases from about 50 petroleum wells (nine of the separation centers
will be equipped with water injection facilities); (iii) construction of one
central oil treatment, storage and pumping facility for handling oil and
oil-water emulsions, similar to the existing facility which will also be
expanded; (iv) construction of one water treatment facility to treat water
before reinjection into the reservoir; (v) construction of air injection
facilities comprising five compressor stations; (vi) laying of approximately
1,300 kin. of pipelines and flow lines for air and water injection, gas supply
and fluid collection and disposal; (vii) construction of power substations and
distribution lines as well as treated water and steam supply facilities;
(viii) construction of 50 km. of main and 70 km. of access roads and field
offices and laboratories; (ix) laboratory and field monitoring instruments;
and (x) engineering and technical services.
50.      The Videle/Balaria long-term EOR program is of high priority to
Romania and has received final ministerial approval. This approval commits
the Government to undertake the entire EOR program according to the phasing of
the investments as agreed with the Bank during appraisal. It would also cause
the Bolintin Petroleum Trust (TPB) to upgrade the monitoring of the combustion
process thereby allowing it to make rapid operating adjustments in response to
the dynamic behavior of the reservoirs to optimize output.
The Borrower
51.      The Borrower of the proposed loan would be the Investment Bank (IB)
which is the Government's specialized agency under the Ministry of Finance
responsible for dealing with investments in all sectors of the economy, except
agriculture and food processing. It has branch offices in all districts of
the country and has the staff to review and appraise the technical and
economic aspects of project proposals. The IB makes recommendations to the



- 17 -
Council of State on major projects and their financing. All investment funds
for an approved project are channelled through the IB which authorizes
payments for work performed in accordance with the approved plan. It is the
IB's responsibility to ensure that a project is executed according to the
financial and technical data included in the final approval and its inspectors
supervise projects to ensure progress according to the approved schedule. As
the Government's channel for investment financing in all sectors except
agriculture, the IB's primary source of funds is the State Budget; the
Guarantee agreement, therefore, includes assurances that all necessary funds
would be provided by the Guarantor for the implementation and operation of the
proposed project.
Project Cost and Financing
52.      The total financing required for the project is estimated at $454.2
million including about $11 million for incremental working capital and about
$1.5 million for the Front-End fee on the proposed Bank loan. The foreign
exchange component is estimated at $163.1 million or 36 percent of the total
financing required. Physical contingencies have been estimated at 15 percent
for the air injection facilities and 10 percent for all other items. Price
escalation provisions were calculated on the basis of price increases of 8.0
percent in 1982 and 1983, 7.5 percent in 1984, 7.0 percent in 1985 and 6
percent in 1986 for foreign exchange costs. For local currency costs the
rates are 5.5 percent in 1982, 9.5 percent in 1983, 5.5 percent in 1984, 5.0
percent in 1985 and 4.5 percent in 1986.
53.      The proposed Bank loan of $101.5 million represents 22 percent of the
total funds required and 62 percent of the foreign exchange requirements. The
Bolintin Petroleum Trust (TPB) will provide about $115.3 million equivalent
(26 percent) from internally generated funds and the balance of $237.4 million
(52 percent) would be provided by the Government from State funds. The
Government has a program of borrowing from foreign commercial sources, but as
a result of the current unfavorable market conditions, there is a hiatus in
its foreign borrowing. Nevertheless, the Borrower has advised that when
market conditions are favorable it intends to seek cofinancing for the project
and to facilitate their borrowing abroad, the Bank would be prepared to
include an appropriate linkage in the Loan Agreement. The proposed Bank loan
would be made to the Investment Bank for a period of 15 years including three
years of grace at an interest rate of 11.6 percent per year. The Investment
Bank will relend the lei equivalent of the Bank loan to TPB with identical
grace and maturity period and at an annual interest rate of one-half
percentage point above the Bank's lending rate, as required by Romanian law.
The Government, following Romanian practice, would bear the foreign exchange
risk.
Project Implementation
54.      The project will be implemented by TPB over a period of about five
years starting in early 1982. TPB employs about 10,700 people mostly
distributed among seven semi-autonomous subsidiary enterprises. Four of these
enterprises are engaged in extracting oil from about 65 oil reservoirs, while
the other three provide services (e.g. drilling and maintenance) for the oil



- 18 -
extraction enterprises as well as for other outside entities. One of the oil
extraction enterprises is the Videle Enterprise, which operates the Videle and
Balaria oil fields. In 1981, these two oil fields provided about 39 percent
of the Videle Enterprise's crude oil production (1.16 million tons), while TPB
altogether produced about 3 million tons of crude oil and 0.34 billion cubic
meters of associated natural gas corresponding to about 25 percent and 1
percent, respectively, of the country's oil and gas production.
55.      Project implementation will be supervised by IB with the
participation of the Ministry of Petroleum including the Institute of Research
and Design for Oil and Gas Production (ICPPG) (para. 42) which will also do
the detailed engineering. The drilling of wells and installation of
wellheads, manifolds and flow lines will be undertaken by the appropriate
enterprises under TPB. Major surface installations, such as compressor
stations, oil and gas separation centers, as well as oil and water treatment
facilities will be built by the Oil Installation and Construction Trust, while
the electrical works will be done by the Electrical Installations Enterprise
acting as sub-contractor. Procurement for Bank-financed items will be
undertaken by ROMPETROL (para. 42).
56.      An important operational element of the project is the monitoring of
the in-situ combustion process to optimize production and influence the design
of subsequent phases of the project. A critical aspect for such monitoring is
the logging and coring of key wells drilled under the project. Agreement was
reached during negotiations that a selected number of oil wells at locations
agreed with the Bank would be cored and logged by TPB and new wells would be
correlated with the old wells through radioactive logging inside the casing
using appropriate techniques and equipment in consultation with the Bank (Loan
Agreement, Section 4.01(a)(ii)).
57.      In the recent past there has been a general aeiay in the impie-
mentation of projects in Romania. In order to bring implementation of
Bank-assisted projects back on schedule, the Government has recently
established a high level inter-ministerial committee which meets each quarter
to review progress and where necessary take appropriate action. This
arrangement is expected to reduce the risks of delays for this project.
The Bolintin Petroleum Trust (TPB) - Financial Evaluation
58.      Under existing Government policy, oil extraction trusts are required
to earn during the current Five-Year Plan an average profit of about 7.5
percent over their costs from extraction activities. However, following
Romanian practice, these trusts also provide housing and other social and
cultural services to their employees. The costs of these services are not
fully covered by the fees charged to the users. In addition, other service
activities of the trusts such as drilling and maintenance are normally
provided at a small profit or at cost. The average profit when measured
against overall revenues would range between 4 and 6 percent per year.
However, during 1979 and 1980 TPB incurred losses. This is because the price
set for TPB's crude has not been increased as rapidly as the rise in its
production costs which have gone up steadily due to its having to operate
under increasingly difficult production conditions. The Government's new



- 19 -
pricing policy introduced in 1981, however, is aimed at more frequent changes
to reflect production costs and it is expected that in the future TPB's crude
oil prices will be adjusted to enable it to earn the average profit rate.
Consequently, TPB earned profits equivalent to about 8 percent of its revenues
in 1981. To safeguard against a recurrence of the financial losses of the
earlier years, agreement was reached during negotiations that all actions
necessary would be taken to enable TPB to earn a reasonable profit in relation
to total revenues so that such profits together with depreciation and reserve
discovery charges would be sufficient to service TPB's debts and to finance a
reasonable portion of its investments (Loan Agreement, Section 4.01 (a)(v)).
59.      On the basis of the foregoing, TPB would be able to generate
sufficient funds from its operations to enable it to service its debts and
finance at least 30 percent of its investment requirements including the
recurrent annual investments for the project beyond 1986. While the
Government's crude oil pricing policy based on production costs is perhaps not
fully satisfactory since it does not focus enough on the financial return on
capital, the recent decision to ensure the average profit margin mentioned
above is a move in the right direction and is satisfactory. Although prices
of domestically produced crude is much lower than the international prices,
the average mixed-ton price to the final users of petroleum products is set by
the Government much closer to their border prices (para. 40).
Audit
60.      Agreement was reached at negotiations that the financial statements
of the Investment Bank and TPB would be audited each year by the Ministry of
Finance and furnished to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal
year (Loan Agreement, Sections 6.02).
Procurement and Disbursement
61.      Procurement of equipment and materials valued at $94 million will be
by International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines, on the basis of a list of items agreed with the Borrower. The
items have been grouped into major categories required for drilling and
completion of wells and for the surface facilities, such as tubular goods,
roller-bits and pumps. Unless the Bank otherwise agrees, bidders will be
prequalified in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank. Qualified
local suppliers will be allowed to participate in ICB with a 15 percent (or
the import duty rate if lower) preference margin. The Bank will review all
bidding and contract documents. Items valued up to $6.0 million would be
procurred through limited international tendering with quotations obtained
from at least three suppliers from three different countries. Such tendering
will be restricted to items estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent
and to items such as high pressure and temperature valves, control equipment,
special packers and bottom-hole assemblies in limited international supply
whose delivery periods are critical to the timely completion of the project.
Given the standard nature of the equipment and materials, of which Romania has
ample supply capacity and which it has been manufacturing for many years
because of its early involvement in the petroleum sector, the transport
advantage they have and the preference margin, it is expected that Romanian



- 20 -
suppliers could win a high proportion of the internationally bid items. The
Romanians are expected to be most competitive in tubular materials and least
competitive in roller bits, pumps and the items to be procured through limited
international tendering.
62.      The proposed loan would be disbursed against 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for imported goods and 100 percent of the local ex-factory price
of locally supplied items.
Environmental and Safety Considerations
63.      The main sources of pollution are the oil well fluids (oil, water and
combustion gases), and with the exception of the combustion gases, will be
handled in a semi-enclosed system. The water will be treated and reinjected
into the reservoirs. The combustion gases, mostly nitrogen (N2), carbon
dioxide (CO2) and carbon monoxide (CO) with negligible hydrocarbon fumes due
to the low gravity of the oil, will be vented to the atmosphere through
50-meter or taller stacks.   Agreement was reached with the Borrower that TPB
and ICPPG would take all steps necessary to ensure that concentration of CO
and C02 gases in the project area would not exceed the average of 2.0 and
7,000 milligrams per cubic meter (mg/m3) over a twenty-four hour period and
6.0 and 10,000 mg/m3 during any thirty minute period (Loan Agreement,
Section 4.01(a)(iii)). These are considered satisfactory safety levels. The
in-situ combustion process does not present a safety hazard until the
fire-front reaches a producing well. As a safety measure, all new wells will
be cemented to the surface with heat-resistant cement, and the advance of the
fire-front will be continuously monitored through periodic temperature
surveys, and when the fire-front reaches a producing well, cooling water will
be circulated inside the casing. This arrangement has proved to be adequate
in other commercial and pilot tests using the in-situ combustion process in
the country, as well as in the pilot tests in the Videle and Balaria fields.
Project Justification and Risks
64.      Enhanced oil recovery offers the most promising prospect to the
Romanian petroleum industry for slowing production decline and stabilizing
domestic supply in the medium term, given the modest expectations of
production from new onshore developments over the same period. The primary
alternatives, deep drilling and offshore exploration and development, have not
yet established production potential and involve a high technical risk. With
Romania's import deficit widening, all of the EOR investments included in the
1981-85 Plan appear prima facie to be economic, and the precise sequence of
implementation is more a function of the state of preparation rather than the
relative economic returns of these investments. Among these projects, the
proposed Videle/Balaria project is the largest in terms of incremental oil
production potential, as well as the most advanced in terms of project
preparation. It is expected that a major portion of the surface facilities of
the project would be commissioned by mid-1984, followed by substantive
incremental production of crude oil beginning in 1985 and reaching an average
incremental production plateau of 0.73 million tons per year by 1986. This
corresponds to an ultimate recovery factor of about 39 percent of the oil
initially in place compared to about 15 percent without the project. It would



- 21 -
more than double the expected oil recovery from the Videle/Balaria fields and
result in a total incremental production of about 30 million tons over the
full 40-50 years of the program. The proposed incremental production, at full
development in 1986, is expected to equal roughly 10 percent of the country's
current net oil imports thereby saving some $200 million (1981 constant
dollars) per year in foreign exchange. The proposed project has both a
satisfactory economic return and an acceptable risk.
65.      The economic analysis has been done on an incremental cost and
benefit basis by comparing the cases with and without the project. All costs
and benefits are in constant mid-1981 terms expressed as border values using
the official trading rate of Lei 15 per US dollar. Because the Videle/Balaria
crude oil is rather heavy, its economic value has been taken as $33 per barrel
($221 per ton) compared to a value of $36 per barrel which is the average
price Romania pays for imports. The analysis assumes a 20-year productive
life for the project investments and includes the recurrent annual capital
expenditures of about $25 million after 1986 that would be required to
maintain the incremental oil production. The main project benefits are due to
lower unit operating costs as well as higher output levels compared to the
case without the project. The economic rate of return of the project is about
29 percent.
66.      There are inherent operating risks that exist in all EOR projects due
to the heterogenous nature of petroleum reservoirs which introduces
uncertainties in their performance and thus the prediction of operating
results. In the case of in-situ combustion, the well spacing and pattern, air
compression capacity and skill of the operators monitoring and controlling the
combustion process are the most important operating factors affecting the
technical risks of the project. Any deficiency in these aspects would be
reflected in some combination of a need for additional wells or larger air
compression requirements or a lower ultimate oil recovery factor. The
physical contingencies for wells and air compressor capacity provided in the
project design and cost estimate largely cover the first two of these risks,
as based on actual results from the pilot tests and similar projects in the
country. In addition, the twenty-year practical experience of the Romanians
with the in-situ combustion process, their generally high level of technical
competence in petroleum engineering and production as well as the monitoring
program incorporated in the project design further reduce the technical risks
to a relatively low level for a project of this type, especially with respect
to the oil recovery factor. Project management risks, which would be
reflected in substantial delays and cost overruns, also exist to some degree.
Management risks primarily derive from the administrative and annual plan
rigidities in the Romanian system which makes it difficult for the project
managers to respond effectively to unforeseen events, particularly delays in
the delivery of local equipment and materials. The Government's high level
inter-ministerial committee established recently to follow-up progress of
Bank-financed projects (para. 57) would reduce this type of risk. Sensitivity
tests of the economic rate of return to account for these various risks
indicate that in the worst case, characterized by one-year delay in
production, increases in capital cost of 20 percent and production cost of 40
percent and ultimate oil recovery down by 10 percent, the return would be



- 22 -
about 18 percent, while in the best case reflecting an increase of 28 percent
in ultimate oil recovery plus 3 percent per year real increase in the price of
oil it could be on the order of 40 percent.
PART V. LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Banca de Investitii,
the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist Republic of Romania and
the Bank, and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
PART VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
68.      Features of the project of special interest are listed in
Section III of Annex III.
69.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
70.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 30, 1982



-23                                                ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
ROMANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ROMANIA                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE4A
TOTAL             237.5                                 MOST RECENT               MIDDLE INCOME             INDUSTRIALIZED
AGRICULTURAL       149.7             1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b                 EUROPE               MARKET ECONOMIES
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     ..        480.0    1900.0                       2609.1                   9444.0
ENERGY CONSU1MPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF GOAL EQUIVALENT)    1468.8        3040.7    4810.0                      2368.4                    7896.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 18407.0       20361.0   22068.0 *
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 34.1          40.8       47.1                        53.2                     76.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        25.6
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          29.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        77.5         85.7      92.9                        80.6                     142.7
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    126.0         135.0     146.1                       133.9                     523.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          28.2         25.9      25.8                        30.1                     22.8
15-64 YRS.                          65.1        65.5       64.3                        61.5                     65.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    6.7          8.6       9.9                          8.3                     11.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.2          1.0       0.9                          1.5                      0.8
URBAN                               4.1          2.8       2.5                          3.1                      1.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       20.0        20.1       18.1                        22.9                     14.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       9.0          9.9       9.4                          9.1                      9.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               1.2          1.3        1.2                         1.6                      0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..             ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)           89.0         90.0     151.0                       119.8                     112.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   108.0        115.0     130.0                       125.7                    131.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           86.0         90.0     103.0                        92.5                     98.1
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        30.0         34.0      43.0                        39.7                     62.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       3.8          2.5        1.3                         3.4                      0.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    65.5          67.8      71.0                         68.9                     73.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            75.7         49.4      31.4                         25.2                     12.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            780.0/c      840.0/d   737.5                        973.3                    621.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       620.07          ..     638.0                        896.6                    217.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                             130.0/c      120.0     108.7                       262.3                     119.4
URBAN                              50.077       50.0      72.7                       191.8                     120.9
RURAL                             620.Olc      770.0     816.7
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..        23.0         ..                        18.2                     17.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..         3.2/e
URBAN                                ..          2. 8/e
RURAL                                ..          3.4/e       .
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          1.4/e
URBAN                                 ..         1.3/e
RURAL                                ..          1. 4/e      .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..        49.0/e       ..
URBAN                                ..         86.0         ..o
Rl'RAL                               ..         27.0/e       ..



- 24 -
ANNEX 1
TABLE 3A                                         Page 2 of 5 pages
ROMANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ROKANIA                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERtGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT               MIDDLE INCOME            INDUSTRIALIZED
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b                 EUROPE               MARKET ECONOMIES
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 98.0        112.0     106.0                       105.9                      99.6
MALE                 101.0       111.0      109.0                       109.6                    102.1
FEMALE                95.0       113.0      103.0                       102.2                    101.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 24.0         44.0      84.0                        66.3                      89.3
MALE                  27.0        51.0       90.0                        73.2                     83.3
FEMALE                22.0        38.0       77.0                        59.5                     85.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY) 54.0           58.0      84.0                        28.4                      18.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            25.0         21.0      23.0                        26.8                      21.2
SECONDARY                          16.0         18.0      22.0                        23.6                      16.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        88.6/f         *-      98.0/g                       75.4                     98.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          2.2        ..                        83.9                     349.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        120.0        151.0     142.8                       181.6                    1018.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0         72.9     146.0                       131.1                     400.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 147.0        168.1     171.4                       123.8                     336.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  9.0           9.8       8.3                          5.7                      4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    10405.1       11408.2   12084.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   42.5         44.5      44.6                        32.9                      36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              65.3         49.1      32.5                        34.0                       6.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 15.1         23.1      33.5                        28.7                      37.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                56.5         56.0      54.8                        42.3                      45.7
MALE                                 64.5         63.3      61.5                         56.5                     58.9
FEMALE                               48.4         49.0      48.2                         28.5                     33.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.6          0.6       0.7                          0.9                      0.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                ..
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     394.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     394.0                       385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962;  /d WHO estimates;  /e 1966;  /f 1956;  /g 1975.
*    The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population estimates
are $2340 (at 1978-1980 prices) and 22,268 thousands.
May, 1981



- 25 -                                                                       ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 5 pages
DEFINITIONDS OF SOCIAL INDIlCATORS
hone    Although the  aaae -    drou  freI     ut.   geeal.uge   h   otauhrt    and.reia.ble, on should ae- be utri th-  they ma  otby                            tnr
eiooallonorrbebcueo   b   eko  sedandleed defiotirin..  end  --ttPsa ted by diff-rere  conties  On telle-elg teda.The.es  re   us
etle,ueu   odeinb    reso         ond,td inan  treds, cod the....neefee terteit eajr differences                 r  t-t
Obreeenc   eurar   llnssc.toneytnpfttsujtsoutyadIl  eonoy   rufinesett  igroioaeeiondtstetateget
of the  ut jetsoeueney(eteep  foe "Cpital hrlus  Il thoyabrtas  group. abet  'Mdl  i-oae OtrP  Afita .. end riddle- -asohatese   heos hof.. stronger ,
oneIniorator etatlstoamen0thedtouror  end t,fetrte  grouye
Toa--Tnt  uftsee -oI.es..s  hand nose and -    lnlaRdscrf                               aror..l  orildiddd  y  btrtepetitoumercIn_paa  bd
nulte  by-en  tofnsee.. s-nhoding Woed ..e.I.b Aclee  d1-0-0 hot)   06.ednala                                     1treotteasn  asaffn             b      fyita   htt
1900. end 1000 data.                                                     nedioul~-b-    - aesteser  d,toso. cdnif_    er.  ar,ibofe :I Iin-  tstst
E.1i..1. of ... ib.1 ..d..ocndeotdsliotcregeafIdhalfciiti-dFoeta-e
afdllgnlt,yet-leu, neraral. gacoohydot.,-. n                    flru -  ge 1h7nalte-             Iaodra-i-hoartt -lnlotalo-rt..relho-p                      I -aermdtlonIeenityf
T970tei P 197ano9  Mid-Yer (-hoserd) -dbiof JiI0 I  lOIh1000fond  009                        Ottl..
data,                                                                bonnets~~~~~~~~~~~di. Slo  o-drfIot-ho. .. Ioson  Is househldf-iltesi- aorban  sd  ath 
ENpheCNSPeoteinIOperoCAPTA of total)-atof ubrf  tosel.y.ait                                            hoshI     ooet   fegnso .n.I.iaalu so char  liot, pi-ne
among, Y   ionokitetih, 1000..f   end1otP.    p 19000data,0the ho19eho-                                     d forstatist h-itolf yunpdnseey..dr  o-
OnalfieArosnios                                                                                  teogsa-r  ofrnoe e  toon  cocci ofe, n   rara  -   .
.1Prpojtniiot   Md-. pataet.e.fo   d.tatt  rents ofuJmprier 60 of 70three   19e79euu      HUSNGtuadyto
instate fo   etiiyrieesbn  chess - or           lercacnogfoisi                                  ofbtteA   urtut,, . t.. ura  dott  inerseo er
en tfrtiit  trends for proecio p1 yoso9a  hu.e h nroldinet at
tettnry   ouain-oea   onr   ouato   hr  ie-o g-nc  eoosTnit esoo  totl u2                                                     an  fe     u-rban, tonal  sale eArdinnate
the releosent  enetol untro- .P1rependonto  rate, sr' ecth gonesilt                    b arc hot P  ud. untP   foe     d -ffrernlegeI  of,pIuatoduost...; fee-.r
by o-onIenssiret      -ne Iy  theI   ....tooro. ppulaion  tin  ue-                  d- nrtant  tiera  auatn  eromntsy  aeK.00pte
pront   n  the bueP   a of th   noeti         hasteitif o the I I popuatio                      sic.    oeppl.rehln0   ho   h  ofca   oolae
nent lerel                                                                           rdueanloeeqairre a  liahe fornyears opappeared  tieiaty isnenetirn
fsrnesionator-plto   ntete      b   ea   bteainaffplno                                           peonie  geosoalt     , ooaioal  orta  e  ecnu   ntuttn2a   ni
only  1060. tOy  sod.10  data                                                              Auoi- tatbt- ret t -   -eos.adeonaoSno   tdnsntniie
Peotair-n Ass I,i _cusr frereet)  -rCilren f.II-i  years)I. norhn-age  15-                         _tiat  ad   t        1dtyleel Idi-ided by ruIher  of1 tsae ar toth
lenhn  1060.o.nrI l  fr tgti.-sed lot data.                                                   udul linnedertat   foredns fe 0 -      -oterhteedflpelab Is toread afdori
Peoulaion mnth tas Irsceot)- tta -I           ...iot  rates of- noe   td                    sproenege o  toardurit tp   -inge  15 yess ed  ace 'r.
Tsar popasfions fo  1050-go  lOg-t,Ibend 1h7--r-00.        h,.1.i                          ..     .    TI-    I--o-r~fiI1b.l..
Crd   fei htefe  banu)     nol .oe.lb.a.y.   to-hnd o  el-.er.ern  eatog lees   1 thansogh  perons --oludes-abat-eec  -ere a-ed
po-alrson; i96O, 09000  sod 1000  dana                                                            nru. uo  -hatoe ite.1,id  .  I,o     h     r,.           hc    .-idpd
poplcen; 19   O  iN, 97   en   00dda                                                           ra 1978s notgotrto  putlyo yet thssd-1 - poultin - ne-de o-ln    i
64yernenalrprduttir'  p65niodcfnbsde-renIeeoee  yre..sgntagi-yp-optefr-                         _rnn      - tafee    deaorsen    essIIItbroyseleit
.Pestleilannin-hntM nt.a(. donn-er1  feoseA) -. Ingnua rusher of  eteepear                     TI eeite p. oer tousand. eA.otetpn ... 1-   teonr  for broaIdeati
Flog   Bit A   IS-OY-dq-f.III-bit..bt  ...do iTETi-tobe  daly  i  i  appersa  leas  foot I-.oleesseb.l                                                              ...   n
P              96no 0PedPodoeo  per0 faiaflb    te t- ne  o   e  npn  at7ua__leenaAnnua gtedeete    aiste   en-tae   rte  ubro
Perilita surely of. nalnefies  _eennto                        197gemosf  ompuid 17fInn        a...   fe-o- end1naslopd lib. nt  oldn    aueis,sudsn   e
enrgy  qedsfnt  f  se  oo .uppi..  o avaiabl   f.ilouey peein oPi                             oo-ogt..o-  populaionp of.. al  pageIt.  einiton1iod-    eunoenisc
pen nap.  Anenlubta aonnlioe tonprot do-me-atic  pedunin,t rorte tsn             not . orasaInt ith,  100  an  1070 data..                            n  ff
maote   n  rhooge  to, snook   Net mooln h   enbludhan-ar fed d      eede- r.endsItse)- esl br  forteP as. e--ee_geo  total -ebur fro-
seD NDssr   ciae    yPCbsda   haooic   sd   e    oa   ti                                          ihr  neT p_arcenta.i,   fe of nasal I  labor for ts;  060  100ad0Iaa
Inip and For    t  nd n   sin.ered-tainioraas,bdynigts,- age                                 lonnnfecn                ebtdnrtfiig   onnune,~uagto
and cn diortbunonPo  popuaion   n   toig1  percent.'        for eass on.en                            d-isniin , stnce   gases pi eengedfitta  lab-t frts  -hi
hp unsotid tevel; lOh-gd  irooOdi   aud 1000 danao.o                                           1000d and 1000 datar.'t. 
net` suppl   yof fodttda. CNetsoppl  n-f foodisr  godefn    en., chao,--                     con..iln rae   r  cene   e  os,nas   n   esl   aeefcsc
atlonneof6.e.ao eIa....napele pee day and_191-1   1900 gen   fsta   n                          O      00nd 1000d -1Lb-F   (t-.den.  Ths E t   ae  o   lepaeepti ar
rolsepronse. ofebich10 crsa shuld b  anist proein.    hecaann,f  rtflttie5age-se stecrureof th  rapuat to, endtoograsscttd. 
Pee emitta oresi sof rein ran  otna cod tuie- Protst  pppy offoo  d
ricd  ineisican  plss  o  ras  eeda;   _b-h.)  CfOp  end 100  es.                  ICof OIdTI...UfIIo.br-Z-.t                                              
Chad ass -A  bfralt tan fre.t.d           ad -.,l.   Atna  dena -      Per t-eosar  it        reoc e of. tr. en  Inoe(ohi  testen  kind  -  trei.d.                t rices
tIesdyndrie  Peon I -lifetbe;-            b,tO   o  1000 de-te                                of boosIaho.ds.
enttf;191hOfUo  Ind 1000      I            II.~ni data,                                andF-1 should      F.loIb he irerptofd no-looeideIhfcmriar
Acesn Its   ae firce  ofd- .ig   . c ua Ia- total abut d, ribdtotal -                                                         Lun  f-rtoal  auon    tr  tsasoie nor-food  hnqoigsee  tano
sanertenppiy  f           AeoIude   t daadsefnohoto  orRu-tr..tad.  r butunctnaitaa        eiae fi.    iatoI   Pcrof In-1s Len,-  fi-S$ pan96p0 a  -97   urba a979      e
eairnncdbhusthban        -ios  petcebsh tna, ort.ng..a dyssnitty..tls..                     IAn.ryteafroor    oaateise-btu                                 rg    etpt
pernnag..   of t-Ob-   npeniv p opolaniona .11-aoar           _oareptir                                           -t"n g-  ..;,    irtiy I   r     'r-g7f tl b f        I
cons-ideet ablgaihnraoai -,ao 2~n1r..Ieceeo   hnhue   frrlaenln la,bP-dj onsmane foe hi gnat tactr of dtfoirg   in uttrsteen. -  
resnbeacs   cId P mp.   thn Yb huenIe aood        hers of the bosb old tRiaa.nrlnt  afuAsln  Tonten - oone dLevel freeene- 1-ut
feell  5 oter needsll.    ro    -l.dbyUDp-i                        f     i.                   Poo-t'         .1
Aces fn ttet     I-roa of r-rr   o pr.ouiacia   total, 2  IIhat and turld                 19-      90     d17   ..    h           .b..d        L'
Ipercentages of  thIr       , I  repat -e opl dion   tropret. disp FOsal say Tid             ....         include1In   6 
thrtldeFord   and disposeS  o1970o ndt out7 tIreatlot.of  uma-eest
"'Id fr..  ni-1.  od p.1... in gr... F- d.y; 1961-65.197t0 tndtc 197n7sa aedPIoCOrE faSTRIBUTrION
_~o of I-- In- (bbIh in -Ihtar loft
Peelein tee1 hbsra      ouaindcddhotra   fpatltgoyi
-cgadrsq datissaafr..aslifta-ltho.  a96un1970Ity7ldenIt2elc,      ....21.....-  ....
Poocletirn err tatnion Persen - Popueslot Iloidad by nuebee oO precegoih
sass eod Peale grsd uate norase , pracrVouTAoneTeGROand



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL INCOME IN 1981 1/
Average Annual Growth in volume (%)
1976-           of which
US$Mln.                                 19SQ              1976          1979            1980            1981
National Income                           35,350                                   7.2              11.2           6.2             2.8             2.1
Gross Investment                          13,900                                  10.9               8.5           4.1             3.1            -7.3
Gross National Saving                    13,067
Current Account Balance                     -833
Export of Goods, NFS                      13,492                                   5.3             14.7            -7.6            8.5            n.a.
Imports of Goods, NFS                    13,308                                    8.8             15.7             4.3            0.5            n.a.
DUTPUT, EMPLOYMENT AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980
Net Value Added   1/                 Labor Force   2/             N.V.A. Per Worker
US$ Mln             Z               Mln               Z               US$               Z
Agriculture                                  3,930            11.6              3.05            33.9            1,289             34.3
Industry                                    20,800            61.5              3.68            40.9            5,652            150.5
Construction                                 3,200             9.5              0.86             9.6            3,721             99.1
Others                                       5,870            17.4              1.4             15.6            4,193            111.6
Total/Average                   33,800           100.0               9.0           100.0            3,756             100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
(in billions of lei)
1976             1977             1978             1979             1980             1981
Total Revenue                                                254.5            282.0            300.8            339.3            298.0            280.3
Total Expenditures                                           180.4            196.5            198.9            224.7            191.6            179.5
Current Surplus                                               74.1             85.5            101.9            114.6            106.4            100.8
Investment Expenditure                                        69.7             83.9            100.4            112.9            105.1             92.3
Overall Surplus                                                4.4              1.6              1.5              1.7              1.3              8.5
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1976             1977             1978             1979             1980             1981
Koney Supply (blns of lei, end of year)                         .                .              85.6             87.6            110.6             n.a.
Bank Credit to enterprises (blns of lei, end of year)           .                .             386.0            405.0            428.0             n.a.
Retail Prices (1975 = 100)                                   100.6            101.2            102.8            105.0            106.6            110.3
1/ Social material production methodology, excluding depreciation and output of the non-productive sector.
2/ Excluding non-productive sectors.
EMIDD
April 23, 1982



- 27 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(USg million)
1976     1977      1978       1979      1980      1981          MERCHANDISE EXPORTS, 1981               US$ Mln 
Exports of Goods, NFS            6,642   7,357    8,728   10,133    12,087   13,492                 Capital Goods                           3,660         29
Imports of Goods, NFS           -6,540  -7,529   -9,319  -11,428  -13,730   13,308                  Consumer Goods                          1,980         16
Resource Gap                        102    -172       -591    -1,295    -1,643        184           Foodstuffs                              1,010          8
Interest Payments, net            -118     -132       -168      -358       -777   -1,017            Intermediate Goods                      3,350         26
Balance of Current Account         -16      -304      -759   -1,653    -2,420        -833           Raw Materials                           2,610         21
Industrial                          (2,170)       (17)
MLT Borrowing                                                                                          Agricultural                          (440)        (4)
Disbursements                   712      861     1,174      2,065     2,805      2,160                                                 12,610        100
Amortization                   -502     -562       -586      -809      -851    -1,133
Net                             210      299        588     1,256     1,954      1,027           EXTERNAL DEBT, Dec. 31, 1981                    US$Mln
MLT Lending, net                  -392      -358      -346      -309       -181      -174
Convertible currencies                          10,160
Short-term Borrowing, net          124       256       487       821        449   -1,385
Medium and long-term                           7,694
SDR allocation                        -        -         -         33        33         32             Short-term                                       643
IMF credit                                       680
Use of IMF credit                   181       38       -20         -8        52       290              Arrears                                        1,143
Payment Agreements                  163      101       103         96       -47       -32
and IBEC                                                                                          Non-convertible currencies                          386
Errors and Omissions                  -        -        65        -77         -          -          Total                                            10,546
Change in Reserves 1/              -23       306      -120      -149        202       -81
= increase)
DEBT SERVICE RATIO, 1981                             %
Oil and Products
Exports                         735      688        746     1,744     1,871      1,907           All Currencies: gross 2/                           16.6
Imports                         717      875     1,219      2,051     3,818      3,370           All Currencies, net 3/                             13.9
Convertible Currencies, gross 4/                   27.5
IBRD LENDING, March 31, 1982 5/                 us$ MI.
Outstanding and disbursed                       1,301.4
Undisbursed                                        686.7
Outstanding and undisbursed                      1,987.6
1/  Includes foreign exchange and SDR holdings.
2/  Debt service payments for credits received only.
3/  Net of debt service payment receipts for credits extended.
4/  Debt service payments included in convertible currencies as a percentage of export receipts in convertible currency.
5/  Includes only effective loans.
EMIDD
April 23, 1981



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8 pages
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA
Statement of Bank Loans
(As of March 31, 1982)
US $ Million
Loan      Fiscal                                                 Amount    (less cancellations)
Number     Year    Borrower            Purpose                    Bank    TW   IDA   Undisbursed
Ten loans fully disbursed                                         478.1                    -
1368-RO    1977    BAFI a/                 Irrigation              60.0                    0.01
1436-RO    1977    Investment Bank        Bearings                 38.0                    4.4
1448-RO    1977    Investment Bank        Polyester                50.0                    0.3
1479-RO    1978    BAFI                   Agricultural Credit    71.0                      3.9
1509-RO    1978    BAFI                    Irrigation              40.5                    8.0
1536-RO    1978    Investment Bank        Tire                     85.0                   34.0
1581-RO    1978    Investment Bank        Post Earthquake          60.0                    4.6
1634-RO    1979    Investment Bank        Chemicals                40.0                    2.7
1651-RO    1979    Investment Bank        Pipe                     40.0                   25.7
1652-RO    1979    Investment Bank        Thermal Power            70.0                   22.2
1669-RO    1979    BAFI                   Livestock                75.0                   16.2
1670-RO    1979    BAFI                    Irrigation              70.0                   11.7
1764-RO    1980    BAFI                   Livestock                85.0                   48.1
1794-RO    1980    Investment Bank        Canal                   100.0                    0.9
1795-RO    1980    BAFI                    Irrigation              90.0                   55.1
1876-RO    1980    BAFI                   Orchards                 50.0                   44.1
1936-RO    1981    Investment Bank        Power IV                125.0                   46.8
1937-RO    1981    BAFI                   Livestock                80.0                   77.5
1938-RO    1981    BAFI                    Irrigation              75.0                   75.0
1971-RO    1981    BAFI                    Irrigation              80.0                   80.0
2034-RO    1982    Investment Bank        Highways/Railways       125.0                  125.0
2077-RO    1982    BAFI                   Agricultural Credit    95.0 c/                  95.0
Total                                       2,082.6                  781.21
of which has been paid                         89.4
Total now outstanding                       1,993.2
Amount sold                 19.8
of which repaid             19.2                0.6
Total now held by Bank b/                   1,992.6
Total undisbursed                                                    781.21
a/   Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry.
b/   Excluding exchange adjustments.
c/   Not yet effective.



- 29 -
Annex II
Page 2 of 8 pages
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 1027        Otelin3x Special Steel Project; USO7O Million Loan of July
10, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: April 3, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Execution of the project was delayed about three years, primarily
becauSE: of the complexity of two large bid packages, the Romanians' lack of
famili:arity with international competitive bidding procedures under the Bank's
Guidelines, and lack of interest and competition among suppliers. Delays were
also caused subsequently by late delivery and quality problems with Romanian
manufactured equipment. The cold mill is now in operation and the bar mill
was scheduled to start operation, in August 1981 but is now delayed to the
first half of 1982. Total project costs are expected to be essentially the
same as appraisal estimates. Final draft of the completion report is expected
in April 1982. The loan is now fully disbursed and closed.
Ln. No. 1028        Turceni Thermal Power Project; US$60 Million Loan of July
10, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: November 6, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
Project was completed after a 2-year delay but is operating at only
50% of rated capacity due to lower calorific value of lignite than the plant
was designed for. Tests are being conducted to determine modifications
required for processing lower quality fuel; main units may require redesign
and reorder of lignite handling equipment and the clearing of the units. The
loan is now fully disbursed and closed.
Ln. No. 1242        Riul Mare Retezat Hydropower Project; US$50 Million of
April 28, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 26, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Due to shortage of manpower, tunneling works have been delayed which
is hoped to be partially recovered by a modern large surface boring machine.
Project completion will remain about two years behind schedule. Civil works
for the dam and underground power station are well underway but also delayed
by a similar period. The loan is now fully disbursed and closed.
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1247        Rasova-Vederoasa Irrigation and Agriculture Development
Project; US$60 Million Loan of April 28, 1976; Date of
Effectiveness: November 3, 1976; Closing date; June 30,
1981
Pumping stations, canals, and other project civil works are almost
complete. The area irrigated in 1981 reached 52,000 ha. Out of 11 dairy
farms, nine farms are in operation. Procurement under ICB is complete. The
feedmill and silo in Negruvoda is completed. The grain silo at Baneasa is
behind schedule and is not likely to be ready before June 1983. The loan is
now fully disbursed and closed.
Ln. No. 1368        Ialomita-Calmatui Irrigation Project; US$60 Million Loan of
March 2, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 23, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Contracts for all equipment and materials have been awarded.
Progress has been good until recently when a shortage of construction
materials and reduced allocation of investment funds have slowed down
implementation. Progress on main and distribution canals, pipe networks, and
drainage works are generally satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1436        Brasov Bearings Project; US$38 Million Loan of June 15,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Contracts on all major packages, have now been signed, and
implementation of the project is proceeding ahead of the original schedule.
However, delivery of retainer presses will delay full completion of the
project by eight months. Project costs are expected to be close to, or
slightly over, appraisal estimates. Overall economic aspects of the project
look somewhat more favorable than at appraisal due to the improved market
outlook, improved product mix, and changes in project design to achieve lower
product costs.
Ln. No. 1448        Cimpulung-Muscel Polyester Project; US$50 Million Loan of
June 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: October 3, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Closing date was extended to March 31, 1982 due to delays in the
delivery of equipment for extrusion and drawing section which are manufactured
locally. The loan is expected to be fully disbursed with withdrawal
applications on hand.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1479        Pig Production and Processing Project; US$71 Million Loan
of July 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 28,
1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project represents the Bank's first participation in Romania in a
development plan on a nationwide basis. It provides for establishment and
modernization of large-scale pig breeding/fattening farms, development of
selection centers, and provision of slaughtering and processing facilities.
ICB procurement is completed. Investments for State farms and slaughterhouses
continue to be ahead of schedule while those for cooperative farms and
slaughter and meat processing facilities are behind schedule. Quality of
workmanship and management of project facilities is satisfactory. Prospects
for project completion as scheduled are good.
Ln. No. 1509        Viisoara Irrigation Project; US$40.5 Million Loan of
January 27, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 15, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Bids for all procurement contracts have been awarded. Construction
of project works is proceeding satisfactorily on all schemes except Calmatui
subproject which has slipped by about a year. Irrigation of the entire 98,328
ha will now take place in 1984 rather than 1983. The Zimnicea and Viisoara
Irrigation systems are expected to be completed in June 1982.
Ln. No. 1536        Tires Project; US$85.0 Million Loan of March 31, 1978; Date
of Effectiveness: June 9, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983
Overall project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Plant
start-up is expected in mid-1982 for the Zalau plant (truck tires), and in
1984 for Drobeta-Turnu Serverin (DTS) Plant (tractor and giant tires).
Delays are also expected in the erection schedule at the DTS plant as well as
in the delivery of local equipment for the off-the road (OTR) tire package.
Slow disbursements is due to the delay experienced in obtaining a suitable
supplier of technology and equipment for the OTR tire package for DTS.
Ln. No. 1581        Post Earthquake Construction Assistance Project; US$60.0
Million Loan of June 12, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
-      September 5, 1978; Closing Date:  June 30, 1982
Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. At the Borrower's
request loan proceeds were reallocated to reflect more closely likely future
commitments. The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by the closing date.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1634        Craiova Chemical Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of January
15, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: May 2, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
There will be delays in startup of plants. The methanol plant will
be set back by a year because of delays in the delivery of equipment. The
acetic anhydride plant had some problems due to cracks discovered in the steel
coils supplied by Welders. The PVA plant will also be behind schedule because
of late delivery of locally made equipment. Most subprojects will be delayed
because of late delivery of critical equipment and unavailability of
construction labor.
Ln. No. 1651        Roman Seamless Pipe Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of
February 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: July 31, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Most of the main technology package is on site and erection is
scheduled to begin April 1982, but additional delays that have occurred in
procurement will further set back project completion by another six months.
The main building is almost completed and the foundation for the main mill is
ready for erection. Construction of water supply facilities is however behind
schedule. Project completion is now expected in December 1983.
Ln. No. 1652        Second Turceni Thermal Power Project; US$70.0 Million Loan
of February 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: June 29, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is expected to be delayed by two years because of delays
in Turceni I and the necessary sequential arrangements for implementation of
both projects. Ninety-two percent of the loan funds have been committed.
Ln. No. 1669        Second Livestock Project; US$75.0 Million Loan of April 16,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: July 6, 1979; Closing Date;
June 30, 1984
Progress in project implementation is satisfactory. Investments for
modernization of existing pig complexes are far ahead of schedule while those
for new pig breeding/fattening complexes and new slaughter/meat processing
facilities are being decreased. This shift is acceptable because of the
higher profitability in modernization. Contracts for procurement of
construction materials and slaughterhouse equipment have been awarded, but in
February 1982, $468,000 worth of slaughterhouse equipment was cancelled from
the loan because of misprocurement.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1670        Mostistea and Calmatui Irrigation and Drainage Project;
US$70 Million Loan of April 16, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: July 16, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Project implementation is 2 years behind schedule, but a revised
construction schedule and investment program are being prepared to minimize
delays. All contracts for equipment and materials have been finalized except
for the laboratory equipment and some contruction equipment. Supplies against
contracts are being received close to the schedule.
Ln. No. 1764        Third Livestock Project; USt85.0 Million Loan of January
11, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: April 15, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation continues to be satisfactory. Contracts for
construction materials, poultry farm and slaughterhouse equipment and
chemicals for vaccine production have been awarded.  Romania's present and
expected shortage of high protein content poultry feed is closely monitored,
and concrete proposals made by the Bank to improve the situation are being
reviewed by the Romanian authorities concerned.
Ln. No. 1794        Danube-Black Sea Canal Project; US$100 Million Loan of
April 30, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 5, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation is generally satisfactory although slight
delays in excavation and construction of protection walls have been
experienced. However, measures are being taken to make up for lost time.
Procurement has been practically completed; 100% of the loan amount is
committed and about 99% disbursed.
Ln. No. 1795        Covurlui Irrigation Project; US$90 Million Loan of April 8,
1980; Date of Effectiveness: July 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987
Award of ICB procurement contracts has been practically completed.
Project implementation is about one year behind schedule mainly because of
shortage of construction equipment caused in part by slow ICB procurement and
delivery and by delays in transfer of equipment from other irrigation project
sites. The Government is conducting a comprehensive study of equipment
requirement and availability to improve planning and implementation.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1876        Orchards Project; US$50 Million Loan of June 30, 1980; Date
of Effectiveness: September 16, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
Project is progressing satisfactorily. The orchard component
exceeded appraisal planting schedule estimates by 80%. In the fall of 1980
and spring of 1981, 4,800 ha were planted. An additional 1,200 ha currently
are being planted, with future planting commitments totaling 11,715 ha.
Construction of 4 of 19 cold stores is under way. The technical assistance
component is expected to be finalized soon, and the fruit market study is
under preparation by a special committee of 19 specialists.
Ln. No. 1936        Power IV; US$125 Million Loan of January 9, 1981; Date of
Effectiveness: April 23, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Project is off to a slow start due to delay in completing the bidding
documents for bank-financed items by the beneficiaries, its consulting
organization and trade enterprises as well as on reaching agreement with the
Bank on acceptable procurement procedures. Increases in operating expenses
which are rising faster than increases in revenues have reduced internal cash
generation to about 22% of proposed construction requiring additional
financing from the State Budget to achieve planned construction expenditures.
Ln. No. 1937        Livestock IV; US$80 Million Loan of January 9, 1981; Date
of Effectiveness: April 7, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1986
Tender documents for ICB procurement of construction material have
been delayed. Procurement of agroindustrial equipment is likely to be delayed
to 1982. Upon Bank approval, international shopping procurement will commence.
Ln. No. 1938        Bucsani-Buzau-Siret-Prut Irrigation Project; US$75 Million
Loan of January 9, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: October
14, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1988
The main objectives of the project are to increase and stabilize crop
production and to raise productivity in a gross area of 158,485 ha in the
south-eastern part of Romania. This is to be accomplished through the
construction of irrigation and drainage systems and related facilities.
Procurement of equipment and materials is underway.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1971        Caracal-Titu Irrigation Project; US$80 Million Loan of June
24, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: Not yet effective;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The project has been declared effective on March 26, 1982. Three
tender documents have been finalized and the remaining three are being
reviewed. Final engineering designs are expected to be completed by the end
of 1982.
Ln. No. 2034        Land Transport Project; US$125 Million Loan of July 17,
1981; Date of Effectiveness: November 16, 1981; Closing
Date: March 31, 1987
For the railways component, civil works have commenced on two
subprojects--the Danube bridges and the new line between Vilcele and Rimnicu
Vilcea, while for the roads component, construction has started on the new
link between Fetesti and Cernavoda. Procurement by ICB of equipment and
materials has already been approved. Consultants ae being retained to carry
out the Traffic Optimization Study.
Ln. No. 2077        Moldova Agricultural Credit; USt95 Million Loan of April 9,
1982; Date of Effeciveness: Not yet effective; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986
Loan documents were signed on April 9, 1982 and terminal date for
effectiveness is August 9, 1982.
L



- 36 -
ANNEX III
ROMANIA
VIDELE/BALARIA ENHANCED OIL RECOVERY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
a)    Timetable taken by country to                  10 months (November 1980-
prepare the project                            September 1981)
b)    Agency which has prepared the project          Ministry of Petroleum
c)    Date of first presentation to the              November 1980
Bank
d)    Date of first mission to consider              March 1981
the project
e)    Date of departure of appraisal mission         September 1981
f)    Date of completion of negotiations             April 16, 1982
g)    Planned date of effectiveness                  September 15, 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions:
Bank mission visited Romania in early May to assist the Borrower in
completing all formalities related to procurement documents and to review
organizational arrangements underway for the start of project implementation.
Section III: Special Conditions
Special Conditions of the loan:
i)    TPB and ICPPG will core and log key wells and correlate old wells
with new ones through radioactive logging inside the casing using
appropriate techniques and equipment in consultation with the Bank
(para. 56);
ii)   All necessary actions shall be taken to enable TPB to earn
reasonable profits in relation to total revenues so that such
profits together with depreciation and reserve discovery charges
shall be sufficient to service TPB's debts and to finance a
reasonable portion of its investments (para. 58); and
iii) TPB and ICPPG shall take all steps necessary to ensure that
iconcentration of harmful gases in the Project area will not exceed
the agreed safety level (para. 63).



606 ARID     '                                 -                                                                                 -'                                        i'                                                                2' ~ -_. _._. rH G   , _   g e   2 IBRBD 16066
;i  : ffi ---- --                                 -                                            U.           S. S    R.                                                                                                               ROMANIA
HUNGARY                                                                                                                      ,r' 0066060~~~~~~~~~~~~~D..b,,-_        VIDELE/BALARIA  ENHANCED
-K <  ROHAMAN                                                       'h  J> :                                                              I,-                             ,roHo  >HN6                                   OIL RECOVERY  PROJECT
HAOG6IOHHIA             Bi'ttt                               i ,,                      S,ghctlrMarm. rl           ,>       ~               ~      ~              '          Doroho,    nSaven   7                          OIL   AND   GAS   SUBSECTOR
U       S,-x RR 4   'C   0,1   oon                                                                                                                                          +,                   ,1wO   F,eIds
--.5  HcH''&YYS; URN'O=Y'   9~M                                                       BAIA MARE                                                                                                                                         1  F,elds
Iu.ld BI,,t '                                                                                                                                                                           -ldif ...... clu.,.blk  .-. ....  6+,   t   V  s-  \  /   8s,  FultceX,  H   -   \ %  Gos P,pRlineG
2O.M7J@.                                                                                                                      V. O_)
Hr. nv        .> 66  H'iO  =4                                                                                                                                                                              -     } VrD  m *t*.               Pe66HIo,o, Prod,Ncts PIeSnIs
/e ~ ~~~~                   ~~~~~ -'"'4                                                                                 I'6g0pf  N0'M n   -                               > GAl  6y0,REnr
C ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ZLL "                                                                                                                                                   >                         Took., Te,m,n1I
_~ -                                    oo6s                                66         CA .
M ERCURAC-   Fi lI
__                                 H4RU6         d~~~~~~ ~~16   S_~                                         t        '--~~~ 
/Ncl.c-  D                        'Ab,d                                                                                                                               B i.d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~46  URUOO  4
IN                                                                                                                                                                     '46,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bIT
,/Hdac',                                                                                                                                                                                ______________~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G RHI
Ri'  ___                                                                                                                                                                                                         __________________________________DEV_
46'--.                            066      IA        j060           NI             , ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FCSAI
'~~-~~t"t5'~~~~k   i                                                                     6upeo'-%''6'                                         MH~~~~~~~~~~RY~~~  bTHBH,~~~~  HOOI4000UALJ
I,w"KAnoo                                              P~~~TIRU   IMNICU                           5H0,Q
Y U G 0 S L A V I A                                                                 4p~~~~~~~Dogoor *                                       BUCHARORZI                                -codrST
2~~~~~~~~'                              DJm'MO                               rM                                                                                                                
flgr~~~~MHre  iOROtRoIHio                                                          /     4'- A~~~~~~~~~~~!"LEXANIDRIA\-
6  '0>  ~~,Ji~HBOULLMGgA,RII,
VIDELE B   RI  L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6                                                                                                                     2                              R                            20'






IBRD  1597
2'0'                                         22                                            24                                           2'6'                                          2'8t
This map has be-n preparedh the                                                                        -                     To Che-omtoy                                                           SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   ROMANI A
-48| Vvr/d2Ee26tke'ceaf'ftheC'rervdErrhs'dDt             <- <\                                       '                      C-<                       -          v                                 BANK- ASSISTED                                         PROJECTS
foe d-t,tet -dnonsrusadahe
bo-ndaniesi ,eco qn th- t map
WorldanO anditaftlatet oy                                         S i t. More                                         t                  . - h  -    h                                                          PROJECTS                                 EXISTING  FEATURES:
WldOmefl on the eafioteti-t                  o                           Mor - e
onitoeptyance       ndorecet nt .                                                                                                                                                                               Irrigation/                              Primary  Roads
... cepranceofsuch b-undanes   ';-                            9                                                        i );                                                                     >,  BOl  More                               = SuclecYo) ,; *-    Agriculture  Railways
Industriol                        +     Airports
*       Power Stations                    St    Ports
;~.=                                                                                                  '                         --.,-s> '-e  Transmission  Lines                   Rivers
r : Orodeo                                                                                                                    f* \; '~' - t /- .ffi,> l51?sit D       Substotions                              Judet  Capitols
Highways                                International Boundaries
Railways                     ~~ELEVATIONS:
Canals                          e       Over  ,t0   meters
,    ,    V    )   y  ,,,/ , / >,,>//>T 9 M,,05 , , < Cluj                                                                                                                                                                   00 X$050
500 -le
0-500
Arad                                                                                                                                                                                      P ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FSCAL
YEAR
;46'                   K- rfrs /                                      )         /    ;)                        -  -                       >        ' 1<           -    tu                 *  *                                               PRC JECT                                  APPRFOVED
I                Tior~~~~~Bcan Fhermol.e  NoietnePret        1974
Ti.mAlbo luisoara.            .l .. -                                                                                   .ii tgip RErare,r;e | Cste Inox lperianS Pro-                                                                             ect       19775
T       Thce- r-bIr APtwe  Projita eedt Pre  1975
'.  Brasovl         s                                                                             +           '     u -> *W    Rl Mote Reot Hpdtopeioer  roi ect  1976
Timisoor awA2.a                                                                                                                     F                         `,, WimncuV;ct'    . /   "  to u  :+  ' t   ;  >  ;:;7  b ,,,  o- eootpon
,rAp:-  Criiioltnr   l  Ceneoprt eeect 1976
lolootit-Colm    ri.c POLAND;  Cooei       1977
.   .,   . g   t    4 ,,.Xt         _e           As             .   te;                  o           n          s       l        o           n         l        o                         u u Ds e M =e                             9 9   :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Beno Roios Foicr  97
15, Boga   iNG                                                                                                                                                                                                  AR I    Biurei Gls   --t Fiber5 Proteifn             o      ?Pwr 1977
I     Riml M        iiTar ea  Fonp-ster  Project  1977
V~~~~~                                                                                           ~          ~~~         ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ lFt1p F--yVdtetona,d Frcicesiop Farid   97
AgireT b  Mdov ei   rre,,t Pmoect           1978
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<                                                                                                                                  FosS Ea?:BllrthqAke Coosttt010 dmetio
Indrto.r                                                                                                                                                     t-gano,, Project         197A  P  2978
R sit                                                                                    Broilo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                    Br.-~~~~~Cmto  Cle-,ols PrOIeCi             1979
7, selg,ado                                                                                B                                                                        Buchar~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rtee t Geeless Fiber Promot  1979
R~~~~ mnicu oceq                                    J~-ARST'SCo-d T-rrent Thrml Fyerte  P,roiec                                                                                        1979
POLAND~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Poef, P'   -                                                                                                                                      Seond croestoe ProiesscgPi         , ' 1979
Y                                       P-t~~~~~~~~~~Msise E.tqane Coi,t-potlrioe
Constonta               end~~-o~   Chrotncp l Proiect            1979
A,   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~hRd-  Sieaoles Pp Proiect                                                1980
CZRCHOSLOVARIA.                                                                                                                                                                    LI/or y 0   Socr         Doeabe- Block Scm Conol                     1980~~~~~~~~~~~~Q.  ecod   --    he I P-   PQlct  97
POLN-                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5-f' .  W.  ortiio LIetrikpceeira r        1970
-hUNGARY  j                                                                                                                         i' *. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pom/nyp 00!  PO00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t IV        1981dD,.g   P.ec  17
CZECHOSLOVMAIKIoAsot Soc/n                                                                                                                                                                                                               livetoc U~st.n  Pfjc1981
8859D -eeiprackiSe.  o                            1981
AOSTRIA  rr,  -44'                                                                                                                                                                 C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ii-Coacl.  -gtifeiin  1981
S   1_*.0s,chLa d lOi5Pt Fie1980
yuGOS LAVIA           .ufr Gaby-y                                                                                                                                                                                                     MeId... Agr-icuwrml Credit Project          1982
~~~ULOARIA  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  O~~~~~~~                                                                                                     0                                             150 Kiletetetere~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  10K..etr
Auho-,y Tee                              Jt~,o                                               24'                                               2,                                                                                                   31



