Report No. PID8892
Project Name                     Yugoslavia-Kosovo Urgent Road Project (@+) ...
(formerly Emergency Transport
Rehabilitation Project)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Other Transportation
Project ID                       KOPE70295
Borrower(s)                      UNITED NATIONS INTERIM ADMIN. IN KOSOVO
Implementing Agency
Address JOINT INTERIM ADM. DEPT. OF
TRANSPORTATION, UNMIK
Central Government Building,Rr.NSnS Tereza,
Pristina, Kosovo
Contact Person: Patrick Auffret,
Director, Joint-Interim Administration
Department of Transport and Infrastructure
Tel: 381 38 500 223
Fax: 1 212 963 8442
Email: pauffret@hotmail.com
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                July 14, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         May 15, 2000 (actual)
Projected Board Date             August 10, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
1. The road network of Kosovo consists of about 3,800 kilometers. of
roads, including 623km of main roads (all paved), and 1,300km of regional
roads, of which 920km are paved. Most of the roads have been built or
rebuilt in the sixties. Road design standards are usually adequate, with
the exception of the width of the roadways and shoulders, which are
usually very narrow. Network density is relatively low, at about
0.35km/km2. Adequate development and maintenance of the road network in
Kosovo has been an issue since the 1970s. While the road network has been
developed, road maintenance has been persistently under-funded. This has
resulted in a continuous deterioration of the road network. The Spring
1999 conflict has had limited impact on the road network. However, the
network is in very poor shape primarily because of a pervasive lack of
adequate maintenance since the seventies (aggravated by rather rigorous
winters), virtually no maintenance over the last 10 years, as well as
heavy military and civilian traffic since last year. Damage observed
include disparition of the asphalt layers on localised sections,
landslides, numerous potholes and cracks, as well as water running on the
road surface. 2. Thirteen bridges were damaged during the conflict.
However, bypasses/temporary bridge structures are in place on all bridges
seriously damaged. All bridges on the main and regional road networks
which have not suffered direct conflict-related damage seem to be in fair
condition, despite the lack of maintenance. Finally, over the years, most
of the horizontal and vertical signalization has disappeared. In summary,
about 25 percent of the main and regional road networks, with a part which



needs to be seriously rehabilitated and in some cases reconstructed, while
most sections need to be urgently maintained, to avoid further damage
which: (i) could rapidly lead to the closure of certain road sections to
civilian traffic; and (ii) would require, in the near future, the complete
reconstruction of the damaged sections, an investment that Kosovo cannot
afford to undertake at this point. Road Management Set Up3. Until 1989,
planning and administration of the main and regional road networks were
handled principally by a provincial Road Organization, staffed with about
550 employees, and headed by a Board whose members represented various
groups having an interest in roads. Following the end of provincial
autonomy in 1989, and until June 1999, the management of the Road
Organization reverted mostly Serb Kosovar staff. During this period,
resources allocated to the rehabilitation and maintenance were limited,
and, most probably, non-existent during the conflict. Following the
departure of Serb Kosovar staff, the Road Organization was re-staffed
spontaneously in June 1999 by Kosovar Albanians, some of whom were part of
the staff prior to 1989.Traffic 4. Since the beginning of the conflict,
shifts in traffic composition and frequency have been observed. For
example, the road network has been used by heavier vehicles than in the
past, including KFOR vehicles and transit traffic-- most of which have an
axle load above the standard 10-tons axle load limit used in road design
in Kosovo. In addition, there has been a jump in vehicle ownership
following, inter alia, refugees' return. The new traffic composition and
volume put an extra burden on already exhausted road structures, as well
as on networks under the roads such as water and sewerage systems. In
addition, there has been much more traffic on certain local roads due to
persons having sought shelter in mountainous areas. A number of gravel
and dirt roads have been over-used and as a result, have numerous
potholes. At this stage, it is not yet clear whether the main road
network capacity will need to be increased in the medium-term, as it seems
that current traffic levels on the main network do not generally exceed
6,000 to 8,000 vehicles per day. However, there are a number of
congestion spots which would need immediate attention, (such as the border
crossing with Macedonia and some of the road sections surrounding
Pristina), and shoulders should be widened in specific locations to
increase traffic fluidity. A first structured traffic count will be
organized by the Directorate of Roads (DoR) for the Spring/Summer of
2000. The results of the counts will provide important input to plan
further road maintenance/rehabilitation programs.
2. Objectives
The primary objective of the Project is to contribute to the
reconstruction and economic development of Kosovo, by: (i) supporting the
first steps towards the re-establishment of a road management capacity in
Kosovo and the set-up of a framework for sustainable road maintenance
financing; (ii) supporting emergency road maintenance activities on the
main network; and (iii) helping, through road maintenance activities
funded under the Project, to restore a local contracting capacity for
road/bridge rehabilitation and summer/winter maintenance.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The proposed project supports a key objective in the reconstruction
strategy of Kosovo, namely the rehabilitation of the road network, a
pre-requisite for economic recovery. In addition, the Bank has been seen
as a reliable partner able to build a consensus among the different actors
- 2 -



involved in the sector on the content of the road rehabilitation program
and the role of the different participants. The Bank activities will
complement those of the other donors, which will essentially focus on road
rehabilitation on the most deteriorated road sections, while the Bank will
support road maintenance activities on about 570 km. of the main network,
to prevent further deterioration and delay as long as possible
reconstruction activities which would mobilize a significant part of the
scarce resources likely to be available for road maintenance in the
near-term. Finally, the Bank, through its focus on road maintenance, will
support the revival of the local construction industry, and participate in
the development of DoR, as:(i) even in the past, local contractors located
in Kosovo did not have the capacity to build bridges or to undertake major
road works. In the recent years, local contractors' capacity has been
declining and today is at its lowest. While they now slowly recover staff
and equipment, they need revenues to sustain their recovery. As such, at
this stage, they would not qualify as prime contractors under most of the
rehabilitation activities financed by other donors. However, they will
qualify to undertake the smaller road maintenance activities supported by
the Bank; and (ii) most of the other donors have already indicated that
they would not use DoR to implement their activities as their intended
interventions call for relatively big international contracts which they
want to administer themselves. While some donors have indicated that they
will support the long-term development of DoR, the Bank, together with the
French and German Governments, is already assisting DoR in starting its
operations through provision of expert advises in critical areas. In
addition, once Bank funds become available, the Bank will, in
collaboration with the UNMIK Joint-Interim Administration Department of
Transport (DoT), support DoR to: (i) carry out basic traffic counts on the
main network; (ii) prepare road maintenance programs for discussions with
UNMIK; (iii) suggest funding mechanisms for road maintenance to the UNMIK
Central Fiscal Authority (CFA); and (iv) administer, on a daily basis,
activities financed by Bank-administered funds. Basically, the Bank will
assist DoR in restarting activities.
4. Description
The Project will be funded from a Bank Grant of US$5 million and will
focus on the following components:Road maintenance: the Project will fund
about one-third of the Program's road maintenance component. It is
expected that about 570 km of roads will be maintained under the Project.
The location of these road sections is indicated on the map attached to
this Project Appraisal Document.Road rehabilitation: the Project will fund
overlay on an about 14km-long high priority stretch of the Pristina
(Prishtine) - Gnjilane (Gjilani) road which has not been considered for
funding by other donors.     Support to road management capacity: the
Project will fund a study on the potential introduction of road user
charges, will provide for a site engineer to organize supervision of the
works carried out under the Project and strengthen supervision within
DoR. The Project will also contain an allocation for assistance in
specific areas such as project implementation or DoR strengthening, in
case commitments made by other donors fail to materialize in a timely
manner. Finally, the project will fund the costs of the annual audits.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
IDA                      5.0
-3-



Total Project Cost       5.0
6. Implementation
Daily project responsibilities will be undertaken by DoR, under the
monitoring of DoT, CFA (especially for disbursement matters) and the
Central Procurement Entity (especially for procurement matters). The
Department of Roads will be supported in its tasks by consulting services
provided by the Deutsche Geselleschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
(GTZ).
7. Sustainability
The political situation in Kosovo provides an environment that is
inherently high risk. With respect to the Project, works will be carried
out according to international quality standards, and it is expected that
maintenance contracts with local contractors will help restore maintenance
capacity. In addition, the project will be a first step towards the
re-establishment of an efficient Road Administration. Although an
adequate level of funding to road maintenance is the key to ensure
long-term sustainability of the activities funded under the project, and
although the Project will focus on identifying adequate funding mechanisms
for road maintenance (e.g. introduction of user charges), it is clear that
the size of the Kosovo budget   will, at least in the short-term, greatly
constrain the actual level of road maintenance budgets. To demonstrate
UNMIK's willingness to cope with the issue in an as adequate as possible
manner, the CFA has sent a comfort letter to the Bank, indicating in
substance that it will endeavor to cover DoR operating costs and will
include an initial allocation for road/bridge maintenance in the 2001
budget, allocation which will be increased over time, commensurate with
the prevailing economic conditions in Kosovo over the next years.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The activities implemented so far in the road sector have revealed some
issues which are inherent to any post-crisis situation: (i) low
productivity of the local contractors; (ii) difficulties in finding
materials; and (iii) misunderstandings related to the operational
procedures followed by the donors on one hand, and DoR and the contractors
on the other hand. In a more general perspective, experience from
emergency road rehabilitation projects in other post-conflict situations
in the region shows that: (i) the scope of such operations and related
procurement rules should be kept as simple as possible; (ii) involve as
much as possible local structure and knowledge in project preparation;
(iii) provide local structure and involve foreign assistance only when
required; (iv) ensure a continuous dialogue between donors and local
structures to build trust and transparency and ensure efficient project
implementation; and (v) increase the efficiency of donor coordination by
lessening the need for it through a decentralized approach. The above
lessons have been fully incorporated in the project design.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The Project has been rated "B" for purposes of
OP4.01 because of the overlay works on the Pristina (Prishtine) - Gnjilane
(Gjilani) road. Otherwise, the Project will focus exclusively on minor
road maintenance activities. As such, the project will have a positive
-4 -



impact on environment, as it will allow for the cleaning of road shoulders
and restoration of drainage systems. In addition, rehabilitated roads
will result in more even travel speeds, which will lead to improved
traffic safety and lower fuel consumption. The crushed stone and asphalt
would be supplied from equipment meeting international standards for
environment and worker safety, since it seems likely that western
contractors will be heavily involved in materials supply. This is already
the case for crushed stone. The bidding documents for the Bank-financed
component will include provisions to ensure that bidders guarantee that
the materials that they will be using will have been supplied from
equipment meeting international standards for environment and worker
safety. With respect to the overlay works, an Environmental Management
Plan (EMP), acceptable to the Bank, has been prepared by the Recipient of
the Grant.
11. Contact Point:
Aymeric-Albin Meyer
Transport Specialist
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473 7101
Fax:   (202) 614 0900
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending July 21, 2000.
- 5 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the
borrower prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report
is required, once it is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in
accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental Assessment, it will be
filed as an annex to the Public Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an
EA annex; the findings and recommendations of the EA will be
reflected in the body of the PID.
-6-



