                                         Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 28787

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                      (TF-23922 TF-24762)

                                           ON TWO

                                    TRUST FUND GRANTS

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 12 MILLION

                                           TO THE

                 UNITED NATIONS INTERIM ADMINISTRATION IN KOSOVO
                               FOR THE BENEFIT OF KOSOVO,
                         REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO

                                           FOR AN

                                   URGENT ROAD PROJECT




                                         June 21, 2004




Infrastructure and Energy Services Department
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective May 2004)

                               Currency Unit = Euro
                                  0.85 Euro = US$ 1
                                   US$ 1.18 = 1 Euro

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1    December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFD:    Agence Francaise de Development
CFA:    UNMIK Central Fiscal Authority
CPE:    UNMIK Joint-Interim Central Procurement Entity
DoR:    Directorate of Roads
DoT:    UNMIK Joint-Interim Administrative Department of Transport and Infrastructure
EAR:    European Agency for Reconstruction
EC:     European Commission
EMP:    Environmental Management Plan
ERR:    Economic Rate of Return
EU:     European Union
GTZ:    Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
HDM:    Highway Design Model
IBRD:   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB:    International Competitive Bidding
IRD:    Information Road Data Bank
IS:     International Shopping
KCB:    Kosovo Consolidated Budget
KFOR:   Kosovo Force
KfW:    Kreditanstallt fur Wiederaufbau
KRSC:   Kosovo Road Safety Council
MOU:    Memorandum Of Understanding
MTC:    Ministry of Transport and Communications
NCB:    National Competitive Bidding
NGO:    Non-Governmental Organization
NPV:    Net Present Value
PMR:    Project Management Report
QCBS:   Quality and Cost Based Selection
RID     Road Infrastructure Department
TRL:    Transport Research Laboratory
TSS:    Kosovo Transitional Support Strategy
UNMIK:  United Nations Mission in Kosovo

                             Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu, ECAVP
                            Country Director     Orsalia Kalantzopoulos, ECCU4
                   Sector Director/Manager       Hossein Razzavi/Motoo Konishi, ECSIE
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Olivier Le Ber, ECSIE

                                           KOSOVO
                                URGENT ROAD PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              7
6. Sustainability                                                                  8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   8
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 9
9. Partner Comments                                                              10
10. Additional Information                                                       13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             15
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             17
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             18
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             19
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                20
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            21
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                 22
Maps: IBRD 33123 & 33124

Project ID: P070295                                                  Project Name: Urgent Road Project
Team Leader: Olivier Le Ber                                          TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 21, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Urgent Road Project                                      L/C/TF Number: TF-23922; TF-24762
   Country/Department: KOSOVO                                                             Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (90%); Central government administration
                            (10%)
                  Theme: Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (P);
                            Infrastructure services for private sector development (S); Access to
                            urban services for the poor (S); Rural services and infrastructure (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/17/2000                                     Effective: 08/16/2000                08/16/2000
     Appraisal: 05/15/2000                                         MTR: 03/15/2002                  03/15/2002
      Approval: 08/02/2000                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          United Nations Mission in Kosovo/Joint-Interim Administrative Department of
                                           Transport and Infrastructure
                      Other Partners:      The Netherlands Republic - Ministry of Cooperation

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                         Christiaan Poortman
Sector Manager/Director:        Motoo Konishi - Hossein Razavi                 Eva Molnar - Ricardo Halperin
Team Leader at ICR:             Olivier Le Ber                                 Aymeric-Albin Meyer
ICR Primary Author:             Mirtha Pokorny


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The primary objective of the Project, as stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), was "to
contribute to the reconstruction and economic development of Kosovo, by: (i) supporting the Program's
component (see below) aiming at an eventual re-establishment of a road management capacity in Kosovo;
(ii) supporting emergency road maintenance activities on the main network; and (iii) helping, through road
maintenance activities funded under the Project, to restore a local contracting capacity for road/bridge
rehabilitation and summer/winter maintenance.

The objectives of the project were defined under very special circumstances. When the United Nations
Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) started its operations, there were no representative institutions.                 The
withdrawal of all Serb public administrators at the end of the conflict combined with a decade of ethnic
Albanian absence from the management of public institutions left a complete institutional vacuum. The
institutional problem was compounded by a dramatic lack of basic infrastructure, the result of years of
neglect and/or of the destruction that took place during the conflict. In the transport sector, roads were in
dismal conditions with some bridges bombed and landslides affecting the movement of goods and the
reconstruction efforts. Post-conflict traffic increased rapidly, with a high percentage of heavy vehicles, and
it was not uncommon for trips of 70 km to take two and half hours. The road section Pristina - Prizren is
an example of a vital section in which traffic speed was below 35 km/hr. Hence, one of the main
challenges facing UNMIK was to start rebuilding from scratch governing institutions and public agencies,
while restoring basic public services to the Kosovars and providing the necessary infrastructure to support
the donors' post-conflict undertakings.

This setting formed the background of the Urgent Road Project. The Project was the portion financed by
grants from the IBRD and the Dutch Government of a comprehensive program (the Program) of
interventions in the road sector for the two to three years following approval of the grants. The Bank was
to coordinate with other donors the activities in the road sector so as to facilitate the funding of the Program
and the achievements of its goals. The Program had been built up by the Bank and various donors on the
findings of the reconstruction and recovery program prepared by the Bank and the EC ("Toward Stability
and Prosperity, a program for reconstruction and recovery in Kosovo", dated November 3, 1999). The
Program was inscribed in the Regional Strategy for South Eastern Europe prepared by the Bank in March
2000, and was part of the Quick Start Regional Infrastructure Projects that the international community
agreed to fund under the Stability Pact. The Program, (with an estimated total cost of US$ 60 million) was
to: (i) fund road rehabilitation/maintenance and bridge rehabilitation on the main network over a two to
three year period; (ii) support the first steps toward the re-establishment of the Road Administration; and
(iii) provide assistance in priority areas such as treatment of traffic congestion and traffic safety issues.

The project objectives were clearly articulated and highly relevant to Kosovo's post-conflict policy reform
and institutional development priorities.      Building government institutions and policies from scratch
constituted the first steps in a medium term program of reforms of economic institutions in Kosovo that
was being develop by UNMIK and the local political and technical leadership.                 The operation was
envisaged under and constituted important elements of the Transitional Support Strategy for Kosovo which
included "reconstruction activities in sectors that may be critical to Kosovo's sustainable recovery, and
investment and policy reforms that will underpin the needs of an evolving market economy". As the road
sector was until then mostly subjected to reactive emergency interventions and long term policies and
strategies were not in place, the project correctly focused on (i) restoring as soon as feasible the
serviceability of most of the damaged sections of the road network; (ii) reducing as much as possible the
road maintenance backlog; and (iii) setting up an adequate road management capacity in Kosovo, including



                                                       - 2 -

(a) a lean and efficient road administration; (b) mechanisms to fund road maintenance; and (c) an adequate
contracting capacity.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The original project components as described in the Project Appraisal Document were:
 i. Road Maintenance. The project was to fund about one-third of the Program's road maintenance
     component. It was expected that about 570 km of roads would be maintained under the project.
ii. Road Rehabilitation. The Project would fund overlay on a 14 km high priority stretch of the Pristina
     (Prishtine) - Gnjilane (Gjilani) road which had not been considered for funding by other donors.
iii. Support to Road Management Capacity. The Project would fund a study on the potential introduction
     of road user charges, would provide for a site engineer to organize supervision of the works carried out
     under the project and strengthen supervision within DoR. The project was also to contain allocation
     for assistance in specific areas such as project implementation or DoR strengthening, in case
     commitments made by other donors failed to materialize in a timely manner. Finally, the project was to
     fund the costs of the annual audits.

The project components were well in line with its urgent character and the limited time available for its
preparation. The Project was prepared in only four months. Works were spread throughout the network to
provide an acceptable service level and were heavily weighted towards fairly simple maintenance activities,
which could be prepared with a minimum of engineering without risking major mistakes in terms of design
standards and/or cost estimates. This was particularly relevant since the existing technical data was scant
and the available lead- time for design studies was negligible. The technical assistance component was well
focused on (i) ensuring sound project implementation, (ii) setting the stage for discussions of the financial
sustainability of road maintenance through a road user charge study and (iii) providing the necessary
flexibility to compensate for the uncertainties surrounding donor's participation in financing the program at
the time of project preparation. Moreover, utmost importance was placed on know-how transfers to ensure
continuance and sustainability when UNMIK would gradually shift responsibilities to local authorities.

3.4 Revised Components:
The components of the project were not formally revised. However, on November 20, 2000, a Grant in the
amount of US$ 7 million from the Netherlands Ministry of Cooperation, to be administered by the Bank,
was approved to help co-finance the project. As a result, the scope of the project was expanded to include
other works in the Program and so the Trust Fund funded: (i) maintenance of about 50 km of road sections
and rehabilitation of about 10 km of road sections; (ii) reconstruction of the Lozica Bridge; (iii) a study on
road safety; and (iv) the development of road material testing capacity.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The operation was not selected for a quality at entry assessment by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group.
The Region's assessment is that the quality at entry of the operation was satisfactory.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project did achieved its objective of upgrading and improving the serviceability of the road network,
thus contributing to Kosovo's stabilization through the provision of basic infrastructure for (i) the
normalization of the region's economic activity, and (ii) attending the strategic needs of UNMIK and the



                                                     - 3 -

donors' teams in their post-conflict activities.       The Bank/Dutch Fund- financed project, in close
cooperation with the EU, GTZ and AFD did also positively contribute to shape the institutional framework
of the sector and to inculcate in both the public and private sectors modern principles of road management.
Taking into consideration the circumstances surrounding the project, the short period of preparation and
implementation, and the potential coordination difficulties arising from the high number of local and foreign
institutions involved in the program, these achievements are remarkable.

Project design included in the PAD a list of areas that would be the focus of evaluation of project
performance, but it did not include specific quantifiable targets. These were developed during the early
phases of project implementation, when the urgency factor subsided, data was collected, and a more
thorough assessment of the local conditions permitted fine-tuning realistic targets. Annex I shows that the
project reached, and sometimes surpassed, the performance targets as measured by the road quality index,
the participation of the private sector in carrying out road maintenance, and the shaping of a modern
institutional framework for road management. Because of the fairly short implementation period the
program focused on developing a blueprint for road management institutions, and the approval in 2003 of a
modern Transport Law provides an adequate legal framework for a modern road sector. The working of
these institutions, however, is rather incipient and certainly not without problems. Nevertheless, there was
substantial progress in defining the responsibilities of the different sector players and budding turf fights,
which affected only marginally the execution of the project, were promptly resolved. The sustainability of
these arrangements, once these institutions stop being under the financial support, close scrutiny and strict
fiduciary guidelines of the donors, remains however a matter of concern.

Based on the above, the outcome of the project is considered as satisfactory rather than highly satisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation. Achievements under these components were well above the original
plan albeit with much more kilometers rehabilitated and less kilometers maintained because of further
deterioration of the network after appraisal rendering meaningless basic routine maintenance on too
deteriorated sections. Road maintenance was carried out on 503 km of roads (or about 81% of the 620 km
originally estimated; the sections dropped were the less urgent), while about 205 km were rehabilitated (8.5
time the original plan of 24 km with about 120 km receiving both routine maintenance and rehabilitation).
Two bridges (instead of one) were also rehabilitated under the project at a cost of US$ 2.5 million. The
total cost of these components was US$ 10.6 million, about 16 % above appraisal estimates. The cost
increase was the result of changes in the design standards of about 180 km of roads that were found to
require more expensive rehabilitation rather than routine maintenance and the appreciation of the Euro
during the last phase of the project. The project provided financing for supervision consultants, but as DoR
strengthen its capacity through formal and on-the-job training and hiring of new staff, increasing
responsibilities were gradually transferred to the Directorate of Roads (DoR). The consultants' inputs,
however, were not completely eliminated since there are certain specific technical capabilities (particularly
on testing materials) that are not yet fully developed. The Project financed some basic equipment to set up
a laboratory within the University of Kosovo. DoR and the University of Kosovo are collaborating in those
areas in which DoR needs support for the supervision of civil works.

The Bank's and the other donors' intentions to strengthen the local construction industry through the
program were fully realized. The EU provided relevant manuals on road standards and intensive training
on the preparation of proposals. Contractors were also familiarized, through several courses with, the
procurement requirements of each donor.            Moreover, early during project implementation, Bank
supervision missions found some unacceptable environmental flaws in the road maintenance works (e.g.
drainage and disposal of materials). The problem, which was traced to a lack of inclusion of an



                                                     - 4 -

Environmental Management Program (EMP) in the contract, was rapidly resolved. EMPs started to be
included in all the contracts and DoR and the supervision consultants actively enforced them.

As a result of the project the local construction firms, many of them operating for the first time as strictly
private sector, have learned to operate in a competitive environment under rigorous environmental and
procurement rules. In spite of the limitations imposed by the lack of financial intermediation, newness of
the "rules of the game", and the probably confusing different requirements of the different donors, the local
construction industry was indeed strengthened.        Eventually, as contracts were implemented and the
cash-flow of the firms improved, the more successful local firms invested in equipment and plants. In
general, firms became fairly proficient on procurement matters, learned and applied acceptable
environmental standards and, in addition, with the help of GTZ, created a fairly active association to
support the technical and professional standards of the industry. The implementation team emphasized the
importance of packaging the contracts in a way that would allow the participation of the Kosovar firms in
project execution. The more technical demanding rehabilitation works were awarded through International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) to foreign firms and the final rehabilitation costs of about US$ 100,000 per km
for works with a useful life of about 10 years shows that competition was keen.

The overall program of civil works of road rehabilitation/maintenance was successfully implemented as
planned by the different donors on about 1,000 km, of the 1,925 km main and regional road network. By
the end of 2003, EU financed and completed the rehabilitation/maintenance of 250 km of roads, and the
reconstruction of four bridges; GTZ and KFW financed and completed rehabilitation/maintenance of about
55 km of roads; while KFOR financed and completed rehabilitation/maintenance of about 230 km of roads.
In general, the donor's community provided about US$ 50 million of what was originally envisaged as a
US$ 60 million program. Donors funding for the road network has now been phased out, leaving to the
central budget the responsibility of financing road works.

Clearly, the civil works program was implemented on time and well within the cost parameters originally
estimated. These works, did accomplish the objective of substantially improving Kosovo's road network.
Overall, the quality index of the network was improved much more than anticipated at appraisal (1.93
instead of 2.78 see annex 1). Probably the only shortcoming of this component is that scarce resources
limited the possibility of putting in place acceptable levels of vertical and horizontal marking. Thus, the
need to improve the riding surface of the network compromised to a certain extent, basic traffic safety
considerations.

Based on the above, the outcome of these project components is considered as highly satisfactory.

Support for Strengthening Road Management Capacity.          The project financed consulting services in the
amount of US$ 1.28 million for the design and supervision of civil works, including the design and
supervision of the rehabilitation of two major bridges, for testing of materials and for a study on road user
charges. The latter, carried out by a British firm, contributed to identify the needs of the network and
explore alternatives of financing road maintenance through user fees. It also exposed a young generation of
civil servants working on roads with the state of the art methodologies and current thinking on setting the
problem and assessing the possible solutions of road financing. While the study served as the basis of
several workshops and was widely disseminated, the RID/DoR were confronted with the usual reluctance
of the financial authorities to consider a dedicated tax. A study on traffic safety which was planned to be
financed under the project, will be carried out with financing from the Kosovo's consolidated budget, since
the preparation of the TORs were delayed and it was not possible to implement the study before the closing
date of the Project. The latter had been extended from the original date of June 30, 2003 to December 31,
2003 to allow for the completion of the bridge works and the studies.


                                                     - 5 -

While the project concentrated its institutional development activities in improving work supervision and
addressing the issue of sector financing through a study, the lion share of the program to strengthen the
local road management capacity fell on the shoulders of other donors, particularly the EU and GTZ.
Nevertheless, as a co-financier of the program the Bank was actively involved in the dialogue that were to
shape the road institutions and contributed to the substantial institutional impact discussed in section 4.5
below. The evolution of the sector organization, which required organizational changes and staffing,
delayed the implementation of the study on road user charges and precluded the financing under the project
of the traffic safety study. The latter is being carried out with domestic financing.

Based on the above, the outcome of this project component is considered as satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic re-evaluation was carried out for fourteen road sections. At appraisal, the road maintenance
and rehabilitation works were estimated to have Economic Rate of Returns (EERs) ranging from 21.4% to
well above 100%. The updated evaluation confirms the high economic pay-offs of the project, with
estimated EERs ranging from about 23.3% and over 100%. The updated economic evaluation was based
on actual economic costs and 2003 traffic counts in key sections of the network, and it was assumed that
traffic would increase at a very conservative rate of 3% per year during the life of the projects. Benefits
accrue to the users in the form of reduced vehicle operating costs, with the reductions based on parameters
developed through the HDM model for other countries. The latter considers savings in vehicle operating
costs of about 20% for a small car when road conditions improve from poor to good, and up to a 40%
reduction in costs for heavy trucks for the same change in road conditions.

Estimated ex-ante, and ex-post EERs are presented in Annex 3. The results, however, are not readily
comparable, since the works actually carried out not necessarily fully coincide with those envisaged at
appraisal. This is particularly true of routine maintenance/patching, where works vary substantially from
year to year. Also, many of the works, and their estimated costs, were part of a program that at the time of
appraisal was only partially funded. The actual works carried out reflect the final available resources.
Those works that were carried out as originally planned, were done at costs very much in line with original
estimates.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rates of return were calculated during project preparation since there were no revenue earning
institutions involved in the project.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development was an important objective of this operation and the program supported by the
project has provided substantial support to the authorities in their effort to re-establish a core road
management capacity in Kosovo. Utmost importance was placed in the design of policies and institutions
to ensure continuance and sustainability after UNMIK withdrawal and local representative authorities
would take their place. The Joint Interim Administrative Structure established in early 2000 strengthened
and formalized local Kosovar participation. Twenty administrative departments were created (akin to
ministries), each with UNMIK and local Kosovar co-heads.                   Thus, the UNMIK Joint-Interim
Administrative Department of Transport and Infrastructure was the initial Bank interlocutor for the sector.
The actual road management was under the DoR, which is a revival of the Road Fund existing before the
start of the crisis. The latter was operating with a cadre of former civil servants who had been separated
from their duties for more than ten years and lacked the information and the state of the art tools for a
sound approach to planning, programming and executing road works.



                                                       - 6 -

The project and the program it supported were instrumental in the evolution of the sector institutions from a
fairly basic skeleton to well defined sector normative, planning and implementing functions. Bank and
donors contribution included the preparation of design manuals, training on preparation of bidding
documents, the development of a relevant data base for road management (e.g. road inventories,
development of road condition indexes, etc.), and the preparation of yearly programs and budgets for
summer and winter maintenance to be presented to the central budget authority for timely funding. With
the total transfer of responsibilities to the Kosovars and the creation of the Road Infrastructure Department
(RID) within the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC), the Ministry, with the support of
international consultants, evaluated different organizational structures until adopting the one now in place.
The process culminated with the approval in 2003 of the Transport Law, which allocated to MTC/RID
normative, planning and programming responsibilities, and to DoR control over execution of works. It can
be claimed that the selected organization does not follow the current world trend towards a strong
autonomous road agency. The Kosovars' selection appears to have been strongly influenced by marked
generational and personality differences, and if that is the case the organization might have to be revised in
the future.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Aside from the inherent political and social risks prevailing in Kosovo, there were substantial risks
associated with the implementation of structural changes to support stability and growth. The long period
of exclusion from civil life of the majority of the ethnic population and the legacy of the conflict had led to
an erosion of skills, sense of civic responsibility, tolerance and adherence to the rules of the game.
Conditions of political unrest and violence and deep distrust between the ethnic communities of Kosovo
resulting in political and civic non-cooperation were clearly factors that undermined the incipient emergence
of institutional organization in the road sector.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
There were various areas within government control that affected project outcome. Despite excellent
collaboration from the central authorities during project preparation and implementation in ensuring
funding for the core activities of the sector, budgetary systems and mechanisms in Kosovo, including tax
administration and collection, were and are still at a formative stage and the weakness of the system might
jeopardize the continuity and predictability of road funding. The challenge for the future are strong
pressures to raise wages, increase staffing in public services and utilities and increase overall spending to
amounts that would not be sustainable in the medium term.              These pressures might lead to (i) an
overstaffing of MTC, RID and DoR; and (ii) sector investments selected on the basis of other than
economic considerations.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Building up stronger synergies and seamless relations between MTC/RID and DoR were the main
institutional challenges in the sector. The strong focus of their activities on the implementation of a
program subjected to the donors' close scrutiny and strict targets, helped to minimize the potential friction
of these institutions. The challenge for the future is to fine-tune the chosen organization and continue with
its staffing and training. But more importantly, future institutional development will require a longer term
view to cement the gains under the project and strengthen what is now only an incipient culture of
delegation of responsibilities and accountability to the professionals and middle managers in the public
sector.




                                                      - 7 -

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total cost of the implemented project was US$ 12.5 million of which 40% was financed by the IBRD
grant, 56% by the Dutch grant and 4% by the central budget of Kosovo. While domestic financing was not
originally envisaged, the 100% pari-passu was reduced to 70% for the civil works funded under the IBRD
grant because changes in the Euro/dollar exchange rate increased the dollar cost of the project as almost all
of the ongoing contracts were denominated in Euro. At the end of the implementation period, when it was
clear that because of the delays in contracting it, the traffic safety study was not going to be financed under
the project, the IBRD grant financing reverted to 100%. This measure affected the last US$ 500,000
disbursed under the grant. Both grants were fully disbursed by the end of their respective grace period.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The overall sustainability of the institutional development and infrastructure improvements supported by
the grant appears as moderately likely. The policy and institutional measures implemented provide a basic
framework for a well managed road sector. The RID and DoR are well established and, while further
development is necessary, good progress was made in the preparation of annual programs and budgets,
drafting bidding documents and contracting works with a strengthened construction industry, carrying out
acceptable levels of project supervision, and developing a reliable data base for road management. Funding
from the central budget for road maintenance was adequate and reflecting the gradual increases in tax
revenues during the project period. This demonstrates that the central authority recognizes the importance
of sustaining investments in infrastructure through adequate maintenance.

Going forward, it remains to be seen to what extent the high standard of efficiency and accountability will
be preserved once the presence of the donors comes to an end. Experience time and again shows that
institutional development is a long term effort and requires clear objectives and the right incentives to
accomplish them. The Urgent Road Project provided only the basic tools for a core institution to function,
but the incentives for results and accountability came from the outside in the form of donors financing and
close supervision. A longer period of donors support would help cement the achievements to date and
would support the cultural changes that are required to design and internalize a self-sustained incentive
system. The latter is particularly relevant for institutions that were not exposed to a substantial level of
delegation of responsibilities and in which decision making is usually stiffened by a highly hierarchical,
bureaucratic and risk-averse culture.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Bank, in the context of its current dialogue with the Kosovar authorities to continue its support for the
region's development (new Transitional Support Strategy for Kosovo approved by the Board of Directors
on April 13, 2004), is in the process of identifying a technical assistance project to further strengthen the
capabilities of the MTC.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
 Project preparation was thorough in those areas in which the Bank could make important institutional
inroads, yet pragmatic in understanding the urgent character of the project and the lack of reliable data for
in-depth preparation of the civil work components. The civil works financed under the project were in
general of a very simple nature. Thus, the actions recommended using a visual approach because of lack of
data, would have not been substantially different from the outcome of a more sophisticated analysis.
Project design allowed and expected that the information gaps encountered during the short project



                                                      - 8 -

preparation, particularly for the development of benchmarks and targets, would be addressed during the
implementation period. On the other hand, the institutional component was developed in detail, and the
DoR acknowledges that Bank's preparation documents provided an invaluable blueprint for shaping the
responsibilities of the agency.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank missions visited Kosovo regularly twice a year to assess progress in the implementation of the project
and the program. A constant dialogue took place between the Bank and the other donors and findings
during supervision missions (e.g. weaknesses in environmental aspects of the work) triggered prompt
remedial actions to ensure good project implementation. The mid-term review was particularly thorough
and provided detailed technical information to refine the quality of the works. There was high staff
continuity during the implementation period and there was always good working relations with the interim
government, the executing agencies and the donors. Supervision reports were comprehensive, never loosing
sight of the fact that the project was only a small component of a much larger program involving many
partners.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
In view of the difficult environment and considering the very sound and fast design (it took five months
between concept stage and Board approval) of the project as well as the thorough supervision, the Bank's
performance was highly satisfactory for all the stages of project development and satisfactory for
supervision.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The authority's performance was highly satisfactory, UNMIK collaborated in every aspect of the project
and took decisive policy and legislative actions to foster the evolution of the sector.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The ability of the officials of the interim administration to effect wide-ranging reforms and address the
pressing issues of the sector, despite limited institutional capacity, is commendable.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing agencies were always eager to do their best to implement the project and showed a strong
level of commitment and ownership. They made good progress in the areas of programming, budgeting
and project supervision, and were able to keep the project on track despite of the sweeping institutional and
staff changes that were taking place in the sector. Although these changes delayed the implementation of
the traffic safety study beyond the termination of the grants, the DoR and RID took the necessary actions to
keep the study in their program with domestic financing. On the other hand, all the road works under the
project were completed before June 30, 2003, the original closing date, which is quite a remarkable
achievement for an institutions that had only recently started to operate as such (the two bridges were
completed in August 2003 and the Road User Charge study in December 2003 by the revised closing date).

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Because of the above, the overall Borrower performance is considered fully satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The main lesson of this project is that the Bank can play a productive role in providing support in urgent
operations dealing with post-conflict situations, provided there is a pragmatic approach to the issues at
hand. The success of the Kosovo Urgent Road Project can be explained by:



                                                       - 9 -

 i. the simplicity of the project, which focused on the indispensable capacity needed in the public and
    private sectors to keep the operability of the road network; and
ii. the willingness of the Bank to adapt the requirements of project preparation to the urgency of the
    project, accepting the trade-offs between short lead-times and limited data gathering and background
    studies. This was done with the knowledge that the recommended actions would not be substantially
    changed if there would have been time for extensive preparation.

The project highlights the importance of the long term efforts necessary to achieve lasting improvements in
institutional performance, the more so when those improvements are not limited to technical know-how but
involve a profound revision of cultural mores. The transition stage of the road sector of Kosovo is far from
completed, even when the project was very successful in putting together working institutions. But the
project started with an extremely low base of sector capabilities and an inherited system of decision making
that is not conducive to individual initiatives and proactive problem-solving attitudes. Thus, in spite of the
strong political resolve to change things, the sustainability of the project is still in question. The current
generational change taking place in the sector provides a golden opportunity to move from the conceptual
ideas of transparency and accountability to the development of incentives within and outside the sector
institutions to make those ideas are actually affecting institutional behavior.          Further bilateral and
multilateral support for these efforts should certainly help project sustainability.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The following letter was received from UNMIK on June 21, 2004. In addition, MTC/RID provided a
detailed contribution to the ICR (see Annex 8) which is reflected in the final ICR.




 EUROPEAN UNION


                                                                                                 June 21, 2004



Subject: ICR Comments - Kosovo Urgent Road Project (TF-23922 TF-24762)


Dear Mr. Le Ber,

Let me first express my gratitude for the excellent assistance of the World Bank during the Kosovo Urgent
Road Project through supervision missions, aide ­ memoires and report reviews. It was reported to me that
the availability of WB staff and your personal commitment to the project has been highly appreciated by
MTC - Road Infrastructure Department.

While I have not been involved in the day to day monitoring of the project, my senior adviser in MTC,
Jozef Zuallaert, has prepared the comments report in Annex, which I have read and am satisfied with. I am
also pleased by the extensive Borrower's Contribution in Annex of the Draft ICR, which was prepared by
MTC / RID.



                                                     - 10 -

UNMIK is looking forward to continuing the well-established good cooperation with the Bank within the
forthcoming Transitional Support Program.


                                              Yours sincerely,

                                         Nikolaus Graf Lambsdorff
                                    Deputy Special Representative of the
                                             Secretary General




                                                   ANNEX

                               EU PILLAR Comments Report
                                         to the World Bank
                         Implementation Completion Report
                         for the Kosovo Urgent Road Project
                                         (TF-23922 / TF-24762)


Well balanced Emergency Package
Based on the finding of the reconstruction and recovery program prepared by the Bank and the EC (1999),
the Urgent Road Project served as a Quick Start Road and Bridge Infrastructure and Institutional Re ­
Establishment program for the Kosovo Road Administration in the period 2000 ­ 2004. Given the very
special circumstances, under which UNMIK political and technical leadership had to re-establish a
representative Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC) and Road Administration, the project
offered a well balanced kick ­ off package covering both infrastructure emergency activities (18 contracts
for maintenance and rehabilitation works) and road management capacity building activities (6 contracts
for services and 2 contracts for the purchase of goods).

Roads Sector Reform and Competitive Bidding
During the Project Period road management responsibilities were transferred from UNMIK to the
Provisional Institutions of Self ­ Government, in casu the Ministry of Transport (September 2001). With
the help of the Project and technical leadership and assistance by UNMIK internationals, a Road
Infrastructure Department (RID) was established giving opportunities for an incoming generation of local
staff of engineers and other personnel. RID is currently the leading lean Roads Division in the planning and
tendering of the roads , whereas the Directorate of Roads (DOR) is almost being turned in fulfilling the role
of the operational division under the Ministry. Both Divisions are acting within the new Law on Roads
(June 2003) and the Administrative Instruction on Directorate of Roads (September 2003). Competitive
bidding is now applied to the domestic and joint venture market of contractors and in some major projects
international bidding using WB procurement guidelines were applied.




                                                    - 11 -

Emerging institutional performance
The capacity building component of the Bank's Project, EU and GTZ helped to strengthen the sector
organization, in particular in the tendering activities for basic road and bridge maintenance and
rehabilitation works by RID, in annual budgeting procedures for winter and summer maintenance and in
the establishment of a basic road data base and an independent roads laboratory at the Pristina University.
Moreover, new personnel with specific competence in road related environmental and traffic safety issues
are recruited and trained. It is envisaged to recruit further capacity in roads planning activities. Although
the institutional performance is relatively good and well in line with the initial Bank Project objectives,
some inefficiencies in doubling efforts between RID and DOR remain due to persistent routines of the past.
Prioritization of road works based on proper road data base management remains a major concern.

Financing Roads
The Bank 2004 Road User Charges Study reported that the quality of the maintenance and rehabilitation
works is good, but the lesson learned is that the quantity of interventions is still too limited. The Study
recommended for all Kosovo Roads per annum  14.2 million for recurrent maintenance (9.8 in 2003,
uplifted to 13.45 million in the 2004 KCB budget) and it was estimated that 48 million for road, bridges
and tunnel rehabilitation (4.2 million in 2004 KCB budget) is needed over the next 10 years to bring the
whole of Kosovo's road network, including local roads, up to a good standard of maintenance. This
recommendation assumes no significant expansion of Kosovo's road network.

Consequently it is recommended to earmark the budget for road maintenance through a Road Fund and to
raise additional funding, particularly if Kosovo is aiming for a road network, which meets international
standards. However, it should be noted that at this time residents of Kosovo could not afford to meet the
whole of the requirement for additional funds. The Road User Charges Study estimated that an additional 
18 million per annum could be raised at this time through additional fuel duties and charges for foreign
registered vehicles.

Financing new major infrastructure such as the Pristina Bypass and the Motorways will require even more
additional funds separated from the Road Fund and, above all, new financing techniques will have to be
put in place.

The need to prioritize and to integrate transport modes
A solid base for mid and longer term planning is currently lacking. Accordingly a more integrated approach
in MTC's process of prioritization for road, public transport and rail projects is needed. This challenge will
be taken up in the drafting of a Multi Modal Transport Document in the second half of 2004 and in a
second generation of TA projects in 2005 and beyond.

Further Institutional Reform
The Project's Road User Charges Study recommended a substantial program for institutional
re-structuring, changes to budget management, and new road management techniques. In particular six
areas for further reform have been identified as being necessary:
-        The setting up of a Road Board, which would be a mix of public and private sector interests.
-        The expansion of the road information database;
-        The specification of roles within the re-structured MTC;
-        A national transport policy and road network strategy as mentioned before;
-        Updated methods of contracting;
-        Using HDM4 for economic appraisal of road investments




                                                     - 12 -

Progress on Road Safety Management
Provided that Kosovo recorded accident data are correct, the Road Safety Improvement Study reported that
road safety problems on the Kosovo network are not equally expanding as they did in EU accession
countries in their early transition stage. This conclusion relates to specific factors such as active
enforcement by UNMIK and Kosovo Police, low level of driving under influence, road conditions which
retain most drivers from speeding. However, it is expected that road accidents may rapidly increase with
the economic development, the growth of motorization and the retreat of UNMIK Police in the future.
Therefore, Traffic Safety should become and remain a preventive priority concern and a proper traffic
safety management should be put in place, lead by a Kosovo Road Safety Council.

(b) Cofinanciers:
The following comment was received from the Ministry of Cooperation - The Netherlands Republic.

The Netherlands appreciates the comprehensive reporting on the overall project implementation of the
'Urgent Road Project'. Our decision to contribute to this project at the time was our policy goal to
contribute to emergency assistance in Kosovo. The project succeeded not only to reach that objective, the
most urgent needs in the road sector, but also to initiate institutional structures, such as the Road Board, to
support further development of the road sector. Unfortunately, it became clear that development in the
road sector cannot be sustained financially by the Kosovo authorities, which are not (at all) able to
maintain similar levels of investments in the public sector. One of the lessons learnt you mentioned is that
if bilateral and multilateral donors would support these efforts this would promote the sustainability of the
project. The Netherlands would, however, like to stress that, like many other bilateral donors, donor
contributions have diminished and will continue to diminish. The Netherlands would much rather like to
see multilateral organizations, referring mainly to International Financial Institutions, to become involved in
sectors like infrastructure through borrowing to Kosovo. The Netherlands is aware of the hurdles that need
to be taken in order to make this possible, but nevertheless would like to stress that this seems one of the
best ways to assist Kosovo in overcoming its economic problems.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
There were no other partners.

10. Additional Information

There is no additional information.




                                                     - 13 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                              1
               Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                    Actual/Latest Estimate
Core Road Administration set up, and able to New ambitious strategy to strengthen DoR Administrative decision taken and
carry out basic tasks on an efficient basis.  implemented                             implemented
Indicators: quality of road maintenance
programs and progress reports; adequacy of
contract management capacity; proactivity of
DoR in dealing with donors;
Improved main road network condition by       2.78                                    1.93
December 31, 2003 (1 = excellent; 5 = very
bad)
Percentage of road maintenance on the main 80%                                        100%
road network contracted out.




Output Indicators:
                                                                              1
               Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                    Actual/Latest Estimate
Length of road sections                       620km/24km                              503 km/205km
rehabilitated/maintained by project completion
2001, 2002 and 2003 level of funding raised   DEM30 million in 2004                   DEM40 million in 2004.
locally for road maintenance equal to an
acceptable level.




1End of project




                                                               - 14 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                       Appraisal       Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                                       Estimate           Estimate           Appraisal
                           Component                                  US$ million       US$ million
WORKS
   Road Maintenance (IBRD)                                                2.86                 1.25                  37
   Road Rehabilitation (IBRD)                                             1.01                 2.52                 217
   Bridge reconstruction/rehabilitation (IBRD)                            0.00                 1.30
   Road and bridges works (Dutch TF)                                      5.40                 6.27                 114
GOODS
   Equipment and testing materials (IBRD)                                 0.18                 0.04                  22
   Laboratory Equipment (Dutch TF)                                        0.30                 0.10                  33
SERVICES
   Technical Assistance/Studies (IBRD)                                    0.45                 0.30                  67
   Technical Assistance /Studies (Dutch TF)                               1.30                 0.98                  58




Total Baseline Cost                                                     11.50                 12.76
 Physical Contingencies                                                   0.27                 0.00                   0
 Price Contingencies                                                      0.23                 0.00                   0
                              Total Project Costs                       12.00                 12.76
                     Total Financing Required                           12.00                 12.76


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                 1
                                                       Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                 2.40               2.10              0.00              0.00              4.50
                                        (2.40)             (2.10)           (0.00)              (0.00)           (4.50)
2. Goods                                 0.15               0.00              0.05              0.00              0.20
                                        (0.15)             (0.00)           (0.05)              (0.00)           (0.20)
3. Services                              0.00               0.00              0.30              0.00              0.30
                                        (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.30)              (0.00)           (0.30)
   Total                                 2.55               2.10              0.35              0.00              5.00
                                        (2.55)             (2.10)           (0.35)              (0.00)           (5.00)
This table refers only to the Bank financed portion of the project. No procurement method for the Dutch financed
portion of the project was included in the PAD, as the grant at that time was still under consideration. Dutch funds
were disbursed for eligible expenditure procured following Bank Guidelines.




                                                        - 15 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                                9.40               1.94              0.00             0.00             11.34
                                          (9.09)             (1.49)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (10.58)
   2. Goods                                0.00               0.00              0.14             0.00              0.14
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.14)            (0.00)           (0.14)
   3. Services                             0.00               0.00              1.28             0.00              1.28
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.28)            (0.00)           (1.28)
      Total                                9.40               1.94              1.42             0.00             12.76
                                          (9.09)             (1.49)            (1.42)            (0.00)           (12.00)
  Figures in parenthesis are amounts financed by the Bank and Dutch grants. Differences due to rounding.
    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Works                          3.28         0.00         5.40        4.69         0.76       5.89       143.0     0.0     109.1
Goods                          0.20         0.00         0.30        0.04         0.00       0.10       20.0      0.0      33.3
Services                       0.30         0.00         1.30        0.27         0.00       1.01       90.0      0.0      77.7




                                                          - 16 -

     Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

     Estimated Economic Evaluation
    Nr.          Road Section     Appraisal      Actual Cost   Appraisal  Current
                                    Costs           in US$     Estimated Estimated
                                   in US$                      EER (%)    EER (%)
     1        Prístina - Gjilan     3,600,000       1,396, 892   69.20     75.40
     2        Prístina - Gjilan       380,000         164,793   Over 100  Over 100
     3        Prístina-Peje         1,176,000         157,616   Over 100  Over 100
     4        Dolc-Ponoshec           397,000         222,810    44.60     53.25
     5        Gjilian-Konculi         770,000         123,072    67.30     84.25
     6        Mitrovica-Peje          663,000         229,687    77.40    Over 100
     7        Kucice-Komaran          185,000         123,072    38.90     33.28
     8        Peje-Prizren          4,300,000       1,561,195    71.00     82.23
     9        Arlat-Malsheve              n.a.        235,414    44.90     43.00
     10       Javice-Xerxe                 n.a      1,973,640    80.10     52.29
     11       Zhur-Restilice               n.a         96,062    23.60    Over100
     12       Dhul-Jashanice          365,000       1,158,000    21.40     23.27
     13       Lebane-Janjeve          682,000          67,272    71.20    Over 100
     14       Magure-Ljpian               n.a.         96,062     n.a.    Over 100
n.a. not available




                                              - 17 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                      No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                          (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year    Count             Specialty                           Progress      Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               March 2000                    3     TL, Ec, Co

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               May/July 2000                 3     TL, Ec, PS

 Supervision
               September 2000                 2    TL, Co                                  S              S
               April 2001                     1    TL                                      S              S
               October 2001                   1    TL                                      S              S
               March 2002                     1    TL                                      S              S
               October 2002                   1    TL                                      S              S
               March 2003                     2    TL, Co                                  S              S
               September 2003                 1    TL                                      S              S

 ICR
               March 2004                    3     TL, PO, Co                              S              S

Abbreviations: TL = Team Leader, PO = Project Officer, Ec = Economist, Co = Consultant, PS = Procurement
Specialist

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                       No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                                   53.6
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                        41.0
  Supervision                                                                192.9
  ICR                                                                          17.5
  Total                                                                      305.0
No. Staff Weeks not available




                                                   - 18 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 19 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 20 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document No. 20555-KOS.
World bank Mission Project Supervision Reports and Aide Memoires.


AM2000-09.doc AM2001-04.doc AM2001-04Annex.xlsAM2001-10.doc AM2001-10Annex.xlsAM2002-03.doc



AM2002-03Annex.xlsAM2002-10.doc AM2002-10Annex.xlsAM2003-03Final.docAM2003-09.doc



AM2004-03Final.doc
"Towards Stability and Prosperity: A Program for Reconstruction and Recovery in Kosovo".




                                                 - 21 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution

                                             Borrower's Contribution
                                                to the World Bank
                                       Implementation Completion Report
                                       for the Kosovo Urgent Road Project


                           1. Works: Road Maintenance and Road Rehabilitation

Overall objectives
After the war the level of service of the road and bridge sub-sector in Kosovo was problematic as a result
of absence of maintenance works for several years. Hence, the Kosovo Urgent Road Project was initiated to
improve the Kosovo main and regional road network based on an initial damage assessment report and
Estimation done after just after the war (1999).

The overall goal for the Roads and Bridge sub-sector was to support emergency road and bridge
maintenance and rehabilitation activities on the main and regional road network in order to provide a road
network that is safe, smooth and accessible for the people of Kosovo, not only to destinations within
Kosovo but also to the regional and international road network.

Fourteen road sections were selected and were to cover some 473 km for main and regional road
maintenance and 305 km for main and regional road and bridge rehabilitation works

I. WORKS
a) Road Maintenance
   Contract
   Ekrem-Gursan             PRM/BM/02     28-May-01Four road sections
   NTNT Shkoza              RTM/BM/10     16-Sep-02Road Malisheve-Xerxe
   NTNT Shkoza              RTM/BM/11     16-Sep-02Road Zhur-Dragash
   Magjistrala              RTM/BM/01      7-Aug-00Road Prishtina-Gjilan
   Morava e Binces          RTM/BM/02      7-Aug-00Road Mitrovica-Peja
   Magjistrala              RTM/BM/03      7-Aug-00Road Leban-Sllatine-Lipjan-Janjeve
   Transkompekt             PRM/BM/01     29-Aug-00Road Prishtina-Gjilan
   Magjistrala              RTM/BM/04     14-May-01Road Arllat-Malisheve
   Magjistrala              RTM/BM/05     14-May-01Road Prishtina-Komaran
   Magjistrala              RTM/BM/06     14-May-01Road Dollci-Gjakove-Ponashec




b) Road Rehabilitation
   Freyssinet International WB/SP/0102     4-Sep-02Lozica-Dobrava
   Carta Isnardo            PRM/BM/07     30-Aug-02Road Magure-Lipjan
   Carta Isnardo            PRM/BM/08     16-Oct-02 Road Malisheve-Kijeve
   Carta Isnardo            PRM/BM/03     22-Aug-01Rehabilitation of Mitrovica to Peja Road




                                                    - 22 -

Achievement of Objectives and Outputs
These maintenance and rehabilitation projects have all been successfully completed in 18 contracts and the
works noticeably achieved the objectives. It significantly improved the main and regional road network
conditions between major cities and towns in Kosovo.
Recurrent maintenance works gradually became a routine under RID and DOR; the expenditure for
maintenance yearly increased and are at date 9.8 million euro under KCB budget.

The works helped to decrease the cost of transport and travel time, made the roads safer and the traffic flow
has been improvement also into the urban areas. The improvements have been successfully achieved into all
contracted road sections.

The set of contracts enabled the construction industry to establish a competitive market with stronger
companies, mostly joint ventures with foreign firms.

The Project also benefited from International Competitive Bidding. It was reported that the level of price
was low for all the main contracts.

In the first phase very limited attention was paid to mitigation measures to limit the impact of the works
remains on environment. At date an EMP is included in the tendering procedure and a RID environmental
officer supervises the environmental impact of the road works.

Although some black spots have been eliminated within the program, the later Road Safety Improvement
Study showed new ways to include a traffic safety audit and traffic safety measures into all bidding
documents and into designs for rehabilitation.

Unfortunately, RID/DoR didn't succeed substantially in raising he level of service of road markings and
signing and the quality of the material that is used remains poor.

Lessons learned
From the 2003 ­ 2004 Road User Charges and Road Safety Improvement Studies RID gained respectively
new understandings regarding planning of maintenance and rehabilitation works:
1. The quality of the maintenance and rehabilitation works is good, but the lesson learned from the later
Road User Charges Study is that the quantity of interventions is still too limited. The Study recommended
for all Kosovo Roads per annum  14.2 million for recurrent maintenance (9.8 in 2003) and 48 million
for road, bridges and tunnel rehabilitation.
2. The quality of the pavement improved significantly but the level of service to the users should be
expanded to the field of Roads Safety and Environmental Measures. The Road Safety Improvement Study
recommends the establishment of Traffic Safety Council, the introduction of traffic safety audit, and a
sharp raise in maintenance of horizontal markings, signings and signaling, including training and
recruitment of personnel.



                                           2. Goods and Services

After the war the road management capacity had to be re-established and the local contracting capacity for
maintenance and rehabilitation works had to be restored.

The first phase of the Urgent Road Project, 2001 ­ 2003, strategically focused on institutional reform,
performance improvement and individual competency enhancement of the Road Infrastructure Department


                                                     - 23 -

and the Directorate of Roads. In the second phase, mid 2003 till early 2004, it was intended to raise
awareness for financing the roads sector and for traffic safety by preparing strategies and action plans in
both areas.

The Services and Goods component of the Urgent Road Project have all been successfully completed
respectively under 6 contracts for services and 2 contracts for the purchase of DoR vehicles and for the
testing materials at the Roads Laboratory.

II. GOODS
    Equipment for DOT/Material Testing Equipment
    Global Development Four                  Purchase of vehicles
    Laboratory Equipment                     Laboratory Equipment


IIISERVICES
.
    Other Services, Technical Assistance, Studies
    Aspen Burrow                             Assist DOT with contract preparation
    Aspen Burrow                             Assist DOT with contract preparation
    Consultancy Service             2-Aug-01   Assist DOT (SMEC)
    Consultancy Service            31-Aug-01 Project for Lozica and Dubova Bridges (Louis Berger Group)
    Consultancy Service            18-Aug-03 Road User Charges Study (Roughton International, UK)
    Consultancy Service                Jan 04Road Safety Improvement Study (BCEOM, France)




                              Institutional Development and Capacity Building

Objectives
To raise the performance of the Road Infrastructure Department (RID) and the Directorate of Roads (DoR)
two services were contracted, one dealing with contract preparation and one technical assistance package.

The Law on Road, June 2003, and the Administrative Instruction on Directorate of Roads, September
2003, regulated the MTC activities in the Roads Sector and the responsibilities of. RID.

The objectives were to review the Directorate of Roads and to improve contract management capacities and
supervision of maintenance/rehabilitation works within RID and DoR.

Achievement of objectives
Both RID and DoR welcomed the vast technical assistance offered by UNMIK, WB, KFOR , EAR and
other donors during the past four years. This resulted in a basic but solid level of technical, administrative
and contract management skills. Contracting of standard maintenance and rehabilitation works has become
a routine within RID by now. New personnel with specific competence in road related environmental issues
are recruited and trained.
However, integrated traffic and transport projects, procurement and project implementation of new major
infrastructure planning and works will need special attention in the near future.

With respect to the institutional reform and refinement of structures, RID is currently acting as the leading
Roads Agency in the planning and tendering of the roads program (Employer role), whereas DoR is



                                                         - 24 -

expected to fulfill the role of the operational agency (Project Manager) under the Minister within RID.
Despite the efforts to optimize the responsibilities for Kosovo roads some duplication of efforts and
inefficiencies remain, basically due to persistent routines of the past. The 2004 Road User Charges Study
outlined necessary steps in its further Institutional Reform.

The project established an Information Road Data Bank (IRD) based on visual surveys of the network. It
did not fully succeed, however, in turning this IRD into a multi-user road management information system
addressing accountability based on HDM4 and prioritization schemes and on reporting requirements.
Nevertheless the existing capacity for further progress exists but needs to be fully and sensibly expanded
and exploited.

Furthermore, lessons should be drawn from the weak relationship between RID and Municipalities. It is
suggested that, in order to overcome current ad hoc cooperation with municipalities, a structured
framework for roads and transport management and cooperation between MTC and municipalities is
developed in the near future.



                               Establishment of a Central Testing Laboratory

Objectives and Objectives Achievement
The project aimed at raising the domestic capacity for quality control of roads structures and construction
materials such as soils, aggregate, concrete, cement, asphalt, and bitumen. The project successfully
provided testing material for the Laboratory.

The establishment of the Laboratory was based on a MOU signed in 2002 between MTC and University of
Pristina, represented by the Civil Engineering Faculty. The following (selected) objectives and activities for
the Central Laboratory were agreed:
·         to cooperatively work towards improvements in the availability and standardization of road
material testing in Kosovo, specifically within the provision of quality assurance services and improved
teaching programmers within the area of road engineering.
·        In pursuit of this aim, the following specific actions and obligations were agreed (selection);
-        Provide material testing services to the road sector industry on a cost recovery basis, in addition to
teaching functions and independent laboratory accreditation;
-        Provide priority material testing services to MTC (on an agreed, actual marginal cost basis);
-        Ensure that the Laboratory is established and operates as an independent cost center on a
commercial type basis under the Civil Engineering Faculty
-        Other

Lessons learned
At date most tests performed by the Laboratory are requested from private contractors on a commercial
basis. Certified reports are produced for each of these tests.
There remains a need, though, for Mobile Labs to do "on site" testing control, a service, which cannot yet
be provided by the Central Lab. . It is intended to establish a Mobile Laboratory under a forthcoming EAR
project
MTC ­ RID should also act as a demanding supervisor and user of the Central Lab. Whenever findings of
poor road material and structure conditions are reported to RID, it would be appropriate that RID itself
actively and regularly demands the Central Lab to do specific tests and to recommend actions for
improvement
Furthermore, it is recommended that the Lab Management presents an annual activities report to the MTC


                                                      - 25 -

and establishes a users board.



                               Reconstruction of Lozica and Dubova Bridges

Objectives and Objectives Achievement
The Project was initiated in 2001, in order to replace two major bridges. These are the Lozica bridge on the
main Prishtinë-Pejë road and the Dubova Bridge on the regional Pejë ­ Mitrovicë road. Designs were
completed and tenders called by May 2002. By September 2002 the contract for Reconstruction of both
bridges was awarded and the works were successfully completed in June 2003 (final cost: 2,332,923 Euro).

Under The Urgent Road Project a consultant was contracted (price: 406,995 USD) to supervise the works,
to monitor contractor's progress on both sites and to handle the administration of the contract. Increased
attention was paid to the quality control and MTC staff members got on site training with respect to
specialist bridge items.

MTC learnt to use proper EUROCODE standards for bridge construction and received
useful on - job training for MTC and DOR staff to manage international bridge contracts and to supervise
capital investments.



                                         Road User Charges Study

Project objectives
The Project Objectives for the Road User Charges Study, August 2003 ­ January 2004, were defined as
follows:
·        Define the road user charges system;
·        Define the common accounting framework;
·        Calculate costs to be recovered from users;
·        Advise on concessions and cross subsidies;
·        Develop a phased implementation program;
·        Ability of Kosovo residents to pay extra charges;
·        Comply with IMF ­ WB and EU guidance and rules

The Study aimed to raise the awareness that:
·        everybody should pay to use roads;
·        charges should be based upon the marginal costs of driving;
·        there should be rebates or reduced charges for those using less damaging or polluting vehicles;
·        all roads should receive an allocation for maintenance from the road fund;
·        and priorities for expenditure should be identified on the basis of transparent and fair rules, using
up to date and complete information.

The study had to ascertain that appropriate procedures and techniques are adapted in the agencies dealing
with road user charges issues and that the project was to be carried out in close liaison with the agencies
responsible for managing and charging of the use of roads.

77.240 Pound Sterling and 61.203 euro was allocated to the Study.




                                                    - 26 -

Achievement of objectives
Revenue Requirements and proposed charges
The Study allowed RID to define the Kosovo Road Network Management as a manageable system by
specifying a series of requirements such as prioritization of expenditures, keeping road and bridge condition
data, prediction of future deterioration, interaction with HDM4, monitoring works and performance and
other.

Based on road and bridge pavement and condition surveys as laid down in the Annex, the Study provided
the following indicative annual revenue requirements for all road and bridge maintenance and rehabilitation
efforts for Kosovo, including local roads:
·        Roads recurrent maintenance - 10.8m
·        Bridge recurrent maintenance - 3.0m
·        Tunnel recurrent maintenance - 0.4m
·        Roads rehabilitation - 41.8m per annum
·        Bridge rehabilitation - 6.0m per annum
·        Tunnel rehabilitation - 0.3m per annum
These estimations require per annum additional 18 million euro revenues from the KCB budget apart from
whatever needs for new roads.

Aforementioned revenues requirements include external costs to cover the environmental and health costs of
vehicle emissions, the external costs of road accidents and the costs of traffic congestion. As part of this
study each of these external costs have been reviewed with a view to recommending an appropriate way of
capturing some of these costs within the road user charges system.

Accordingly, a set of charges were recommended, which include:
·        Increased Fuel Duties
             ­ to cover road maintenance costs
             ­ to recognize the health effects of leaded petrol
             ­ to reflect the environmental damage from emissions
·        Charges for Foreign Vehicles Entering Kosovo
·        Excess Axle Load Fines
·        Parking Charges - for local funding

Rebates and Cross ­ Subsidies were proposed such as fuel used in agriculture, road based passenger
transport, Rail freight and an additional duty on leaded petrol.

Recommended Institutional Reform and Responsibilities
In assessing the existing institutional structure the Study has identified a number of deficiencies. It is
important to recall some of these deficiencies:
·        A network strategy within which to determine priorities for investment, needs to be put in place
·        A formal system for determining maintenance priorities needs to be incorporated into the road
information database
·        Maintenance budgeting and planning needs to be undertaken over an extended period allowing
improved contracting methods
·        The currently inefficient split of responsibilities for roads between Road Infrastructure department
and Directorate of Roads needs further operational reform giving all responsibility to a central organization

It was reported that a two-stage evolution would be necessary to establish a sounder basis for road
management and maintenance in Kosovo.


                                                      - 27 -

The setting up of a Road Board is an important element in this first stage. The recommended make up of
the Road Board would be a mix of public and private sector interests, with representatives from road user
groups, interested ministries, the Municipalities and external donors, such as the World Bank. Initially the
Road Board would be an advisory body, assisting the Director of Roads and monitoring the performance of
the Road Agency. Furthermore the responsibility for local roads should be transferred to the MTC and
MTC should establish a framework for technical and financial assistance to municipalities in order to
strengthen their traffic management capabilities. The method of MTC budget management should be
refined with a dedicated budget heading for road maintenance and the proposed new charges should be put
in place. It was recommended that this be done as soon as possible with a target date of April 2005 for
completion.

The second evolution has more uncertain timing as it relies upon the economic and institutional
development of Kosovo. This stage would involve setting up an independent Road Fund, with an
independent Roads Board. At this stage new contracting methods would also be introduced, with
multi-year performance based contracts for routine maintenance, greater use of consultants to undertake
maintenance management and supervision tasks and a return of responsibility to the Municipalities.

Outreach
In order to raise full awareness for the Study, a multi agency Seminar, chaired by MTC permanent
secretary, was held with representatives of MTC, Ministry of Finance, Commission of Finance of Kosovo
Parliament, Municipalities, EAR and other. Furthermore an executive summary of the findings and
recommendations was widely distributed.
MTC and the Consultant joined Macedonian colleagues in Skopje to participate in a World Bank
videoconference on pricing of roads, directed from Washington.

Lessons Learned
Key MTC personnel assessed the RUC Study as very valuable, well documented and important for the near
future.

RID has welcomed the estimations of the recurrent maintenance and rehabilitations costs and is taking
initiatives to get the `pre- road fund vote' earmarked in the KCB. In line with the RUCS recommendations,
new personnel are to be recruited in order to strengthen respectively the roads policy, the roads
prioritization and roads data base components within RID.

The project failed, however, in raising immediate high-level political commitment to the recommendations.
Although serious efforts have been undertaken to include representatives from Ministry of Finance in the
MTC RUS working group, MTC failed to get active involvement from Finance. To date, the Minister of
Transport and Communications has repeatedly confirmed to take the initiative for a joint MTC / Finance
working group. Co- ownership and copartnership between MTC and Ministry of Finance in an early stage
seems to be key for success in these matters.



                                       Road Safety Improvement Study

Project objectives, activities, sectors, manuals and training
The Project Objectives for the first Kosovo Road Safety Improvement Study, February 2004 ­ June 2004,
were defined as follows:
a)       quantify the scale and nature of the road safety problem in Kosovo and to provide initial estimates


                                                     - 28 -

of the annual cost of road accidents to the economy;
b)      review all sectors affecting road safety and develop a comprehensive, prioritized [3-year?] Action
Plan for the improvement of road safety in Kosovo.
The Study aimed to ascertain that appropriate procedures and techniques are adapted in the agencies
dealing with traffic safety issues and that the project was to be carried out in close liaison with the agencies
responsible for road safety. The development objectives of the consultancy services were to enhance the
efficiency of the administration, development and management of the classified road network as regards
road safety, and to improve traffic safety along sections of the road network.

The broad review had to include the following sectors:
·       Road Safety Planning, including accident black spot improvement, identification of accident black
spots and preparation of remedial measures to improve road safety.
·       Motor insurance and traffic accident cost estimation.
·       Information, road safety publicity, propaganda, road user education
·       Driver training and testing,
·       Traffic education of children, traffic education of drivers,
·       Pedestrian and cyclist safety,
·       Vehicle licensing,
·       Road worthiness inspections and surveys.
·       Emergency Services, including vehicle breakdowns and towing, Police, firefighting services,
ambulance and medical.

The Consultant was expected to produce working manuals and to provide training to counterpart staff so
that they can continue road safety activities in their respective organizations during and after the plan
period of the program.

An amount of 147,400 euro was allocated to the Study.

Achievement of objectives, activities, sectors, manuals and training
Road Accident Data and Management
The UNMIK Police has developed an ACCESS database for accidents.
To date they have recorded accident details for the period 2000 ­ 2003.

The Road Accident Data for 2003 are :
·       93 fatal accidents with 130 people killed, 14 killed pedestrians and 9 killed youths;
·       1377 injury accidents with 2012 injured persons, 117 injured pedestrians and 65 injured youths;
·       4019 damage accidents
These figures mean that one person was killed in traffic every 3 days in Kosovo, and every day 5 people
were injured and 11 damage accidents occurred.

UNMIK Police reports a striking decrease in fatalities over the period of 2000 to 2003. The total numbers
of people killed in road traffic accidents decreased from 250 in 2000 to 125 in 2003, as shown in the
following graph.




                                                      - 29 -

The Kosovo annual costs of accidents (the net lost production + human cost) based on the 2003 accident
data are estimated:
· total cost -  17 million (1% GNP)
· one fatality -  60 223
· serious injury -  6 847

The Study recommends the introduction of the MAAP accident database software (TRL, UK) and at date
of this report the discussion about a joint Kosovo ­ Albania MAAP software application is ongoing with
MTC, Police and other. A MAAP demo will be provided to the Pristina University and a first training is
foreseen.

Organizational and institutional setting
With the aim to provide a pre - setting for the Kosovo Road Safety Council (KRSC), MTC established a
multi agency forum in which all traffic safety partners met on a regular basis. In de period September 2003
­ May 2004 the forum held three meetings chaired by the MTC Permanent Secretary. The WB draft
actions plans were presented at a first Traffic Safety Seminar, 8 April 2004, which coincided with the
United Nations Traffic Safety Action Week and with a campaign on Control of Aggressive Speeding by
KPS and UNMIK Police.

Traffic Safety Sectors covered
The 2004 Kosovo Road Safety Improvement Study outlined actions plans in the following fields:
·        Kosovo Road Safety Council;
·        Two Road Safety Campaigns: one on safety belts and one on speeding;
·        Road Accident database management;
·        Black spot analysis, prioritization and remediation;
·        Traffic Safety Audit;
·        Traffic Signalling;
·        Road Safety training in aforementioned areas.

Although MTC selected a firm that offered broad expertise in the sectors of roads traffic safety
management, safety campaigns, education, establishment of a Traffic Safety Council, accident data
management and Police Works, the Study did not cover, due to time constraints, the following traffic safety
areas with action plans:
·        Emergency Services, including vehicle breakdowns and towing, Police, firefighting services,
ambulance and medical;
·        Driver training and testing;



                                                     - 30 -

·        Traffic education of children, traffic education of drivers,
·        Pedestrian and cyclist safety,
·        Vehicle licensing, road worthiness inspections and surveys.

Lessons Learned
The challenge to maintain the 2003 road accident level
The prevailing impression is that Kosovo specific factors have a mitigating impact on traffic accidents:
1.       Active Enforcement: As UNMIK and Kosovo Police is very visible and actively present in Kosovo,
its control and enforcement has presumably a preventative impact on traffic behavior and offenses in
general and on speeding behavior in particular;
2.       Substandard road conditions which retain most drivers from speeding;
3.       Relatively favorable speed limit regulations in built up areas and on regional roads and main roads;
4.       Driving under influence is reported to be a very minor cause of traffic accidents.

These specific factors justify the fact that road safety problems on the Kosovo network are not equally
expanding as they did in EU accession countries in their early transition stage. It is expected, however, that
road accident might rapidly increase with the economic development, the growth of motorization and the
retreat of UNMIK Police in the future. Therefore, Traffic Safety should become and remain a preventive
priority concern to be included in all traffic safety related areas.

The challenge to establish Kosovo Road Safety Council in 2005
The aforementioned pre ­ KRSC forum will be continued in 2004 and will prepare the political decision to
turn the forum into a formal Kosovo Road Safety Council. Due to elections in November 2004, it is
expected that this decision will be delayed and that the KRSC will be established in 2005.
The Study didn't deliver operational guidance in the establishment of the KRSC; it assisted, though, in
structuring a multi agency Traffic Safety Action Program, including training and involvement of Pristina
University. The expert team facilitated the communication about roles of all stakeholders and sectors
involved and about the why and how's of the various strategies and action plans.
MTC and UNMIK and Kosovo Police are expected to act as key players in further steps towards the
establishment of the KRSC and towards the implementation of the actions outlined in the Study.

Immediate actions to take
Furthermore the Study specified a series of immediate actions such as two campaigns, a traffic signaling
engineer, tasks for the traffic safety coordinator and black sport remediation actions. Immediate
implementation of these actions is an indicator for MTC's willingness to proceed in its traffic safety
program.

Follow up initiatives
MTC and related traffic safety partners are very appreciative for the WB assistance in this first Kosovo
Traffic Safety Improvement Project. It is expected that the forthcoming Transitional Support Program for
Kosovo offer MTC the opportunity to review the progress in the outlined Traffic Safety Action Program
and to cover those areas, which have not been dealt with in this first Study.




                                                      - 31 -

- 32 -

