Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20555 KOS
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED TRUST FUND GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
UNITED NATIONS INTERIM ADMINISTRATION IN KOSOVO
FOR THE BENEFIT OF KOSOVO, FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
(SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO) (KOSOVO)
FOR AN
URGENT ROAD PROJECT
July 25, 2000
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Country Unit for Bosnia and Herzegovina
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 7/25/2000)
Currency Unit = DM
DM1 = US$ 0.476
US$ 1 = DM2.09
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFD:         Agence Francaise de Development
CFA:         United Nations Mission in Kosovo Central Fiscal Authority
CPE:         United Nations Mission in Kosovo Joint-Interim Central Procurement Entity
DoR:         Directorate of Roads
DoT:         United Nations Mission in Kosovo Joint-Interim Administrative Department of
Transport and Infrastructure
EC:          European Commission
ERR:         Economic Rate of Return
GTZ:         Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
ICB:         International Competitive Bidding
IRR:         Internal Rate of Return
IS:          International Shopping
KFOR:        Kosovo Force
KfW:         Kreditanstallt fur Wiederaufbau
NCB:         National Competitive Bidding
NGO:         Non-Governmental Organization
NPV:         Net Present Value
PMR:         Project Management Report
QCBS:        Quality and Cost Based Selection
TSS:         Kosovo Transitional Support Strategy
UNMIK:       United Nations Mission in Kosovo
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn, ECA
Country Director:    Christiaan Poortman, ECCO4
Sector Director/Manager:    Ricardo Halperin/Eva Molnar, ECSIN
Team Leader:    Aymeric-Albin Meyer, ECSIN



KOSOVO
URGENT ROAD PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          4
3. Sectoir issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       8
3. Benefits and target population                                                      8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       8
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           11
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   12
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        12
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           13
2. Financial                                                                          13
3. Technical                                                                          13
4. InstitLtional                                                                      14
5. Environmental                                                                      14
6. Social                                                                             15
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 17
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     17
2. Critical risks                                                                     17
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     19



G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            19
2. Other Conditions                                                                   20
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         20
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        20
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          21
Annex 2: Project Description                                                             24
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         28
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                   29
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               31
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      32
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     40
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  41
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 n.a.
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          n.a.
Annex 11: Draft Understanding on the Mandate and Scope of Activities of the Directorate of
Roads                                                                          42
Annex 12: Environmental Management Plan                                                  45



KOSOVO
Urgent Road Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSIN
Date: July 25, 2000                              Team Leader: Aymeric-Albin Meyer
Country Manager/Director: Christiaan J. Poortman  Sector Manager/Director: Ricardo A. Halperin
Project ID: P070295                              Sector(s): TY - Other Transportation
Lending Instrument: Grant from the Trust Fund for Kosovo Theme(s): Transport
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
O Loan         El Credit      12 Grant        FII Guarantee    O Other (Specify)
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 5.00
Fiano   Planr     Source                                  Local         Foreign         Total
GOVERNMENT                                                    0.00           0.00          0.00
SPECIAL FINANCING                                             2.58           2.42          5.00
Total:                                                        2.58           2.42          5.00
Borrower: UNITED NATIONS INTERIM ADMIN. IN KOSOVO
Responsible agency: JOINT INTERIM ADM. DEPT. OF TRANSPORTATION, UNMIK
Address: Central Govermment Building,Rr.Nene Tereza, Pristina, Kosovo
Contact Person: Patrick Auffret, Director, Joint-Interim Administration Department of Transport and Infrastructure
Tel: 381 38 500 223               Fax: 1 212 963 8442               Email: pauffret@hotmail.com
Project implementation period: 2.5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 08/09/2000  Expected closing date:  06/30/2003



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The primary objective of the Project is to contribute to the reconstruction and economic development of
Kosovo, by: (i) supporting the Program's component (see below) aiming at an eventual re-establishment of
a road management capacity in Kosovo; (ii) supporting emergency road maintenance activities on the main
network; and (iii) helping, through road maintenance activities funded under the Project, to restore a local
contracting capacity for road/bridge rehabilitation and summer/winter maintenance.
The Project is the Bank-financed part of a comprehensive program (the Program) of interventions in the
road sector for the next two to three years. The Bank will coordinate with donors their activities in the road
sector so as to facilitate the funding of the Program and the achievements of its goals. The Program has
been built up by the Bank on the findings of the reconstruction and recovery program prepared by the Bank
and the EC ("Toward Stability and Prosperity: A program for reconstruction and recovery in Kosovo",
dated November 3, 1999). The Program is inscribed in the Regional Strategy for South Eastem Europe
prepared by the Bank in March 2000, and is part of the Quick Start Regional Infrastructure Projects that
the international community has agreed to fund under the Stability Pact. The Program will: (i) fund road
rehabilitation/maintenance and bridge rehabilitation on the main network over a two to three year period;
(ii) support the first steps toward the re-establishment of the Road Administration; and (iii) provide
assistance in priority areas such as treatment of traffic congestion and traffic safety issues. The Program
costs and financing are presented in the table below.
Program              Indicative Cost               Main Sources of Financing
(US$ million)
Road Maintenance          12.1
World Bank (maintenance of about 570 kms of the main
network)
Agence Francaise de Developement (maintenance of about
80 kms of the main network)
Total Funded       3.9
Road Rehabilitation       31.9
European Commission (Rehabilitation of the Pristina-Blace
and Sllatine-Tetovo roads, sections of the Pristina-Peje and
Pristina-Prizren roads)
Kreditanstallt fur Wiederaufbau (Rehabilitation of most of
the Pristina-Frizren road)
World Bank (Overlay on sections of the Pristina-Gjilan
road)
Total Funded       21.7
Bridge Rehabilitation      8.0
European Commission (Rehabilitation of Milosevo,
Zajmovo, Vrani Do and Luzane bridges)
Total Funded       2.7
-2 -



Support to Road            8.0
Managernent
Capacity
World Bank (TA and goods)
Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
(TA and goods)
Agence Francaise de Developement (TA)
UNMIK (goods)
Total Funded        5.1
TOTAL                60.0
PROGRAM
COST
TOTAL PROGRAM             33.4
FlJNDED                          I                                                   I
Discussions are ongoing with the Government of the Netherlands which intends to grant up to US$7 million
to the costs of the program, through a Bank-administered Trust Fund. The contribution is intended to
address essential needs mainly in the areas of road maintenance, bridge rehabilitation and technical
assistance, such as road safety, road classification, development of basic material testing capacity, and
assistance to DoT.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key performance indicators will be: (i) the effectiveness of the Directorate of Roads (DoR) activities,
as evaluated by the supervision missions, including quality of road maintenance programs and volume of
maintenance activities, adequacy of contract management capacity (including planning, contract tendering,
supervision and traffic management), as well as relevance and impact of the Directorate of Roads (DoR)
advice to the United Nations Joint-Interim Administration through the Department of Transportation (DoT)
; (ii) the 2001 and 2002 levels of funding allocated from the Kosovo budget to DoR for road maintenance;
(iii) the percentage of the main road network on which maintenance will have been contracted out by the
end of the project implementation period; (iv) the development of the local contracting industry; and (v) the
conditioin of the main road network by the end of the project implementation period (it is noted that this
indicator will summarize the impact of all activities under the Program completed by December 31, 2002).
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: n.a.      Date of latest CAS discussion:
A Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) for Kosovo (in the form of a President's Memorandum to the
Executive Directors of IBRD and IDA, dated September 16, 1999) was discussed by the Board on October
7, 1999. The document stresses that projects to be funded by the Bank would be selected according to their
consistency with the reconstruction and recovery program prepared by the Bank and the EC ("Toward
Stability and Prosperity: A program for reconstruction and recovery in Kosovo", dated November 3, 1999).
The proposed project supports one of the main strategic objectives of the reconstruction and recovery
program, namely "the rehabilitation of infrastructure networks for economic recovery". In addition, the
proposed project is in line with the TSS objective of supporting "reconstruction activities in sectors that
may be critical to Kosovo's sustainable economic recovery, and investments and policy reforms that will
underpin the needs of an evolving market economy."
-3 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
a. Issues
Network and Traffic
The road network of Kosovo consists of about 3,800 kilometers of roads, including 623 kilometers of
main roads, and 1,300 kilometers of regional roads. Most of the main and regional roads are paved.
Network density is relatively low, at about 0.35kmlkm2. Current traffic on the main network is about
5,000 to 6,000 vehicles per day, with some sections having considerably higher volumes. Although no
extensive or regular traffic counts have been produced so far, the number of privately owned vehicles in
Kosovo seems to grow at a significant rate, especially in the main cities. In addition to that, there is a
significant heavy traffic induced by the presence of the international community and the resumption of
trade, which puts an extra burden on already exhausted road structures. Finally, there is virtually no
traffic management capacity in Kosovo. Growing traffic and absence of traffic management result in
congestion especially in the main cities and at the border crossing of Blace (border with the Former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia).
Network Condition
Adequate development and maintenance of the road network in Kosovo has been an issue since the
1 970s. While the road network has been developed, road maintenance has been persistently
under-funded. This has resulted in a continuous deterioration of the road network. Although most
sections on the main and regional networks are passable, the conditions vary (e.g. it now takes, mainly
because of the road condition, about 2.5 hours to go from Pristina to Prizren, a distance of about 70
km). The pervasive lack of maintenance and the recent events have had a significant impact on the
condition of the road network: besides bombed bridges and landslides, more than half of the network is
in very poor condition, and if action is not taken immediately, this will lead to the closure of certain road
sections to civilian traffic and would require, in the near future, the complete reconstruction of the
damaged sections, an investment that Kosovo will not be able to afford any time soon.
Road Management
In terms of road management structure, until 1989, planning and administration of the main and
regional road networks were handled principally by a provincial Road Organization, staffed with about
550 employees, and headed by a Board whose members represented various groups having an interest in
roads. After the end of provincial autonomy in 1989, resources allocated to the rehabilitation and
maintenance were very limited. Following the departure of Serb staff, the Road Organization was
re-staffed spontaneously in June 1999 by Kosovar Albanians, some of whom were part of the staff prior
to 1989. The Road Administration has since been formally integrated in the Joint-Interim
Administration structure. However, while DoR has a defacto responsibility for road management on
the important roads in Kosovo (which comprises the main network and part of the regional network, as
defined by the road classification in effect so far, thereafter referred to as the main network), there is no
formal agreement as to which part of the road network DoR should be responsible for. As such, a new
road classification needs to be agreed upon, and massive support provided, in order to allow DoR to
start operating on a significant and efficient scale. DoR presently employs about 20 staff and there is no
intention to expand it much further in the foreseeable future. The previous situation with 550 staff was
based on a situation with maintenance and much of the construction being done by force account.
- 4 -



Road Maintenance Funding
The funding mechanisms for road maintenance have been totally disrupted. As of today, there is little
prospect: to see significant amounts of locally raised funds allocated to road maintenance at least in the
next two years, donor funding being the only realistic source of funding. This issue is linked to the
overall situation prevailing in Kosovo: events in the last 10 years have significantly reduced the tax
base, tax and charges collection has yet to be fully restored, and the present Kosovo budget, even if
supported by the donor community, is very limited, especially as a substantial part of it is funding
current expenditures.
Road Maintenance Contracting Capacity
There are four main construction and maintenance companies located in Kosovo. They are mainly able
to undertake road maintenance works. They can also undertake light rehabilitation works on roads and
bridges. The companies have lost part of their equipment and liquid assets, organizational structures
have been partially disrupted, the labor base has significantly shrunk, and, at this stage, access to credit
remains very difficult in Kosovo. On the other hand, and depending on demand, these companies have
the capacity of growing quickly as: (i) with an unemployment rate estimated at about 70%, availability
of labor is not an issue, and most of the companies' former staff is ready to restart work; (ii) it is
intended to use these companies under the Project to carry out small road maintenance contracts; and
(iii) the relatively light equipment required for the purposes of the Project can be leased in part locally,
with the remaining part from neighboring countries. It is expected that the companies would use
payments under the first contracts to strengthen their capacity both in terms of equipment and staff. In
addition, Kosovo represents a small but untouched and potentially attractive market for foreign
contractors. Associations between local and foreign contractors have already been observed in the
crushed stone market, and potential associations are being discussed among construction firms. While it
is thus expected that local contractors' capacity has a good potential to significantly recover over the
coming years, the process of associations, at the company level, with foreign contractors will most
probably be slow given the deficiencies of the legal and banking systems, as well as the virtual absence
of private sector regulatory structures.
b.   Strategy
The long-term strategy is to build institutions which will be capable of administering and managing the
road network. This involves primarily DoT and DoR. DoT is establishing itself to fulfill the functions,
appropriate under the circumstances, of a Ministry, under the jurisdiction of which DoR works. For
DoT most of the questions have up till now been of an emergency nature. Thus, policy and strategy
have largely not yet been analyzed and decided upon. However, for the road sector there is an accepted
understanding that the strategy is to: (i) rehabilitate as soon as possible most of the damaged parts of the
road network; (ii) reduce as much as possible the road maintenance backlog; and (iii) set up an adequate
road management capacity in Kosovo, including: (a) a lean and efficient road administration; (b) a
decentralization of road maintenance on the local network to local communities; (c) a framework
enabling DoR to fulfill its tasks (especially planning and contractual arrangements); (d) mechanisms
allowing for sufficient resources to be allocated to road maintenance; and (e) an adequate contracting
capacity. The Program constitutes a first step toward the implementation of the long-term strategy,
including the first priority elements of the strategy, while taking into account the uncertainties related to
the future of Kosovo. Specifically, the Program will:
*   support the establishment of a core road administration in Pristina. The administration will be
sufficiently small and flexible to remain relevant under most political scenarios Kosovo may be
facing in the future;
-5-



*   prepare a proposed road classification;
*   work with DoT and CFA to ensure that DoR has the means to fulfill its tasks and that DoR
advice/plans are taken into account;
*   be the framework in which further fund raising activities will take place, and fund a Road User
Charges Study to assess the possibility of developing a funding system to complement
allocations to be received from the Kosovo budget; and
*   fund road maintenance contracts through which local contractors can restart their activities on
an adequate scale, as well as road rehabilitation activities which most likely will result in
association with foreign contractors.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Within a two to three year horizon, the project will set up the framework in which the issues mentioned
above will be addressed. Given the urgent nature of the project, the most pressing needs will be addressed
and it is thus not foreseen that all the issues will be fully resolved by the end of the project implementation
period. In particular: (i) the project will deal with emergency maintenance activities on most of the main
network, and the issue of the maintenance backlog on the whole of the main network will have to be
addressed later; (it is estimated that at least US$30 million would need to be spent each year over the next
10 years to both cany out maintenance and significantly reduce the backlog); (ii) the project will support
the program's objective to develop the core competencies of DoR, but it should not be expected that, by the
end of the project implementation period, DoR will be a fully fledged administration; and (iii) while the
project aims at laying the ground for the long-term sustainability of road management, it is far from certain
that such a sustainability could be achieved within the framework of this project, especially as the amount
of resources for road maintenance in the future (being from international or local sources), as well as the
allocations from the budget are virtually unknown at this stage. Given that the program has a funding gap
which is expected to be filled by additional donor contributions, the project has to take such contributions
into account. This will be done through annual reviews so that before launching the bids for the season, the
actual funding situation and the items covered by financing are taken into account, and the project items for
the season adjusted if warranted.
As explained in other parts of this document, the strategic choice which has been made for the physical
component of the project is to focus mainly on road maintenance rather than road or bridge rehabilitation
as: (i) other donors have indicated their preference to fund rehabilitation; and (ii) while rehabilitation is
indeed required, maintenance activities have to be performed on as much as possible of the road network to
prevent it from further deterioration. Under the Project, it is foreseen that only one overlay on 14 km of the
Pristina-Gjilan road will be carried out as: (a) damage on this section of the main network should be
remedied as soon as possible and, according to the assessment of the road condition carried out during
project preparation, the level of damage on some parts of the section requires overlaying; and (b) donors
under the Program have not yet shown any willingness to allocate funds for this activity. With respect to
the institutional component, the project will aim at supporting the framework for the establishment of a
core road administration capacity, by funding activities (such as building adequate project supervision
capacity in DoR and conducting a road user charges study) which would not be covered by other donors.
The main donor in the program's institutional building component is the Deutsche Gesellschaft fur
Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ), which intends to provide a comprehensive 2 to 3 years technical
assistance package to DoR including advice on: (i) drafting of the legal documents and regulations to DoR
mandate and financing of road maintenance; (ii) implementation of priority road maintenance and
rehabilitation projects; (iii) strengthening of DoR planning and contract management system; and (iv)
definition and preparation of trainings for local contractors and consultants.
- 6 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The Project is inscribed in the Program that has been developed and agreed upon during preparation. The
Project will be funded from a Bank Grant of US$5 million. A description of the activities to be funded
under the Project and Program is provided in Annex 2. The Project will focus on the following Program
Components:
Road maintenance. the Project will fund about one-third of the Program's road maintenance component. It
is expected that about 570 km of roads will be maintained under the Project. The list of these road sections
is provided in Annex 2.
Road r ehabilitation: the Project will fund overlay on a 14km high priority stretch of the Pristina (Prishtine)
- Gnjilane (Gjilani) road which has not been considered for funding by other donors.
Support to road management capacity: the Project will fund a study on the potential introduction of road
user charges, will provide for a site engineer to organize supervision of the works carried out under the
Project and strengthen supervision within DoR. The Project will also contain allocations for assistance in
specific areas such as project implementation or DoR strengthening, in case commitments made by other
donors fail to materialize in a timely manner. Finally, the project will fimd the costs of the annual audits.
Indicative            Bank-      % Of
Component                  Sector        Costs     % of    financing   Bank-
(US$M)   Total    (US$M)  financing
Road Maintenance                  Highways            3.28       65.6      3.28      65.6
Road Rehabilitation               Highways            1.22       24.4      1.22      24.4
Support to Road Management Capacity  Highways         0.50       10.0      0.50      10.0
Total Project Costs                    5.00     100.0      5.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                    5.00      100.0      5.00     100.0
Other Program Items
Road Maintenance                   Highways             7.02       11.7      0.00       0.0
Road Rehabilitation                Highways            32.78       54.6      0.00       0.0
Bridge Rehabilitation              Highways             8.70       14.5      0.00       0.0
Support to Road Management
Capacity                           Highways             6.50       10.8      0.00       0.0
Total Costs for other Program Items                    55.00       91.7      0.00       0.0
Total Program Costs                      60.00      100.0      5.00        8.3
Presently available Funding                     33.30       55.5_
-7 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Despite the fact that this Project will be executed in an exceptional environment, it also seeks to achieve
policy and institutional goals that are particularly demanding because of the special political context and
constraints. The Project will support the first steps toward the establishment and operation of DoR, will
help to develop a framework for adequate funding mechanisms for road maintenance, and will establish
criteria to be followed in drawing up road maintenance programs.
3. Benefits and target population:
Major benefits expected from the implementation of the Project include:
*   cost savings by preventing degradation of road sections through maintenance activities funded under
the Project;
* significant savings in travel costs, which will in turn decrease costs of goods and services;
*   fostering employment through the reactivation of the local construction industry; and
* steps toward the establishment of an efficient road management.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Institutional Arrangements
It is expected that the Project will be implemented over a 2.5-year period, with a closing date of December
31, 2002. Daily project responsibilities will be undertaken by DoR, under the monitoring of DoT, the
Central Fiscal Authority (CFA) and the Central Procurement Entity (CPE). DoR has existed de facto since
last year and was officially established within the UN Joint-hIterim Administration structure at the
beginning of May, 2000, and approved by the Director. Since its formation in 1999, DoR has had about
20 staff, of which 8 experienced engineers, 3 technicians, 2 accountants and 2 lawyers. DoR is intended to
be the central administration in charge of road management in Kosovo. In the short-term, it is not expected
that DoR will need to significantly expand, nor that local road administrations will need to be created
throughout Kosovo. DoR staff have the knowledge of the network (most of the staff worked in the Road
Administration prior to 1989), they have proven to be very capable when it comes to preparation of damage
assessments and road rehabilitation/maintenance planning, and they know how to manage and supervise
contracts (some of DoR staff actually worked as supervisors under previous Bank loans to the former
Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia), although not in accordance with presently accepted international
standards. In addition, DoR staff lack basic equipment to perform their duties. The Joint-Interim
Administration has been providing some computer equipmr-ent as well as two cars.
However, more will be needed to ensure DoR's effectiveness. First, while DoR has been officially
established, its precise mandate and scope of activities need to be agreed upon, in order to allow DoR to
become operational. As such, an understanding with respect to DoR's mandate and scope of activities was
reached between DoT and the Bank. A copy of the understanding is presented in Annex 11. Second, DoR
will be supported in several ways within the Program: (i) GTZ has prepared a comprehensive technical
assistance package focusing on procurement, financial management, project supervision, and training in the
English language; (ii) the Government of France has provided technical expertise on specific issues (advice
to DoT and DoR in setting up an organizational structure for the Directorate of Roads, and drafting of
technical specifications) and intends to continue doing so; and (iii) a limited number of focused consultant
assignments could be funded, if need be, from Bank-administered funds. In addition, DoR will need to
recruit at once a small number of staff to be able to fully deal with project implementation.
Implementation Arrangements
In order to ensure a quality implementation, DoR will receive international assistance, especially during the
- 8 -



coming year. It is fundamental that DoR be in charge of the daily implementation of the Project, as
contract administration and supervision is at the core of the activities performed by Road Administrations.
With respect to procurement, it is proposed that DoR be responsible for the drafting of the bidding
documents, including the technical parts. However, at least for the 2000 procurement round, it is
recommended that the actual tendering and selection of bidders proposed for contract awards as well as
contract signing be handled by CPE, in collaboration with DoR. Bid openings and bid evaluation will be
handled by a Committee consisting of representatives of DoR, GTZ, DoT and CPE acting as the
coordinator. Once the bid evaluation report has been approved by the Committee, it will be sent to the Bank
for No-Objection. Upon receipt of the No-Objection, CPE will sign the contract and revert implementation
responsibility to DoR, which, with the support of GTZ, will monitor contract implementation and will
certify invoices before forwarding them to CFA for payment. Finally, DoR will be responsible for the
preparation and update of the project's physical and procurement progress tables, to be forwarded to CFA
which will be in charge of preparing the quarterly progress reports for the Bank. DoR progress with
respect to project implementation capacity will be monitored by the Bank regular supervision missions,
which, if appropriate, will recommend to delegate more responsibility to DoR. Other donors will be
encouraged to avail themselves of the services of DoR as much as feasible.
According to the structure of UNMIK, only the Central Fiscal Authority (CFA), which acts as the Ministry
of Finance, has the authority to open bank accounts, conduct and monitor financial transactions, including
the appointment of an independent auditor, and to establish the regulatory framework for procurement and
payments transactions. It is therefore proposed that the CFA be responsible for the financial management
aspects of the Grant administration, including: (i) opening of a Special Account as a sub-account to their
existing commercial bank account; (ii) replenishment of the Special Account using their financial
accounting system; (iii) preparation of the required Bank reports; and (iv) auditing of the Grant funds on an
annual basis. An assessment of the financial capacity of the CFA has been conducted. It was concluded
that the existing system meets the minimum criteria for proper Grant administration and reporting. The
system will be programmed so that it is able to produce a PMR no later than September 30, 2001. The
CFA will be appointing the European Court of Auditors to undertake an audit of the entire Kosovo budget.
It is acceptable to the Association to have an opinion on the project accounts as a part of the overall audit.
Traditional disbursement procedures will be utilized. Once acceptable PMRs are produced, a move to
PMR-based disbursements could be considered. More details are provided in Annex 6.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
As indicated below, several alternatives have been considered.
World Bank Stand-alone Project
An option would have been to define the project without actively participating in the definition and
elaboration of a comprehensive program for the road sector. This would have kept the project design
simple, limited preparation costs, but prospects of ensuring that issues in the road sector be addressed in a
co-ordinated fashion by the different donors would have also been limited. This option was rejected early
on, as it was felt that such an uncoordinated approach would not provide a sufficient basis to ensure the
sustainability of the activities, which are foreseen to be carried out over the next two years.
Focusing the World Bank component exclusively on institution building
During project preparation, discussions were held with all the main donors involved in the rehabilitation of
the road sector. The discussions revealed that almost all donors favor road rehabilitation to road
-9-



maintenance, and prefer, at this stage, to administer directly the implementation of the items funded by
them rather than using local capacity. Despite the fact that road maintenance provides less visibility and is
more cumbersome to implement, it is a vitally essential element of a post-conflict road sector strategy, as
typically conflicts hinder road maintenance over extensive periods of time (in the present case, almost 10
years). It thus gradually appeared that the Bank would need to finance road maintenance to: (i) preserve as
much as possible of the main road network; and (ii) allow the Road Administration to start performing its
duties as soon as possible.
Larger Allocation to Road Maintenance Activities
Ideally, two to three times more resources should be allocated for road maintenance than is presently
realistically foreseeable. This situation is based on several factors: (i) few donors are attracted to firiancing
road maintenance; (ii) it is understood that the Bank would not be able to grant more funds to the
rehabilitation of the road sector; and (iii) UNMIK or local resources are not expected, at least over the next
two years, to be able to cover a significant part of the needs for road maintenance/rehabilitation. The
Project will start addressing the issue by funding a Road User Charges Study to identify possible sources of
funding besides the donor community and the Kosovo budget.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned). There has been no significant project carried out so far in the road sector in
Kosovo. Some donors have started road maintenance and equipment supply activities on a small scale. So
far, these activities have been administered by the donors, virtually in isolation from the Kosovars or
UNMIK. In addition, the recent events in Kosovo have resulted in such major changes in the organizational
and operational structures of Kosovo that lessons leamed previously in the former Socialist Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia have little relevance.
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Reconstruction/rehabilitation/     Emergency Transport              HS             S
maintenance needs                  Reconstruction Project for
Bosnia (Project cost: US$162
million, Bank contribution:
US$35 million)
Reconstruction/rehabilitation/     Second Emergency Transport        S             S
maintenance needs                  Reconstruction Project for
Bosnia (Project cost: US$183
million, Bank contribution:
US$39 million)
Rehabilitation /maintenance needs  Emergency Road Repair             S             S
Project for Albania (Project
cost: US$14.5 million, Bank
contribution: 13.6 million)
Other development agencies
Road Patching in Kosovo            EC (ongoing): 1999-2000 Road
Patching
Organization of Road Management in   AFD (ongoing): Provision of
Kosovo                             TA to UNMIK
- 10-



Support to the Directorate of Roads in Various donors, through
Kosovo                              UNMIK (ongoing): Road
Administration Operating Costs
iP/DO R,atings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
There have been projects similar to the subject project in the region. In Albania, the Emergency Road
Repair Project was successfully prepared, appraised and negotiated in a very short time. However, the
effectiveness required Parliamentary ratification which took much longer than anticipated, thereby
delaying the project start. In Kosovo there are no such requirements, although other factors might cause
delays. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, both the Emergency Transport Reconstruction Projects have used the
concept of Project and Program, the latter at the outset with a large unfunded part. The concept has proved
to be very useful and has allowed to adjust the reconstruction to evolving needs.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The activities implemented so far in the road sector have revealed some issues which are inherent to any
post-crisis situation: (i) low productivity of the local contractors; (ii) difficulties in finding materials; and
(iii) misunderstandings related to the operational procedures followed by the donors on one hand, and DoR
and the contractors on the other hand.
In a more general perspective, experience from emergency road rehabilitation projects in other post-conflict
situations in the region shows that: (i) the scope of such operations and related procurement rules should be
kept as simple as possible; (ii) involve local structure and knowledge in project preparation as much as
possible; (iii) provide local structure and involve foreign assistance only when required; (iv) ensure a
continuous dialogue between donors and local structures to build trust and transparency and ensure
efficient: project implementation; and (v) increase the efficiency of donor co-ordination by lessening the
need for it through a decentralized approach. The above lessons have been fully incorporated in the project
design.
- 11 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
UNMIK realizes that parts of the main road network will virtually become impassable in the near future
if remedial action is not taken immediately. Despite the United Nations Interim Administration's
daunting task, a number of actions have already been taken since the beginning of the year: (i) the
regulation establishing DoT has been signed; (ii) the administrative directives establishing the
Directorate of Roads and its Director have been signed; (iii) a 2000 road rehabilitation program has
been prepared and a study of the development of the road management capacity in Kosovo completed;
and (iv) the 2000 Kosovo budget includes an allocation for DoR operating costs and supply of basic
equipment. In addition, DoT and CFA have been looking for support from the international community,
especially in the road sector, and have welcomed the proposal of different donors and the Bank to .
develop a comprehensive program to address both short and medium-term issues in the road sector.
CFA has committed itself to include an allocation for road maintenance starting with the 2001 budget,
while recognizing that the economic conditions likely to prevail in Kosovo in the foreseeable future will
severely constrain the size of the Kosovo budget. CFA is also very supportive of the idea to introduce
road user charges to pay for road maintenance. CFA and DoT have proposed the Bank to provide an
advance on the Bank Grant out of the Kosovo budget for an amount up to DEMI million, in order to
advance the start of the works this season. Finally, the staff of the Road Administration is fully
committed to the Program and Project objectives and is anxiously awaiting to start its work as soon as
possible. DoR has already prepared a program for road/bridge maintenance and rehabilitation, as well
as several proposals to collect funds for maintenance.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The proposed project supports a key objective in the reconstruction strategy of Kosovo, namely the
rehabilitation of the road network, a prerequisite for economic recovery. In addition, the Bank has been
seen as a reliable partner able to build a consensus among the different actors involved in the sector on the
content of the road rehabilitation program and the role of the different participants. The Bank activities will
complement those of the other donors, which will essentially focus on road/bridge rehabilitation on the most
deteriorated road sections, while the Bank will support road maintenance activities on about 570km of the
main network, to prevent further deterioration and delay as long as possible reconstruction activities which
would mobilize a significant part of the scarce resources likely to be available for road maintenance in the
near-term. Finally, the Bank, through its focus on road maintenance, will support the revival of the local
construction industry, and participate in the development of DoR, as:
(i) even in the past, local contractors located in Kosovo did not have the capacity to build bridges or to
undertake major road works. In recent years, local contractors' capacity has been declining and today is at
its lowest. While they now slowly recover staff and equipment, they need revenues to sustain their recovery.
As such, at this stage, they would not qualify as prime contractors under most of the rehabilitation
activities financed by other donors. However, they will qualify to undertake the smaller road maintenance
activities supported by the Bank; and
(ii) most of the other donors have already indicated that they would not use DoR to implement their
activities as their intended interventions call for relatively big intemational contracts which they want to
administer themselves.
The Bank, together with the French and German Governments, is already assisting the Road
Administration in starting its operations through provision of expert advice in critical areas. In addition,
once Bank funds become available, the Bank will, in collaboration with DoT, support DoR to: (i) carry out
basic traffic counts on the main network; (ii) prepare road maintenance programs for discussions with
UNMIK; (iii) suggest funding mechanisms for road maintenance to CFA; and (iv) administer, on a daily
- 12 -



basis, activities financed by Bank-administered funds. Basically, the Bank will assist the Road
Administration in restarting activities.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$15 million; ERR = 57 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The results are presented in detail in Annex 4. Given the bad condition of the road network, the ERRs for
the various road sections to be maintained or overlayed under the Bank Grant are high, especially for those
road sections with higher traffic volumes.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=IJS$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
There are no revenue-earning entities involved in the project.
Fiscal Impact:
Impact on the fiscal resources is expected to be positive, as rehabilitation/maintenance activities carried out
at this stage will spare scarce fiscal resources in the future. As shown in the Program Financing Table,
financing has been committed so far for 55.5% of the Program needs by 6 donors. It is estimated that the
current financing gap of US$26.7 million will be manageable given how resources have flowed in the
recent past under similar projects in the Region. The size of the financing gap reflects the need to put
together, at this stage, a 2.5 year road rehabilitation plan in order to provide a sufficiently long-term
framework to ensure that institutional and policy objectives of the Program are attained. In addition, a
number of donors allocate their support on an annual basis, and some donors have already appeared willing
to continue their support to the road sector next year. Finally, the 2001 Kosovo budget will include an
allocation for road maintenance, but the amount is not yet defined.
3. Technical:
Local contractors' capacity is presently weak, and supervision capacity is not fully developed yet.
Contractors' capacity is expected to be enhanced in two ways: (i) through association with foreign
contractors, as is already happening in the crushed stone supply market; and (ii) through maintenance
contracts tailored to contractors' actual capacity. With respect to supervision, the capacity will be built
through support provided by foreign experts to the DoR.
The costs of civil works to be carried out under the Program and the Project have been estimated on the
basis of average costs used in the past and average costs of the few civil works contracts which have been
contracted since last July, taking into account the fact that actual costs of civil works will decrease
gradually as the situation in Kosovo normalizes, which would imply lower costs through introduction of
competition. As a reality check, the cost estimates were compared to the costs of civil works of a similar
nature in Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, it should be recognized that there is a higher element of
uncertainty than in more settled country conditions, and thus both under and overruns are more likely, in
which case the quantities of work will need to be adjusted accordingly.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
- 13-



The executing agency for the Project is proposed to be DoT.
4.2 Project management:
Daily project management is proposed to be undertaken by DoR under the supervision of DoT, CFA and
CPE. In addition, DoR will be supported in project management by GTZ and other consultants as needed.
GTZ assistance is planned to last 2 to 3 years. Depending on progress achieved by DoR in fundamental
areas such as English language training, contract management, disbursement and contract supervision, the
focus ofthe technical assistance could be shifted after the first year.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The number of Kosovars familiar with public procurement rules (including the Bank's rules) is low.
Therefore, foreign technical assistance will be provided to DoR to prepare bidding documents, and, at least
for the first round of bidding, the tendering and evaluation process will be put in the hands of CPE. Under
the Bank Grant, road maintenance and overlay works will be procured using: (i) National Competitive
Bidding (NCB), for an estimated amount of US$2.1 million; and (ii) Intemational Competitive Bidding
(ICB), for an estimated amount of US$2.4 million.
4.4 Financial management issues:
A financial management capacity assessment has been completed by a certified Financial Management
Specialist with the conclusion that the existing system of the UNMIK Interim Administration for operating
the consolidated Kosovo budget meets the Association's minimum requirements. The project has received a
4-B certificate for purposes of financial management. The project funds will flow through the CFA's
single treasury system. The financial management risks still exist mainly due to the uncertain and changing
environment. Also, there is little capacity and inadequate local financial institutional arrangements to allow
for many small payments. Therefore, the project will be structured as much as possible into relatively large
contracts which can be processed by the CFA through bank transfers from their foreign commercial
account directly into the account of the contractor or supplier. In addition, technical assistance will be
provided to DoR to strengthen their own financial management capacity, which at the moment is weak.
Technical assistance will be provided by GTZ. GTZ is carrying out an assessment of DoR requirements,
and their report, including an action plan to strengthen the Road Administration's financial, procurement
and management activities will be sent to the Bank by the end of September, 2000.
5. Environmental:                 Enviromnental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The Project has been rated "B" for purposes of OP4.01 because a 5 cm overlay on 14km of the main
network is intended to be funded under the Project. Otherwise, the Project will focus exclusively on minor
road maintenance activities. As such, the project will have a positive impact on environment, as it will
allow for the cleaning of road shoulders and restoration of drainage systems. In addition, rehabilitated
roads will result in more even travel speeds, which will lead to improved traffic safety and lower fuel
consumption. The crushed stone and asphalt would be supplied from equipment meeting intemational
standards for environment and worker safety, since it seems likely that westem contractors will be heavily
involved in materials supply. This is already the case for crushed stone. The bidding documents for the
Bank-financed component will include provisions to ensure that bidders guarantee that the materials that
they will be using will have been supplied from equipment meeting intemational standards for environment
and worker safety. With respect to the overlay of 14km, an Environmental Management Plan (EMP),
acceptable to the Bank, has been prepared by the Recipient of the Grant.
-14-



5.2 Wliat are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The main features of the EMP involve mitigation measures during works, such as materials to be produced
and works to be performed with equipment meeting international environmental standards, monitoring of
impact on environment during works (such as noise, dust, traffic disruption and water pollution). These
mitigation measures will be specified in the bidding document. The main features of the EMP (see Annex
12) are adequate considering the difficult circumstances in Kosovo, including the absence of any
regulatory, legislative or institutional capacity in the environmental sector.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
Given the limited impact on environment that a 14 km long overlay can have, and the specific
circumstances in Kosovo, an Environmental Assessment was deemed not appropriate. The final draft
Environmental Management Plan was received from the Borrower on July 13, 2000.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
In view of the urgent nature of the works involved, the lack of institutional or regulatory framework in
Kosovci, and the minor, rehabilitative nature of the proposed activity, which would improve both safety and
convenience to local residents, the need for formal public consultation was deemed impractical and not
suitable. The Bank's Environmental Department has agreed to this.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
envirornment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
DoR, supported by consultants funded by the Governments of France and Germany, will be in charge of
monitoring and evaluating the impact of the 14km long overlay on the environment, while supervising the
works. Given the short duration of the works (expected to last about 3 weeks) and the absence of any
environmental monitoring capacity in Kosovo, it has been estimated that visual or audio observations will
be the most appropriate way to ensure that the impact on environment be minimized.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The Program and the Project are expected to have a positive social impact as: (i) road
rehabilitation/maintenance activities will generate employment, through the revitalization of the local
construction industry; (ii) rehabilitated roads and bridges will reduce travel time and cost, and will increase
accessibility; and (iii) rehabilitation/maintenance activities undertaken at this stage will conserve scarce
fiscal resources in the future. With respect to the potential introduction of user charges, the project will
finance a study to evaluate the appropriate levels of the charges, when they could start to be levied, and
through which agencies, as well as the capacity and willingness of the users to pay and the impact on the
road users themselves.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The project involves different stakeholders for different purposes. The first group of stakeholders involved
are donors and the KFOR which control outcomes by deciding on level of funding and scope of activities
within the Program. During project preparation, there have been intensive discussions with KFOR and the
donors interested in the rehabilitation of the road sector to build a consensus on the strategy to be followed
to ensure that activities selected by individual donors address emergency needs, and to coordinate among
- 15-



the donors to avoid overlaps and construction delays. Discussions with the donor community and KFOR
will continue during project implementation to review progress achieved and identify further funding to
close the financing gap under the Program. The second stakeholder involved is the UNMIK administration,
especially CFA and DoT, including DoR which will be in charge of the daily implementation matters.
These entities have been participating in the elaboration of the long-term strategy for the road sector and
the Program. In addition, there has been consultations with CFA to agree on a strategy to start resolving
the issue of the total lack of resources for road maintenance. Finally, these entities are key to ensure a
successful implementation of the project, and as such, implementation arrangements have been defined in
collaboration with them. During project imnplementation, consultations with CFA and DoT will be pursued
to ensure progress on the institutional and road maintenance funding issues. The third group of
stakeholders involved are local contractors. There have been in-depth discussions with the local
contracting industry to better understand the problems they face, their capacity and what could be done to
support a quality construction industry in Kosovo. Discussions will continue as appropriate during project
implementation and assessments of the progress realized by local contractors will be conducted by DoR.
Finally, the fourth group of stakeholders are road users and persons living next to road sections to be
treated under the project. While there have been discussions with some road users (such as bus operators)
during project preparation, the involvement of this group has been limited due to the emergency nature of
the activities to be undertaken under the Project and the size of the needs that are to be addressed.
However, for the future it is envisaged that consultations with interested parties will be an integral part of
DoR's procedures.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
During project preparation, no civil society organization has manifested any specific concern or wish with
respect to what should be achieved under the project. The only feedback received has been from a limited
number of road users who very much welcome the program, while stressing that implementation should
start as soon as possible. The parts of the main road network to be improved have already been selected in
accordance with damage level and traffic volume criteria. This selection is likely to be partially modified
over the project implementation period, as it is not known at this stage what donors will be exactly willing
to do or which allocations will be made from the Kosovo budget over the next two years. However, given
the extent of the needs for road maintenance/rehabilitation and the scarcity of funding available for this
purpose, it is not expected that such a selection of alternative road sections will pose any particular
problem. At the same time, relevant concerns from civil society organizations will be taken into account
through DoR which will be the focal point in these matters, receiving feedback from the civil society
organizations and transmitting it as appropriate to DoT and the Bank. This is to be seen as the first step
toward a broader goal: DoR, as a to be fully fledged road administration, will need to create a forum in
which civil society organizations can express demands and concerns with respect to the maintenance and
especially development of the road network.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The implementation of road maintenance activities will lead to enhanced access to health services, increased
road safety, better accessibility to goods and services (through more efficient transport services), expanded
job search horizons (through increased mobility), and decreased air pollution levels. These outcomes will
be most tangible in communities located on or close to the road sections considered under the project.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
No specific monitoring process in terms of the performance of social development outcomes has been
- 16 -



designed given the nature of the project.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
El Environental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01. GP 4.01)           O Yes (2 No
El Natural habitats (OP 4.04. BP 4.04 GP 4.04)                    L Yes 1 No
El Forestry (OP 4.36. GP 4.36)                                    2 Yes 1 No
El Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     EL Yes 1X1 No
El Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  O Yes N No
El IndiLenous Peoples fOD 4.20)                                     Yes I No
El Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                             Ol Yes 1X No
El Safety of Dams (OP 4.37. BP 4.37)                              El Yes  l No
El Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50. BP 7.50. GP 7.50)   El Yes 1 No
El Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60. GP 7.60)          ] Yes 3 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
n.a.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The political situation in Kosovo provides an environment that is inherently high risk. With respect to the
Project, works will be carried out according to international quality standards, and it is expected that
maintenance contracts with local contractors will help restore maintenance capacity. In addition, the
project will be a first step towards the re-establishment of an efficient Road Administration. Although an
adequate level of funding to road maintenance is the key to ensure long-term sustainability of the activities
funded umder the project, and although the Project will focus on identifying adequate funding mechanisms
for road maintenance (e.g. introduction of user charges), it is clear that the size of the Kosovo budget will,
at least in the short-term, greatly constrain the actual level of road maintenance budgets. To demonstrate
UNMIK 's willingness to cope with the issue in an as adequate as possible manner, the CFA has sent a
comfort letter to the Bank, indicating in substance that it will endeavor to cover DoR operating costs and
will include an initial allocation for road/bridge maintenance in the 2001 budget. The allocation will be
increased over time, commensurate with the prevailing economic conditions in Kosovo over the next years.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk               R|sk Rating   I            Risk Minimia    Mesure
From Outputs to Objective
Deterioration of the situation in Kosovo    S         n.a.
- 17-



Delays in dealing with the UN             H        The project management and monitoring
Joint-Interim Administration                       arrangements have been set up in a way to limit
the demands on the UNMIK Joint-Interim
Administration, in order not to further burden it.
Support will be provided to DoR by GTZ and
the project team in the areas of project
management and monitoring. In addition, the
project design allows for sufficient flexibility to
hire additional consultants if need be.
Kosovo budget not to include an           S        During project preparation, CFA has shown a
appropriate allocation for road                    good understanding of the consequences of a
maintenance (note: given the limited size          funding shortfall in the road sector. The road
of the Kosovo budget, severe                       network is in such a condition that not funding
underfunding is a risk that all public             road maintenance would have immediate and
services face).                                    visible consequences. In addition, there are
strong pressures both from road users and
UNMIK to have the condition of the road
network be improved quickly. So far, CFA has
been very proactive on this issue, having funded
equipment to DoR, paying operating costs and
having advanced DEMI million on the Bank
Grant in order to jump-start works this season.
In addition, CFA has provided a comfort letter
to the Bank ensuring that the 2001 Kosovo
budgets will include an allocation to road
maintenance. During implementation, the
project team will pursue an active dialogue with
CFA to ensure that, in as much as feasible,
adequate allocations be devoted to road
maintenance. The consequences of different
funding levels will be reviewed annually and the
project components will be re-examined in light
of this. Finally, the project will explore ways to
introduce user charges, also in consultation with
CFA.
Failure to close the financing gap       M         The project team and DoT will explore funding
options during project implementation, ranging
from direct contacts with potential donors to
presentation of funding needs to donors'
conferences. In addition, the project design is
modular, so that components to be funded by
each donor would be lirnited should this risk
materialize.
From Components to Outputs
Quality of road/bridge repairs and       M         Assistance and training in supervision will be
maintenance might be poor                          provided by foreign experts to DoR.
- 18 -



DoR capacity                                M          DoR staff is impatient to start working again on
a significant scale as soon as possible. Since the
end of the hostilities last June, they have
prepared on their own damage assessment
reports, proposals to re-establish signalling on
the main network, and have managed last winter
most of the winter maintenance handled by
civilians. DoR staff has a solid road
management experience. However, the language
barrier and lack of experience with
internationally accepted procurement and
financial management rules need to be addressed
as soon as possible. A comprehensive technical
assistance package will be provided by GTZ to
DoR to buildup the core of an efficient Road
Administration. In parallel, DoR will be fully
involved in the implementation of the Project,
which will provide the necessary hands-on
training with the support of the project team.
Procurement                                  S         Procurement responsibility will lie with CPE, at
least for the first round of bidding. In addition,
international experts will assist DoR in drafting
the bidding documents and CPE in conducting
the tendering process. Finally, procurement
training will be supplied to DoR staff by GTZ
and the Bank.
Overall Risk Rating
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
It is not expected that the implementation of the Project would raise controversy. However, the role of the
international community in the reconstruction of Kosovo could become controversial if no progress is
shown rapidly. To mitigate the possible negative impact of a slow start of international assistance, the
Project has been designed as a stand-alone part of the Program. Thus, even if commitments made by other
donors fail to materialize or if implementation of other parts of the Program is delayed, the activities funded
under the Bank Grant will remain implementable according to schedule. In addition, the Program has a
gradual implementation schedule, with some donors ready to implement their activities, and others ready to
implement by summer and fall, which should allow for a number of activities to be completed before the
end of the 2000 construction season.
G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
There will be no conditions for the effectiveness of the Grant.
- 19-



2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
The following conditions to negotiations have been fulfilled:
(i) the Bank has received a letter from CFA, indicating in substance that it will endeavor to cover DoR
operating costs and will include an initial allocation for road/bridge maintenance in the 2001 budget. The
allocation will be increased over time, commensurate with the prevailing economic conditions in Kosovo
over the next years; and
(ii) agreement has been reached with DoT and DoR on DoR's mandate and scope of activities.
Finally, the Bank has received from DoT a satisfactory winter maintenance plan for the coming
winter, which was the condition to be fulfilled prior to Grant approval.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
a 1. b) Not applicable.
12 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
1 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
a 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Aymeric  bn      rRicardo A                           -             Christiaan J. Poortman
Team   ader                       Sector Mrector                    Country Manager/Director
- 20 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
KOSOVO: Urgent Road Project
_           -~~~K~ P  etf-::o--m:                                                  . . 
<of: _ E 0 ,C,i.-'.',                          _3 g  
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Rehabilitating infrastructure  Rehabilitation of the road  Donor Report        Stability and growth in
networks for economic     network and establishment of                         Kosovo
recovery                  adequate operation and
maintenance capacity
Project Development       Outcome / Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Contribute to the         Core Road Administration set Supervision Missions reports  Support of the Joint-Interim
reconstruction and economic  up, and able to carry out basic                   Administration and staff
development of Kosovo, by   tasks on an efficient basis.                       adequately trained
supporting the first steps  Indicators will include:
towards the re-establishment  * quality of road maintenance
of a road maintenance     programs and progress
administration and budget   reports;
financing mechanisms, as well * adequacy of contract
as urgent emergency repairs to management capacity;
the network.              * proactivity of DoR in
dealing with donors;
* Impact and relevance of
DoR advise to DoT
Improved main road network  Indicator of main road   Technical assistance provided
condition by December 31,   network condition to be  to DoR and DoR monitoring
2002                      computed by DoR and        capacity in place
compared to the condition in
2000 (2000 indicator to be
computed by the end of 2000
of the basis of the road
damage assessment report
compiled by IMG)
Agreement reached on an   Supervision Mission reports  Support from DoT and CFA
Action Plan to implement the
findings of the Road Users
Charges Study
Percentage of road        Report prepared by DoR     Support from CFA and DoT
maintenance contracted out by Supervision Mission reports
December 31, 2002
Development of local      Industry analysis survey to be Support from DoT
contracting capacity      conducted by DoT in the first
half of 2003
-21 -



",4;ta,:S ~ ~~~s                             4Q &:.' '    Evalua>U*iOi\t2ion  Critical Ass ons I
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:            (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
Institutional Development and 2001 and 2002 level of  CFA Consolidated Budget    Full commitment of the
Capacity Building          funding raised locally equal to Review project components in Joint-Interim Administration
an acceptable level;      light of budget levels      to resolve the road
maintenance funding question
* Increased quality of road    Supervision Missions reports  Support of the Joint-Interim
maintenance programs;                                 Administration and staff
* Increasing volume of                                adequately trained
maintenance activities;
* Adequate contract
management capacity
(including planning, contract
tendering, supervision and
traffic management);
Road User Charges Study    Supervision Mission reports  Support from DoT and CFA
completed                  and review of the study report
Road                       About 570 km of road sections Project progress reports  Local contractors able to
maintenance/rehabilitation    rehabilitated/maintained;                           bid/mobilize and availability
of materials
Adequate traffic management
during works
Size and timely availability of
donors' contributions
- 22 -



Lw     t  .of, --_iOr.$    ,     M, RO,*
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:        (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
Institutional Development and During project preparation:   Preparation Missions BTOs   Genuine agreement on the
Capacity Buiilding        US$100,000 (Bank                                    content of the road
administrative budget and                           rehabilitation program
French TF)                                          reached between the main
actors present in the road
sector
During Project            Project progress and
implementation:           supervision missions reports  Proper support provided to
US$0.5 million from the Bank                        DoR
Grant
Road                      US$4.5 million from the Bank Project progress and   Agreement to be reached with
maintenance/rehabilitation    Grant                 supervision missions reports  the Joint-Interim
and bridge rehabilitation                                                     Administration on efficient
implementation arrangements
- 23 -



Annex 2: Project Description
KOSOVO: Urgent Road Project
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$3.30 million
The Project will fund about 30% of the Program's road maintenance component. It is expected that about
570 km of roads will be maintained under the Project. The list of road sections on which maintenance is
going to funded under the Bank Grant is provided below.
Project Component 2 - US$1.20 million
The Project will fund overlay on a 14km high priority stretch of the Pristina (Prishtine) - Gnjilane (Gjilani)
road which has not been considered for funding by other donors.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.50 million
The Project will fund a study on the potential introduction of road user charges, will provide for a site
engineer to organize supervision of the works carried out under the Project and strengthen supervision
within DoR. The Project will also contain an allocation for assistance in specific areas such as project
implementation or DoR strengthening, in case commitments made by other donors fail to materialize in a
timely manner. Finally, the project will fund the costs of the annual audits.
PROGRAM DESCRIPTION
Program Road Maintenance Component - US$12.1 milion
Activities under this component will be focused exclusively on funding road maintenance on those sections
of the main network which do not require rehabilitation but urgently need to be maintained in order to
remain serviceable. This component will allow perforning maintenance on about 1,500 km of the main
network. Maintenance activities will include treatment of potholes and cracks to defer as long as possible
costly rehabilitation activities, surface dressing, cleaning of drainage systems, culverts and shoulders, and
restoration of horizontal and vertical signalization (with respect to the latter, the focus will be on restoring
traffic safety-related signaling). A list of the road sections included under the Program is presented below.
Program Road Rehabilitation - US$31.9 million
This component will allow road rehabilitation activities to be performed on about 150 km of the main
network. Rehabilitation will include restoration of culverts/drainage systems, overlays and, on a selective
basis, emergency reconstruction on some of the most degraded sections on the main road network. In some
cases, road rehabilitation will need to be preceded by repairs to leaking water/sewerage pipes located under
the road. Although a number of road sections need reconstruction, these sections have not been included in
the Project, given high costs of reconstruction and the relatively low availability of funds which is foreseen
to be available in the road sector. A list of the road sections included under the Program is presented
below.
In order to implement road maintenance/rehabilitation activities, the issue of traffic management will need
to be tackled to address: (i) KFOR requirement that strategic roads must remain open at any time: on those
road sections without any adequate road bypass, cooperation between KFOR, UNMIK, DoR and the
contractor will be essential; and (ii) the narrowness of the roads and the poor alternative itineraries: this
- 24 -



will warrant the construction of temporary bypasses on some of the sections to be treated under the Project.
Program Bridge Rehabilitation - US$8.00 million
The Program covers the reconstruction/rehabilitation costs of 9 bridges located on the main road network.
It is noted that local contractors do not have the capacity of building bridges. Bridge rehabilitation
activities are not expected to interfere with the KFOR requirement that strategic roads must remain open at
any time, as temporary bypasses are in place on most of the bridges to be rehabilitated. A list of the
bridges included under the Program is presented below.
Program Support to Road Management Capacity Component - US$8.00 million
The Program will support the re-establishment of a core road management capacity in Kosovo. The main
tasks to be carried out by DoR have been agreed upon (see Annex 9) and the technical assistance provided
under the Program aims at supporting DoR to carry out those tasks which are deemed absolutely essential.
As such, DoR will be supported with technical assistance in the following areas: (i) project implementation,
including procurement, disbursement, and supervision activities; (ii) road maintenance/rehabilitation
planning in accordance with economic prioritization principles; (iii) staff skills enhancement/update through
on-site training and collaboration/exchange (which could take the form of a twinning) with a reputable
Road Administration; and (iv) financial management. Basic equipment (such as office equipment, cars and
the like) will also be provided to DoR as well as basic laboratory equipment, to ensure the quality of the
materials used for maintenance and rehabilitation activities. In addition, the Program will provide
assistance to DoT to: (i) fund studies in the areas of road user charges, traffic congestion and safety, and
will support the preparation of a proposed new road classification; (ii) draft road sector-related regulations;
and (iii) provide a road expert to help DoT carry out the basic tasks of a Transport Ministry in the road
sector, including planning, development, road safety and regulations.
- 25 -



ROAD MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
Amount
Road                         Estimated   Committed
Number    Road Section      cost (US$)  so far (US$) Financiers
Banje-Mitrovica-
M2         Pristina-Blace    1,425,000    250,000      AFD
Podujeve-Prstina-
M25         Lipjan-Prizren   1,487,000    189,000      IDA
M9          Pristina-Peje    1,176,000    300,000       EC
543,000      IDA
M22.3     Mitrovica-Leshak    390,000
DoIc-Gjakove-
M9.1         Ponoshec         397,000     150,000      IDA
M25.2      Pristine-Gjilan    380,000     380,000      IDA
M25.3   Shtime-Ferizaj-Gjilan   770,000   190,000      IDA
R101       Mitrovice-Peje     663,000     186,000      IDA
R102      Kucice-Komaran      185,000     185,000      IDA
R104         Istog-DolIc      339,000
R107        Peje-Prizren      500,000     180,000      IDA
R108       Vitomirice-Kulla   190,000     190,000      IDA
R110        Xerxe-AriIat      385,000     385,000      IDA
R113       Zhur-Dragashi      195,000     195,000      IDA
R115       Przren-Gabrica     394,000
R118    Shuahreke-Shterpce   259,000
R119        Duhile-Kijeve     365,000     365,000      IDA
R120       Sllatina-Janjeve   682,000     190,000      IDA
R121       Raushiq-Zajme      281,000
R123a   Kamenice-Strezovce   169,000
R124    Domorove-Kataceve   233,000
R126      Podujeve-Recice     153,000
R129    Mitrovice-Kempimeh    311,000
R202       Junik-Rastavice    70,000
R205      Pirane-Studencan    133,000
R206       Ferizaj-Jezerce    128,000
R211         Viti-Vernez      149,000
R212      Zherger-Stanciq     135,000
R214      Hodonoc-Terstene    63,000
R215    Shipashnice-Hogosht   68,000
R219        Gjonaj-Zym        27,000             _
TOTAL ROAD MAINTENANCE  12,102,000   3,878,000
- 26 -



ROAD REHABILITATION PROGRAM
Amount
Road                      Estimated   Commifted
Number   Road Section    cost (US$)  so far (USS) Financiers
M2        Prstina-Blace    7,000,000    7,000,000    EC
M9         Pristina-Peje    5,000,000    1,500,000   EC
M25       Lipjan-Prizren    7,800,000    7,800,000   KfW
M25.2     Pristine-Gjilan    3,600,000    1,217,000  IDA
R107       Peje-Prizren   4,300,000
R108        Peje-Kulla     1,200,000    1,200,000    KfW
RI 16     Sllatine-Tetovo    3,000,000    3,000,000  EC
TOTAL REHABILITATION    31,900,000   21,717,000
BRIDGE REHABILITATION PROGRAM
Amount
Estimated Committed
Bridge Name       Bridge Location    Works required   Cost (US$) so far (USS) Financier
M9, 40 km W of    Construction new
Lozica                Pristina           bridge        2,140,000
M2, 10 kms NW from   Construction new
Milosevo              Pristina           bridge         980,000     980,000      EC
M9, 57km W of      Rehabilitation
Zajmovo               Pristina        existing bridge   385,000     385,000      EC
M9.1, between    Construction new
Rakovina Road    Dakovica and Klina      bridge        2,440,000
Construction new
Vrani Do          M25, near Lebanje      bridge        1,060,000    1,060,000    EC
M25, 20kms N. of    Rehabilitation
Luzane                Pristina        existing bridge   245,000     245,000      EC
RI 11, 25kms NW of    Rehabilitation
Zrze                   Prizren        existing bridge   100,000
R125, 40 kms. NE of   Rehabilitation
Orlane                Pristina        existing bridge   280,000
RIOI, 80kms E of   Construction new
Durakovac             Pristina           bridge         330,000
TOTAL         7,960,000 1 2,670,000
-27 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
KOSOVO: Urgent Road Project
WORKS                                                                                0.00
Road Maintenance                                          2.03         0.83          2.86
Road Rehabilitation                                       0.31         0.70          1.01
GOODS                                                                                0.00
Equipment for DoRlMaterial Testing Equipment                           0.18          0.18
SERVICES                                                                             0.00
Other Services, TA, Studies                               0.00         0.45          0.45
Total Baseline Cost                                       2.34         2.16          4.50
Physical Contingencies                                   0.13         0.14          0.27
Price Contingencies                                      0.11         0.12          0.23
Total Project Costs              2.58         2.42          5.00
Total Financing Required              2.58          2.42         5.00
4H,  ~ ~     ~     ~      LI           oeinTotal
Projct~~ :* tt:y Catiagy            US $io,,U  $ign   US $wil~ion
WORKS                                                                                  0.00
Road Maintenance                                            2.23          1.05         3.28
Road Rehabilitation                                         0.35          0.87         1.22
GOODS                                                                     0.20         0.20
SERVICES                                                                  0.30         0.30
Total Project Costs     2.58          2.42          5.00
Total Financing Required      2.58          2.42         5.00
- 28 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
KOSOVO: Urgent Road Project
1.    The economic evaluation of the Project has been carried out by running HDM on the road sections
to be maintained and rehabilitated under the Bank Grant. The case under which the road sections will be
maintained/rehabilitated under the Project has been compared to a base case, under which nothing is being
done until the condition of the road section warrants a complete resurfacing. Given the bad condition of the
road network, this stage is reached, on average, within a 3 to 4 year period. This base case is
representative of the situation likely to prevail in Kosovo over the coming years, during which little will be
allocated to road maintenance (and definitively nothing in 2000), due to heavy constraints on the Kosovo
budget. It is assumed that the allocations that will be made to road maintenance in 2001 and 2002 will be
used on those road sections where no intervention is foreseen over the same period under the Program. The
net annual benefits stream on which Net Present Values (NPV) and Economic Rate of Returns (ERR) are
computed consists of the following annual differences in:
*   economic vehicle operating costs;
* economic travel times; and
*   capital and recurrent expenditures.
2.    It has been difficult to gather data to conduct this economic evaluation. The Road Administration
has been in place for less than a year, a number of archives have disappeared, recent events have modified
both traffic volumes and patterns, and no comprehensive survey has been carried out so far. In addition,
recent events have also distorted the prices, and the basis constituted by maintenance contracts awarded
since last year's events is very slim. As such, the data used for the computation are the results of visual
observations, rudimentary traffic counts, and estirnates based on data available for neighboring countries
and adjusted to the situation in Kosovo.
3.    Based on the costs streams computed by HDM for each road section, the net present value of the
road maintenance and overlay activities to be funded under the Bank Grant is US$14.98 million, and the
conresponding IRR is 57%. The NPVs and ERRs for the individual road sections are presented in the
Table below.
Road Section               Length of    ERR          NPV@12%
section (km)              (US$, million)
Overlay
M:25.2: Pristina-Gjilan    17            69.20%      2.67
Miraintenance
M[25.2: Pristina-Gjilan    30            Over        4.1
100%
M9: Pristina-Peje          80            Over        1.77
100%
MI9. 1: Dolc-Ponoshec      45            44.60%      0.36
- 29 -



M25: Pristina-Merdare     34           82.30%       1.87
M25.2: Pristina-Gjilan    20           Over        1.41
100%
M25.3: Gjilan-Konculi     24           67.30%      1.57
RIOl: Mitrovica-Peje      71           77.40%      3.6
R102: Kucice-Komaran      29           38.90%      0.69
R107: Peje-Prizren        68           71.00%      4.34
R108: Vitomirice-Kulle    20           27.80%      0.27
RI 1O: Arlat-Malsheve     21           44.90%      0.53
Rl l O: Javice-Xerxe      18           80.10%      0.26
R1113: Zhur-Restilice     18           23.60%      0.19
Rl19: Dhul-Jashanice      33           21.40%      0.29
R120: Lebane-Janjeve      57           71.20%      2.97
- 30 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
KOSOVO: Urgent Road Project
Years Ending
December 31
l Year  i   Year 2  | Year 3      Year 4  | Year 5  | Year 6           7 Year7
Totall Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            1.0       3.2        0.8        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Totall ProjectCosts           1.0       3.2        0.8        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Financing               1.0       3.2        0.8        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                   1.0        3.2        0.8        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                 0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      1.0       3.2        0.8        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
n.a.
- 31 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
KOSOVO: Urgent Road Project
Procurement
Civil works, goods and services to be financed by the Bank wiU be procured in accordance
with the Bank's procurement guidelines. The project elements, their estirnated cost and
procurement methods are summarized in Tables A and Al. The thresholds for each
procurement method and Bank prior review (including aggregate values) are shown in
Table B. A procurement plan detailing the packaging and estimated schedule of the major
procurement actions is available as part of the Project Implementation Plan. The
Disbursement Schedule is shown as Table C.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Prcrment Method
Expenditure Category           IC             cur           0 2; .,          .F.      Total Cost
1. Works                           2.40           2.10           0.00          0.00          4.50
(2.40)         (2.10)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (4.50)
2. Goods                           0.15           0.00           0.05          0.00          0.20
(0.15)         (0.00)        (0.05)         (0.00)        (0.20)
3. Services                        0.00           0.00           0.30          0.00          0.30
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.30)        (0.00)         (0.30)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                           2.55           2.10           0.35           0.00          5.00
(2.55)         (2.10)        (0.35)         (0.00)        (5.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include contingencies
' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
- 32 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant                                Slecton  Metho -          -
., -'Servlces- -             -.-         , -',,    . ,' ' ;-..- -          t,..
expb_ftre      QCIIS,   QoS        SFB      LCS       CQ          e    "iTt"at.Coul
Cabtgoy                  .        ._.
A. Firms           0.20     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.20
____________     (0.20)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00.)   (0.20)_
B. Individuals    0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.10      0.00     0.10
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0. 10 )    (0.00)    (0. 1 0)
Total  0.20      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.10      0.00     0.30
_____________  (0.20)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)   (0.10)    (0.00)   (0.30)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.
- 33 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                                 Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement              PriorReiew
ExpenditureCategory       (US$ thousands)              Method                (US$ million) :
1. Works                     $200,000 or >                ICB                 US$2,400,000
<$200.000                  NCB                  US$ 400,000
2. Goods                     $100,000 or >                ICB                  US$150,000
< $100,000                  IS
3. Services                 Not Applicable               QCBS,            All TORs and contracts
exceeding $100,000 with
firms (US$200,000 in
aggregate)
Individual Qualifications    All TORs and contracts
(Individuals)       exceeding $50,000 with
individuals (US$100,000 in
aggregate)
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellanaous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   US$3.25 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
1. Procurement of Civil Works
Civil Works (US$4.5 million) will be procured as follows:
(a) International Competitive Bidding (ICB). All civil works contracts
estimated to be above US$200,000 equivalent will be procured through ICB. Two
civil works contracts are foreseen to be procured under ICB procedures. The
estimated value of these contracts is US$2.4 million.
(b) National Competitive Bidding (NCB). All civil works contracts estimated
to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent will be procured through NCB. About
11 civil works contracts are foreseen to be procured under NCB procedures, for a
total estimated value of US$2.1 million.
- 34 -



2. Procurement of Goods
Goods (approximatel.i TJSS0.2 million) will be supplied in package sizes that will
encourage competitiv, bidding. It is foreseen to supply basic road material testing
equipment and 3 cars to the Directorate of Roads as follows:
(a) International Ccmpetitive Bidding (ICB) procedures will be used for goods
estirnated to cost USK 100,000 equivalent or above per contract such as for the
procurement of road material testing equipment.
(b) International Shopping (IS) procedures will be used for readily available
off-the-shelf goods ot standard specifications (cars), estimated to cost less than
US$ 100,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount of US$0.05
million. IS procedure will require quotations from at least (3) three suppliers from
two different countries.
3. Selection Procedures for Consulting Services
Contracts for Consulting Services (US$0.3 million in technical assistance is
required for the Project) will be awardecl following the World Bank Guidelines
"Selection and Emplovinent of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated
January 1997, revisecl September 1997 and January 1999. To the extent possible,
contracts have been packaged to include a combination of related skills and
services and increase competition. The following methods of procurement will be
followed:
(a) Quality-and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) procedures will be used for
consultant services and training contracts up to an aggregate amount of US$0.2
million equivalenit.
(b) Individual Consultant based on Qualification procedures will be used for
assignments which meet the criteria specified in Section V of the Guidelines.
There is one contract for which the total estimated value is US$0.1 million to fund
a Sitre Engineer.
4. Notification of Business Opportunities
A General Procuremcnt Notice (GPN) has been published in the June 30, 2000
issue of Development Business and will be updated annually if there are any
outstanding ICB tenders thereafter. For consultants' contracts above US$200,000
a Specific Procurement Notices/Request for Expression of Interest will be
advertised in Develorment Business, in the Public Procurement Bulletin of the
UNIMIK Interim Administration as well as another appropriate newspaper of wide
local circulation. The Invitation to Bid for the civil works contract procured
following ICB procedures will also be advertised in Development Business, in the
Public Procurement EBulletin of the UNMAIK Interim Administration and an
appropriate newspaper of wide local circulation. Civil works procured by NCB
- 35 -



will be advertised in the Public Procurement Bulletin of the UNMIK Interim
Administration and an appropriate newspaper of wide local circulation.
5. Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Scheduling of Procurement. Prior to the issuance of any invitation for bidding,
the proposed procurement plan for the project will be reviewed by UNMIK
(specifically the Departmnent of Transportation and the Central Procurement
Entity) and the Association will be advised of any revisions for its review in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Annex I of the Procurement
Guidelines. Procurement of civil works, goods and services for the project will be
carried out in accordance with the agreed procurement plan which will be modified
as appropriate and included in the progress reports subject to Bank review.
Prior review: (a) Goods: All ICB contracts will be subject to prior review. (b)
Civil Works: All ICB and the 2 first NCB contracts will be subject to prior
review. (c) Consulting Services: Terrns of reference for all consulting and
training assignmnents will be subject to prior review. Request for Proposals (RFP),
short lists, termns and condition of contracts as well as evaluation reports and
recommendation for award will be prior reviewed for contracts for individual
consultants above $50,000 and firms above $100,000.
After award of contract, should any material modifications or waiver of terms and
conditions of a contract resulting in an increase above 15% of the original amount,
the Bank will reserve the right to prior review of such modifications (including
modifications to contracts for consulting services).
Ex-post review: All tenders, regardless of value, are subject to ex-post review.
All documentation, including, but not limited to: TOR, bidding documents or
request-for-proposals, bids or proposals received, correspondence on all bids
either prior to or following award of contract including Bank no objections,
contracts and any subsequent amendments should be maintained until at least two
years following the close of the Project. During Bank supervision missions, not
less than 1 in 5 tenders not subject to Bank prior review will be examined ex-post.
6. Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
Domestic preference will not apply to any contracts awarded under this Grant.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 36 -



Disbursement
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
The Bank Grant is expected to be disbursed over a period of two years. The disbursement profile will take
intC) account the fact that local contractors and the Road Administration capacity will gradually build up.
Retroactive financing will be allowed up to US$500,000 for eligible expenditures incurred after July 1,
2000. The CFA has agreed to advance the funds to the UNMIK Department of Transport in order to
ensure that as much as possible road maintenance activity can be carried out this construction season.
Three road maintenance contracts (the procurement of which is almost completed) will be funded initially
through the advance.
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million          Financing Percentage
Civil Works                                 3.80                    100% net of taxes
Goods                                       0.00                    100% net of taxes
Consultant Services                         0.30                    100% net of taxes
Unallocated                                 0.90
Total Project Costs                         5.00
Total                                       5.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Somne of the proceeds of the grant are expected to be disbursed on the basis of Statement of Expenditures
(SOEs) as follows: (a) civil works for all contracts costing less than US$200,000 equivalent each; .(b)
goods costing less than US$150,000 equivalent each contract; (c) services contracts for (i) individuals
costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each; (ii) firrns costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each; and
(d) training and study tours for less than US$20,000 equivalent each. Disbursements against goods and
services exceeding the above limits will be made against full documentation and respective procurement
guidelines. SOEs will be certified locally by the CFA. Related documentation in support of SOEs will not
be submitted to the Bank, but will be retained by the CFA for at least one year, after receipt by the Bank of
the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement is made. This documentation will be made
available for review by the auditors and supervision missions. If ineligible expenditures, including those
nolt justified by the evidence furnished, are financed from the Special Accounts (SA), the Bank will have the
right to withhold further deposits in the SA. The Bank may exercise this right until the Recipient has: (a)
refunded the amounts involved, or (b) (if the Bank agrees) submitted evidence of other eligible expenditures
that can be used to offset the ineligible amounts.
Special account:
To facilitate timely project implementation, UNMIK will establish, maintain and operate, under conditions
acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account in US dollars in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. An
initial authorized Special Account allocation of $350,000 will be established. An authorized allocation of
the Special Account will be US$750,000 once the aggregate disbursements of the Grant total $1,000,000
or more. The account size is justified for several reasons: (i) being able to authorize payments directly
from the Special Account to contracts rather than requesting any direct disbursements will be
administratively easier for the CFA to manage; (ii) frequent Special Account replenishment applications
would also be an undue administrative burden on the CFA; (iii) the Special Account will be held in a very
- 37 -



secure banking environment as it will be a sub-account of the bank account containing all donor funds
supporting the Kosovo consolidated budget; and (iv) the Project has a short implementation period,
requiring a very quick disbursement method. The minimum amount of each application should be 20% of
the authorized allocation. Replenishment applications should be submitted by the CFA at least every four
months, and must include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents.
*   Project Accounting
The CFA, acting under the authority of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General, is
responsible for the overall financial management of the Kosovo Budget and tre bucgets lnder the
responsibility of the municipalities, which together form the Kosovo Consolidated Budget (KCB).
Specifically, the CFA is responsible for budget process and preparation, treasurv tlunctions, revenue
analysis, tax collection and customs administration. Currently, the CFA is fLnded primarily through
the International donor comrnunity and its day-to-day management is conduced by interriational
experts. One of its key objectives is to allocate, commit and track funds for public sector spending
through an automated system to enhance accountability and govermment financial operations.
To ensure that expenditures are consistent with the amounts and purpose set out in the KCB,
regulations have been approved by the Special Representative of the Secretary-General. To prevent
abuse and fraud, explicit administrative instructions and procedures are in place for the commitment
and expenditure of public money. Also, in order to minimize the risk of fraud and malfeasance, an
independent officer from the procurement process checks and confirms that these rules have been
adhered to. A detailed description of the instructions and procedures are found in the Project
Implementation Plan.
Bank's reporting requirements for projects and the need for the establishment of a proper financial
management system to produce Project Management Reports (PMR) was discussed with the CFA
during the appraisal mission. It is nevertheless underlined that the current system will not be able, for
the time being, to produce the integrated PMRs (Financial report, Progress Report and Procurement
Management Report), as required by IDA. However, the following modifications will allow the current
system to produce the required PMRs:
*   A chart of accounts will be developed for the project by the CFA in co-ordination with the Road
Administration, and will be incorporated into CFA's own chart of accounts with budget classification
codes based on the GFMIS;
*   The CFA will be responsible for the preparation of PMRs;
*   DoR, supported by intemational experts to be funded by the Governmett of Germany. wili prepare the
physical implementation part of the PMRs, once the staff capacity has been buldt up;
*   The CFA will utilize traditional Bank disbursement procedures. A move to PMR based disbursements
will be considered once a Bank FMS has reviewed and certified the PMRs as acceptable for
disbursements; and
*   Confirmation that the European Court of Auditors appointed by UNMIK will include in its scope of
work audit of the project accounts has been received at negotiations.
- 38 -



The Treasury Department of the CFA is expected to have:
*   adequate financial management capacity to properly handle the tasks of disbursement and accounting
required for implementation of the project objectives; and
*   proper monitoring mechanism to report accurately on the status of the expenditure for the project as a
whole, its various components and each expenditure category as represented in the Grant Agreement,
by each funding source.
Project records will be maintained in accordance with International Accounting Standards (IAS) as
issued by the Intemational Accounting Standard Committee (IASD). An action plan for the
strengthening of the Financial Management System will be attached to the PIP.
Project Audit and Other Reporting
Project Audits
UNMIK has decided to appoint the European Court of Auditors to undertake annual audits of the entire
conisolidated Kosovo budget. Agreement was reached during negotiations on these arrangements. The
audit costs would be funded from the Bank Grant as part of its operating costs. If a separate independent
audit is necessary, then the costs for this audit should be considered as part of the Grant expenditures.
Project accounts, financial statements, the Special Account and Statement of Expenditures will be audited
in accordance with the Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing for Projects Financed by the World
Bank (March 1982) as well as the Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook (January
1995). In particular, International Auditing Standards (IAS) as published by the International Federation
of Accountants (IFAC) will be consistently applied. The CFA will provide the Bank (within six months of
the end of each fiscal year), an audit report of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request,
including an opinion by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, on disbursements against certified
SOEs, or against PMRs. The opinion should mention whether the SOEs/PMRs submitted during the fiscal
year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawal applications.
Project Reporting
UNMIK, lead by DoT, in co-ordination with the CFA and CPE, will ensure that DoR prepare proper
project progress reports to be submitted to IDA in a timely fashion. These include comprehensive quarterly
reports covering project financing, implementation progress (including variance reporting), procurement
progress and contract expenditure. The reporting system will be in compliance with the formats provided
by the IDA in the Project Financial Management Manual (Exposure Draft, February 1999). A copy has
been given to the CFA and DoR. These would include project status reports, reflecting: (i) the status of
implementation progress, problems encountered, corrective actions needed, rationale for actions; (ii) the
current state of project indicators; and (iii) the current costs of each project component and estimated costs
of completion. Procurement reports would include: (i) progress of procurement activities against the plans
seit forth in the PIP, variations in progress, reasons for variations, and remedial actions; and (ii) bid
evaluation reports, as they arise in the procurement processes.
- 39 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
KOSOVO: Urgent Road Project
Projec Schedule                                M =0 Planned                       tual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       4                            4
First Bank mission (identification)                                           03/17/2000
Appraisal mission departure                      05/09/2000                   05/10/2000
Negotiations                                     07/24/2000                   07/17/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    08/09/2000
Prepared by:
World Bank in collaboration with UNMIK and DoR.
Preparation assistance:
Govermnent of France (through Agence Francaise de Developement and Partnership Trust Fund
administered by the Bank) and Government of Germany (through Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische
Zusammenarbeit)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Aymeric-Albin Meyer (TTL)         Transport Specialist
Enn Vasur                         Transport Economist
Ahmet Gokce                       Procurement Specialist
Hiran Herat                       Financial Management Specialist
Felix Jakob                       Peer Reviewer
Jose L. Irigoyen                  Peer Reviewer
Bernard Baratz                    Environmental Specialist
- 40 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
KOSOVO: Urgent Road Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Yres
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Procurement Assessment;
Financial Management Assessment;
E]conomic Evaluation.
C. Other
Kosovo: A Program for Economic Recovery. EC and WB 1999
Organization of the Road System in Kosovo. UNMIK
Kosovo: Programme 2000 d'Entretien et de Remise en Etat du Reseau Routier. Caisse des Depots. Janvier,
2000
Studie Zur Analyse der Aktuellen Situation der Strassen im. Kosovo Sowie zur Unterstutzung des Landes
Beim Aufbau Einer Funktionsfahigen, Strassenerhaltungsorganisation.GTZ. February, 2000.
*The Road to Stability and Prosperity in South Eastern Europe. A Regional Strategy Paper. World Bank,
March 2000.
*Including electronic files
-41 -



Annex 11
KOSOVO
URGENT ROAD PROJECT
UNDERSTANDING
ON THE MANDATE AND SCOPE OF ACTIVITIES OF THE
DIRECTORATE OF ROADS
1.   The Directorate of Roads (DoR) has been officially established through
Administrative Directive 2000/1 from the Joint-Interim Administration Department for
Transportation (DoT) in May, 2000. The Directive stipulates that DoR shall be the sole
entity responsible for management, maintenance and development of the main and
regional roads, while being an adviser to municipalities with respect to the management
of local roads. This note summarizes the understandings reached among the different
participants supporting the establishment of DoR within the framework of the Urgent
Road Project, so as to provide a common framework for the development and the actions
needed for DoR for the next few years. This note is intended to be attached to the
Minutes of Negotiations of the Urgent Road Project, once the Project will have been
negotiated.
2.   One of the main objectives of the Urgent Road Project is to support DoT in setting
up a framework which would lead to the development of an efficient Directorate of
Roads. To achieve this objective, the following understandings have been reached among
DoT, GTZ, DoR, and the Bank:
(i) DoT and DoR agree on the scope of activities which should be covered by DoR under
the guidance and supervision from DoT. The activities are presented in Paragraph 3
below;
(ii) DoR will, as much as its capacity allows, be in charge of the implementation of at
least the activities to be funded under Bank-administered funds (i.e. Bank Grant and
Donor Trust Funds administered by the Bank), as well as activities to be funded under the
Kosovo budget. This will allow DoR to develop its planning, contracting and supervision
capacities, which are part of the core activities of a Road Administration. At least during
a first phase, DoR, supported by GTZ and other consultants as needed, will be in charge
of preparing bidding documents and supervising works, while the tendering process will
be conducted by the CPE and disbursements handled by the CFA;
-42 -



(iii) a comprehensive technical assistance package will be provided DoR by GTZ over the
next two years. The package includes, inter alia, support to develop adequate capacity in
the following areas: financial management, procurement (including training), staffing,
road maintenance planning and preparation of annual budget proposals for road
maintenance to be submitted to UNMIK;
(iv) while acknowledging the fact that a full fledged Road Administration cannot be
developed in two years, studies in areas of concern to a Road Administration (e.g. traffic
management, winter maintenance, road user charges) will be conducted by international
experts to help DoR and DoT in tackling as quickly as possible issues in these areas.
3.   The main activities to be performed by DoR include:
(i)  conduct road condition and traffic surveys, including traffic counts, focusing
initially on the main network;
(ii)  organize collection of infornation on traffic congestion and accidents;
(iii) prepare annual road/bridge maintenance (including both summer and winter
maintenance) and rehabilitation programs to be submitted to UNMIK for funding
under the Kosovo budget. The activities to be funded under the programs will be
selected on the basis of traffic and road condition data, while, whenever feasible,
optimizing the impact of the programs on less favored communities;
(iv) set-up and update a database recording donor proposed and present activities on
the main and regional road network;
(v)  be, as much as feasible and as soon as possible, in charge of contract preparation,
implementation and supervision, for at least those activities to be funded from
Bank-administered grants and from the Kosovo budget;
(vi) be responsible for maintenance/rehabilitation and new  construction quality
controls and appropriateness of technical standards;
(vii) involve stakeholders, such as road users and less favored collectivities, when
drafting road/bridge maintenance and rehabilitation, as well as new construction
programs;
(viii) carry out traffic counts, and monitor heavy vehicle axle weights, by organizing
weight actions to preserve the structure of the road network;
(ix) set-up and maintain a comprehensive road condition inventory database;
(x)  on the basis of traffic counts and road condition, prepare on the basis of economic
criteria and in consultation with stakeholders, annual and longer-term plans for
maintenance and rehabilitation;
(xi) through DoT, propose and discuss with UNMIK sustainable road maintenance
funding mechanisms (e.g. road user charges, including possibly introduction of a
specific fee on fuel), as well as related implementation procedures;
-43 -



(xii) participate as necessary in the implementation and operation of the agreed road
maintenance funding mechanisms, and management of collected funds; and
(xiii) participate to the elaboration and implementation of traffic management and road
safety policies.
4.   Recognizing the present weakness of DoR, it was agreed that, in a first phase, the
scarce human and financial resources available should be focused on points (i) to (v) as
defined in Paragraph 3 above. Finally, it is understood that DoR will also require external
support in order to carry out activities mentioned in points (vi) to (xiii).
-44 -



ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN                                                            Annex 12
KOSOVO URGENT ROAD PROJECT
A. MITIGATION PLAN
Cost                Institutional Responsibility       Comments
(e.g. secondary
impacts)
Phase               Issue                Mitigating Measure          Install      Operate         Install          Operate
Construction   Mateial Supplv           Material Supply
(a) Asphalt Mixing Plant    (a) Material to be supplied   NA            NA        (a) Asphalt Plant  (a) Asphalt Plant
-dust                 from equipment meeting
-worker health/safety    international environmental
standards
Material Transvort       Material Tran3o               (a) Minimal   (a) Minimal  (a) Truck         (a) Truck        (a), and (b)
(a) Asphalt              (a) Truck load covered or wet                               operator          operator      to be specified in
-dust/fumes                                                                                                       bid documents
(b) Traffic Management    (b) Haul material at off peak  (b) NA     (b) Minimal  (b) Truck          (b) Truck
-noise and vehicular      traffic hours                                           operator          operator
exhaust, road            Use routes to minimize
congestion               major traffic sites
Construction Site        Construction Site
(a) Noise                (a) Limit activities to      (a) NA        (a) NA        (a) Construction    (a) Construction
reasonable hours (not                                    Contractor       Contractor
between 11 PM and 9 AM
(b) Dust                  (b) Water construction site  (b) Minor     (b) Minor    (b) Construction   (b) Construction
and materials storage sites                             Contractor        Contractor    (a), (b), (c), (d), (e)
as appropriate                                                                         to be specified in
(c) Traffic Disruption   (c) Appropriate measures to    (c) Minor   (c) Minor    (c) Construction    (c) Construction   bid documents
(during construction     redirect traffic that are                                 Contractor       Contractor
activity)                easily seen or easy to
follow
(d) Vehicular/Pedestrian    (d) Appropriate lighting and  (d) Minor  (d) Minor    (d) Construction   (d) Construction
Safety                   well defined safety signs                                Contractor        Contractor
(off hours when there is
no construction activity)
(e) Water Pollution from  (e) Cover material storage areas  (e) Minor  (e) Minor    (e) Construction    (e) Construction
Improper Materials       Construct channels to direct                              Contractor       Contractor
Storage/Management       runoff to sewage system or
appropriate treatmnent
facility



Operation      Maintenance of             Maintenance of Rehabilitated
Rehabilitated Road        Road
(a) Noise                 (a) Limit activities to       (a) NA         (a) Minimal        DoR             DoR with
reasonable hours (not                                                       consultant
between I1I PM and 9 AM
or as agreed
4-I
0"



B. MONITORING PLAN
Cost                 Institutional
______________                                                                            ________R_            ~ aRe nsibility
Phase          What is to be         Where              How                When                Why              Install    Operate    Install        Operate
monitored                         Is the parameter        Is the       Is the parameter to
to be monitoredl  parameter to be       be monitored
type of          monitored
monitoring
equipment
Construct
Material Supoly
(a) Asphalt Plant  (a) Environm!!ntal   (a) NA        (a) DoR review      (a) Before work    Assure plant         (a) NA      (a) NA        (a) Plant    (a) Plant
standard of                                             begins             compliance with                                Operator    Operator
equipment                                                                  internationally
accepted
Material          (a) Truck load      (a) Job site     (a) DoR            (a) After work     environment, health   (a) NA      (a) Small    (a) NA       (a) GRD
Transport         covered or wet      (b) See (a)      supervision         starts-several    and safety                                                  Regional
(a) Asphalt      (b) Hours and                                            unannounced       requirements                                                Maintenance
(b) Traffic      routes selected                                          inspections                                                                   Department
Management                                             (b) See (a)        (b) See (a)                              (b) See (a)  (b) Small    (b) See (a)  (b) See (a)
Construction Site  (a) Noise levels   (a) At site or   (a) Observation    (a) When locals
(a) Noise                            nearest homes                        complain                                (a) NA       (a) Minor    (a) NA      (a) DoR with
consultant
(b) Air quality    (b) At site      (b) Observation     (b) During
(b) Dust         (dust)                                                   material delivery                        (b) NA      (b) Minor    (b) NA      (b) DoR
and construction                                                             with
consultant
(c) Traffic      (c) Traffic patterns   (c) At or near  (c) Observation   (c) Once/week at                        (c) NA       (c) Minor    (c) NA      (c) DoR with
Disruption                           site                                  peak and non                                                                  consultant
(during                                                                    peak periods
construction)
(d) Water         (d) Water quality    (d) Runoff from   (d) Observation  (d) During                               (d) NA      (d) Minor    (d) NA       (d) DoR
Pollution (from   (primarily         site or materials                     precipitation                                                                 with
Improper          suspended solids)   storage areas                        (rain, snow etc.)                                                             consultant
Materials
Storage/
Management)                                                                             .



Operate
Maintenance of
Rehabilitated
Road
(a) Noise        (a) Noise levels    (a) At site or  (a) Observation    (a) When locals                       (a) NA      (a) Minor    (a) NA      (a) DoR with
nearest homes                      complain                                                                    consultant
Road Safety
Condition of       Along highway    Visual Observation  One-two                                  NA         Minor        NA       DoR with
hazard signs       segment include                    times/year                                                                  consultant
I_d in project  I
oo-



