Page  1
December 7, 2000
Mr. Bernard Kouchner
Special Representative of the Secretary General
United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo
Pristina
Kosovo
Re:  Dutch Grant for Urgent Road Project 
Grant Number TF 024762
Dear Sir:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to 
indicate IDA's  agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by the Netherlands 
Minister for Development Cooperation, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of seven million United States dollars of ($7,000,000) (the Grant) to 
Kosovo (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement. The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, 
that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on 
the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
receipt by IDA of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter 
Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Christiaan J. Poortman
Country Director and Regional Coordinator for South-East Europe
Europe and central Asia
AGREED:
United Nations Interim Administration in Kosovo
By /s/ Bernard Kouchner
Special Representative of the Secretary General
Date:  1/12/2001
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purpose of the Grant is to contribute to the  reconstruction and economic 
development of Kosovo by supporting the removal of major impediments to efficient 
transportation of goods and passengers on the main road network, and  to develop an 
adequate road management capacity (the Project), as related to the IDA-funded ongoing 
Urgent Road Project governed by the Trust Fund Agreement between UNMIK and IDA (Acting 
as Administrator of the Trust Fund for Kosovo), dated  August 15, 2000 (the Trust Fund 
Agreement).  The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as 
follows:
(a)
Carrying out of a series of roads maintenance and roads and bridge 
Page  2
rehabilitation work in the territory of Kosovo.
(b)
Provision of technical advisory services and goods to support the 
activities to be undertaken as part of the Project.
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and 
efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Activities and the 
use of the proceeds of the Grant as IDA shall reasonably request; (d) from time to 
time exchange views with IDA's representatives on the progress and results of the 
Activities; and (e) take all necessary measures required to enable IDA to visit the 
territory of Kosovo for purposes related to the Grant.  Without limitation on the 
foregoing, the Recipient shall, if IDA shall so request, prepare and furnish to IDA  
promptly upon completion of the Activities a report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to IDA, on the results and impact of the Activities.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ services, 
goods and work required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of  Schedule 3 to the 
Trust Fund Agreement.
3.2.
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and that any 
indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely usable currency to replace or 
repair such goods.  The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant to the 
Activities are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate 
practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as 
needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its 
books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom 
by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures 
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the 
Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Amount of
   % of
   Grant Allocated
Expenditures
Item
   (in US Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultant's services,
1,300,000
100%
including audit
(2)
Goods
  300,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
85% of local expendi-
tures for other items
procured locally
(3)
Works
5,400,000
100%
TOTAL
7,000,000
For the purpose of the table above:
Page  3
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Recipient is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”.
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above:
(a)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments 
made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by IDA; 
(ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the 
Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is 
not a member of IDA or for goods produced in or services supplied from such 
territories; or (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any 
import of goods, if such payment or import, to IDA's  knowledge, is prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter 
of the United Nations;
(b)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after  February 28, 
2003, or such later date that IDA shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the 
Closing Date). However, withdrawals may be made after the Closing Date for 
expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding withdrawal 
application is received by IDA within four months after the
Closing Date, after which 
time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be 
canceled; and
(c)
If, in IDA's  opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the 
items in the table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the 
expenditures for such item, IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to 
such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to another item which, in IDA’s 
opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the 
form specified by the Bank.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of 
the Recipient by the Representative of the Secretary General or such other person as 
he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) accompanied by such evidence in 
support of the application as IDA shall reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen 
signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided 
with the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application 
for an amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and 
substance to satisfy IDA that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from 
the Grant Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the 
Activities. IDA shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant 
Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
IDA may require withdrawals form the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for works costing less 
than $200,000 equivalent; (b) contracts for goods costing less than $150,000 
equivalent; (c) consultants’ contracts for individuals costing less than $50,000 
equivalent; and (d) contracts for consulting firms costing less than $100,000 
equivalent,  all under such terms and conditions as IDA shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.   IDA  at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, 
shall purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such 
currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this 
Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by the Bank.
Page  4
4.7.
(a) To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in Deutsche Mark (DEM) a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a 
commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, 
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Trust Fund Agreement;   provided however, that for the purpose of this Grant: (i) 
the amount of authorized allocation specified in paragraph 1 of Annex A to the said 
Schedule shall be DEM 1,400,000  (ii) and the amount of authorized allocation 
specified in paragraph 3 of Annex B to the said Schedule shall be DEM2,800,000.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to  IDA  adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Activities.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial 
statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to IDA consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; (ii) furnish to IDA as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, 
and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as IDA shall have reasonably 
requested; and (iii) furnish to IDA such other information concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as IDA shall from time 
to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after 
IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the Bank’s 
representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following 
events has occurred and is continuing, namely that the Recipient has failed to comply 
with any of its obligations herein specified. 
6.2.
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been 
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient 
shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA  within six months after the 
effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities; or (c) if IDA has decided, at any 
time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support to the Project.
