Report No. 938-SYR                                                                PILE  Copy
Appraisal of a Second Damascus
Water Supply Project Syria
March 25, 1976
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the Worid Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in their performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND DAMASCUS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SYRIA
Currency and Equivalents
Currency Unit  - Syrian Pound (LS)
LS 1           = US$ 0.27
US$ 1          =  LS 3.70
LS 1 Million   = US$ 270,000
US$ 1 Million  =  LS 3,700,000
Weights and Measures
=  millimeter (1 millimeter = 0.039 inches)
cm      =  centimeter ( 1 centimeter = 0.39 inches)
m       = meter ( 1 meter = 3.28 feet)
kn      =  kilometer ( 1 kilometer = 0.62 miles)
ha      = hectare (1 hectare = 2.471 acres)
km2     =  square kilometer (1  m2 = 247.1 acres)
m3      =  cubic meter (1 m3 = 264.2 US gallons)
m3/sec = cubic meter per second (1 m3/second =
22.8 million US gallons per day)
lcd     = liters per capita per day (1 lcd = 0.26 US gallons
per capita per day)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Glossary of` Abbreviations
Arab
Furd    _  Arab Fxnd for Economic and Social Development
EPEF     -  Etablissement Public de Eaux de Figeh
(Damascus Water Supply Authority)
USAID    - United States Agency for International Development
SOGREAH  -  Société Grenobloise d'Etudes et d'Applications
Hydrauliques (Consulting Engineers - France)
SONEDE   - Société Nationale d'Exploitation et Distribution
de Eaux (The Tunisian National Water Authority)
MHU      - Ministry of Housing and Public Utilities
SEURECA  -  Société d'Etudes pour l'Urbanisme l'Equipement et
les Canalisations (Consulting Engineers - France)
UNDP     - United Nations Development Program
EPEF's Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. [ts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.






APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND DAMASCUS WATER SIJPPLY PROJTECT
SYRIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SMIARY AID CONCLUSIONS .............................    i-ii
I. INTRODUCTION.                                                   1
Il. SECTOR.                                                         2
A. Background.                                                2
B. Water Resources.                                           2
C. Water Supply and Sewerage.                                2
D. Sector Organization.                                       3
E.   Sector Program and Constraints.                         4
III. DAMASCUS WATEPR SUPPLY.                                         5
IV. THE PROJECT.                                                    6
A. Background.                                                6
B. Objectives of the Project .8
C. Project Description.                                       8
D. Status of Engineering.                                     9
E. Cost Estimates.                                            9
F. Loan Amount .il
G. Project Financing Plan .il
H. Implementation .12
Construction Schedule .12
Personnel Responsible for Execution .12
Figeh Test Pumping .13
Land Acquisition and Water Rights .13
Monitoring Criteria .14
Procurement .14
I. Disbursements .15
Messrs. W.J. Cosgrove (Sanitary Engineer), W. Keilani (Financial
Analyst) and V. Nwaneri (Economist) wrote this report with assistance
from Messrs. G. Heyland (Financial Analyst), A. Banerjee (Technical
Assistant), and 14. Mama (Consultant).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                               Page No.
V.   THE PROJECT ENTITY ..................................               15
A.   Establishment .......           ..........................    15
B.   Organization and Management ....            ...............   16
C.   Staff .........         ................................      17
D.   Training ......................................               18
E.   Accounts and Audit ............................               18
F.   Billing and Collecting ........................               19
G.   Insurance .....................................               19
VI.   FINANCE ..........          ..................................      19
A.   Background ....................................               19
B.   Past Performance and Present Financial Position               20
C.   Program Financing Plan ........................               21
D.   Tariffs .......................................               22
E.   Future Operations and Financial Position    ......            24
VII.    JUSTIFICATION ......................................               25
Environmental Impact and Health Benefits ......              25
Demand.26
Dean     ..................................................  2
Least Cost Solution ..................                       26
Economic Analysis .............................              26
VIII.    RFCOMMENDATIONS  ....................................              27
LIST OF ANNTEXES
1.  YIfU Sector Proposals for Fourth Plan
2.  Existing Water Supply Facilities of EPrF
3.  Forecast of Population, Connections, Consimption and Production
4. Chronology of Bank Group Involvement in Project
5. Project Description
6.  Cost Estimates
7. Comparison of UInit Costs of Wor'k
8. Project Schedule
9. Key Indicators
10. Syrian Construction Industry
11.  Estimated Schedule of IBRD Dishursements
12. Summary of Legislation
13.  EPEF Organization Chart
14.  EPEF - Projected Income Statement 1972-1984
15.  EPEF - Projected Cash Flow State.1ent 1972-1934
16.  EPI:1 - Projected Balance Sheets 1e72--1934
17.  EPEF - Debt Statement 1979---19°4
18. Assumptions for Financlal Projections
19.  Preliminary Tariff Projections
20.  Econonie Analysis
1IaP
11899   Second Damascus WZater Supply Project



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND DAMASCUS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SYPIA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Damascus, the capital of Syria and one of the oldest continuously
inhabited cities in the world, is experiencing a population growth of nearly
5% per year and now contains some 1.2 million inhabitants, about a sixth of
the total population. Although for many years Damascus has had an abundant
supply of cheap and high-quality water from the Figeh spring in the neighbor-
ing hills high above the city, peak demand has now overtaken maximum produc-
tion capacity so that the consumers suffer shortages in the dry season which
are increasing substantially and will probably become common in all months by
1977.
ii.       In 1973, IDA agreed to assist in financing a project designed to
correct this situation with a credit (401-SYR) in the amount of US$15.0 mil-
lion of which US$13.0 million was to be passed on to Etablissement Public des
Eaux de Figeh (EPEF, the Damascus water authority). On receipt of the first
tenders for the project in January 1975, for a supply tunnel and urgently
needed distribution works, it became evident that costs would considerably
exceed estimates dup to reasons beyond the control of EPEF or the Government.
Tenders for the supply works were held in suspense while EPEF reviewed the
original feasibility studies. Meanwhile IDA agreed to a revision of the
original project description to utilize the credit for distribution works
which were urgently required to reduce losses and distribute the water which
is available. In June, 1975, the United States Agency for International
Development (USAID) agreed to lend US$48.0 million to Syria to help finance
the foreign exchange component of the remainder of the distribution works re-
quired to serve the cîty until 1980. The presently proposed project includes
the supply works needed in order to provide the water for the distribution
system to be built under the above credit and loan. It will also provide for
training and technical assistance additional to that provided for under the
credit. The project would be partly financed by the Bank and by the Arab
Fund for Economic and Social Development.
iii.      The estimated project cost is US$136.9 million, including physical
and price contingencies. The foreign exchange cost is US$91.0 million or
66.5% of total cost. Towards these costs the GoverDment would borrow $35.0
million from the Bank and US$40.0 million equivalent from the Arab Fund.
The Government would onlend the Bank loan to EPEF at the terns and conditions
of the original loan. The local costs of the project, together with the re-
maining foreign exchange which is estimated at US$16.0 million, would be pro-
vided by the Government as part of its share of financing of the total program
of works.



- ii -
iv.       Major civil works contracts and equipment contracts financed by
the Bank loan would be let in accordance with the Bank Group's "Guidelines
for Procurement". The contract for a tunnel and related underground works
which is the major component of the project in the amount of LS 262 million
(US$70.8 million) has already been awarded following the Bank's procedures
for international competitive bidding. Part of the foreign exchange costs
of this contract would be financed jointly in equal shares by the Bank and
Arab Fund. Retroactive financing 'by each of not more than US$3.0 million is
proposed for this contract and the related consulting services. It is assumed
that the remainder of the Arab Fund loan will be used for parallel financing
of some project components following international competitive bidding under
the regulations of the Arab Fund. The construction works are expected to
begin in January, 1976 and be completed by the end of 1979.
v.        EPEF is a public authority created by the Government under a 1958
decree to replace the previous communal syndicate which had been supplying
water to Damascus since 1932. Top management is dedicated but bogged down
by routine paper work and increasing workload due to shortage of middle
level administrative staff. Measures are proposed in the project to help
correct these weaknesses.
vi.       EPEF's financial performance has been sound and unexceptionable,
assisted by minimal production costs and a comprehensive tariff structure,
but renewals and extensions to the distribution system and construction of
new supply works have been neglected during recent years. However, the pre-
sent tariff of LS 0.20/m3 (US$0.20/1000 gallons) is completely inadequate to
generate the revenues necessary to carry on its operations and finance the
needed program of works. Agreement has been reached that EPEF will set and
maintain tariffs so as to provide funds each year from internal sources, after
covering at all times operating expenses, debt service, and working capital
requirements, to finance not less than 10% for the period 1977-1980 and 35%
thereafter, of the average capital expenditure during any three consecutive
years comprising one actual and two forecast years. The Government has pro-
posed a stepped tariff to be implemented shortly which will generate the re-
venues required under the cash generation covenant while protecting the low-
income consumers from the impact of the rate increase.
vii.      The proposed program of works represents the first major expansion
of the city's water production and transmission facilities in more than 40
years, and is unavoidable if Damascus is to avert serious water shortages
and consequential health hazards. The supply component will take three years
to construct and cannot be delayed because the limited capacity of the exist-
ing supply tunnel is already creating shortages. The major elements of the
program represent the least-cost solution, chosen from among several alter-
natives.
viii.     On the basis of agreements reached during negotiations on the issues
set forth in this report, the project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$35.0
million to the Government of Syria for 25 years including five years of grace,
to be onlent to EPEF.



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND DAMASCUS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SYRIA
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Syria has asked the Bank to help finance the
supply works 1/ component of a major expansion of the water supply of Damascus.
The works of the project were included for the most part in the original proj-
ect description for the Damascus Water Supply Project financed under Credit
401-SYR 2/ which provided for an IDA credit of US$15.0 million of which US$14.2
million was intended for EPEF 3/. The remainder was to be used by the Gov-
ernment to finance sewerage studies for Damascus, Homs and Hama and pollution
control studies of the Barada and Orontes river basins. On receipt of the
first tenders-for the project (the tunnel and related underground works and
an Urgent Phase of the distribution works), it became evident that costs would
considerably exceed the original estimates due to reasons beyond the control
of EPEF or the Government. Since it was no longer clear that the tunnel was
still the least-cost means of supply, the tenders for the tunnel were held in
suspense while the consultants SOGREAR 4/ reviewed their feasibility studies.
1.02      Meanwhile at the request of the Government, the Association agreed
to a revision of the original project description so that US$2 million would
be retained by the Government for the sewerage studies and EPEf's share of
US$13 million would be used for a first phase of distribution works urgently
required to improve distribution of available water supplies. 51 In June,
1975, the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) agreed
to provide a loan of US$48.0 million to finance the foreign exchange component
of the remainder of the distribution works required to service the area of the
city which will be built in the period up to 1980, on condition that EPEF enter
into a contract for construction of the supply works.
1.03      A preappraisal/supervision mission to Damascus in June, 1975 deter-
mined that the updated feasibility studies prepared by SOGREAI! provided an
adequate base for appraisal of a supply works project. An appraisal mission
1/   Development of a spring about 13 km northwest of Damascus. a tunnel to
carry the water to Damascus, reservoirs, pumping stations and associated
control works.
2/   Report No. 106a-SYR of May 8, 1973, and 1.oan Agreement of June 22, 1973.
3/   Etablissement Public des Eaux de Figeh, the Damascus Water Authority.
4/   Societe Grenobloise d'Etudes et d'Applications Hydrauliques, Grenoble,
France.
5I   Board of Executive Directors informed by memorandum from the President
dated May 2, 1975. Change in project description agreed to by the
Board on May 12, 1975.  Agreements amended May 28, 1975.



- 2 -
visited Syria in August-September, 1975 (Messrs. Cosgrove, Keilani, Heyland
and Nwaneri) at which time representatives of the consultants were in Damascus.
Mr. Mohsen Mama of SONEDE 1/ accompanied the mission as a Bank consultant to
conduct studies to determine specific water consumption and to help analyze
the previously reported high percentage of unaccounted-for water.
1.04      At the request of the Government of Syria, the appraisal mission
subsequently visited the Arab Fund to brief them on the project and obtained
their assurances of interest in co-financing the project. This appraisal
report is based on the consultants' feasibility reports, on information ob-
tained from EPEF, on discussions with the Arab Fund representatives, and on
the findings of the mission.
II. SECTOR
A. Background
2.01      Syria, situated at the eastern extreme of the Mediterranean Sea
(Map 11899), is about one-third the size of France. Its population which
is about 7.3 million (1975) grew at the rate of 3.3% per year during the
1960-1970 census period. The urban population which grew at 5% per year
during the same period now accounts for 44% of the total.
B. Water Resources
2.02      Four-fifths of the land area is mountainous, desert, or semi-arid.
The climate varies from Mediterranean along the coast to extreme desert type
in the south-east. The countries water resources are well-known and increas-
ingly used. The rapid expansion of urban population which is creating in-
creasing demand for water and consequent pollution are straining the tra-
ditional source of supplies from rivers and springs. There are also a
number of important aquifers, mainly in the limestone of the Lebanon and
Anti-Lebanon ranges along Syria's borders, one of which feeds the Figeh
Spring which supplies Damascus.
C. Water Supply and Sewerage
2.03      Damascus and four other large cities have established public water
authorities which are responsible for their potable water supply while the
rest of the urban centers have some form of water supply distribution systems,
1/   Societe National d'Exploitation et Distribution des Eaux, the Tunisian
national water authority.



managed by units within the municipal administrative structure (para 2.06).
It is estimated 1/ that about 58% of the occupied units in the urban areas
in 1961-62 had no piped water facilities. But a WHO survey 2/ indicated
that 75%, of urban residents in 1960 had access to water supply, of which 50%
were by house-connections. By 1970, according to this survey, over 90% of
urban residents in Syria (and 50% of rural) had access to water supply services.
2.04      Urbanization and industrial activity have created serious pollution
problems in the larger cities. While some cities have fairly comprehensive
combined sewer networks the centuries-old system in Damascus is no longer
adequate for the city's needs. None of the cities nor any large industries
have sewage treatment plants. The discharge of untreated sewage into the
relatively small rivers, whose dry weather flow is minimal, causes them to be
grossly polluted. Legislation has been prepared to regulate discharge of
industrial waste into these rivers and to control general sewage discharge.
Credit 401-SYR provides an amount of USS2.0 million to finance the foreign
exchange component of consultants fees for the preparation of master plans
and first-stage feasibility studies for the sewerage of Damascus, Homs and
Hama and for pollution control studies of the Barada and Orontes river basins.
Terms of reference for these studies have been agreed with the Bank, proposals
have been received from an agreed short-list of consultants and final selec-
tion of the consultant is expected shortly.
D. Sector Organization
2.05      There are fourteen provinces (Mohafazat) in Syria, each subdivided
into municipalities and districts  (Manatik).  The province bears the name of
the provincial capital and is headed by a provincial governor. The municipal-
ities are administratively responsible for the towns and cities of Syria and
are in turn supervised by the Ministry of Local Affairs.
2.06      Four Ministries exercise jurisdiction over development and alloca-
tion of water resources in Syria. The Ministry of the Euphrates is respons-
ible for the construction of the big Tabqa hydroelectric dam and its associated
Euphrates irrigation schemes; the Ministry of Public Worl-s and Water Resources
for other irrigation schemes and hydroelectric plants and for water resources
generally.  I'ntil recentiy the Ministrv of Municipalit.cs ane Rural Affairs
was responsible for water supply and sewerage in both urban and rural areas.
This function is now shared between the ïlinistry of Housing and Utilities and
the Ministrv of Local Affairs.  The former is responsible for general guidance
(to municipalities and other establishments in the sector) on technical prob-
lems and project designs.  The Ministry of Local Affairs supervises the admin-
istrative and financial activities of the municipalities including water supply
1/   "Current economic position of Syria" IBRD Economic Report July 10, 1975.
2/   WHO Statistics Report Vol 26 No. 11, 1973 based on surveys made in 1960
and 1970. The results of this survey are to be interpreted cautiously.



-4-
and sewerage. The five independent water authorities (para 2.03) are subject
to the supervision and ,guidance of the Ministry of Hlousing and Utilities
through wbich the Government exercises w ide rowers of control in all the
important matters such as tariffs, personnel, budgets, accounts and major
contracts. Each of the authorities is manageid by a Board of Directors com-
prising the General Manager, five heads of the varîous departrments and a
representative of the workers.
2.07      The basic laws establishing the nunicipalities give them the re-
sponsibilities for all urban services including water and sewerage. In the
areas weithout established Public Water Authorities, the Ministrv of Elc,using
and Utilities (MHU) assists the municipalities througlh its provincial offices
of the IIIIU located at the provincial capitals. Most of the municipalities
are suffering from chronic shortage of qualified technical staff and depend
on the meagre staff capability of the MHU. The latter designs the local
projects and guides the municipal staff through the implementation and
supervision of the projects.
2.08      The quality of public water supplies in Syria is monitored in the
laboratories of MIU, the public water authorilties and the Ministry of Health.
Samples taken from some parts of the country (e.g. areas dependent on springs
and the City of Damascus) reveal good quality. However, the number of samples
collected and analyzed from the smaller centers and rural areas is not ade-
quate to ensure safe water supply to these coinmunities.
E. Sector Program and Constraints
2.09      The Fourth National Development Plan (1976-1980) is in the final
stage of preparation. The five public water authorities prepare their own
Plan proposals. The Plan for Damascus which has been approved by the re-
sponsible Government authorities comprises the present project and other
works described in paragraph 4.05. The Plans for Aleppo, Homs, Hama and
Latakhia are not yet available. MHU's proposals for sector objectives, pol-
icies, targets and expenditures (for the other areas without public author-
ities) during the Plan period are presented in Annex l.
2.10      The major constraint on imrlementing the planned vrogram of works
is likely to be the shortage of trained and skilled manpower. It is unlikely
that MHU's proposals will be achieved without major policy decisions and sub-
sequent action by the Government to raise salaries within the public sector
in order to attract the needed professional staff and skilled labor. A second
constraint may be finding the sources of financing for such a large investment
program. The magnitude of these investments is partly a reflection of the
fact that inadequate tariffs in the past have not generated the surpluses re-
quired to finance rehabilitation and renewal of the existing systems or to
provide the expansions required by the increasing population. The water au-
thorities and municipalities are therefore dependent on Government contribu-
tions for such capital works.  Water has been regarded as an important social



- 5 -
service which the Government feels must be subsidized; in most parts of the
country, water tariffs have not changed for several years.  According to MHU,
the water supply agencies should base their charges for all consumers on the
unit cost of providing water, yet in 1969 it ordered that water charges
throughout Syria should not exceed LS 0.40 per m3 (USS0.41/1000 gal).  Until
the Government changes this policy and implements tariffs approaching the in-
cremental costs of water, the pricing system will not indicate the true cost
of water and the sector will be incapable of generating the financing neces-
sary for new investments.
III. DMTASCUS WATER SUPPLY
3.01      Damascus is one of the oldest continuouslv occupied cities in the
world. The Barada River gave rise to the Al-Ghutta oasis in which Damascus
is located and there are remains of a Roman aqueduct which brought water to
the city from a source of the Barada, a large natural spring at Ain Figeh
15 km distant (MIap 11899). In subsequent ages, however, the water supply,
both for agriculture and human consumption, appears to have again dependent
on the river flow and on wells until the early 20th century, when the Turkish
authorities once more brought water to Damascus directly from Ain Figeh by
pipeline. The Ain Figeh water works were expanded over the years and in 1932
an aqueduct was completed; distribution was organized by a communal syndicate,
which in 1958 was transformed into a state enterprise, EPEF.  Annex 2 describes
the existing water facilities.
3.02      As the capital and foeus of government, as well as the main indus-
trial center, Greater Damascus has in recent years experienced population
growth of about 5% annually (Annex 3), and the present potable water system
now serves about 1.2 million people. The number of individual water connec-
tions is high (serving about 75% of the population - see Annex 3) and there
are 305 public hydrants, supplying the remainder of the population. All of
the present population of Damascus is either served directly or lives within
300 meters of a public fountain or mosque where water is distributed free of
charge. The capacity of the transmission system, however, is limited to about
3.2 m3/sec, which is now barely enough to meet peak demand; dry-season short-
ages and restrictions were experienced beginning in 1972 1/. They will become
more serious unless the production and transmission facilities are expanded.
3.03      Because the Damascus water supply flows freely to the city by gravity,
requiring neither long-distance pumping nor treatment, the costs of production
were low and EPEF had not in the past paid much attention to husbanding the
incoming supply of water. The appraisal mission for Credit 401-SYR found
that flow measurement and recording had been perfunctory, numerous leaking
mains were suspected - especially in the Old Citv, where centuries of con-
tinuous habitation have caused a build-up of organic and unstable soil - and
1/   These shortages are now caused by the limited capacity of the aqueduct.
However, in drought conditions in earlier years, the Figeh spring yield
had sometimes fallen as low as 2.4 m3/sec.



-- 6 -
meters had been allowed to fall intco disrepair.  Faced with a shrinking margin
of supply over consumption, and with about 50% of production unaccounted for,
E77'7 arcc'td that its performance in these respects required improvement and
Credit 401-SYR provided funds to implement measures to remedy these deficiencies.
3.04      A campaign to reduce unaccounted-for water, leakage and waste was
developed in consultation with the Bank and implementation began in May, 1975.
It is being carried out by a team of about 100 o- EPEF's most qualified em-
ployees working mainly overtime, since staff constraints make this impossible
as a full-time activity (para 5.07). The efforts of this group have already
aieed in identifying the proportion of the unaccounted-for water which is
unb-lled consumption rather than leaks (Annex 3).  In addition to these
operations, EPEF has launched a public information campaign to make the
population aware of the value of water as a scarce resource.
3.05      EPEF presently serves seven villages in the Barada valley (supplied
by the transmission line from Ain Figeh to Damascus), Damascus city proper
and the Yarmouk refugee camp located south of and immediately adjacent to the
city limits (Map 11899). Other villages in the vicinity have their own, some-
times inadequate, groundwater supplies. Extending EPEF's system with its
present supply shortage to improve the situation in these neighboring villages
would result in an even less acceptable situation in Damascus and not signi-
ficantly improve the situation in the neighboring villages. However, this
possibility should be considered when the new sources of supply become avail-
able in. 1980. Agreement was reachsed w±th the Gcovernment that a study vlll be
commenced not later than December 31, 1976 on the feasibility and desirability
of alternative means of providing water to serve villages adjacent to Damascus,
following completion of the project, and that the results of the study will
be discussed with the Bank not later than December 31, 1978.
IV. TIE PROJECT
A.  Back-round
4.01      EPEF realized within the nast decade that the demand for water
resulting from Damascus' growing population was approaching the reliable yield
of the Figeh spring and its transmission system. Consultants (SOGREAII) were
engaged to study the situation. They provided a report on the hydrology of
the spring in 1965 and made preliminary recommendations for the improved
utilization of the source.  In 1969 SOGREAH were commissioned to carry out
further studies on increasing the spring yield and to complete a feasibility
study on additional transmission facilities between Figeh and Damascus. In
1972 they were instructed to prepare final designs and bidding documents for
the prioritv elements in the EPEF expansion program: source development,
transmission facilities and terminal reservoirs.



- 7 -
4.02      EPEF has also been concerned with the need to expand the distribu-
tion system to serve the growing population. In 1966 the consultants
SEURECA 1/, were engaged to prepare a master plan for the distribution net-
work for the year 1984, based on an urban plan for the period 1964-1984 pre-
pared by consultants for Damascus Municipality. With its limited resources
EPEF has been making some extensions the distribution on the basis of this
1968 master plan.
4.03      Late in 1972 a Bank mission visited Syria to appraise a project 2/
which included the supplJy works designed by SOGREFAI, the distribution works
designed by SEURECA, equipment to assist in the operation and maintenance of
the distribution system, engineertng and management cor.sulting assistance
and training for EPEF staff in management and engineering. The project also
included a component for sewerage and pollution control studies (para 2.04).
4.04      Delays in project implementation resulted from the outbreak of
hostilities in the Middle East in October 1973. Tenders were received in
January 1975 for an Urgent Phase of the distribution works and for an under-
ground cutoff, tunnel and principal storage reservoir. Bids for these com-
ponents were about five times appraisal estimates as a result of factors
outside of EPEF's control including delays, steeper than expected interna-
tional price increases, changes in the parities of the bid currencies with
the US dollar, strained capacity of the local construction industry which
was probably caused in part by the need to rebuild after the October 1973
hostilities, and possibly a premium charged by suppliers because of unsettled
conditions in the Middle East. Preliminary discussions wïth a consultant for
the sewerage studies also indicated costs considerably in excess of appraisal
estimates.  This led the Government to revise its financing plan for the
project (para 1.02).
4.05      The Urgent Phase of distribution works being financed under Credit
401-SYR provides for the construction of several feeder mains which will
carry the water from the distribution reservoirs into the local distribution
networks with increased pressures and for replacement of about 130 km of exist-
ing mains throughout the Old City (Map 11899). The remainder of the distri-
bution works included under the original description of the works of Credit
401-SYR (370 km) make up the General Phase whose foreign exchange component
will be partly financed by USAID (para 1.02, Map 11899). The distribution
works mentioned above would provide mains in a1l of the opened streets of
Damascus at the end of the project period (1980). It is expected that by
1985, 90% of the population would have direct connections to the system.
The remaining 10% would be provided with a safe, reliable supply through
public taps.
I/   Societe d'Etudes pour l'Urbanisme, l'Equipement et les Canalisations,
Paris, France.
2/   See Annex 4, Chronology of Bank Group Involvement.



- 8 -
B. Objectives of the Project
4.06      The main project objective would be to provide sufficient water to
serve the population of Damascus through the distribution works described
above, and through expected extensions and new connections to the system,
until about 1987. In order to further assist the development of EPEF, pro-
vision is made for training of personnel in addition to that provided for
under the existing Credit.
C. Project Description
4.07      Project details are given in Annex 5 and the major elements are
shown on Map 11899. The principaL project components are as follows:
(a) The Proposed Works
(i)  an underground cutoff structure to capture the flow
of the source (Figeh spring);
(ii) a pumping station at the Figeh spring to augment low
season flows;
(iii) a tunnel 15 kilometers (km) in length from the spring
to the principal storage reservoirs;
(iv) the principal storage reservoir (underground) at Wali,
capacity 60,000 cubic meters (m3);
(v)  distribution system reservoirs of 44,800 m3 total capacity;
(vi) pumping stations (1 new and 8 rehabilitated) to regulate
pressures in the distribution system;
(vii) dispatching equipment for data transmission and flow control;
(viii) engineering services for design and supervision.
(b) Training and Technical Assistance
Training in waterworks operations for EPEF's intermediate level
technical, financial and administrative staff (additional to that
underway through previous Credit).



D. Status of Engineerin
4.08      The contract for construction of the underground cutoff, tunnel
and principal storage reservoir was awarded in July, 1975 (para 4.25). Final
design of the remaining works is being prepared by the consultants, SOGREAH.
Acceptable Syrian consultants have nearly completed the final design of the
distribution system reservoirs.
E. Cost Estimates
4.09      Cost estimates for the project are provided in detail in Annex 6
and summarized below.
LS Thousand            US$ Thousand           Z of Pro-
Works                  Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   ject Cost
Underground cutoff,
tunnel and Wali
reservoir            79,000  183,100 262,100  21,351  49,486  70,837    51.7
Figeh pumping
station               6,000    9,000  15,000   1,622   2,432   4,054         3.0
Distribution
reservoirs           15,100   32,700  47,800   4,081   8,838  12,919         9.4
Distribution pump-
ing stations          4,500   15,600  20,100   1,216   4,216   5,432         4.0
Dispatching            3,000   10,000  13,000       &11   2,702   3,513       2.5
Sub-total (Works)   107,600  250,400 358,000  29,081  67,674  96,755    70.6
Physical Contin-
gencies              12,190   28,405  40,595   3,295   7,678  10,973         8.0
Design and Super-
vision                2,000    8,000  10,000       541   2,162   2,703       2.0
Training and tech-
nical assistance        400       400      800     108      108     216      0.2
Sub-total (Base
cost)               122,190  287,205 409,395  33,025  77,622 110,647    80.8
Expected price
increases (23.7%
of Base co0t)        47,735   49,460  97,195  12,901  13,368  26,269    19.2
TOTAL                169,925  336,665 506,590  45,926  90,990 136 916   100.0



- 10 -
4.10      The overall cost estimates are considered to be realistic for Syria
under present conditions. For the underground cutoff, tunnel and supply
reservoir the costs are those of the contract for these works. For all other
elements of the project, the base cost estimates were prepared by the con-
sultants using the unit prices of the tunnel contract and the contract awarded
for the Urgent Phase of the distribution works (Credit 401-SYR) for which
bids were received in January, 1975. Costs shown in the above table, except
for those of the contract already awarded, have been adjusted to reflect
expected January 1, 1976 prices.
4.11      The consultants (SOGREAI[) responsible for the source development
and tunnel carried out a thorough sub-surface reconnaissance.  In the vicinity
of the Figeh spring six rotary boreholes were drilled and analyzed and some
twenty observation wells were sunk (including several in the mountains over-
lying the aquifer). The main spring, which emerges from the limestone like
an underground river, has been explored by specially trained divers to sup-
plement data obtained by the drilling program. Nine test boreholes were
drilled along the tunnel axis and a geophysical reconnaissance and seismic
testing was carried out along the tunnel route. All of this information was
made available to bidders on the tunnel contract. The provision of 10% phys-
ical contingencies for this contract which was calculated as 100% of the cost
of items subject to unknown risks and represents 20% of the cost of the under-
ground works, therefore is considered appropriate. Physical contingencies
of 15% are provided for all other works.
4.12      Price increases totalling 23.7% are forecast over the duration of
the construction period. The contracts already awarded contain price varia-
tion clauses based on agreed indices which were used to calculate the
January, 1976 value of these contracts. The following forecasts of inflation
were applied to the foreign component of equipment and civil works beginning
in 1976:
1976    1977    1978    1979    1980
Equipment                    9        8       8        8       7
Civil Works                 13       12      12       12      10
The local component of price increases was calculated taking into considera-
tion a 50% increase in the Government-controlled prices of cement and fuel
in October, 1975 and estimates, of construction materials costs and wages in
accordance with the Government"s pricing policies.



- il -
4.13      Mainly as a result of the present situation in the Middle East
(para 4.04), costs for this project are much higher than the costs which
would be expected following international competitive bidding for similar
works in countries where a more normal situation exists. A comparison be-
tween the unit prices of the low bids for the two contracts recently awarded
in Damascus with the unit prices of conservative tenders for another Bank-
financed project in the Mediterranean region for which tenders were received
in May, 1975 clearly demonstrates this phenomenon (Annex 7). Searching for
possible wavs to reduce costs, the appraisal mission together with represent-
atives of EPEF considered the possibilities of calling new tenders for these
works or having them carried out by force account, but reached the conclusion
that there was no assurance that any of the alternatives would result in
lower costs and all of them would likely result ir delayed completion of the
works. This problen and the alternative solutions were submitted to the Gov-
erament for consideration.  Faced wïth growing water shortages in Damascus,
the cabinet instructed that the contracts should be awarded at tendered prices.
It is likelv that high present costs are a temporary phenomenon. If conditions
change, costs in general may drop, thus reducing costs for the project works
which have not yet been bid as well as for the remainder of EPEF's program.
F. Loan Amount
4.14      Tihe project would be partially firtanced by a Banek loarn of US$35.0
million equivalent which would represent 25.6% of the project cost and 38.5%
of the estimated foreign exchange component. The terms assumed for the Bank
loan are a period of 25 years including five years grace, with interest at
8-1/2%. The period is conventional for water supply loans and the grace
period corresponds to the construction period of the project.
G. Project Financing Plan
4.15      The following table shows the summary of the estimated total fund
requirements for the project and the sources from which they will be met.
LS Million   US$ Million  % of Total
Project Financing Requirements              506.6           136.9         100.0
Sources of Finance
Borrowings
- IBRD Loan                               129.5            35.0          25.6
Government Equity Investment
of which:
- Arab Fund Loan                          148.0            40.0          29.2
- Other Equity Investment                 168.3            45.5          33.2
EPEF Net Cash Generation                     60.8            16.4          12.0
Total Sources                          506.6           136.9         100.0



-- 12 -
4.16      The Arab Fund has stated that it is willing to consider a loan to
the Government for the project of US$40.0 million equivalent. Signature of
the loan agreement between the Covernment and the Arab Fund would be a condi-
tion of effectiveness. The remaining funds will have to be provided by the
Government in the form of equity investments (para 6.08).
Hl. Implementation
Construction Schedule
4.17      The schedule for design, procurement and construction of the proj-
ect is shown in Annex 8. The project would be carried out with some five
contracts. Construction of the works under Contract No. 1, which has already
been awarded (tunnel, underground cutoff and supply reservoir), is expected
to begin in April 1976. These works should begin carrying water to Damascus
by June 30, 1979 although the project distribution reservoirs, pumping sta-
tions and dispatching would not be in service until December 31, 1979.  This
schedule is realistic provided that there are no administrative constraints
such as delays in contract awards, issuing the orders to start work, obtain-
ing Central Bank approvals or processing materials and construction equipment
through customs. The Syrian Government has taken measures designed to avoid
these (para 4.18). The project schedule was discussed during negotiations
with EPEF and revised accordingly.
Personnel Responsible for Execution
4.18      A Presidential Decision l/ established a special commission to be
responsible for the implementation of EPEF's water supply projects and au-
thorized the commission to engage the needed local or foreign technicians,
to pay overtime and to award bonuses.  The commission is also exempted from
laws and regulations in Syria which hinder it from achieving its objectives.
This Decision is in addition to an earlier one 2/ which authorized EPEF to en-
gage by special contract the technical staff required for the Project Unit
which was to be established to supervise construction of the works as required
under Credit 401-SYR. The special commission has enjoyed reasonable success
in that it arranged to change several clauses originally imposed by Syrian
legislation in the original bid documents for the tunnel works and the urgent
phase of the distribution works which led to revised bids nearly one-third
less than those received under the original bid documents.
1/   Presidential Decision No. 6 of Januarv 30, 1975 (Annex 12).
2/   Presidential Decision No. 265 of October 19, 1974 (Annex 12).



- 13 -
4.19      In spite of its special status there were some initial probleins in
staffing the Project Unit. However EPEF advised the Bank in February, 1976
that it had engaged the services of three experienced engineers and of several
junior engineers. Consultants (SEURECA, France) have been hired by EPEF with
responsibility for the supervision of the works being built under Credit 401-
SYR. Agreement was reached that consuiltants will be retained under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank to supervise the works to be constructed
Y        under the proposed loan.
Fi~eh Test Puminq
4.20      Although the new tulnel will have a capacity of 5.0 m3/sec the
Figeh spring would have a reguilated minimum flow of only about 3.0 m3/sec from
June to Februarv with a frequency of one year in five (Annex 2).  The consult-
ants SOGREAHI expect on the basis of their hydrogeological studies that it will
be possible to raise thlis minimum flow to 5.5 m3/sec by pumping, from the
aquifer which feeds the spring.  The on]y way to determine whether it is
possible to augment this low flow by ptimping is by full-scale trial pumping
over a period of time which might he as long) as three years. This test
pumping was originally foreseen under Credit 401--SYR and a draft contract
prepared under which SOGREAH would supervise these tests. Implementation of
these works was at first delayed because of the October 1973 hostilities and
then by uncertainties related to project financing.  Since time is now becom-
ing extremely short if the pumping installation is to be completed at the same
time as the tunnel, agreement was reached that before June 30, 19tb consultants
will be retained by EPEF to supervise this testing program uwider terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank.
Land Acquisition and Water Rights
4.21      EPEF has already purchased the required land surrourndin- the Figeh
spring and at the supply reservoir site in Damascus, as well as mast of the
land required for access to the works. Negotiations were still continuiing
at the time of appraisal on access to one of the tunnel construction shafts
and the process of acquisition of the distribution reservoir sites had begun
although some of these had not been complsted defined. Agreement was reached
that land, access rights and storage areas necessary for the completion of
the project will be acquired in time to prevent delays in project construction
(Annex 6).  The principle that EPF.F car± utilize the water from the Figeh
spring to supply Damascus has been established bv several Governuient decrees 1/.
1/   Decree No. 475 by the Minister of Municipal and Rural Affairs Presidential
Decrees Nos. 124 and 266 of 1958.



- 14 -
'e;onitoring Criteria
4.22      Annex 9 shows the key indicators which would be monitored during
the execution of the project to measure the achievenent of the technical,
financial, administrative and training goals set for the proposed project.
These key indicators were reviewed during negotiations with EPEF who will
gather the available information on a quarterly basis and submit it to the
Bank.
Procurement
4.23      Tenders were received in January 1975 for the tunnel, source works
and principal distribution reservoir (Contract No. 1 of the Project) in accord-
ance with "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits."
A contract was signed in mid December 1975 with the lowest evaluated bidder
fcr an amount of LS 262 million (US$70.8 million) which, after allowances
for physical contingencies and price escalation, would constitute some 70%
of project costs.
4.24      During preliminary discussions wfth the Arab Fund it was tentatively
agreed that Contract No. 1 was so large that it needed to be financed jointly
by the Bank and the Arab Fund. It was also tentatively agreed that it would
be desirable to separate the remaining works for parallel financing, with
the Arab Fund component to be procured followina international competitive
bidding under the regulations of the Arab Fund. During negotiations it was
agreed that for sake of simplicity of coordination the Government would request
the Arab Fund to finance Contract No. 2, including the Wali pumping station,
the reservoirs II west and the Barada overflow, (Annex 6, estimated cost US$9.8
million).
4.25      Remaining major contracts for the supply of equipment and civil works
with an estimated value of US$16.1 million would be awarded after international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracts for these
works would be grouped to create packages large enough to interest foreign
bidders. Although no local contractors bid on the Urgent Phase distribution
works or the tunnel contract some local contractors are believed to have the
capacity to bid on the remaining contracts (Annex 10). Agreement was reached
that the tender documents for these remaining works (Contracts 3, 4 and 5,
Annex 6) would provide that bids and combinations of bids would be opened and
evaluated simultaneously so as to determine the bid or combination of bids
offering the most advantageous solution to the Borrower. No preferences have
been requested for local manufacturers.
4.26      Since international competitive bidding may not be the most suitable
method for procuring some small parts and equipment for the work, provision
would be made that minor contracts for suDply of equipment costing less than
LS 100,000 (USS27,027) subject to an aggregate of LS 1 million (US$270,270)
for works financed by the Bank would be awarded on the basis of EPEF's local
procurement procedures, which are acceptable to the Bank.



- 15 -
I. Disbursements
4.27      The proposed Bank loan of US$35.0 million would be disbursed towards
the ccst of Contracts 1, 3, 4 and 5 of the project as follows:
(a)  Underground cutoff, tunnel    -  40% of the foreign exchange costs
v                    and supply reservoir                indicated in the contract for
(US$23.70 million)              civil works corstruction,
equipment supply and installation.
(b)  Reservoirs, pumping stations  -  40% of the foreign exchange costs
dispatching                   indicated in the contractors' bids
(US$5.50 million)               for civil works construction, equip-
ment supply and installation.
(c)  Technical Services              -  100% of the total cost of consultants
(USS1.56 million)                for design, supervision and techni-
cal assistance; 100% of the foreign
exchange costs of training for EPEF
personnel.
(d)  Unallocated                     -  For physical contingencies.
(US$4.24 million)
The estimated disbursement schedule is given in Annex 11. The proposed closing
date would be December 31, 1980.  Disbursements made after December 1, 1975
for the underground cutoff, tunnel and supply reservoir and for the related
consultants, fees for supervision amounting to not more than US$3.0 million
would be financed retroactively.
4.28      The proposed loan from the Arab Fund, totalling US$40.0 million
equivalent, would be disbursed directly by the Arab Fund as joint financing
on Contract No. 1 and parallel financing on Contract No. 2. The Bank and the
Arab would will keep each other informed of the status of disbursements under
their respective proposed loans.
V. PROJECT ENTITY
A. Establishment
5.01      EPEF is a public authority ("Etablissement Public") created by the
Governrnent under a 1958 decree to replace the previous communal syndicate
that was responsible for potable water supply for the city of Damascus. In
February 1974, the Government issued decree No. 18 which now governs all



- 16 -
public authorities, corporations and establishments such as EPEF. It form-
alizes previously existing customs and procedures  laying down general rules
regarding their location, lending and borrowing requirements, management by
the General Director and a Board of Directors, financial and accounting re-
quirements, mministerial responsibility, and the powers of the President/
General Manager, his Board of Directors and the responsible Minister. The
provisions of the decree are summnarized in Annex 12.
5.02      Decree No. 18 also specifies that each authority should be set up
by a separate decree that contairs separate detailed regulations pertaining
to that authority. Accordingly, decree No. 252 was issued on May 14, 1975,
specifically for EPEF (Annex 12). This decree formally states the functions
of EPEF, its capital, sources of funds and staff regulations which were al-
ready in effect. It also states that the Ministry of Housing and Utilities
(MHU) would be responsible for EPEF.  As provided in decree No. 18, MHU
exercises effective control over EPEF through four principal means. First,
EPEF's financial activities are regulated by the decree itself. It states
for example that all the assets of public authorities belong to the state and
they are required to turn over their surplus cash (after deducting for oper-
ational needs and capital expansion) to a central fund. Secondly, for import-
ant decisions by the Board of Directors, the Minister acts as the Chairman
of the Board while the President/General Manager acts as Chairman of the
Board for minor decisions. Thirdly, important decisions by the Board must
issued in. form of ministerial decisions (which in practice come from the
Prime Minister's office and thus involve consideration at highest cab'net
levels). Fourthly, the 'Iinister of Housing and Utilities must approve various
management decisions relating to organization of the entity, inventory system,
distribution, stores, operations, advertising, staff changes and contracts
with expatriates. Despite these means of ministerial control, EPEF still
retains some measure of independence, for example its Board is composed ex-
clusively of its own staff including one worker representative. 1/
B. Organization and Management
5.03      EPEF's organization is shown in Annex 13.  The President/General
Manager is responsible to the Board and has two assistants for administration
and technical matters respectivelv.
5.04      Though EPEF's top management is dedicated, it is bogged down by
routine paper work and increasing workload due to shortage of middle level
administrative staff. EPEF is committed under Credit 401-SYR to com-mission
a study of its organization and operating procedures, subnit its findings to
1/   Until recently, EPEF's Board included the Mayor of Damascus (Chairman),
representatives of three Ministries, the Technical Director of the
Municipality and a Worker's representative.



- 1 7 -
IDA and thereafter, promptly implement the recommendations of such a study
as shall be mutually agreed. In March, 1976 EPEF accepted the proposal of
a joint venture of two French firn.s (SEMA and Lyonnaise) for the study. 1/
The mission has reviewed the draft contract and finds it acceptable. Agree-
ment was reached with EPEF that the recommendations of the study will be dis-
cussed with the Bank and that EPEF will implement by December 1976 an agreed
program to improve EPEF's organization and its operations and operating pro-
cedures, (including its accounting and billing and collection procedures)
(paras. 5.09 and 5.11).
C. Staff
5.05      EPEF's authorized staff has not increased proportionally to its
tasks. Until October 1974, EPEF was required to obtain authorization from
the Government before it could increase its higher level (engineers, admin-
istrators, etc.) staff. This, coupled with rigid public sector salary policy
(with which EPEF must comply) accounted-for the stable level of its staff.
In October 1974, a staffing decree was issued authorising EPEF to negotiate
slightly improved conditions of employment for staff to be employed in its
new Project Unit which was created to execute the project under Credit 401-SYR
(para 4.19).
5.06      EPEF together with Bank supervision missions have identified points
at which EPEF's present organiization needs immediate strengthening for its
ongoing operations and USAID has agreed to a Government request to provide
EPEF with technical assistance. Such assistance would include: (a) a utili-
ties management expert tc assist the Director General; (b) a waterworks
engineer and construction engineer to assist in project design and feasibility
studies for the Newi Works Department, and (c) an engineer with experience in
waterworks systems operation and maintenance. All this staff would remain
with EPEF for a two-year period. Areement was reached that EPEF will sign
a contract providing for the technical assistance described above within six
months of the date of effectiveness of the loan.
5.07      Though technical assistance (para 5.06) and training programs
(para 5.08) will relieve EPEF's present staffing problems, they will not
provide long-term solutions as long as EPEF's present employees continue
to be subject to increasingly difficult working conditions. Most employees
rely on overtime payments or earnings from second jobs to supplement their
1/   SEMA (Metra International) is specialized in organization and management
while Lyonnaise (Societe Lyonnaise des Eaux et de l'Eclairage) has wide
experience in water supply operations.



- 18 -
salaries. This situation is comrion throughout the civil service. No solution
to this general problem is possible until substantial reforms of the entire
civil service are undertaken by the Government. Meanwhile, EPEF must survive
by ad hoc measures and considerable reliance on consultants.
D. Training
5.08      EPEF is short of intermediate level technicians with training
specifically oriented towards watervorks operations. It is possible to
upgrade the quality of staff at this level by in-service training. It is
therefore recommended that this be accomplished by bringing experienced
expatriate personnel of the appropriate levels to EPEF to provide techni-
cal assistance and training, and lby sending promising EPEF staff to work in
other well established waterworks authorities. The viability of this ap-
proach was demonstrated by the usefulness of the assistance from Mr. Mama of
SONEDE to EPEF during the appraisal mission (para 1.03) and by EPEF's subse-
quent request directly to SONEDE that this technical assistance be continued.
SONEDE has agreed not only to send its technicians to EPEF and to accept
EPEF's technicians for training in Tunisia, but also to bear the salary cost
of its own staff during these periods, provided that the program is super-
vised by the Bank. Staff trained in this manner would, of course, be eli-
gible for higher pay within EPEF, but it would still be desirable that they
be required to sign contracts bincling them to a suitable period of employ-
ment with EPEF after completion of training to prevent their leaving for
better pay in the private sector. Recommendations on a suitable training
program would be included in the report of the management and organization
consultants (para 5.04). The proposed loan includes a sum intended to cover
the foreign exchange costs of travel for EPEF staff, expatriate technical
assistance and subsistence abroad for EPEF staff during their training period
(paras 4.07 and 4.10).
E. Accounts and Audit
5.09      Although EPEF's accounts are in principle prepared according to
commercial practice, they are not consistently maintained on an accrual basis
and there are considerable delays in book-keeping. Consequently they do not
produce accurate data for management's decision-making or control. Cost
accounting and cost control are non-existent. The terms of reference for the
organization and management consultants (para 5.04) provide for studies to
improve the accounting system.



- 19 -
5.10      Dr. A. Abdeen, a local auditor, was appointed external auditor in
July 1975. Dr. Abdeen started working on EPEF's accounts for 1975 based on
the 1974 year-end balance, and will submit in the first half of 1976 the audit
report for 1975.
F. Billing and Collecting
5.11      Billing and collecting are unsatisfactory due to the lack of control
over meter readings and to the long period of billing and collectïon cycle
which takes about ten months. Accounts receivable, defined by EPEF to in-
clude sales for which bills have been prepared and handed over to the col-
lectors, represent about 85% of the value of annual water ssales. Consumers
with inoperative meters, represent about 45% of total consumers, are charged
with the minimum charge which is generally far below their actual consump-
tion. This situation does not encourage economic use of water and causes
EPEF substantial losses of revenues. It is the main factor contributing to
the high percentage of unaccounted-for water, previously reported at 49%Jo of
production of which about half would represent unbilled consumption (Annex 3).
Studies to improve the billing and collection procedures are also included
in the organization and management studies and measures to improve billing
and collection. would be among those to be implemented not later than December
31, 1976, in accordance with the agreement reached relative to implementation
of these studies (para 5.04).
G. Insurance
5.12      IDA has agreed to EPEF's proposal to allocate annual amounts for
accumulating a self-insurance fund to meet third party claims. Acceptable
levels of insurance are carried for vehicles and against fire losses.
VI. FINANCE
A.  Background
6.01      The first water supply system from Figeh to Damascus was constructed
during the period 1924-1932. The initial capital was raised by the Society
of Water Right Owners of Damascus. The municipality of Damascus assisted
and supervised the sales of water rights and the Syrian Government supported
it by extending loans for cost overruns. The water supply system came under
the control of the Government in 1958. Since then and up to 1974, the capi-
tal had been constant at LS 29.4 million. Decree No. 252 of 1975 increased
EPEF capital to LS 85.0 million. No additional equity investment was re-
quired as this increase was met by transferring equity accumulated since



- 20 -
1958 in form of retained earnings to EPEF's capital. According tu the present
law EPFF was turning over annually all cash surpluses in excess of what was
required for its operations, to the Central Cash Development Fund. These
transfers are shown in FPEF's books as investments.
B. Past Performance and Present Financial Position
6.02      EPEF's Income Statements, Cash Flow Statements, Balance Sheets and
Debt Statements 1972-1974, together with projections of these annual state-
ments from 1974 to 1984, are shown in Annexes 14-17.  The assumptions on
which the financial projections are based are given in Annex 18.
6.03      The Income Statement for EPEF shows an acceptable operating ratio
ranging between 57-65% for the period 1972-1974 (Annex 14). Total operating
revenues and total operating expenses averaged LS 11.6 million and LS 7.0
million respectively during this period. EPEF's expenses are relatively low
for two main reasons. First, personnel expenses which represent the main
item of operating expenses are low because EPEF pays according to the Gov-
ernment's low salary scale. Second, depreciation charges are low since EPEF
acquired its present assets at relatively low costs, (para 6.04), though EPEF
applies a high annual depreciation rate of 3.5% to them. EPEF is exempted
from all taxes on its operations.  The rate of return on average net fixed
assets was slightly above 10% during 1972-1974.
6.04      The amount of EPEF's fixed assets as shown in the Balance Sheet
(Annex 16) is low since these were acquired at prices much below those it
must pay today. EPEF does not have an adequate physical inventory of its
assets and there is no system for the integration of newly acquired exten-
sion or renevals into assets. Agreement was reached that EPEF will
(a) within six months of the date of effectiveness modify its pro-
cedures so as to ensure that all extensions or rerewals will
automatically be added to an inventory of physical assets;
(b)  within one year of the date of effectiveness complete an
inventory of its physical assets; and
(c) within six months of completion of the inventory of physical
assets, prepare a statement of the gross and estimated net
(depreciated) value of these assets to be incorporated in future
balance sheets (i.e. asset revaluation).
6.05      Accounts receivable for water are very high - about 10 months of
water sales, due to delays in collections (para 5.11). Bad debts are negli-
gible. EPEF has inventories of about LS 8 million which were bought before
1973. While this stockpiling appears to have been partly dictated by the
fear of import rationing, much of the accumulation is large diameter pipe
purchased in advance which will be installed under the urgent phase contract
financed by Credit 401-SYR. Up to 1975 EPEF had no outstanding long-term
debts.



- 21 -
C. Program Financing Plan
6.06      The following table shows the summary of the estimated total
financing requirements and sources of funds for the Second Water Supply Proj-
ect and all other works which will be executed in the period 1976-1980.
1976-1980
Financing Requirenents
LS Million     US$ Million    % of Total
Project                                 506.6           136.9           49.1
Distribution System - Urgent Phase    102.8              27.8           10.0
Distribution System - General Phase   400.1             108.1           38.7
Other Capital Works                      23.0              6.2            2.2
Total                            1,032.5           279.0          100.0
Sources of Funds
Borrowings
IDA Credit (401-SYR)                     48,1            13.0            4.6
Proposed IBRD Loan                      129.5            35.0           12.3
Total Borrowings                   177.6            48.0           16.9
Internal Cash Generation
Cash Generation                         130.8            35.4
Water Right Sales                        22.0              5.9
Consumer Contribution                     4.5             1.2
Decrease in Working Capital               8.5              2.3
Total                              165.8            44.8           16.1
Less:  Debt Service                      42.2             11.4           (4.0)
Net Cash Generation                     123.6             33.4           12.1
Government Equity Investment            731.3            197.6           71.0
Total                            1,032.5           279.0          100.0



- 22 -
6.07      EPEF's net cash generation would provide about 12% of its financing
requirements during the project construction period. This relatively low
percentage is acceptable because construction costs are abnormally high at
present in Syria (para 4.13). The Government agreed to onlend the Bank loan
on the terms under which it is borrowed and to provide EPEF with the balance
of funds required for the program.
D. Tariffs
6.08      The water tariff system in Syria, described in para 2.10 is further
complicated by the existence of water rights in the major cities including
Damascus. According to a law enacted in 1966 (which appears to have been
based on the tariff structure long practiced in Damascus), applicants for a
supply to premises larger than 100 m2 have to purchase in advance the right
to a fixed allowance of water in perpetuity. The allowance to be purchased
depends on the size of the premises; the average is 0.5 m3/day whose cost is
fixed by EPEF's tariff at LS 1,000 (US$270). Consumption in excess of the
allowance is charged at the normal metered rate. The water right allowance
represents about 80 litres (20 gals) per person per day which is more than
adequate to meet normal cooking and sanitary needs.
6.09      The present system of water charges in Damascus is given in Annex
19. All new consumers have to pay a capital contribution to the cost of the
mains and certain other fees. In addition to the charge for purchasing a
water right all water rights owners pay annual fees representing the amount
by which the value of water supplied exceeds the annual value of the water
right (derived by applying 3% notional interest to the water right purchase
price).
6.10      The water rate for metered consumption in Damascus (or in the case
of water right holders, excess consumption) is LS 0.20 per m3 (US$0.20 per
1000 gals.). This rate, which applies to all consumers, is quite low compared
to water rates in the Middle East and indeed is one of the lowest in the devel-
oping countries. l/ The low water rate in Damascus is due in part to the
historically low cost of supplying water to the city consumers since its high
quality water from Figeh spring requires no treatment and little pumping due
to the high elevation of the spring. The rate has been unchanged since 1949,
when it was reduced from LS 0.25 per m3 to its present level.
1/   For comparison consider:
Jordan       -  $0.90/1000 gal.
Yemen        -  Sanala $1.26/1000 gal; Hodeida $1.68/1000 gal.   3
Tunisia      -  Base domestic $0.64/1000 gal; domestic over 160 m /yr.
$0.87/1000 gal; tourism $1.48/1000 gal.
Upper Volta  -  $2.00/1000 gal paid at public hydrants.



- 23 -
6.11      If the present tariff remained unchanged, EPEF would suffer cash
shortages beginning in 1977 and operating expenses, including depreciation,
would exceed revenues by 1978.  Therefore substantial tariff increases are
required to ensure EPEF's viability.
6.12      Under Credit 401-SYR, EPEF was committed to set and maintain tariffs
at such levels as shall be required to produce an annual rate of return
gradually increasing during the years 1978 through 1981, so as to reach not
less than 7-1/2% in 1982 and the years after on average net fixed assets in
operation. This covenant was appropriate then in view of the expectation of
a gradual increase in EPEF's assets. Because of the abnormally high construc-
tion costs in Syria, the rate base would have increased in 1980 to 27 times its
1975 level. Therefore, to provide a substantial contribution to its invest-
ment program while avoiding undue impact of the rate increases on the con-
sumer, the rate of return covenant was replaced by a cash generation covenant.
EPEF has agreed to take all such action as shall be necessary to set its rates
for the consumption of water at such levels as shall be required:
(a)  to cover in any given year all operating expenses
including employee compensation, administrative and
overhead costs, adequate maintenance costs, interest
and adequate provision for taxes;
(b)  to cover in any given year debt amortization;
(c)  to provide for adequate amounts of working capital, and
(d)  to finance each year during the period 1977-80 not less than
10%, and beginning with the year 1981 tc finance each year
not less than 35%, of the annual average of:
(i) the actual investment made by EPEF during the
preceding year, and
(ii) the investment forecast by EPEF during the year in
question and the subsequent year.
6.13      On the basis of these requirements, and the financial assumptions
presented in Annex 18 the following stepped tariff adjustments is projected:
Average Tariff (LS/m3)
Present                                                    0.20
Step 1 : by September 30, 1976                             0.50
Step 2 : by January 1, 1978                                0.60
Step 3 : by January 1, 1981                                0.65
Step 4 : by January 1, 1982                                0.80
Step 5 : by January 1, 1983                                1.05
Step 6 : by January 1, 1984                                1.25



-. 24 -
The annual fee charged to water right holders is linked to the tariff and
will increase correspondingly (Annex 19), for typical water right holders
(0.5 m3/day) the annual fee will inc:rease from its present level of LS 7
(US$1.89) to LS 79 (US$21.5) in 1980.
6.14      EPEF recognized the need ior increased tariffs and discussed with
the mission and the Government an increase in the average tariff through im-
plementation of a progressive (block) tariff. There are strong arguments
for introducing a progressive tariflf structure for Dmnascus. Water is a very
scarce resource throughout the coum,ntry and its conservation would be encour-
aged. Also a progressive tarif f structure can be a useful instrument for
assisting low income consumers and ensuring equitable distribution of the
burden of EPEF's capital requirements. This would be consistent with the
Government's social policies which are strongly oriented towards ensuring
that essential services be provided to all citizens at a cost within their
means. The Government has indicatecl its approval of the principle of a pro-
gressive tariff structure for EPEF, which produces an average tariff that
meets EPEF's financial requirements as outlined in para 6.12. The following
tariff proposals to be implemented shortly has been discussed during nego-
tiations. It provides for the following charges for metered consumption:
First 0.5 m3/day    -    1.S 0.20/m3
0.5 - 1.0 m3/day    -    LS 0.40/m3
Over 1.0 m3/day      -    LS 0.6,/m.3
The application of thesq rates would produce an average rate slightly higher
than that required to s stisfy the cash generation covenant.
E. Future Operations and Financial Position
6.15      The projected Income Statements (Annex 14) show that operating ex-
penses including depreciation are expected to increase by five times in 1980
and nearly ten times by 1984 from the 1974 level. At the end of the pro-
jected construction period in 1980 there will be an increase in total operat-
ing income to about six times its 1974 level from LS 11.2 million to LS 63.5
million, and it is expected to reach about LS 150 million in 1984.  These pro-
jected increases in income result from the assumption of substantially higher
water revenues due to increased tariffs (para 6.13) and production as well as
reduction in "unaccounted-for water". The effect of the decreased demand for
water following the tariff increases has been allowed for in estimating
future sales (Annex 3).
6.16      The cash flow statements (Annex 15) show large financing require-
ments in the various projects that would be undertaken by EPEF during the
projection period. EPEF's cash generation is projected to finance about 12%
of its average capital expenditure for the period 1977-1980, and 35% from
1981-1984 (para 6.12). Due to the substantial amount of equity investment
EPEF will have a high debt service coverage ranging from 2.5 to 5.9 during
the period 1976-1984. The debt service coverage of 1.5 required under Credit
401-SYR will be maintained.



- 25 -
6.17      EPEF's rate of return on average net fixed assets was 11.8% in
1974. This rate of return is high because EPEF's existing assets are valued
at historical cost (para 6.04), and their book value is verv low in relation
to future investment requirements for maintaining and expanding EPEF's serv-
ice to its consumers.  The program of works to be completed by 1980 increases
fixed assets about 27 times.  Following gradual increases in tariffs and ex-
pansion of water sales EPEF's rate of return will increase steadily from 3.7%
in 1980 to reach 7.0% in 1984. Though EPEF's projected rates of return are
relatively low, they are acceptable as FPEF will be able to generate a reason-
able amount of cash in relation to the huge amount of investment reauired for
the program.
6.18      The Balance Sheets (Annex 16) project a low debt equity ratio dev-
loping to 9:91 in 1984 in accordance with assumed equity investment during
the projected period.
VII. JUSTIFICATION
Environmental Impact and Health Benefits
7.01      The Syrian Government and EPEF's administration are very conscious
of the value of a safe, reliable, potable water sunply ani all of the Dresent
population of Damascus is either served directly (75%) or lives within a short
distance of a public fountain or mosque where water is distributed free of
charge. However, the quality of service has been deteriorating in recent
years as a result of supply constraints and rapid population increases,
largely in the low-income parts of the city. This problen will become more
serious until the project is completed and result in decreasing pressures,
physical rationing of supplies and a substantial increase in the population
without direct connections (Annex 3). Completion of the program of works of
which the project is a part will prevent deterioration in the health and
living conditions of the citizens of Damascus which would otherwise result
in increased costs of health care, higher employment absentee rates and lower
productivity on the job. These health benefits mav be partially offset in
the short term by the likely adverse enviror.mental effects of the project
caused by aggravation of the waste water disposal problems of the city.
However, a sewerage and pollution control study for Damascus is now being
prepared (para 2.04) and a modern sewerage system is expected to be built
subsequently. On balance the proposed project will obviously be beneficial
to the city.



- 26 -
Demand
7.02      Projections of population and water demand are shown in Annex 3.
Population growth is projected at an annual rate of 4.5%. Domestic water
consumption which was 174 lcd in 1972 has fallen to 163 in 1975 and is pro-
jected to fall to 145 lcd in 1979 as a result of increasing population and
a fixed volume of supply. However, on completion of the project, per capita
consumption is assumed to rise to 160 lcd in 1980 when the supply constraints
would be removed and the percent of population with direct connections will
be slightly higher than in 1975 (78% compared with 75%). Thereafter, the
per capita consumption is projected to increase to 1.1% per year.  Since
EPEF's objective is to provide direct: connections to 90% of the population
bv 1985 and to provide connections thereafter so that the number of persons
without connections will not increase, this forecast rate of increase in per
capita consumption must be considered conservative.  On the other hand, water
consumption  in Damascus in the past lias been unrestrained except by periodic
supplv constraints, and given the limited water resources in the Barada
valley, a more rational use cf water must be developed if the city is to ex-
pand and develop. It is expected that periodic public information campaigns
combined with the projected tariff increases will lead to the desired re-
straints on consumption increases.
Least Cost Solution
7.03      All components of the project and the immediate program will be con-
structed at least cost. The only two practical alternatives for increasing
the supply of water to the city are (i) a dam on the Barada River upstream
from Damascus together with a treatment plant and pipeline to the city, (ii)
inacreased utilization of the Figeh source with a new tunnel or pipeline to
Damascus. The updated feasibility study prepared by the consultants SOGREAH
made economic comparison of these alternatives at discount rates of 8% and
12°% (Annex 20). This comparison demonstrates that further development of
the Figeh spring and transmission of the water to Damascus by a new tunnel
is clearlv the least cost solution for meeting Damascus' water supply needs.
Economic Analvsis
7.04      The principal economic benefits from the program of investments come
from (i) încreased sales of water over 1975 levels to both new and existing
consumers, since neither type of growth would be possible without the invest-
ments in question; (ii) sales in the area of the Old City where the Urgent
Phase of distribution works is required since the existing system is already
badly corroded and would likely collapse when distribution pressures are re-
stored to normal so that no sales would be possible unless it is replaced;
and (iii) increased sales resulting from meters replacement and other related
measures being financed under the IUrgent Phase (Credit 401-SYR). Volumes
distributed through public fountains have been excluded from benefits.



- 27 -
1.05      The economic benefits of the project cannot be separated from those
of the remainder of the program of works required to meet the needs of
Damascus.  Using incremental water supply revenues from the investment program
as a minimal measure of economic beaefits, on the basis of the charges the
consumers are currently (1975) paying for water, the program has an internal
economic rate of return of about -2%  (Annex 21).  This rate of return simply
demonstrates the inadequacies of the present tariff.  The rate of return is
positive (3%) when the benefits are calculated using revenues which will be
generated following the first tariff increase.
VIII.  _ECOMMENDATIONNS
8.01      During negotiations, the Bank reached agreement
(a)  with the Government that:
(i)  a study will be commenced not later than December
31, 1976 on the feasibility and desirability of
alternative means of providing water to serve
villages adjacent to Damascus following completion
of the project, and that the Government will discuss
the results of this study with the Bank not later
than December 31, 1978 (para 3.05);
(ii) prcvide funds for EPEF to ensure the balance of its
financing requirements including cost overruns during
the project construction period (para 6.07);
(iii) take all such action as shall be necessary on its
part to enable EPEF to set ar-d maintain such rates
for the consumption of water as shall be required to
ensure EPEF's financial viability (para. 6.14);and
(b)  with EPEF that:
(i)  it will retair the services of consultants under terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank for the super-
vision of construction of the project works (para 4.19);
(ii) consultants will be retained before June 30, 1976 to
design and supervise a program of testing of the capa-
city of the Figeh aquifer (para 4.20);
(iii) contracts for works under the project will be grouped
to create packages large enough to interest foreign
bidders (para 4.25);



- 28 -
(iv)  it will discuss the recommendations of the management and
organization consultants with the Bank and implement an
agreed program to improve its organization and operating
procedures, including its accounting and billing and col-
lection procedures. by December 31, 1976 (paras 5.04, 5.09
and 5.11);
(v) it will sign a cont:ract within six months of the date of
effectiveness providing for technical assistance (two
man-years each by a utilities management expert, a water-
works operations and maintenance expert and a waterworks
design expert) with terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank (para 5.06);
(vi) it will (i) within six months of the date of effectiveness
modify its procedures so as to ensure that all extensions
or renewals will automatically be added to the inventory
of fixed assets; (ii) within one year of the date of
effectiveness complete an inventory of physical assets;
and (iii) within six months of completion of the inventory
of physical assets, prepare a statement of the gross and
estimated net (depreciated) value of these assets to be
incorporated in future balance sheets (para 6.04);
(vii)  it will set and maintain tariffs so as to provide funds
each year from internal sources, after covering at all
times all operating expenses, debt service and working
capital requirements, to finance not less than 10% for
period 1977-1980, and 35% thereafter of the average
capital expenditure during any consecutive three years
comprising one actual and two forecast years (para 6.12).
8.02      Signature of the loan agreement between the Government and the
Arab Fund would be a condition of effectiveness (para 4.16).
8.03      On the basis of agreements reached during negotiations on the is-
sues referred to above, the project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$35.0
million to the Government of Syria, to be relent to Etablissement Public des
Eaux de Figeh. As is conventional for loans for water supply projects, and
considering the duration of the construction period, an appropriate term for
the loan is 25 years including five years of grace.



AMNEX 1
Page 1 of 3 pages
APPRAISAI. OF
A SECOND DAMASCUS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SYRIA
MHU Proposals for the Fourth Plan (1976-80)
1.        MIU has indicated in its draft proposals for the Fourth Plan that
the following policies will be implemented as means to achieving its sector
objectives:
(i) more efficient utilization of public sector resources;
(ii) establishment of new public agencies;
(iii) securing more technical staff for MHU;
(iv) coordination of all ongoing or past studies in the sector
throughout the country;
(v) greater co-ordination with the Ministry of Industry in the
production of essential materials (asbestos pipes, cements
pipes, plastic pipes, chlorine for water treatment, pumps, et
etc.), and
(vi) greater utilization of private sector services.
Realization of proposals (i) to (v) above wouild certainly improve project im-
plementation but it is highly unlikely that they will be achieved without
major decisions by Government to improve working conditions within the admin-
istration in order to attract the needed professional staff and skilled labor.
2.        MHU proposed the following targets for some parts of Syria:
(a) For the towns and villages which at present do not have any
public water suppLy systens 1;, the target ;3 to supply them
with standard public systems by the end of the Fourth Plan
(1980).
(b)  A second group comprises villages which do have public systens
that need to be expanded to cope with expanding population.
The total present population in this group is estimated at
300,000.  The MHU's target is to continue the projects already
started during the Third-Plan and to expand the existing sys-
tems to meet demand in these areas by 1980.
1/ About 2,411 viliares T.4th tntAl population of one million.



ANNJ:X 1
Page 2 of 3 pages
(c) For other urban areas without public authorities of their
own, the principal objective of the Fourth-Plan is to estab-
lish independent authorities in each provincial (or district)
capital city. The Government has already decided to separate
water supply function from the other municipal responsibilities
and MHU hopes to install about eight new public authorities by
1980.
(d) In all areas where water quality might be suspect, an important
aim is to improve water quality through disinfection or other
treatment and to continue ongoing projects.
3.        The HHU estimates that the above proposals would cost about LS 950
million (about US$257.0 million) in the Plan period. This figure does not
include the works required by the five major urban centers. EPEF alone has
estimated its Fourth-Plan investments at LS 700 million (US$189.2 million)
for the Damascus area. Moreover these estimates appear to be based on earlv
1975 construction costs and include no provision for cost increases resulting
from high local (38% in 1974) and international rates of inflation.
4.        The draft Five-Year Plan proposes to start construction of the
sewerage systems for Damascus, Homs and Ilama once the IDA financed studies
are completed.  Similar projects are also proposed for the other cities of
Aleppo, Latakhia, Tartous, Sweida and D'ara. The draft proposals estimate
that over LS 200 million would be required for these proposals. This amount
is also certain to be unrealistically low considering the magnitude of the
projects and recent raDid escalation in the cost of projects in Syria.
5.        The following summary of total estimated investment in the water
supply and sewerage sector during the Yourth-Plan period is based on best
information available. Costs are those estimated by the Government stated
in Janaury, 1975 prices with no allowance for price increases during the Plan
period (1976-80).
LS             US$
Millions        Millions
Damascus Water Supply                                 700            189
Water Supply - Aleppo, Homs, Hama and
Latakhia /1                                    2,300            622
Water Supply, other centers                           950            257
Sewerage, all centers                                 700            189
Total                                          4,650          1,257
/1   Assumes investments required for renewals and extensions in these cities
will be approximately the same on a per capita basis as those required
for Damascus.



ANN E;  1
Page 3 o f 3 nages
6.        A sector survey is scheduled to be in Syria in October 1976 to re-
view the Fifth Plan (1976-1980), proposals for the sector and sector develop-
ment prospects outside Damascus. The survey will also pay particular atten-
tion to the access to water supply and sewerage services by the urban and
rural poor.



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 4
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND DAIASCUS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SYRIA
Existing Water Sup ly Facilities of EPEF
Background
1.        For many centuries Damascus has obtained its water supply from the
Barada River. The Figeh spring is the principal source of this river, which
creates the Al-Ghutta oasis on which Damascus was founded at the eastern edge
of the Anti-Lebanon Mountains. The Figeh spring is about 13 km northwest of
Damascus, or slightly further via the valley of the Barada River (Map 11899).
2.        Early civilizations probably used the river in its natural condition
and shallow wells as sources of water for the city. During the Roman period
a formal bath and temple were constructed at Figeh and water was conducted to
Damascus by an aqueduct.
3.        In 1908 a cast-iron pipeline (diameter 250 mm) was laid f rom Figeh
along the Barada valley and terminated at the old city in central Damascus.
By that time the river was becoming increasingly polluted as were the shallow
Wells in the growing city. More clean water was required, so in 1922 a group
of citizens organized a committee to arrange for construction of a new aqueduct
from Figeh to Damascus. Construction started in late 1925 and by 1932 the new
aqueduct was completed. This aqueduct terminates at hillside reservoirs on the
west side of Damascus, from which the modern water distribution system origi-
nates. The cast-iron pipeline of 1908 is now used to serve villages in the
Barada valley.
4.        The basic elements of the EPEF system are shown on Map 11899 and
discussed below.
Source
5.        The Figeh spring is a remarkable resource.  Within a few meters
of the Barada River valley the spring pours out large quantities of excellent
water. The principal emergence of the spring, which has been enclosed in a
structure since Roman times, resembles an underground river several meters
across which flows up and out of the limestone formation of the mountain.
In addition to this main channel, water leaves the aquifer at several nearby
locatins. A portion of this water from the minor springs is collected and
pimped from two locations to the aqueduct.  Excess water flows directly to
the Barada River.
6.        Records of the spring flows since 1941 have been analyzed by the
consultants (SOGREAH). The total flow has averaged 8.63 m3/second (745,000 m3/



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 4
day) but the flow was below 3.0 m3/second for a total of some 360 days in the
drought years 1959-61. The lowest recorded daily flow was 2.4 m3/second.
7.        The water quality is very good.  Its temperature and pH are rela-
tively constant (near 14°C and 7.9 respectively), its taste and color are
excellent, and bacteriological contamination at the source is practically
non-existent.
8.        Little is known about the recharge of the aquifer, which lies in
the mountains and Zebedani Plain to the west. The consultants estimate the
recharge area to cover from 700 to 800 km2.
9.        Although almost all of Damascus is supplied by the Figeh source,
EPEF temporarily operates two wells in the Jobar region northeast of Damascus.
When the EPEF distribution system in the area is reinforced these wells, in
a system which was formerly independent from EPEF, will be abandoned because
the water is of relatively poor quality. Process industries in the area
served by EPEF are required to provide their own process water which is with-
drawn from wells into the aquifer underlying the city. The municipality also
has a system of wells in the same aquifer which are used to supply water for
irrigation of green spaces and for street washing and sewer flushing.
Figeh - Damascus Aquecduct
10.       The 16.2 km long aqueduct commences at an elevation of 821 m at
Figeh and terminates at the Wali Reservoir where the free water level is
20 m lower. The basic section of the tunnel, which is not pressurized, is
horseshoe-shaped with a maximum height of 1.9 m and a width of 1.3 m.  When
flowing at the normal maximum depth of 1.4 m, the cross sectional area is
1.8 m2. West of the reservoirs the aqueduct crosses a valley in a syphon
section.
11i       As a result of repairs made to the tunnel since 1969 and modifica-
tions to the tunnel inlet, the capacity has been increased to 3.2 m3/second
(280,000 m3/day). However, more repair work remains to be done to eliminate
leakage and reduce roughness inside the tunnel which retards flow. These
repairs have to be done with the tunnel empty, but until a second tunnel is
built the existing one cannot be taken out of service for long enough to
complete the necessary repairs.
Distribution System
12.       The distribution system of EPEF is relatively simple.  Consumers
in the village along the Barada Valley (Figeh, Bassime, Achrafie, Jediede,
Edsaya, El Hame and Doumar) are supplied from the original cast iron pipeline
from Figeh to Damascus or from connections to the Figeh-Damascus aqueduct.
The Damascus distribution system originates at the Wali reservoirs, terminus
of the aqueduct. Some 80% of the consumers are supplied by gravity but resi-
dents on the western edge of the urban area, from Berze in the north to Mezze
in the south, are in high-level zones, which require pumping. A ring main,



ANNEX 2
Paze 3 of 4
600 mm in diameter, is the principal feature in the low level distribution
system. This line is connected to the Wali reservoir (7,000 m3 at 800 eleva-
tion) and the largest system reservoir at Charki (28,000 m3 at 749 m elevation).
It supplies five elevated storage tanks on the eastern edge of Damascus which
balance system pressures in peak periods. Most of the distribution system in
the Old City was built of galvanized steel mains which have been attacked by
highly corrosive, organic soils built up during centuries of habitation.
These are already a source of leaks in the system and would probably completely
collapse under increased pressures following' reinforcing of the supply mains.
13.       Most consumers have individual connections but public taps are
installed throughout the city. Statistics relating to the distribution system
in August 1975 are as follows:
Connections
Private (metered)              -    142,632
Public (metered)               -       2,200
Mosques (unmetered)            -         481
Public Hydrants (unmetered)   -          305
Distribution Pipes
The following table presents an approximate picture of the composi-
tion of the distribution system:
-------------Length of Pipes (km)---------
Diameter             Damascus       Villages along        Total
(mm)                    _           Barada River
600                 22.0                 -              22.0
500                 16.5                 -              16.5
400                 11.7                 -              11.7
300                  1.0                 -               1.0
250                 80.4                4.2             84.6
200                 40.0                0.1             40.1
150                 38.5                3.8             42.3
125                  7.8                 -               7.8
100                103.4                3.2            106.6
80                 72.2                3.9             76.1
50 and smaller   370.6                 8.0            378.6
Total            764.1               23.2            787.3
The majority of pipes 100 mm and larger are made of cast iron.  Smaller pipes
are generally of galvanized steel.



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 4
Reservoirs
Effective
Location       Type            Number            Capacity
(Cubic Meters)
Barada Valley  Ground Level        2                 750
Damascus        Ground Level       8              40,690
Damascus       Elevated            5               2,000
15             43,440
Pumping Stations
Total
Location       Number        Installed         Type of Power
Horsepower
Barada Valley      2              457          Diesel and electric
Damascus /1        9            1,675          Diesel and electric
/1   Including temporary pumping station at Jobar where 20 hp is installed
to utilize groundwater source,



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 6
APFPRAISAL OF
A SECOND DAMASCUS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SYRIA
Forecast of Population, Connections, Consumption and Production
A. POPULATION
1.        Population growth of Daniascus during the past decade has been
erratic and greatly influenced by events on the Syrian-Israeli front located
less than fifty kilometers away.  The population of the city has been swollen
by refugees from the Golan heights as well as by the families of the active
military personnel who are able to take their leave in Damascus. In recent
months there has been an influx of population from the strife-torn Lebanon.
It is difficult to separate the normal rural-urban population shift from the
effects of these unusual events. The general urban growth rate in Syria has
been 5.0% per year. The 1965-1975 average growth rate in Damascas was also
about 5.0% per year. The Central Bureau of Statistics population estimate
for Damascus in 1980 appears to be based on a growth rate of about 3.3% per
year. For purposes of this report the long-term growth rate for the areas
served by EPEF has been assumed to be 4.5% per year. (See Attachment 1).
B. CONNECTIONS
2.        Policy of EPEF in the past has been to provide direct service
to as many consumers as possible and also to provide for a separate metered
connection for each dwelling unit. During the past decade the percentage
of the population served through direct connections has fallen from about
85% to 75% and it is expected to continue to fall to about 73% in 1977 before
the program of new connections takes hold as part of the General Phase of the
distribution works. This decrease in the percentage of the population with
direct connections is mainly the result of EPEF's inability to provide service
in pace with the accelerated rate of development. In addition, much of the
newly-arrived population is crowding into existing housing in the Old City.
In a sense these consumers are direct-connected since they do have access to
water within the building. However, EPEF considers this overcrowding a tem-
porary condition and that true direct connections will be provided to these
consumers in their future accommoeation.



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 6
3.        EPEF's management have advised that its objective is to achieve
service by direct connection to 90% of the population served by 1985. It has
been assumed that this target will be met and furthermore that the policy of
individual direct metered connections will be maintained in spite of the
trend towards the construction of multi-storv apartment buildings. If this
policv should be changed, for example to permit a single connection with a
single meter for a multiple-dwelling building then the EPEF's objective for
direct-connected consumers would be met with fewer meters.
C. HISTORIC TOTAL CONSITTION
4.        One of the factors which is continuing to be of concern is the high
percentage of unaccounted-for water indicated by the following table which
is based on EPEF's records:
Unaccounted-for Production in EPEF's Total System
Unaccounted-for
Production Consumption Known Losses Unaccounted-for         % of
Year           (m3)       (m3)         (m3)            (m3)         Production
1970       74,561,296  39,990,378  478,556         37,092,362          49.7
1971       79,306,254  39,783,123  666,601         38,856,530          49.0
1972       85,862,513  41,758,034  553,226         43,551,253          50.7
1973       89,568,089  44,894,876  724,926         43,948,287          49.1
1974       92,591,076  53,357,467  771,743         38,461,866          41.5
Dr. Mazen Azem, a Syrian hydraulics expert prepared a report outlining
measures to be implemented in order to obtain maximum use of the supplies avail-
able. Although his report was completed in 1974, implementation of the recom-
mendations began only in M-ay, 1975.  The improved performance of the system in
1974 cannot, therefore be explained by any improved operating procedures. It
is believed instead to be due to overcoming a delay in billings for sales
during 1973. (Metered sales otherwise apparently dropped during 1973 and
increased by 27% in 1974 over 1973 levels, an unlikelv probability.) There
are many leaks in the oldest part of the system, but these are not believed
to be individually or collectivelv of si5nificant volume since the old pipes
are of small diameter and presentlv operate under low pressures. Efficient
leak-detection teams using modern equipment are constantly searching out
major leaks in the larger mains for repair.
5.        In order to arrive at a better understandinp, of the actual use of
this unaccounted-for water, the appraisal mission used the services of a con-
sultant Mr. TMohsen Mama of SONEDE. the Tunisian national water authority.
Through the duration of the appraisal, Mr. Mama worked directly with the
statisticians and other personnel of EPEF reviewing the files of consuumers
in the various classes.  Mr. Mama discovered. an1 it was generally confirmed
by a report prepared by Dr. Mazen Azem covering the first four months of
implementation of the measures he recommended, that EPF's losses were largely
financial rather than physical water losses. These result fron the fact that



Page 3 of 6
many of the meters (perhaDs as much as 50% of the total) are broken or defec-
tive and either do not register at all or under--register. Although in princi-
ple the owners of these meters should be charged with a volume representative
of their previous consumption, exalmination of individual accounts showed that
they are generally only charged with minimum consumption. Mr. Mamats survey
based on meters functioning in 1974 indicated that under-registration and
poor reporting probably led to understating total domestic consumption by
nearly 14% (nearly 5 million m3/year). Preliminary results from work being
done under the direction of Dr. Mazen Azem indicated that owners of broken
meters mav use as much as 13 Tn3/month more than they are presently being
billed. If this figure were applied to all broken meters, total domestic
consumption would rise to nearly 51 million m3/year. Even if one assumes
that this preliminary figure is in error bv 100% and that actual unbilled
consumption is only 6.5 m3/month per broken meter the total domestie con-
sumption revised to take defective and broken meters into account would be
about 45,000,000 m3 instead of the previously reported figure of 34,610,555 m3.
Similar surveys by Dr. Mazen Azem indicate that the administration and military
consumption may have been understated by nearly 60%. The following table shows
EPEF's 1974 consumption figures for the various classes of consumers and the
result obtained by adjusting these as follows:
(i)  multiplying domestic consumption by 1.14 to compensate for
understatement of consumption by functioning meters;
3
(ii)  adding 6.5 m /month for an estimated 75,000 connections
without functioning meters;
(iii) adding 60% to military and administration consumption;
(iv)  calculating consumption from mosques and public taps on
basis of observed practices at samples of these installations.
1974
Consumption            1974
Class of Consumer             Reported by          Adjusted
EPEF            Consumption /1
m3                  m3
Domestic                      34,610,655        45,000,000
Tourism                          141,796           300,000
Industrial                        76,461            89,200
Public Administration )        8770,781          7,625,000
Military               )       8                  ,
Public Fountains )Unmetered  6,600,000           2,665,000
Mosques           )
Other                             79,349            92,500
Total Consumption             50,279,042        64,667,400
/1   City of Damascus only.



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 6
If the total production from Figeh is 92,591,076 m  of which 5,022,484 m  are
withdrawn en route, then the production available to Damascus in 1974 was
87,568,592 m3. Thus physical losses for Damascus according to EPEF's calcu-
lations would have been 42.6% and according to the revised consumption figures
would be 26.2%.
6.        Since according to EPEF's figures the percentage of unaccounted for
water has remained relatively stable since 1970, it is assumed that the reasons
for this have been the same throughout these years. Total consumption for 1974
and for the preceding years from 1967 as shown on Attachments 1 and 2 are con-
sequently based on the assumption that consumption throughout the project area
in these years was 74% of production, as estimated above for Damascus City.
D. FUTURE CONSUMPTION
7.        On the basis of the adjusted total consumption figures, the per
capita consumption has been calculated for the past years (Attachment 1). The
maximum per capita consumption of 174 lcd was reached in 1972 following three
years of increasing consumption beginning in 1970 when repairs to the existing
tunnel temporarily removed a supply constraint. The supply constraint began
to be felt again in 1973 when demand (especially during peak months) exceeded
the capacity of the source and/or the supply tunnel. The per capita consump-
tion will continue to fall as a result of supply constraints and increasing
population until 1979 when it will have fallen to 145 lcd. It is estimated
that by the time the new supply works come on stream in 1980 there vill be
an unsatisfied demand of 53,000 m3/day (calculated as the difference between
actual consumption and the consumption which would have existed if there were
no constraints and demand continued to increase at past rates). It is assumed
that as a result of a substantial tariff increase in 1976 and measures such
as improved billing control and a waste reduction campaign presently underway,
two-thirds of this unsatisfied demand will be surpressed in the short-term.
8.        A comparison of the theoretical unrestrained demand and the expected
demand described above is shown in the following table.



ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 6
Total Consumption                Per Capita Consumption
Theoretical    Actual             Theoretical         Actual
Year         Without          or                Without              or
Constraints    Forecast           Constraints        Forecast
000 m3/day   000 m3/day             lcd               lcd
1971              161          161                168               168
1972              170           174               170               174
1973              184           181               172               169
1974              197           188               173               165
1975              210           195               175               163
1976              221           200               177               160
1977              233           204               179               157
1978              246           206               180               151
1979              260           207               182               145
1980              276           240               184               160
1981              290           250               186               160
1982              306           268               188               164
1983              321           286               189               168
1984              338           305               191               172
2000              799           777               225               219
The historic per capita consump.ion figures are average including consumpt'on
en route (Annex 4) and non-domestic consumption. This latter consumption
which represented only 30% of total consumption in 1974 includes consumption
at mosques and public hydrants which is expected to decrease in future years
as a result of a higher percentage of connected population and reduced wast-
age. This normally would lead to an increase in average per capita consump-
tion, but this has been discounted in the assumptions for the reasons referred
to in paras 7 and 9.
9.        The long-term demand is assumed to be reflected by the period 1967-1974
which, if projected, gives the demand in the year 2000 as 777,000 m3/day or 219
lcd. This is a conservative assumption since the 1967-1974 period was beset
by supply constraints and was not a period marked by increasing standards of
living. On the other hand, water consumption has been high in Damascus in the
past and the scarcity of the resource has not been appreciated, More restrained
consumption in the future will be necessary to permit the continuing growth of
the City. These assumptions give a rate of increase in per capita consumption
during the period 1980-2000 of about 1.1%, a very modest rate of increase com-
pared with forecants for other cities and with the rate which prevailed in 1970-
72.  Total consumption has been calculated by applying the projected per capita
consumption to the projected total population, assuming that 100% of the popu-
lation will be served (either by direct connections or public hydrants).



ANNrEX 3
Page 6 of 6
E. PRODUCTION
10.       The adjusted consumption figures for the year 1974 indicate that pro-
duction was 35% greater than consumption (losses equal to 26% of production).
Future losses are assumed to continue at the same rate. It is, of course,
possible that EPEF can reduce losses to a greater extent than forecast. However,
since the new project will have the effect of increasing pressures throughout
the distribution system, EPEF will have to reduce the number of leaks to main-
tain losses at their present level. It is therefore considered unsafe to count
on a lower level of losses as producing increased revenues.



ANNEX 3
Attachaent S
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND DAM8CUS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SYRIA
Mission Estimates of Consuption Data: Ye-as 1965 - 1984
POPULATION                                 NO          _
000                  NO.              WATER                         PER CAPITA          TOTAL   1/      PURLIC         UNBILLED 3/
YEAR                               CONNECTIONS          RIGHTS        PRODUCTION      CONSUMPTION      CONSUIMPTION       SUPPLYW       CONSUMPTIONS        SALES
TOTAL      DIRECTLY                           hOLDERS                 3                                                                 3               3
CONNECTED      Thousands          Thousanda       Million a           led          Million m       Million a        Million n       Million n
1965                                  94,150         38,832 (41%)
1966                                 100,488        43,528
1967       770          639          106,084         47,717                               166              46.7
1968       820          672          111,422         51,603                               167              50.0
1969       880          713          117,169         55,524                               164              52.6
1970       920          736          122,262         59,302                               164              55.1
1971       960          768          128,558         63,507                               168              58.8
1972     1,000          810          136,028         68,432 (50%)        85.9             174              63.5            2.6             23.3             37.6
1973     1,070          856          142,622         72,435              89.6             169              66.1            2.6             23.7             39.8
1974     1,140          878          146,467         73,844              92.6             165              68.6            2.6             23.3             42,7
1975     1,200          900          152,349         76,000              96.4             163              71.2            2.6             24.0             44.6
1976     1,250          938          157,000         78,500              98.6             160              73.0            2.6             20.0             50.4
1977     1,300          962          161,000         80,500             100.7             157              74.5            2.6             15.0             56.9
1978     1,365          996          165,000         82,500         k  îOî.<              151              75,2            2.5             10.0             62.6
1979     1,430        1,072          177,000         89,300             102.2             145              75.6            2.5              5.0             68.1
1980     1,500        1,170          192,000         98,000             118.4             160              87.6            2.5                              85.1
1981     1,560        1,248          207,000        103,500             124.2             162              91.9            2.4                              89.5
1982     1,630        1,353          223,000        111,500             131.8             164              97.5            2.3                              95.2
1983     1,700        1,445          240,000        120,000             139.1             166             102.9            2.2                             100.7
1984   f 1,770        1,558          258,000        129,000             146.4             168             108.4            2.1                             106.3
2000     3,550        3,350          677,000                            383.3             219             283.6        j   2.1                             281.5
1/  Fron 1967 to 1974 consumption han been calculated as 74% of production (see para 6, Annes 5).  From  1975 onwards total consumption is calculated by
applying estiiated per capita con.u. ption figures to total population.
2/  Wlter suppliad te the population by pulblic hydrals,.  W.ter supplied tl mosqu-s is included in sales.
3/  Unbilled consu=ption is calculat.d by deductinv  ctlual or aitinsted sales amd Public Supply from estimated Total Consumption.
arca 1916



ANNEX 3
XtMdiiiEnt 2
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND DAMASCUS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SYRIA
FORECAST OF POPULATION, CONNECTIONS CONSUMPTION & PRODUCTION
900  _                                                                                                                          9
800 _                                                                                                                          a
700 -                                  FIGEH 5.5 m31S + BARADA DAM 2.3 n3/s                                                    7
600                                                                       16
600                        l      ~~~~~~~LOW-FLOW YI ELD OF SUPPL                                   / 
WORKS WITH ONCE IN FIVE_G
500                                           YEARS PROBABILITY        _        4    O _
ADD REHABILITATED EXIST. TUNNEL 5.5 m3/S
PROJECT TUNNEL 5.0 m3iS
400                         With pumping to augment
low seasonal flows
300
200
e   62
E 
O                                                                                                                6% per Vear L
5% per yeal  r
-*L * _                                 dec        to 5 persons/household in 2,000)4%pe 
196                 9017518                                             95                909                               200
o                                                                                                                         1 0
80
O  *     ACTUAL  FORECAST                                           ~~~~~~~~~~RATE 0F GROVVTI-  SCALE
.- 70ACULFRCS
60
-1/ Verif ied .aianst Central Bureau of Sfarîst,cs records anti predictions.
50      21 Assumes pol,cy of one residence per connection will be continued.
40
U70-
U   60 
50
Lji                                 ~~~~~~~~~% 0F TOTAL POPULATION WITH DIRECT CONNECTIONS
O                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~(Assum,ng6 persons, average I household connection to 1985
N.B. Balanice of population served by mosques anid stand-pipes.
1965             1970             1975              1980              1985             1990              1995             2000
World Bank -15302



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND DAMASCUS WATER STPPLY PROJECT
SYRIA
Chronology of Bank Group Involvement in Project
Auguet/September 1971:   Identification mission to Syria reviewed possible
projects in Aleppo and Damascus.
March 1972:               Preappraisal mission for Aleppo and Damascus water
supply project; Aleppo project found too far advanced
for Bank f inancing.
April 14, 1972:           Bank lettetr to Minister of Municipal Affairs advised
Bank Group could consider financing of Damascus water
supply prcoject.
May 16, 1972:             EPEF advised Bank that it would like to receive fi-
nancing for the Damascus project and was proceeding
trith proiect preparation in accordance with Bank
Guidelines.
June 29, 1972:            Following visit of Mr. Bart to EPEF on June 21, 1972,
EPEF writes giving the estimated cost of the project
as LS 57 million (USS14.6 million).
September 22-29, 1972:   Preappraisal mission reviewed status of preparation;
letter from Bank of October 24, 1972 informed EPEF
of additional information required for approval.
November/December 1972:  Project Appraisal; cost estimated at LS 130.3 million
(USS32.6 million).
June 22. 1973:            Si2nature of Credit Aereement 401-SYR Drovidinc credit
of US$15.0 million of which US$14.2 million to be
passed on to EPEF for Damascus Water Supply Project;
remainder to be used by Government for Sewerage and
Pollution Control studies.
October 1973:             Renewed hostilities in Middle East caused delays in
preparation of final bid documents and in tendering
process.



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
January 1975:             Bids received for Urgent Phase distribution works
and source development, following international com-
petitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guide-
lines, indicated that total project costs may reach
1TSA150.0 million with foreign exchange component
of UJSS115.0 million.
January 30, 1975:         Presidential Decision No. 6 establishes Commission
with broad powers to implement Damascus water supply
proiect without most restrictions of existing Syrian
legislation.
March 1975:               Revised bids received for distribution works and
source development and transmission works with amounts
approximately 30% less than original bids following
revision by Commission of administrative clauses of
original tender documents.
March 31, 1975:           Syrian Government requests change in proiect descrip-
tion and reallocation of amount of Credit 401-SYR with
US$13.0 million to be passed on to EPEF for the urgent
phase distribution works; the remaining $2.0 million
to be applied to the sewerage and pollution control
studies: Bank finAnrinF' renulested for remaining t.'orks.
M4ay 12, 1975:            Board of Executive Directors approved changes to
Credit 401-SYR requested by Syria.
June 22, 1975:            Signature of Amendment to Credit Agreement 401-SYR.
June 1975:                Preappraisal mission to Syria to advise EPEF of in-
formation required for re-aDpraisal of balance of
project.
June 26, 1975:            United States Agency for International Development
agrees to loan of US$48.0 million to finance foreign
exchange component of distribution works not included
in Urgent Phase.
August/September 1975:   Appraisal of supply works for proposed Bank loanz at
request of Syrian Government appraisal mission sub-
sequentlv visited Arab Fund in Kuwait to brief then
on project and obtained assurances of interest in
co-financing in amount equal to proposed Bank loan.



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 4 peges
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND DAMASCUS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SYRIA
Project Description
1         This project forms part of a major construction program to provide
additional supplies of water to Damascus. The distribution mains are being
financed separately by the Bank (Credit 401-SYR) and the United States Agency
for International Development. The supply works included in this project
ensure the development of the groundwater source, a new tunnel to be built to
carry the water to Damascus, distribution reservoirs, pumping stations and a
dispatching system. Each element is discussed separately below.
Figeh Spring Development
2.        The Figeh spring is in the Anti-Lebanon Mountains about 15 km north-
east of Damascus (see Map 11899). The main spring emerges from limestone as an
underground river and this major discharge flows directly to the aqueduct.
Minor springs also emerge in the alluvium nearby. Some of the water from
these minor springs is collected by two pumping stations near the aqueduct
origin but some escapes through the alluvium to the Barada River valley, which
is less than 150 m from the main Figeh spring. A cutoff wall will be constructed
across the alluvium into the impervious rock beneath, slightly upstream of the
Barada valley, thus preventing the loss of Figeh water to the river. This cut-
off wall to be constructed by grouting will be approximately 250 m long and a
maximum of 25 m deep.
3.        To safeguard the quality of the groundwater at Figeh it is necessary
to divert all surface water away from the area where the spring water is col-
lected. The collecting area which requires this protection will be increased
when the cutoff wall is constructed. Planned surface structures include drains
and sewers around the perimeter of the spring site, a spillway to lead a local
torrent over the coileccing area and a large channel to divert excesa spring
flows from Figeh to the Barada River. This work will involve relocating main-
tenance and pumping structures presently built near the source as well as
removing several residential and commercial buildings on the right bank of
the Figeh overflow channel, upstream of the cutoff wall.
4.        The reliable yield of the spring at present is simply the lowest
natural flow, which has been as low as 2.4 m3/second (210,000 m3/day) in the
past (Annex 4, para 6). Since the long-term average flow is more than 350%
higher than this low flow, it is probable that the reliable yield can be
increased by using the presumed storage capacity in the aquifer. Based on
historical data the consultants estimate that the3low flow with a five-year   3
frequency can be increased from the present 3.0 m /second to between 5 and 6 m /
seLond. To determine the storage characteristics of the aquifer would normally



ANNEX 5
PAnp 2 of 4 Dages
involve a program of exploratory drilling, but the limestone mountains overlying
the critical portion of the aquifer would cause the necessary drilling program
to be prohibitively expensive. The alternative way to determine the aquifer
storage potential, and hence determine how much the spring yield can be in-
creased, is to conduct a program of test pumping from the aquifer.  By pumping
at rates in excess of the natural spring flow it is possible to withdraw water
from storage in the aquifer. This would lower the water level below the present
level at which the springs emerge. The aquifer storage characteristics can be
deduced by estimating the natural spring flows (for example, by correlation
with other springs in the area), measuring the pumped flows and monitoring the
water level in the aquifer. Such test pumping requires careful planning and
assessment so that the water supply necessary for Damascus can be assured
throughout the test period.
5.        The test pumping must take place at rates larger than the natural
spring flows. This requires the installation of large capacity pumps capable
of pumping approximately 6.0 m3/second, from the lowest level to which the
aquifer can be expected to drop. Test wells for these pumps will be drilled
in the vicinity of the springs after the cutoff wall is completed.  Diesel
engines will be used to drive the pumps during the test period. Depending on
prevailing hydrologic conditions, the tests should be conducted at several
rates and are tentatively planned to last for three years. During the test
pumping, which is expected to continue beyond the project period, the water
excess to the necds of Darascus would be released to the Barada River. A'fter
the storage characteristics of the aquifer are better understood, the pumps
used for testing will be permanently installed, probably with electric motors
as their power source.
Tunnel from Figeh to Damascus
6.        The route of the tunnel is shown on Map 11899.  It will commence at
the Figeh source just upstream of the cutoff wall and will terminate at reser-
voirs at the Wali site on the edge of the mountains at the northwest side of
Damascus.
7.        The alignment is the most direct possible:  a straight line between
Figeh and Wali is prohibited by local topography. Data concerning the tunnel
are as follows:
Length         -    15.0 km
Capacity       -    5.0 m /second
Section        -    Horseshoe, flat base  2
Excavated area = 5.7 m
Height = 2.40 m, maximum width = 2.50 m



ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 4 pages
8.        The tunnel section is the minimum practical section which can be
driven over this length using conventional techniques. The tunnel will be
excavated from five attack faces:  one from the Wali end and two each from
access portals at 2.5 km and 9.4 km from the Figeh end. Because of the work
on source development under way on the relatively small site at Figeh, the
tunnel will not be excavated from that face. The contract for the tunnel has
been awarded. The schedule of works provides for tunnel excavation to progress
at the rate of 7 meters per day on each attack face and that the total task of
tunnel construction will require 30 months. These are reasonable but not
excessive rates of progress.
9.        Water in the tunnel will not be flowing under pressure.  The tunnel
bottom will be lined with 25 cm of concrete. In sound rock, estimated throughout
60% of the tunnel length, a gunite lining averaging 5 cm thickness will be applied.
In weaker rock sections a concrete lining averaging 25 cm thickness will be used.
10.       Sluicegates will be installed at the upstream and downstream ends of
the tunnel. To avaoid surcharging the tunnel during closure of the downstream
gate, which would require more expensive lining, an overflow arrangement is
planned to spill excess flows to the Barada River via special drains.
Reservoirs
il.       As the EPEF distribution system grows the principal storage will con-
tinue to be located at high level on the western edge of Damascus. The project
includes major storage reservoirs near the tunnel terminus which will serve to
balance pumping from the Figeh source with system demand and to provide a reason-
able reserve in the event of problems at the source or in the tunnel. Smaller
reservoirs will be built throughout the distribution system to maintain pressures
during periods of peak demand. Features of the reservoirs included in the
project are as follows:
Identification            Location        Capacity (m )
Tunnel Terminus
I                   Wali             60,000
II West               Near Wali       20,000
Sub-total                            80,000
Distribution System
I East               West of Berze   8,000
K 3                  Kassioun           500
B 1                  Berze            5,000
K 4                  Kassioun West      500
K 5                  Kassioun West      800
K 6                  Kassioun West      500
M 1                  Mezze            8,000
M 2                  Mezze            1,500
Sub-total                            24,800
TOTAL                               104,800



ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 4 rages
12.       The design of reservoirs at Il West will allow for future expansion
to double the initial capacity. Preliminary designs call for these reservoirs
to be built of prestressed concrete. The reservoir near the tunnel exit at
Wali will be built underground since this represents the least-cost solution.
It will be built to its full capacity immediately in order to avoid construc-
tion difficulties and mobilization costs at a later stage.
13.       By 1979, when the new reservoirs should be completed, the storage
in the EPEF system will total about 152,000 m3, which would represent slightly
less than 12 hours' storage of the average daily production projected for
that year.
Pumping Stations
14.       A new pumping station will be constructed to serve the three
pressure zones in the new distribution system of Kassioun West. The three
sets of pumps in this station will be supplied directly from the existing
aqueduct from Figeh.
15.       The eight permanent pumping stations presently in service through-
out the system will be renovated. At each station the pumps and motors will
be overhauled and replaced if necessary. New switchboards and control panels
will be installed at each station to permit the pumps to be controlled remotely
by telecommunication signals from the distribution reservoirs.
Telecommunication Systems
16.       Portable radio equipment will be purchased to facilitate the leak
reduction program to be undertaken by EPEF and to expedite routine mainte-
nance operations. The same equipment can be used by operating staff for valve
control operations in the event that water rationing is required before the
new tunnel can augment the water supply to Damascus.
17.       Telecommunications will be established between the Wali reservoirs
and the Figeh source, using the new tunnel route, to permit sensible upstream
control of the volume of water directed to Damascus.
18.       Information on water levels in the reservoirs throughout the dis-
tribution system w.lL be Lrdnsmitted to the associated pumplng stations.
This will enable the pumps to be controlled by the reservoirs they supply
and will reduce overflows and manpower costs. Provision will also be made
for transmission of data to a central operations center.



APPRAISA. OF
AN SECOND SjAMASCIJO~ WAU -4 ~SUFLY FROJECl
00SF ESTIAAIES
TOTAL COSTSI/                   EXPENDITOIRES 1975                   EXPENOITUROS 1976                 FXPENDITO0RES 1977                 OXPENDITURES 1978                  ExPORDITURES 1979                EXPE'NDITIRES 1980
WOROS                                 09001                              c 000                               0000                              SOO0  L             000 L01                                            00OLS                            OOI LS
LOCAL    FOREIGN       ToTAL       LOCAL    FOREIGN       TOTAL       LOCAL    FOREIGN       lITA,        OAL    FOREIGN        TOTAL       LOCAL    FOREIGN       TOTAL      LOCAL      FOREIGN       TOTAL    LOCAL,   FOREIGN    TOTAL
Contrant No. 1
Tu...l anA W.1i R..orvoir-           79,000    183,100    262,100          -        53,000    53.000       25,000      40,300    65,300       25,000      40,300    65,300       25,000      40,300    65,300         4,000       9,200    13,200        ---
CotatN.. 2
ReeoîeIl Ceot                   8,300      10,600      73,300        -          -           -         1,300       2,800      4,100       3,500       7,400    10,900        3,500       7,400    10.900           400       1,000      1,400--
RonPîng  Ltoîc  O1Il                  1,350       4,680       6,030        -          -           -           210         690        900         360       1,260      1,620         360       1,260      1,620          420       1,470      1,890       -- 
B-rd. Ov-rfîc                         1,300       1.600       2,900        -          -                 I     -           -          -           200         300        500         500          600     1,100          600         700      1.300                  --
Cootent No. 3I
Olultlhottic Foopino St.ti-n          3,150      10,920      14,070                   -           -           490       1.61 0     2,100         840       2,940      3,780         840       2,940      3,780          840       2,940      3,780      140        490         630
DOspo, tchicg                         3,000      10,000      13,000        -          -           -           400       1,400      l,000         880       2,700      3,500         800       2,700      3,500          000       2,700      3,500      200        500         700-
cAottaFt No. 4 
Di.trlb.ti.. R...-vIrs                1,100      12,500      17,600                   -                        00       1.900      2,700       ?,000       2,000      7, 00G      2,000       5,6W       1,000          300         e0         900       -          -           -
Conrgn  No.i     tt-                     ,0          ,0         5,-90                                                                                        130         ,0          ,0         3.600      6,020       2.400        3,600      6,000      300        500         800
FPLge  ...eîn  Stîtn6,0                           9,0         500                                            -                       -           800       1,300                  2,40
Oob-totol                              107,600    250,400    350,000          -       53,000      53,000      28,200      48,700    769,00       33,600      61,200    94,800       35,400      63,800    99,200         9,760      22,210    31,970       640      1.490       2,130
OhysOcal Cotieto
Tun... 1  .a Res-voî  100             7,900      18,310      26,210        -                      -         2,500       4,000      6,500     2,500         4,000      6.500       2.500       4,000      6,500          400       6.310      6.710                  -           -
Oth-r Wrka             15%         4...290       (0,09      14-385                                             720        575      1.295       1.320      ...512      4,          1.440       3.710      5.130          740       2.120      2 860       70        180         250
s.b-totaL                              019.790    278,805    39B,599                  53,000      55,000      31,430,     53,275    04,695    32, 420         68,710   106,130       39,340      31,510   110,850       10,906      30,640    41.540       710      1,670       2,380
D..Og. an   opd   tuo                    2,0M0       8,000      10,000       260       1.060       1,320         440       1,750      2,190          550      2,170      2,720          550       2,230      2,780         190         760        950       10         30          40
SrafNOng                        400         ~~~~400     800         -         -            -           10 100                 200         100         100        200         100-o       100        200         100         100        200       -         -             _
Sob-t.t.I                              122,190    287,205    409,395         260      54,060      54,320   -31,960        50,IZ5    65,060   * 3%0,03        10,900   160,050        39,990      73.840   113,803       11,190      31,500    42,690       320      1,300       2,420
100c- gl            - roas4o7 5                   9,46       A7-19cos o... et1/3/4                         <4.0)        <5.5)                   (38,0)     <16.6)                (42.1)       <28.2)                 <46.4)      (41.0)               <50.8)    (54.1)
(`onIltive fogîeFar                                                                                        10 870      3_030    13,900        14<47       11,780    26 250       16_040      20,820    37,660        5.180       12.910    18.100      365         920      1.285
TOTAL      169,925     336,665    006,590         560     54,068       54,320     ~~~~42,839   58.05     10,          52,540      82,760   135,300       56,830      94.660   151.490       16,380      44,410    60,9       105        262         375
il CNtseapesnn  ne  ccehen31, 1915.                                                                                                      __t__
2/ - Contro  acaded ... tain  ptico  -aIatIon clause covoL.  100% of Prîc- change  bas-d o    latindices.                                       1]local .....al infîatin  rates b-sd on pti..s ....îonfrl  le contrt ana esoîg  eIctaO
A.~ ssne  consultat oses ooapfi.t. Pate prsnl 00-                                                                                                   G-trilo.  oernt--otrolld pticeo of  -aet, fuel- an y >.nteî.
4/ On . b6e  al  cf sicc-d csre
I/  rlo  lerese clcoole  b   sis.cdinj toll-oeg inolaltin  rtes~:                                                                        Yt   oeg   nlto   aefor 1973 la  ili asclcLtdoieR Prenh G.-tent indI..s On prcecaa-                               s
Sen   975       97         7,      1939,    593        iq_clue sC_tan   o.
Local sTOatS   32%        3             3%             3%        3%
eqssipfl.t       nil        9%        8%        8         8%     7%.
nOls-Iks,nk       il       13%       12%       12%       127.   lm,
M-rc l9'1



ANNEX 7
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND DAMASCUS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SYRIA
Comparison of Unit Costs of Work
The following table compares selected unit prices of the low bids
for the supply works and emergency phase distribution works for Dainascus with
the unit prices of conservative tenders for the another water supply project
in the Mediterranean region for which tenders were received in May, 1975.
Ratio:
Other       Damascus/
Item                      Damascus          City        Other City
1.   General earth excavation             $13.50/m3      $ 4.56/m3         3.0
2.   Trench excavation (earth)            $17.83/m3       $ 2.47/m3        7.2 /1
3.   Trench excavation (rock)             $37.84/m3       $15.64/m3        2.4
4.   Sand bedding                          $15.40/m3      $ 7.05/m3        2.2
5.   Pipe installation 1100 mm                            $31tm
1200 mm           S580/m                         18.7 /2
6.   Formwork                              $32.431m2      $11.75/m2        2.8
7.   Concrete                             $59.45/m3       587.94/m3        0.7 /3
/1   The cost of trench excation in Damascus should be expected to be higher
than that of the other project since the Damascus project involves ex-
cavation in existing streets with the associated problems of traffic,
interference from existing services and difficulty of disposal of sur-
plus excavation; the pipeline of the other project in contrast is to
be laid in the desert where none of these problens exist.
/2   These unit costs are not directly comparable.  In addition to the
difference in diameters which although snall increases pipe weipght
by about 25%, the rate of laying in Damascus will be slowed down
significantly by the factors noted above as well as by the need for
interconnection with existing mains and the installation oL house con-
nections. If the rate of laying in the other project is assumed to be
four times that in Damascus, and adjustment made for the difference in
diameters, then the ratio of the unit cost in Damascus to the unit cost
of the other project (for similar work) would become 3.7.
/3   The cost of aggregate and cement delivered to the compared project is
reported to be $54/m3. These prices are prices of the private sector
and include a significant transportation component; the price for
cement reflects the international market price.  Aggregate and cement
for the Damascus project are to be supplied by state-owned companies.
Clauses in the contracts provide that these materials shall be provided
from the site closest to the works and that if imiporting of cement
should be necessary (more than half of present cement requirements are
met by imports) the price to be paid by the contractor will be the
state-controlled local manufacture price.



m  o-                       -  _  _   0    -                  Is 
ô~~ ~ ~ = _  - 
X~~ ~         -    ___                                                    m 
EX                                                                          m
0-17_ -                                                       = -                _
u ~    ~     ~      ____ - 'z _   o,        
Fo U 2_____    ____                                         Z-  _
9 [~~~ _____                               ___       n     -_ __  w t
,3»    ,       I _           _____            ___- ___ _ 
-I                                                                  -n, 
_ __*-S =
____j_ _                       _   



ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 3
APPRAISALOF
A SECOND DAMASCU!S WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SYRIA
Key Indicators
The following kev indicators will be monitored during the execution
of the project to measure the achievement of the technical, financial, admin--
istrative and training goals set for the proposed project. In each case the
figures requested (budget and actual) will be shown for the latest quarter and
for the same quarter one year earlier.
Phy_ical Criteria
(a) Wat er production
(i)  average dailv production for each month of the quarter,
(ii)  cumulative total production for the year:
(b` h,. _ 'J=te -cnsu-tie
(1) average daily consumption for each month of the quarter;
(ii) cumulative total consumption for the yeart
(iii) same as for (i) and (ii) except indicating volumes sold;
(c)  Unaccounted-for water
volume and percentage for each month of the quarter,
(d)  Connections
(i) number of new connections for the quarter?
(ii) total connections at end of quarter
(e) Pnpplation
estimated population served at end of quarter.
(f) Meters
(_  number of meters repaired or replaced during quarter;
(ii)  number of meters repaired or replaced to end of quarter
since beginning of repair program in May, 1975



ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 3
(g) Leaks
(i) number of possible leaks investigated during quarter;
(ii) number of leaks repaired during quarter
(iii) number of leaks repaired to end of quarter since beginning
of repair program in May, 1975;
(h)  Pressures
minimum and maximum pressures at selected points on distribution
system.
Water Quality
(a) Bacteriological
(i)  number of samples for which chlorine residual and bacteria
counts C4PN) were carried out during quarter;
(ii) number of positive analyses in bacteriological examinations;
(b) Chemical
representative chemical analysis.
Staffing and Training
(a) Staffing
(i) number of permanent employees at end of quarter-
(ii) number of employees per 1,000 connections at end of quarter;
(b) TEaining
(t)  number of employees who received training to end of quarter
(cumulative since January 1, 1976)
professional
--   tradesmen and operators
(ii) number of emplovees for each category undergoing training
during the quarter;
(iii) man-months of training for each category during the quarter;



ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 3
(c) Technical Assistance
(j)  man-months of technical assistance (expatriate and local)
provided to EPEF durirg quarter;
(ii) total man-months of technical assistance to end of quarter
(cumulative since January 1, 1976).
Financial Indicators
(a)  average volume of wçater sold and revenues per connection;
(b) average revenue/m3 produced.
(c) operating expenses/m3 produced;
(d) average time (days) between meter reading and presentation of
bill;
(e) at the end of the first quarter of each year -
(i)  financial rate of return of precedîng year;
(ii)  debt service coverage for preceding vear;
(iii)  statement of capital investments during preceding year,
budgeted for current year and forecast for following
year.
Public Health Statistics
Public health statistics will be reported in the quarterly report
which follows publication of the statistics by the Ministry of Health (or
Central Bureau of Statistics). If possible, the statistics quoted will be
given for the City of Damascus or for Damascus Governorate. Incidence of
the following diseases will be reported -
cholera
typhoid
malaria
intestinal parasites
diarrhea
eye diseases
skin diseases
Project Implemeentation
(a) The critical path for Contract No. 1 (tunnel and related works)
to be reviewed and updated at least quarterly.
(b) Quarterly forecast of expenditures to be prepared for each
contract within three months of signature of contract; quarterly
reports to indicate percentage completion of original forecast
and revised forecast of expenditures for remainder of contract.



ANNEX 10
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND DAMASCUS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SYRIA
Syrian Construction Industry
1.        There were no bids from Syrian contractors for either the distribu-
tion works of the Urgent Phase nor for source works and tunnel under this
project. While the construction of the source works and tunnel might be
considered too specialized for local contractors, the distribution system
works which were awarded to a French contractor, should have interested local
bidders. In addition, the mission was advised by EPEF that it had received
no bids for other earlier requests for tenders for distribution works contracts
too small to interest foreign contractors. It would appear that while foreign
contractors are prepared to work on Government contracts at safe prices, local
private contractors prefer to work entirely within the private sector which
provides sufficient demand to keep them occupied on contracts which are re-
ported to be very profitable.
2.        The principal reason for this situation in recent years may have
been that the local firms lacked skilled labor as a result of migration of
trained and skilled workers mainly to the oil-rich countries. During the
appraisal, the mission learned that the higher vages now being paid in the
private sector are attracting some workers back to Syria, especially from
the Lebanon. Because of the high rate of migration of skilled labor through-
out the Middle East, a regional approach to solving this problem may be
required to produce a longer-term solution.
3.        A second reason believed to be important in local firm's preference
to work in the private sector is the difficulty in working with Syria's public
administration with its excessive bureaucratic obstruction and procedural
delays. These difficulties within the administration might be partly over-
come by an overhauling of its bidding, procurement and contract supervision
procedures. Nevertheless, substantial improvement can only be expected if
the quality and morale of administration employees is improved and the 'key
to such improvement is a significant increase in salary levels.
4.        The limited capacity of the Syrian construction industrv and its
preference to work on private sector than public sector projects therefore
appear to depend on factors outside the industry itself. The Government has
indicated it would be interested in receiving Bank assistance in analyzing this
problem. One possibility would be that the Bank economic mission to Syria
scheduled for the first half of 1976 examine constraints on implementation of
the new Development Plan (1976-1980) including construction industry capacity,
and make specific recommendations to improve project implementation. If the
Government requests Bank assistance in financing the cost of implementing
these recommendations, this financing could be provided in a subsequent Bank
loan in any sector.



ANNEX 1 1
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND DAMASCUS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SYRIA
Estimated Schedule of IBRD Disbursments
Cumulative        Semi-Annual
IBRD Fiscal Year         Disbursement        Disbursement       Disbursement
and Half Year            IJS$ Million       US$ Million       as % of Total
1975/76
December                  -
June                     2.00                2.00                5.7
1976/77
December                 2.70                4.70                7.7
June                     2.70               7.40                7.7
1977/78
December                 3.75               11.15               10.7
June                     3.75               14.90               10,7
1978/79
December                 4.05               18.95               11.6
June                     4.05               23.00               11.6
1979/80
December                 5.30               28.30               15.1
June                     5.30               33.60              15.2
1980/81
Deceuber                 1.40               35.00                4.0
100.0



ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 6
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND DAMASCUS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SYRIA
Summarv of Legislation
There are two Government decrees which control EPEF's general ac-
tivites (No. 18 of February 15, 19,74, complemented by No. 252 of Mav 14, 1975)
and two which provide for special measures for the implementation of the imme-
diate program of works (No. 265 of' October 29, 1974 and No. 6 of January 30,
1975).  The following are summaries of the principal elements of each of
these decrees.
A.   Decree No. 18, Fberuary 15, 1974
Law Governing Establishments, Public Societies and Companies
1.   The following articles of the decree affect EPEF which is con-
siderered to be an 'Etablissement Public".
2.   In order to achieve its objectives the establishment shall apply
the various appropriate methods while acting w:thin the limits
of the laws and regulations currently in effect: It may
(i) execute the conditons of the decree which created the
establishment:
(ii) create, join, divide or eliminate economic units-
(iii) create branches or interior centers or eliminate same;
(iv) grant loans to public societies or enterprises governed
by this decree and guarantee loans which are granted
to them;
(v) enter into loan agreements with the State or financial
and banking e,stablishments, local or foreign, without
prejudice to the rights of the State planning authority
in virtue of the regulations presently in force.
3.   It is administered by a director general (named by a decree
which establishes his salary and indemnities) and an adminis-
trative council whose members, chosen in accordance with the
laws and regulations in force, shall include:



ANNEX 12
Page 2 of A
(i) the director general (as president):
(ii)  five directors from within the establisment
(iii) a workers representative who is an executive member of
the trade union concerned and who shall be designated
by the executive of the General Federation.
The president and directors shall be confirmed in their positions
by ministerial order.
4.   By laws related to the following matters shall be promulgated
by decree- finances, accounting, procurement, financial incen-
tives, and on fundamental principles to be followed in arbitra-
tion and transaction.
5.   Following matters shall be administered by ministerial order:
(i)  the administrative organization and responsibilities;
(ii)  regulations related to supplies, distribution, storage
and public relations,
(iii)  transfer of personnel between establisnments under the
authority of the same ministry and entering into con-
tracts with experts and technicians'
(iv)  nomination of one of the directors as deputv director
general.
6.   The administrative council is the authoritv responsible for
the adoption of the policy to be followed by the establishment
in order to achieve the objectives for which it was created.
It shall -
(i)  establish a draft of the essential principles and by-laws
to be promulgated by the appropriate authoritv (paras 5
and 6);
(ii)  establish standards 
(iii)  decide policies and production, export, sales, operations,
commissions and income objectives in order to meet the
goals decided by the State:
(iv)  establish detailed plans and work programs to guarantee
production, ensure quality control and the economic use
of resources and to ensure increased productivity in
order to meet the needs of the establishment



ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 6
(v)  establish the annual plan for the establishment for
which it is responsible, including:
(a) operaLtions
(b)  production
(c) sales
(d)  labor
(e)  costs and revenues
(f) budget estimates
(vi)  assure coordination between the public societies and the
establishment for which it is responsible and act in a
manner to reduce differences between them.
(vii) study the regular reports presented to it on the opera-
tions of the establishment and its financial situation
and take any appropriate necessary measures;
(viii)  study all matters which the minister or director general
deems useful to submit for its consideration which is
relevant to the operations of the authority.
7.   The administrative council presided by the minister shall:
(i)  approve the annual plan of the establishment within the
framework of the five-year plan and without prejudice to
the powers of the Ministry of Plani
(ii)  approve the annual financial reports-
(iii) propose an increase or decrease of the authorized capital
of the establishment. A final decision on this shall be
taken by the superior planning council;
(iv)  create, join, divide or supress economic units.
8.   The administrative council may constitute its members into one or
more commissions to which it may provisionally delegate its powers;
it may retain tne services of such experts as it may deem necessary.
9.   The director general has the following functions:
(i)  to execute the decisions of the administrative council:
(ii)  to manage the "etablissement public", evolve work methods,
to reinforce management and to delegate., name, advance or
transfer staff in accordance with the approved annual plan
for labor and considering the available credits in the
budget;



ANNEX 12
Page 2 of A
(i) the director general (as president):
(ii)  five directors from within the establisment
(iii)  a workers representative who is an executive member of
the trade union concerned and who shall be designated
by the executive of the General Federation.
The president and directors shall be confirmed in their positions
by ministerial order.
4.   By laws related to the following matters shall be promulgated
by decree- finances, accounting, procurement, financial incen-
tives, and on fundamental principles to be followed in arbitra-
tion and transaction.
5.   Following matters shall be administered by ministerial order:
(i)  the administrative organization and responsibilities;
(ii)  regulations related to supplies. distribution, storage
and public relations'
(iii)  transfer or personnel berween establishments under the
authority of the same ministrv and entpring into con-
tracts with experts and technicians'
(iv)  nomination of one of the directors as deputv director
general.
6.   The administrative council is the authoritv responsible for
the adoption of the policy to be followed by the establishment
in order to achieve the objectives for which it was created.
It shall -
(i)  establish a draft of the essential principles and by-laws
to be promuleated by the appropriate authority (paras 5
and 6),
(ii)  establish standards:
(iii) decide policies and production, export, sales, operations,
commissions and income objectives in order to meet the
goals decided by the State;
(iv)  establish detailed plans and work programs to guarantee
production, ensure quality control and the economic use
of resources and to ensure increased productivity in
order to meet the needs of the establishment



ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 6
(v)  establish the annual plan for the establishment for
which it is responsible, including:
(a)  operations
(b)  production
(c)  sales
(d)  labor
(e)  costs and revenues
(f)  budget estimates
(vi)  assure coordination between the public societies and the
establishment for which it is responsible and act in a
manner to reduce differences between them;
(vii) study the regular reports presented to it on the opera-
tions of the establishment and its financial situation
and take any appropriate necessary measures;
(viii) study all matters which the minister or director general
deems useful to submit for its consideration which is
relevant to the operations of the authority.
7.   The administrative council presided by the minister shall:
(i) approve the annual plan of the establishment within the
framework of the five-year plan and without prejudice to
the powers of the Ministry of Plan-
(ii)  approve the annual financial reports-
(iii) propose an increase or decrease of the authorized capital
of the establishment. A final. decision on this shall be
taken by the superior planning council;
(iv)  create, join, divide or supress economic units.
8.   The administrative council may constitute its menbers into one or
more commissions to which it may provisionally delegate its powers;
it may retain the services of such experts as it may deem necessary.
9.   The director general has the followinq functions:
(i) to execute the decisions of the administrative council:
(ii)  to manage the "etablissement public", evolve work methods,
to reinforce management and to delegate.? name, advance or
transfer staff in accordance with the approved annual plan
for labor and considering the available credits in the
budget;



ANNEX 12
Page 4 of 6
(iii) supervise the works of the establishment,
(iv) award bonuses within the limits of the approved budget
and impose fines on the personnel:
(v) delegate certain of his functions to the directors.
10.   Its capital shall be composed of:
(i) shares owned by the State:
(ii)  State equitv investmentsz
(iii)  holdings and related investments;
(iv)  other sources fixed by the establishin7 decree.
11.   Financial resources shall be composed of:
(i)  its net profits,
(ii)  reserve funds and depreciation:
(iii)  borrowings and credit facilities
(iv)  State credits,
(v)  special revenues from its activities or services provided
to third parties.
12.   It shall invest its (financial) resou-ces in-: 
(i)  financing of its plans and covering its expenses and pay-
ments required by the nature of the tasks assigned to it
(ii)  deposit of the excess of its revenues to the treasury of
the Public Debt.
13.   (a)  The accounting system shall conform to the principles of
commercial and industrial accounting and its budget shall
be established on the same principles.
(b)  The assets shall be considered as the propertv of the
state with the exception of.assets which are designated
by law to-tne publie use.
(c)  It shall have the right of expropriation to house its em-
ployees and economic units in conformity with the law
governing expropriation.
B.   Decree No. 252 May 14, 1975
A plyin  DecreE No. 18 of 1974 to 'Etablissement des Public des Eaux
de Figeh' (FPEF)
1.   The dispositions of Decree No. 18 apply to EPEF which shall be
attached to the Ministry of Housing and UTtilities.



ANNEX 12
Page 5 of 6
2.   EPEF is charged with the supply and distribution of the waters
from the Figeh source or any other to which it may obtain the
right. It shall assure the distribution of water within the
administrative limits of the city of Damascus and the villages
of the Barada River (El Figeh, Ain el Khadra. Bassine, El
Achrafei, El Jedaide, El Nlame, Jamraya) as well as the Yarmouk
refugee camp.
3.   Its capital is fixed at L'; 85 million covered by:
(i) funds contributed by the State, and
(ii) its holdings.
C.   Ministerial Decision No. 265 of October 29, 1974
EPEF's Organization
1.   A temporary unit for major projects is established for EPEF.
This office consists of the following posts (86 posts named,
frori engineers to doorman).
2.   These positions may be filled bv nomination from the Government
payroll or bv secondment of civil servants or public sector
employees. Engineers hired from outaide the public sector
will be retained in accordance with Decree No. 60 of 1961. For
all other positions wages and salaries will be determined ac--
cording to the year of graduation with an incremental step for
each year of experience.
3.   The wqork of this office shall terminate on completion of con-
struction of the works financed by the World Bank.
D.   Ministerial Decision No. 6, January 30  1975
Establishing a Special Commission for EPEF's Projects
1.   The Commission shall composed of 'Messrs.
The Minister of Housing and Public Utilities - President
The Director of EPEF - Vice President
The Deputy ?linister of Housing and Public Utilities
responsible for Technical Affairs - Member
The Director of Technical Affairs of the Municipality of
Damascus - Member
The Engineer Nibras Mouayadi. Chief of the Projects Office
of EPEF - Member
This Commission shall be responsible for following the imple-
mentation of the new projects of EPEF.



ANNEX 12
Page 6 of 6
2.   The Commission is considered responsible for undertaking the
necessary studies and for following the implementation of these
projects until they are ready for operation and this during a
fixed delay of three years following the date of this Decision.
The Commission has the right to use the services of Arab and
foreign technicians and to take the necessary measures to re-
solve the difficulties they may encounter.  It is however, au-
thorized to have recourse of the offices of the Civil Service
and to take its emplovees by detachment or by assigning theni
to carry out works through overtime,
3.   The Commission is authorized to award incentive bonuses and
overtime pay to civil servants and salaried employees working
on the above-mentioned projects and this by its own decision.
4.   The Commission has the full powers needed to carry out its
assignments: its decision and its activities shall be exempt
from all laws and regulations in force in Syria, except as
they concern the issuing of personnel appointments in any
form.



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND DAMASCUS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SYRIA
E.P.E.F. -ORGANIZATION  1975
8oard
Publie Relton            General Manager            Mngeet
|Asistant Genesal Manager Acsistant GeAestl Matager
Technictt                                                         AdTinisteatioa
Tahnal aeAdinist,ativ |                                                                                    Financial
Manager                                                                Manage,                          Manage
|   Maintenance   L   Transport          MainsI     -tentorn
r                                                             MeRpis
{ 3    {  Sl Frpair l                         t l                                                               - C                    1  Machinés l~~~~~~~~~~o.u.es, Legl 
m        [ Cres        New Conaeciions O|fice -e-|                                                                                                                   Bli
an                                                                                            T-h.i CaetAistr.
T~.                                                                                                  Deig   Const,.or
-| tPumping  l                                                 -[i3                                                                      v tr                 Meter ReadinGsM|
{   LJ                                                                                               -1  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~        ~        ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Inte,nai Audil  1
W ,Id Bank 15339(H1



APPRAIsAL OF
A SECOND DAM&SCUS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SYRIA
INCOME STATEMENT
ACTUALS (1972-1974) AND PROJECTED (1975-1984)
YEAR BEGINNING JAN 1ST              1972     1973      1974       1975     1976      1977       1978     1979       1980     1981       1982     1983      1984
TOTAL POPN SERVED  '000             1000     1070      1140       1200     1254      1310       1369     1431       1495     1563       1633     1706      1783
NO CONNECTIONS     '000              136      143       147        152      157       161        165      177        192      207        223      240       258
NO WAT RT HOLDERS  '000 m3            68       72        74         76       78        80         82       88         96      103        111      120       129
WATER PRODUCTION   '000 m3         85900    89600     92600      96400    98600    100700    101500   102200    118400   124200    131800   139100    146400
WATER CONSUMPTION  '000 m3         63500    66100     68600      71200    73000     74500      75200    75600      87600    91900     97500   102900    108400
- METERED SOLD     '000 m3         26620    28570     31028      32563    37998     44133      49468    53873      69413    72536     76775    80633      84590
- WATER RT HOLDERS '000 m3         10980    11230     11672      12037    12402     12767      13132    14227      15687    16965     18425    20067      21710
- UNBILLED          000 m3         23300    23700     23300     24000    20000      15000      10000     5000                 -         -         -         -
- PUBLIC SUPPLY    '000 m3          2600     2600      2600       2600     2600      2600       2600     2500       2500     2400      2300      2200      2100
WATER LOSSES %                        26       26         26        26       26        26         26       26         26       26         26       26        26
AVERAGE RATE  LS                     .20      .20        .20       .20      .30        .50       .60      .60        .60      .65        .80     1.05      1.25
AVERAGE ANN FEE  LS  m3/day           14       14         14        14       50       123        159      159        159      177        232      323       396
-------------------------------------------------------  LS  '000 -----------------------------------------------------
flPEkAtTNG REvtSlltS
___________----_
TifliAL - .FTFEt)                 5S5t      5478      h999    6h13    12179    23361    31239    33824    43141   48708    65098    09282  108359
wATb  RWIGHT SALFS                25J3      2595      2470      2000      2000      2000      2000      6000      8000      7000      8000      9000      9000
mrTER RTt NTALS                     719      808       880       988      1099      120H      1320      1505      1728      1863      2007      2160      2322
CtItNÈCT 1[1e CCHApr,FS            Sl         3SSl      345      440       484       42S       467      154h      2124      2340      2739      3210      3730
ANNIJAL FtF                         409      450       460       532      19S0      4920      6520      6997      7633      9115    12876    19745    25503
DIST SYS mAINI FFF                  42Z      47t       494       547       S55       580       594       637       691       745       803       864       929
(It~i4t  FIFSS                                el s l3    43       142       156       172       184      208       228       251       276        304       335
TI)jAL                     o0082    îo38       llô9î    11162    18433    32b7Z    42324    S0717     3551    70022    91799   124565   150178
_______ ------- -------  _______ -----  -----  ----  ----                         .....  _,___.___......_ ........ _ ...______.. _..   _ ____. _.....
I)PFWArING FXPlNLSFS
P: RS[INNtL                       .?HtStî    3390     3820      4354      580b      7067      8175      9S50    12759    15356    19100    22920    27357
MATtRIALS f. MAIN                   lh9       134       1S9      232       268       489       882      1342      1802      4457      4721      4985      5421
AOMlNIST4AtI[II.                    69t6     44        621       708       944      1149      1329      1553      2074      2496      3105      3r26      4446
PUMPING                             14       t>43       714       145      760        177       782       tj46     983       995      1007      1019      1036
'St.  CfoNJEcI IitS                 117      2bh        16.     220       242       213       234        773     1062      1170      1370      1605      1865
OEPRECIATIIHN                      1599     1837      192ô      2l08      3330      5234      7084    10040    17940    25020    26340    28640    30340
TnTAL                         57$0      h,72r      7403     83bS    llSSO    14928    18486    24104    3f20    49494    55h43    h2895    704tL5
)IPENiI11N  INUlI4F               455Z      6663      428h      2797      7083    17744    23843    2bb13    26931    2052h    3el58    h1870    79713
UMHtR INCI1tMt NEt                  lf        16h0     Z45       269       296       32b        359       39S      434       477       52S       578       635
dt t INCLI1'  oF F rT1           4l2?        S80S     a553      3086      7379    18070    24202    27008    27365    21005    36661    62248    80348
INT CHASbI:r) tlP                    ciO                         1° l     1866      4866      7963    10998    13032    13596    13339    13009    12657
-----_   _____,-_,   --,-..--  ,,,,,----..----.,,,,,,-..----.  ,,,,----..--..---,,,.,-----...--______   ,____,--__---_ __.   ........ __. ___
NF Y fNCt)&;                      45Z84    3803       45S3      2916      5513    13204    16239    16010    14333          7409    23342    49239    67691
ATF iii w1t                         1 3-1    10, 1y1 h            6. 8     ll1b      13,5       9,4        b9        $1       2,0        3,4      5,6       7,0
1VEA4TlNG  4Tlrl X                             465       63        7S        bd        4i        44        4b        58        71        61        50        4
March 1976



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND DAMA.SCUS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SYRIA
CASH FLOW
ACTUALS (1972-1974) AND PROJECTED (1975-1984)
YEAR BEGINNING JAN  IST  Is e       1Q73     19q4      1975      197b      1977     1978      1979      1980      1981      1982      1983      8984
I N Te 8s4L  Si QWLEt 
-NFI INClUM  FI    f                          i4, '4S2n4¶  S    4S S 0 S o06  7379    18070    e4202    27008    27365    21005    36681    62248    00348
.UEPRFCIATI4 N             1549     1837      192O      2108      .S3S0    5234      7084    10040    17940    Z5020    26340    28640    30340
.CONSUMIER CluNTW4T3        h91      46b       43        so00      500       d00      400      1200      1500      1500      1600      1700      1d00
..INVFSTMEiihTS               e         O         U        O         O         O         O         0         0        O         0         O         0
Ifl!AL                 hh,h     f, 6010   f6hs1     574    1120os    23708    31686    38248    4h805    47s2s   64621    925118   liT,2q8
iPEI4ATIlINAL WF-
QUIREMEtNTs
bWlt9KINti CAPIIAî        32'H     ?2hm       978    -4239      1276       108    -357b       ll7     .911    .2832    *1597       .883    .4725
-DEHT SEM4ILC                 0         0         0      150      1866     4866     8b00       2330    14404    16294    17537    tr43d    17415
fllHt.R CHi                1124 m     4SOb     -23          0        O                             ..                  .        O         O         O
1(4TAL                 8Sf6t    2714       955    -4089       3182      4974     5024    11158    13893    13862    15940    16;555    12630
.-- .  --  -  -> ........  _-- .......... .......  ........... .......  ........... .......  ........... .......  ........... .......  ........... ....... 
NiFT AVAIL48LE
pW(LM  (MFRPATIIINI      214b1     i33b    5936        9763     8067    18730    e88h2    27094    33312    34063   48681    76031   99798
Cr(INSTwieC T I(I'a
-.$INNfIN f  khNKS        Zimt Ià9i                        o         o         o         o         o         O        o         o         o         o
-PRUJP(SEO  PRIFCI            (I        o         0        o   1VSSO   109237   132186  115358    70086               o         o         o         o
-URGENT PHASE                 °         O        °     5000    23743    26956    29793    1729b             o         o         o         o         o
-GENERAL PHASE                )         0 °                0     7m851    87535  Il  132   12bt19      67565          O o       o                   o
-BARADA DAM ANIOTHERS                   °        O      4000     4000          0         O        O    15000    57500    58200  319700   303700
fnT AL                2451      3704      S936      9000  115144   223730  273111  25881l  152b5l   b7500    58200  319700   103700
HALANCF T  FleTANCE           r         o         O     -i63  101071   20sono  246449   231757   119339    Z3437            9519  243667   203902
F I NANCE l 114Y
PNrpf;stEr) 1 l n             o         0         o        o   20o90    27841    s3370    29569    18130              o         o         o         o
TID  CwfIDIT  f)l             rl        0         0     s00o     9800    11é40    12580         880o        o         o         o         ô         0
(,8)V  EDuITI  INvFST         0         n         D         0   71224  165319  200199   193308   101209    23431            9519  243eh7  203902
.   _. -----  -----  ---- _. -"----             -- ;-_ ..  ..;  -;;                      -;_ . .... ..; ,_,,;; ..,.....  ,,....  ........  ,.  .  ._,  ....
TrITAL                    o)         O              5000   101318   205000  246889   231757   119339    23837            9519  243667   203soz
S1iiPT US ( I I t LIT1
!F FUN0S                     i         o °             bibi   -5763           O         O         O        O         0         O         O         O
*rr-.,MILu ATEII            4)        tJ        O      S7h S        O         O         O          0      O         O         O         O         0
DfHT SERVICE  tIV 0,  O,U             0,0         (1    24.5        4.9      4.5       3.4      2.6       2.7        2.5    R.2          4.8     5.9
(EXCL WATER EKIGHT SALES)
March 1976



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND DAMASCUS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SYRIA
BALANCE SHEET
ACTUALS (1972-19-4) AND PROJECTED (1975-1984)
AS OF DECEMBER 315T       1972      1973     1974      1975     197h      1977     1978      1979      1980     tv8j      1982     1983      1984
A SS E  S
Pt ANT Y YN OPEAATÎrN      e14,b   53011    bHo7l   b6878  102472  216965  357774  501024 1074705 1126845 1179919 1279724 1320653
I ESHt DtPRECIAt ttlN    1 8S[t,   1814t>   ?0068    22176   25506    30740    3782/4   47 864    65804    90824   117164   145804  176t44
NeT PLANT                S mb6l   54ho9    38003   44702    76960   I8622b  319950  453160  1008901 1036021 1062755 1133920 1144509
w(iRK IN P.rlG,RESs       2389     2931      3807     4000   H3,50  192187  325089  440690    19660    25020    30146  250041  512812
CURWENT ASSETS
-LASH AND hANKS
BANKS                  3ti44     198 ,    1482     2171      2903     3534      4088     4773      4996      5294     5l66      5076     5295
TEmP11fbARY SURp           9                  0    5/63          0        O         O        0         O         0        O         O        O
ACC REC WATEi             3t4S     50?8      b962     4109      8178    11710      9439    10205    12695    14456    19494    27257    33466
ACC REC ()TH4E9S         e8754    139b3   12039    132a3    14567    16024    17626    19389    21328    23460    25806    28387    31226
1NVENtORtES             11727    14860    1471    1 2781    10/81        8781     9hSh    10625    11687    12856    14141    15556    17112
PREPAVMFNTS               lIb77    e202      501    3378       3/lb     4087      449b     4946      5440      5984     6583      7241     7965
ToTAL                2884$    36954    37315    41451    40145    44136    4SS05    49938    56146 -2050    71190    83517    95064
TRANSFtwS  T1 (.1lvT    27228   e7678    2765e    2765b    2765S    2765S    27655    27655    27655    27655    27655    27655    27655
tol AL               9?3?2   10243   106780  ;I;e08  228316  4;0803  7;7999   97;443 11125e2 1;0748  1i91;746 1495133 1780040
LIAdILITttS
E 70 I T Y
-CAPITAL                e9340    29340    29340    29340   100564  265883  466082  659390   760599   78403b  793555 1037222 1241124
-RETAINef) FARN1lFGS   2'¶200    214o0   Z5471    2436T    27900    39104    53 343   63353   69686    70095   85437  125676  i843h7
-WATER RIGHT SALES       ilo8o   3367S    36145    38145    40145   42145   44145   50145   58145    65145    73145   82145   91 145
TO)TAL             ii(620    84423   889Sh   91872  16863y  347132  5b3570   772888  888430  919276  952137 1245043 1516636
LnONG TtWM DEH1 8                      O        O S    OOO   35090    74771  120384  157S01   174259  1/1561   167363  162934  158176
CUL'NT l.IANILITTES
-ACCrLUNTS PAYA8 t        *4ù21    775s      7307     9134    11417    14271    17839    22299   27874    34842   4355.    5444t   68052
RFFIPLMENr l.RUVfSI        /07       956      87§      960      105b     Ib2       J278      1406     1547      1701     1871      205.     2264
DEP & AcV PAYME,lIS       288t     4148      4652     53S0      615i2    707S      8136     9357    107bO   12374    14230    16365    18820
tOTAL                 7e60H  13 454   l1832    15444    18625   22SO8   27253    33062    40181   48917   59654    72864   89136
CoNSIJME4 Cr0NT8141LT     4094     456o    4992       5492      5992     6392  o792         7992      9492    10992    12592    14292    16092
TO1TAL               92322   102437   10hl80   11780H  228316  45080S  717999  971443 1112382 1150746 1191746 1495133 1780040    >
===   :=:   =:==:==:::=:    :::  s:::                          : ::::::    =:=:  :=:E :: : ::::::: ::::::: uuuz.u: 
DEBT/EQUITY RATIO            °        o         °     5:95     17:33    18:82    18:82      15:85    16:84     16:84    15:85    15:85     9:91
March 1976



ANNEX 17
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND DAMASCUS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SYRIA
DEBT STATEMENT
ACTUAL 1974 PROJECTED (1975 - 1984)
1974     1975     197b      19i7     19iiv 19i          180      1i1      19.2      19i3   liu
PR(POSNE D 1 4RD
ONlRPOSINGS                             °   20290   27841   33670   29569   18130               0        0         0       0
.At)PTTZATIUN                 O         O        °        °         °        °        °    1285       2743     2930    5215
-iS LL A Nt te                0         °   20290   48131    81801  111370   129500  128215  125472  122542 ;19S21
-INTFWfST                     o         o      8j2     2908     5522      8210    10237    10953    10782    10541   10279
*CU(MI1'MENT CMGF             °         O      410      71°      484       247       68         0        0         0       (
-Ic.%                      t100       100      100      100       100      100      100       100      100       100     IOti
-IDC                          O         0    1272      3623     6006      8457    10305    10953   10782    10541   1U279
Ii)A CWEOTI  ao0
*-3t19Ru)"iINGS               O    5000      9800    11840    12S80      8880         0         0        0         0       0
-AMORTIZAIIL)N                 D        O        O         O      637     1332      1372     1413     1455      1499    l''4 S
8ALANCE                       O    5000    14800   126640    38583   46131    44759   43346   41891    40392   Skih£49
-tNTEREST                      Ù      150      594     1243      1951     2541     2727      2643    2557       2468    2377
-Toc.X                       100      100      100       100      100      100       100      100       100      tOO      10l
*IDC                           0      150      594      1243     1951    2541       2727     2i43    2557       24a6b8     7
OtBT SUeMilR
-l3[RR)w 1NiGS                 O    5000    30090    19681   46250   38449    18130              0        0        0         0
-RFPaVMEr7S                    °        e         O               637     1332      1372     ?69I        qe98   4429    ;475s
-11ALàI9LE                     O    5000    35090    r4771   120384  157501  174259  171561   1i7363  162934  1î3817i
-C i4'1t1ME .T FEF$            °         0     410       715      484       247       68         0        O         O        O
-INTEPEST                      O      15      1456      4151     7479    10751    12964    13596    13339    13009   iîtoSI
TINTEPEST & CF                 °      150      1866     4886     7963   10998    13032    13596    13339    13009    12657
-'EST SEfVICE                  O      150      1866    4866    8600    12330    14404    16294   17537    17438   17415
IDC                           O      150      1866    4866      7963    10998    13032    13596    13539    13009    12b57
March 1976



ANNEX 18
age 1 of 3 pages
APPRAISAL OF
A SECON) DAMASCUS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SYRIA
Assumptions for Financial Projections
Income and Expenditure Statements
1.        Population served, number of connections, water produced and volume
consumed reflect the projections in Annex 5. About one-half of new customers
are assumed to purchase a water right. This is in accordance with the trend
since 1970.  From 1967 to 1974 consumption has been calculated as 74% of pro-
duction (see para 6, Annex 6). From 1975 onwards total consumption is cal-
culated by applying estimated per capita consumption figures to total produc-
tion. Llnbilled consumption is calculated by deducting actual or estimated
sales from total consumption. Such unbilled consumption is expected to be
progressively reduced from 1975 until eliminated in 1980 through an improved
program of meter installation, maintenance and reading.
,'..      Supply through public taps  thich amounted to 2.6 million m3 in the
past is expected to maintain this level up to 1978 and then decrease by about
0.1 million m3 annually thereafter as a result of the forecast increase of
new connections and measures (such as installing spring--loaded valves) to
reduce wastage at public fountains (present consumption at fountains is
estimated at 61 lcd, whereas the normal in other countries ranges from
10-50 lcd with an average of 20 lcd. Starting October 1976, EPEF is as-
sumed to charge'the Municipalities for public supply through the applica-
tion of Article No. 50 of EPEF's present tariff structure.
3.        Revenues have been calculated by applying average tariffs to metered
volumes and adjustments made in the annual fee to link the revenues from water
rights to the current price of metered water.
4.        EPEF presentlv charges a fee of LS 9/vear for meter rental and main-
tenance.  For those who own their meters EPEF's meter maintenance charge is
LS 4.8 a year. Average meter rent and maintenance charges for 1974 were
LS 6.0.  Because all new or replaced meters are owned bv EPEF for the pur-
poses of these projections average meter rent is forecast to increase by
LS 0.5 a year to LS 9/year in 1979 when all privatelv owned meters are
expected to be phased out.
5.        EPEF's average connection and meter installation cost were cal-
culated at about LS 40 for connections duiring 1972-1974 inclusive.  However,
connection charges to customers were in fact on the average about 100% higher
(LS 80). Connection costs and connection charges are projected to increase
at 10% per year.



ANNEX 18
Page 2 of 3 pages
6.        The distribution svsten maintenance fee has been assumed to remain
at LS 3.6 per connection.
7.        Revenues from other fees and charges which include incidental fees
such as transfer of water right fee, name correction charges, reconnection
charges, etc. are projected to increase by 10% annuall.
8.        EPEF's staff is forecast to grow proportionately with the growth of
water production. The level of salaries and personnel benefits are expected
to increase by 10% in 1975, 28% in 1976, and 15% thereafter.
9.        Maintenance materials are calculated each year at about 0.4% of the
value of the gross fixed assets at the beginning of the year.
10.       Administrative and miscellaneous expenses are forecast to grow at
the same rate as of increase of personnel expenses.
11.       Tariff forecast for elect:ricity has been assumed at LS .14/kwh.
The quantity of energy consumed is assumed to increase at the same rate of
water volume pumped.
12.       As no detailed records are available for existing assets, deprecia-
tion charges for these assets are calculated using the present average rate
of about 3.5%. For new assets the following straightline rates were applied.
Tunnel                                    1,25% per year
Mains and pipes and reservoirs       -    2.50%
Pumping                              -    4.0%
Dispatching                          --   6,0%
13.       Interest during construction period is not capitalized but considered
as current expenses. The following assumptions were made for interest rates
and loan repayment periods:
LS   US$    Interest   Period   Of which
Million                             Grace
(a)  IDA Credit 401-SYR            48.1  13.0       6.0       25        5
(b)  Proposed IBRD Loan           129.5  35.0       8.5       25        5
Total                        177.6  48.0



ANNEX 18
Page 3 of 3 pages
Cash Flow Statements
14.       Capital contributions to the mains fron new consumers are projected
at LS 100 per connection. The minimum present charge is LS 75 per connection.
No increase is proposed in the average charge in order to encourage new cus-
tomers to connect and reduce the burden on low-income consumers.
15.       Projected Government equity investments and loans for EPEF's finan-
cing plan are summarized in para 4.16 of main report. A detailed debt statement
is provided in Annex 18.
Balance Sheet
16.       Assets are not revalued during the projection period.  Fixed assets
such as distribution works were computed in the year of expenditurei expendi-
tures for the tunnel which is brought into operation into 1980, and the dam
on the Barada River which is projected to be completed in 1986, are capitalized
as work in progress until termination of works.
17.       Accounts receivable for water sales include water consumption not
yet billed due to the delay in billing customers. They are assumed to stay
at their present level in 1975 and 1976, then to decrease to reach about 3
months of water sales in 1978 and maintain this level thereafter.
18.       Accounts receivable, others, including installments of water right
sales, are forecast to grow at 10% annually.
19.       Accounts payable are assumned to increase at 25% annually to reflect
retention monies on contracts and appropriate increases in operating expenses.
20.       Inventories are forecast to decrease by LS 2 million for each of the
years 1975, 1976 and 1977 because of the pipe stock used for distribution works
and is estimated to grow at 10% thereafter reflecting growing operational
activities.
21.       Prepayments are estimated to grow at 10%.
22.       Deposits and advance payments are forecast to grow at 15% annually.



ANNEX 19
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND DAMASCUS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SYRIA
EPEF's Existing and Projected Tariffs
1.        EPEF's present tariff for metered suDply is LS 0.20/m3 plus other
charges. The details of EPEF's tariff structure are presented in Attachment 1.
2.        Projection of average tariff requirements is summarized in para 6.13
of the main text. The calculation of the annual fee that corresponds to dif-
ferent average tariffs is shown in Attachment 2.
3.        A comparison of the revenues per m3 fron the projected tariff with
financial requirements are summarïzed in Attachment 3.



ANNEX 19
Attach-éeht 1
Page 1 of 2 pages
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND DAMASCUS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SYRIA
EPEF - Present Tariff
Description                     Payable by                    Amount
Non-Recurring Charges
(i) Water Right Purchase       Applicants- with premises    LS 2000 per m3/dayr
over 100 m2
(ii)  Capital Contribution       All applicants                 Minimum LS 75
(iii)  Connection Fee                 - do -                     Cost plus 20%
(iv)  Subscription Fee               - do -                     LS 5
(v)  Meter Installation Fee         - do -                     L3 5
(vi)  Deposit                        - do -                     Consumption deposit
plus value of meter
depending on size of
connection and type
of consumption.
Recurring Charges
(î)  Metered Supply            Water right holder -            LS 0.20/m3
excessive
Others - all consumption-
(ii)  Annual Fee               lWater right holders             LS 14 per m3/day of
water right
(iii)  Meter Rent and             Consumers who do not own       Varies (Basic = LS 9
Maintenance                meters                         per year)
Meter Maintenance Only    Consumers who own their         Varies (Basic = LS 4.8
meters                         per year)
(iv)  Contribution to Distri-           - do -                  LS 3.60 year
bution System Maintenance
(v)           - do -            As appropriate                 LS 50 year
(Temporary Supplies)



ANNEX 19
Atta'cment 1
Page 2 of 2 pages
Incidental Charges
(i)  Transfer of Water Right       Ail consumers       LS 15
(ii)  Name Correction                    - do -         LS  5
(iii)  Reconnection Charge                - do -         LS  3
(iv)  Meter Testing                      - do -         LS   5
(v)  Meter Relocating                  - do -          Not less than LS 15
(vi)  Meter Destruction                  - do -          Cost of repair or replacement
plus 20%. Minimum LS 15
(vii)  Meter Reading Requested            - do -         LS  5
by Consumer
/ Public, religious and certain other types of premises are exempt.
2/ The allowance which must be purchased depends on the size of the premises.
3/ Although EPEF may charge for public standpipes and religious buildings there
has been no charge in the past.



ANNEX 19
Attachment 2
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND DAMASCUS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SYRIA
CALCULATION OF ANNUAL FEE
Average annual fee charges for one m3 of water right a day is arrived
at by  subtracting an allowance of LS 60 a year (calculated by multiplying the
cost of water right purchase of LS 2,o00/m3/day by 3 percent notional interest
rate) from annual charges for consumption of 365 m3 of water a year at forecast
average tariffs. The following tables shows the annual fee that corresponds
to different average tariff projections:
Year          Average          Annual Charge           Annual              Annual Fee
Tariff           Per/m3/day           Allowance             Per m3/day
(365 m3/year)         Per/m3/day
LS/m3               LS                   LS                    LS
1974             .20                73                   60                    14  1/
1975             .20                73                    60                   14  1/
1976 2/          .30               110                   60                    50
1977             .50               183                   60                   123
1978-80          .60               219                    60                  159
1981             .65               237                    60                  177
1982             .80               292                   60                   232
1983            1.05               383                    60                  323
1984            1.25               456                    60                  396
Water right purchase price is assumed to continue at LS 2,000 for a
water right of one m3/day.  New purchases of water rights are assumed to have an
average of 1/2 m3/day.
1/ EPEF's actual charge is LS 14 rather than calculated LS 13.
2/ Average weighted tariff and average weighted annual fee based on an assumed tariff
increase to LS 0.5/m3 (average) starting October 1976.



ANNEX 19
Attachment 3
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND DAMASCUS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SYRIA
APPLICATION OF PROJECTED TARIFF
TO FINANCIAL REQUIREMENTS
PER m' OF WATER BILLED
Projected Average                         Application of Revenue
Year           Operating Revenue                                LS Per m3
LS Per m3
Tariff     Others      Total      *Dperating        Debt          Cash 3/        Total
Costs        Service    Generation
If974        .20         .07        .27 ./      .12             O            .15              .27
197'5         .20        .05        .25          .14             O            .11              .25
.30        .05        .35 -/       .15            .03          .17               .35
1977          .50        .05        .55          .16            .08           .31              .55
1978          .60        .05        .65          .17            .14           .34              .65
1979         .60         .09        .69          .20            .18           .31              .69
1-,980        .60        .10        .70          .21            .18           .31              .70
î'81        .65         .10        .75          .25            .18           .32              .75
9 2          .80        .10        .90          .29            .18           .43              .90
9; 53       1.05         .10       1.15          .32            .17           .66             1.15
1984       1.25    ]   .11   1 1.36             .25            .16          .95             1.36
1/ Actual
2/ Weighted
3/ Cash generation represents about 12 percent of EPEF financial requirements during the
project construction period and 35 percent thereafter.



ANNEX 20
Page 1 of 6 pages
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND DAMASMIS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SYRIA
ECONOMIC ANALYSES
A. Least Cost Solution
1.        All major components of the Damascus Water supply system -- source
works, transmission lines and distribution system -- require expansion to
keep pace with the increasing demand for water. EPEF engaged consultants
to plan this expansion on the basis of reasonable projections of future demand
(see Annex 5) and after a thorough analysis of alternative development plans
which specifically considered staging of the various components.
2.        Four main alternatives were investigated in the planning of the
source development and related transmission system. The least-cost solution
was clearly the further development of the Figeh spring and construction of
a tunnel to deliver water from this source to Damascus. A summary of the
alternatives Twich were considerod follows.
3.   (i)  Figeh spring development and tunnel to Damascus
This groundwater source provides Damascus with excellent
water at very low cost since it requires no treatment and
flows to most consumers by gravity.  However, the flow
varies considerably (see Annex 4) with the lowest recorded
flow below present requirements, and the transmission capa-
city of the existing aqueduct (3.2 m3/second) is too small
for present and future needs. Fortunately, the average
flow of the spring is quite large (8.4 m3/second) and the
consultants expect that underground storage in the aquifer
which feeds the spring can be utilized to increase its
yield at relativelv low cost. Accordingly this alterna-
tive includes an underground cutoff wall (to avoid wasting
spring water) and test pumping to explore the storage pos--
sibilities. In this alternative a tunnel would be con-
structed to augment the present aqueduct to Damascus.
The minimum capacity of the tunnel would have to be about
4.0 m3/second, the estimated systeir production capacity
required in 1980 (when the tunnel would be completed) so
that the existing aqueduct could be taken out of service
for badly needed repairs. However, the smallest tunnel
which would be economical to construct provides a capacity
of 5.0 m3/second, more than required. The tunnel would be
15.0 km long and terminate at the Wali reservoir above
Damascus.



ANNEX 20
Page 2 of 6 pages
(ii)  Fige1 spring development andtiieling to Damascus
As in the previous alternative the existing Figeh
source would be further developed. A pipeline would
be constructed to Damascus. The capacity requirement
of 4.0 m3/second necessitates a large diameter pipeline
(1,400 mm. asbestos cerment) which would be quite expensive
to install.  The pipeline route, 18.3 km long, is very
difficult, along the rocky and narrow Barada valley.
Two pipeline bridRes would be required over the river
and ten crossings under roads, railway and canals. At
its terminus at the Wali reservoir the pipeline would
be some 50 m lower than the reservoir. Although most
of the listribution syster could be supplied fron the
pipeline, it is necessary to consider a pumpinR station
with capacitv of about 1.5 m3/second, to pump water to
the higher distribution zones that could be supplied by
the tunnel alternative.
(iii)  Dam on the Barada River and pipeline to Damascus
As the Figeh spring is a principal source of the Barada
River, the possibility of using the river to transmit
the water much of the way to Damascus was investigated.
In 1961 consultants from the USSR, (Technopromexport)
completed a preliminarv analysis of a multipurpose
reservoir on the Barada River which could supply water
for domestic purposes and irrigation in Damascus as well
as control floods. Data from this report was used by
SOGREAH to analyze a smaller dam to be built for water
supply purposes only, since the hypothetical multipurpose
project is unlikely to be built in the immediate future.
A water supply project to provide about 4.0 m3/second
would require a dam about 60 m high with a reservoir cov-
ering some 210 ha. A pumping station and about 10 km of
pipeline would be required to deliver the water to
Damrascus. Aside from the question of costs discussed
in para 5, this solution has the following disadvantages:
(a)  this alternative project could not be operational
for about six years because of the need to prepare
engineering designs and relocate buildings, roads
and the railway in the reservoir area, and also
because of the long construction period for such
a project:
(b) a reservoir with associated installations and
r .pelines is much less secure as a water source
than an underoround source and a tunnel.



ANNEX 20
Paze 3 of 6 pages
(iv) Groundwater from Darmascus Plain
Wells are the common source of water for irrigation in
the area around Damascus. The irrigated area totals
some 12,000 ha. The Ministry of Public Works and Water
Resources estimates that some 8,000 wells rely on this
aquifer which is recharged by the Barada River and
smaller seasonal streams flowing from the Anti-Lebanon
Mountains. EPEF is temporarily using two wells at Jobar
but intends to abandon them as soon as possible (see
Annex 4). There are many reasons why it is impractical
to consider using this groundwater to augment the Damascus
water supply.
(a)  All the groundwater is bacteriologically contam-
inated due to gross pollution, mostly from
Damascus: until a comprehensive sewerage system
is constructed the use of this groundwater is
undesirable for health reasons.
(b)  A centuries-old system of water rights allocation
has evolved in the region including a hierarchy
of committees. To meddle with these traditional
ai'locations wouid be extremely difficult if not
impossible.
(c)  The vield of individual wells is quite small, generally
less than 1,000 m3/day, which would make the develop-
ment of this source very expensive in view of the large
and increasing demand for water in Damascus (see Annex 2).
Furthermore, such wells would involve substantial pumping costs,
both to bring the water to the surface and (since the ground
rises toward the city) to transmit it to higher-lying areas
where the urban consumers are located.
4.        Although the original economic analysis of the three possible alter-
natives in 1972 ha. showr.. that ifgeh source developtrnt and a tunnel te Damascus
was the least-cost solution, it was not clear following receipt of the tenders
for the tunnel, with their much higher than estimated costs, whether this
solution presented the least-cost under current conditions. The consultants
(SOGREAH) were requested to update their original feasibility study using unit
prices submitted by the contractors for the tunnel works and the Urgent Phase
distribution works. Their report, submitted in June 1975 gave the following
summarv of present values for each of the solutions with invesstments, main-
tenance and operating costs over the next 30 years' discounted at rates of 8%
and 12%.



ANNEX 20
Page 4 of 6 pages
Present Value
at Discount Rate Shown
Source of Supply                               în LS Millions
8%               127
1. Figeh source development and turanel to
Damascus                                        226.0            214.2
2.  Figeh source development and
(a)  cast-iron pipeline to Damascus             311.7            269.6
(b)  asbestos-cement pipeline                   294.2            254.6
3.  Dam on Barada River and
(a)  cast-iron pipeline to Damascus             445.7            406.5
(b)  asbestos-cement pipeline                     -                -
The new feasibility study thus clearly confirms that the major component of
the project for which this loan is proposed is the least-cost solution to
Damascus' water cupply needs.
5.        EPEF's largest investments during the project period 1976-1980 are
in the distribution system.  In the 1968 master plan of tle consultants
(SEURECA) proposals were made to extend the system in two stages to supply
the demand expected when Damascus grew according to its 1964-1984 plan for
urbanization. In 1972 these plans were updated by SEURECA to take account of
modifications in the assumptions and a priority program of work was outlined
for the project 1973-1979. The design of the works for the Urgent Phase was
reviewed by the Bank before tenders were requested. Under the terms of the
agreement between the Government and USAID, U.S. consultants will review the
General Phase and revise it as necessary, to ensure the most economic solution
consistent with the growth of Damascus and its water needs.
B. Average Incremental Cost and Internal Econonic Return
General
6.        The large transmission capacity of the project tunnel will not be
fully utilized by the Figeh source, whose reliable yield will be less than
the combined transmission capacity of the present aqueduct and the new tunnel.
This is clearly illustrated on the chart in Annex 5.
7.        The source to be used to supply water to Damascus after the Figeh
spring is fully exploited is not definitelv known but it is likely to be the
Barada spring, about 14 km NW of Figeh. Water from this source would be
stored behind a regulating dam, piped to Figeh and flow via the tunnel to
Damascus. On the basis of current projections, it appears that the combination



ANNEX 20
Page 5 of 6 pages
of these two sources, using the Figeh tunnel, would be sufficient to meet the
needs of Damascus until about 1993 (see Annex 5). It is not possible to pre-
dict the source to be used subsequently. Alternatives include the A'waj River
(20 km south of Damascus) and recycling of treated wastewater. As no subse-
quent source is expected to use the project tunnel, it is assuned that the
benefits of the proposed project do not increase after 1993.
Costs
8.        Costs between 1976 and 1993. necessiry to ohtain the fu1l benefits
of the project include-
(i) project expenditures (Annex 8);
(ii) other investment in the phvsical installations during 1976-1993,
including the distribution system, the development of the Barada
spring (to be in service by 1987 as the next source of supply);
(iii) operating costs above the 1975 base--year level (including the
cost of intensified source pumping as and when required to
augment the natural flow).
9.        Costs are at constant (1975) prices and exclude taxes (taken at
5% of capital -oGts): rost inrreases not attr4butable to thA inrrpnsed output
are likewise excluded (e.g. additional personnel to fill existing staffing gaps).
10.       No shadow pricing is employed in the calculation- reported unemploy-
ment is low, and the exchange rate used for the Syrian pound is a free market
rate which has shown remarkable stability.
Benefits
11.       The principal economic benefits from the program of investments come
from (i) increased sales of water over 1975 levels. to both new and existing
consumers, since neither type of growth would be possible without the invest
ments in question; (ii) sales in the area of the Old City where the Urgent
Phase of distribution works is required since the existine system is already
badlyv  orroded and would likely collapse when distribution pressures are
restored to normal so that no sales would be possible unless it is replaced:
and (iii) increased sales resulting from meters replacement and other related
measures being financed under the Urgent Phase (Credit 401-SYR). Volumes
distributed through public fountains have been excluded from benefits. No
adjustment has been made to take account of free water supplied from future
water right sales, this heing assumed to be offset bv revenues from increased
annual fees on the volume supplied free to present consumers.



ANNEX 20
Page 6 of 6 pages
Average Incremental Costs
12.       The average incremental cost of water has been calculated by divid-
ing the sum of the capital cost of the facilities and the total incremental
cost of operation and maintenance relating to the additional volume consumed,
by the total incremental volume of water sold, all discounted to present value
(Attachment 1).  It would be LS 1.19/m3 at a discount rate of 9% and LS 0.99
at a discount rate of 7%.
Internal Economic Return                                                                    O
13.       In addition to the health and social benefits, which are difficult
to quantify, a minimum measure of the value of an additional cubic meter of
water is taken to be the price people are willing to pay for it. The present
price in Damascus is LS 0.20/m3 (US$0.20/1,000 gals), but as long ago as 1949
the price was higher (LS 0.25). It might therefore seem reasonable to argue
that after more than 20 years of even modest inflation (the exact rate is not
known), the present-day equivalent of what consumers were then willing to pay
must be at least LS 0.65/m3. In 1949, however, the whole pattern of water
supply was different; only 15,000 consumers had a supply, compared with about
130,000 now, and it would therefore be unsafe to reason along the lines in-
dicated, especially as we have no knowledge of the level of per capita con-
sumption at that time.
14.       Since 1961 (from which time price indices are available), the pat-
tern of water supply, with 60,000-70,000 consumers, was taking shape along
present-day lines. Since then (when the price of water was the same as now)
the retail price index has risen to an estimated 215 at the end of 1975. If
water rates had kept pace they would now be about LS 0.54/m3 in Damascus.
15.       With the present rate of LS 0.20/m3 the IER would be negative (-2%).
This demonstrates the inadequacy of present tariffs. The average revenue per
m3 obtained from tariffs and other charges will be about LS 0.60 by the end
of 1976, and with these tariffs and charges the IER would become positive.
The level of rates and other charges would continue to increase gradually
to approach the average incremental cost of water in Damascus.



,APPAISAL OF
A SM0O0D DAMASCV5 WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SYRIA
Internal Rate of Returt ni Water Supply Investment
Long--Tem Marginal Cost of Water (1975 Prises>
Ysar     WMter Sales           Jlncemental           Ievestneot         Othser IIveotint           lesr. Opera.          Total Cost          Residual              Re.idual ftom              ISs-emental Revenues at Differeot Tariff Rates
(Million M3)        Water Soles           in Tunnel                                        Cost                                   from T Tnel           Other Investese                                 (LS/M>3)
(Million 10M3)       ----- ---------------- -----------------(Million LS) in 1975 prices-_------------------------------------------------                       0.20  a/            0.60  b/      Asprol;ctdtin
1976          53.0                   7.9                66.3                 29.7                     0.1                    96.1                 _                      8.2                       1.6                4.7               2.8
1977          59.5                  18.6                84.0                 86.1                    0.4                    172.5                 -                     26.4                       3.7               11.2              10.2
1978          65.2                  25.1                94.4                100.6                     0.6                   195.8                 -                     32.7                       5.6               16.9              18.3
1979          70.6                  35.5                76.4                 95.0                     1.7                   173.1                 -                     33.3                       7.1               21.3              24.5
1960          87.6                  52.5                43.8                 51.6                     3.1                    98.5              182.5                    19.4                      10.5               31.5              36.8
1981          91.9                  56.8                  -                  32.7                     7.1                    39.8                 -                     13.1                      11.4               34.1              42.6
1982          97.5                  62.4                  -                  30.0                     7.9                    37.9                 -                     12.8                      12.5               37.4              56.2
1983         102.9                  67.8                  -                 150.1                     8.4                   158.5                 -                     67.6                      13.6               40.7              78.0
1984         108.4                  73.3                                    1 129.8                   9.1                   138.9                 -                     61.7                      14.7               44.0              99.7
1985         114.9                  79.8                  -                  95.7                     9.2                   104.9                 -                     47.9                      16.0               47.9             108.5
1986         121.8                  86.7                  -                  93.7                    10.1                   103.8                 -                     49.2                      17.3               52.0             117.9
1987         129.1                  93.5                  -                  26.9                    11.1                    38.0                 -                     14.8                      18.7               56.1             127.2
1988         136.9                 101,8                  -                  26.9                    12.1                    39.0                  -                    15.5                      20.4               61.1             138.5
1989         145.0                 109.9                  -                  26.9                    13.2                    40.1                 -                     16.2                      22.0               66.0             149.5
1990         153.7                118.6                   -                  26.9                    14.3                    41.2                 -                     16.8                      23.7               71.2             161.3
1991         162.9                 127.8                  -                  26.9                    15.5                    42.4                 -                     17.5                      25.6               76.7             173.8
1992         172.7                 137.6                  -                  26.9                    16.8                    43.7                 -                     15.2                      27.5               82.6             187.1
1993         183.1                 148.0                  -                  26.9                    18.1                    45.0                 -                     18.8                      29.6               8Y.8             201.3
1994-2005      183.1                 148.0                  -                     -                    18.1                    18.1                  -                      -                       29.6               88.8             201.3
The long torm naigioal cost of sater are as fsls:                                                        a/  Eisgting Tariff                                                                       Internal Rate of Return (%>:
b/  Avorege of t-riff sod other chages by the esd of 1976
Diesu-t Rats (7)                    11101 (S/M,3>                                                                                                                                                At 0.20 1S/M3    --2.1
6                                0.89                                                                                                                                                    At 0.60 Ls/M3    -    3.0
8                               1.09                                                                                                                                                    6e projestad             8.5
9                               1.19
12                                1.50
15                               1.82
Mer-h 1976






7-,<v/ o/t////   s  ./   \/                                        \
3    veP                   /    \ ~~ ~ n                        g *\    /<'                             k/',,                     fn,mak           \\
XF'    <        <                 Moodomye               0            Derayo                          /n,
-  e  vYOé. z ins | n                                     r                      (' 
Roopfna                                                                                                 S  Srn~  if     Zi !  l      io
D     f                                    -' -«,   fondr  af Dai ascu  ftiioiy'1  nrec  r«<a                                              
Y  (nrf   '5                                                                                                  J,    n!      -'j    ~~~~~~~                                 --''-r--'d.
'-r'   n~~~~~~~~~~~~5'                                                                                -'-f        g  ) -~~~~~~~~~....    .
-7  J   , ('~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                        -~~~~IOMTR
7,        ys-   jd  IA  01fY
Ne~~ M:f'f DA 401'  SY-
K.~r~   f  ~PI,                             g          rfJ'o 
050-ni' ~  ~         ~        ~         5       mt,     -



