CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1241 SYR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Second Damascus Water Supply Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ETABLISSEMENT PUBLIC DES EAUX DE FIGER
Dated June 9, 1976


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 9, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and ETABLISSEMENT PUBLIC DES EAUX DE FIGER (hereinafter called
EPEF).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Syrian Arab Republic (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-five million
dollars ($35,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only cn condition that EPEF agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set
forth; and
WHEREAS EPEF, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined)
have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. EPEF shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, en-
gineering and public utility practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist EPEF in the preparation of
plans, specifications and bidding documents for the civil works
under Parts A.2, A.5 and A.6 of the Proiect and equipment under
Part A.7 of the Project, and in the supervision of the civil
works under Part A of the Project, EPEF shall employ engineering
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and con-
ditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. In carrying out the civil works under Part A
of the Project, EPEF shall employ contractors acceptable to the
Bank upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods and works for the Project to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the pro-
visions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) EPEF undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be


﻿4t
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Bor-
rower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by EPEF to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, EPEF shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Proj-
ect.
Section 2.06. (a) EPEF shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, con-
tract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) EPEF: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to
identify the goods, works and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower, and to disclose
the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation
upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the
Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and construction
sites included in the Project and to examine the goods financed
out of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the
Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expen-
diture of the proceeds of the Loan so relent to it and the goods,
works and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿(c) EPEF shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of EPEF and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.07. EPEF shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, EPEF shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.08. (a) EPEF shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relat-
ing to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) EPEF shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by EPEF of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.09. For the purpose of carrying out Part A.2 of
the Project, EPEF shall, not later than June 30, 1976 or such
other date as shall be agreed with the Bank, employ consultants
who shall be responsible for the design and supervision of a
program testing the capacity of the Figeh aquifer and whose qual-
ifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-6-
Section 2.10. EPEF shall, (a) within three months after the
Effective Date of this Agreement, or such other period of time
as shall be agreed with the Bank, submit to the Bank, for its
approval, the program referred to in Part B of the Project, to-
gether with a timetable for the implementation thereof; and (b)
within six months after the Effective Date of this Agreement, or
such other period of time as shall be agreed with the Bank, im-
plement such program as agreed with the Bank.
Section 2.11. EPEF shall take or cause to be taken all such
action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all
such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for
the construction (and operation) of the facilities included in
the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land       dO.
and rights in respect of land are available for purposes related
to the Project.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of EPEF
Section 3.01. (a) EPEF shall at all times manage its affairs,
maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion and
carry on its operations, all in accordance with appropriate ad-
ministrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices
and under the supervision of experienced and competent management
assisted by qualified and competent staff.
(b) EPEF shall at all times operate and maintain its plants,
machinery and equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof,
all in accordance with appropriate engineering and public utility
,No          practices.
Section 3.02. EPEF shall at all times take all such action
as shall be necessary on its part to acquire, maintain and renew
all rights, powers and privileges which are necessary or useful
in its operations.
Section 3.03. EPEF shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. EPEF shall (a) cause the study of EPEF's or-
ganization and operating procedures referred to in Section 3.05


﻿-8-
of the First Project Agreement to be carried out by qualified
and experienced consultants under terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank; (b) exchange views with the Bank on the recommenda-
tions emanating from the study upon its completion: and (c) pre-
pare not later than December 31, 1976 or such other date as shall
be satisfactory to the Bank, and thereafter implement, a program
satisfactory to the Bank to tnprove said organization and operat-
ing procedures of EPEF, including its accounting and billing and
collection procedures.
Section 3.05. In order to strengthen its organization, EPEF
shall, within six months after the Effective Date of this Agree-
ment, or such other period of time as shall be agreed with the
Bank, employ for a period of two years: (a) a public utility
management expert to assist EPEF's Directeur Geniral; (b) a water-
works design expert to assist EPEF's New Works Department in proj-
ect design and the carrying out of feasibility studies; and (c) an
engineer with experience in the operation and maintenance of water-
works systems, all with qualification7s and experience satisfactory
to the Bank.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. EPEF shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. EPEF shall: (i) have its accounts and finan-
cial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accor-
dance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank: (ii) furnish to
the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than
four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of EPEF and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. EPEF shall (a) within six months after the Ef-
fective Date of this Agreement or such other period of time as
shall be agreed with the Bank, modify its accounting procedures
so as to ensure that all extensions or renewals of its distribu-
tion mains shall be automatically recorded in its inventory of
physical assets; (b) within one year after the Effective Date of
this Agreement or such other period of time as shall be agreed


﻿- 10 -
with the Bank, complete an inventory of its physical assets; and
(c) not later than six months after the completion of said inven-
tory or such other date as shall be agreed with the Bank, prepare
an assessment of the gross and net (after depreciation) value of
such assets for the purpose of establishing its future balance
sheets.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, EPEF
shall, in accordance with the Borrower's Code d'Exploitation des
Services d'Eau en Syrie of 1968, take all such action as shall be
necessary to set its rates for the consumption of water at such
levels as shall be required:
(a) to cover in any given year all operating expenses in-
cluding employee compensation, administrative and overhead costs,
adequate maintenance costs, interest and adequate provision for
taxes;
(b) to cover in any given year debt amortization:
(c) to provide for adequate amounts of working capital; and
(d) to finance each year during the period 1977-80 not less
than 10 percent, and beginning with the year 1981 to finance each
year not less than 35 percent, of the annual average of:
(i) the actual investments made by EPEF during the
preceding year, and


﻿- 11 -
(ii) the investment forecast by EPEF during the year
in question and the subsequent year.
This Section supersedes Section 4.04 of the First Project Agree-
ment.
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
EPEF shall not incur any debt, other than debt required to fi-
nance the carrying out of the Project, unless EPEF's net revenue
from its operations for the fiscal year next preceding such in-
currence or for a later twelve-month period ended immediately
prior to such incurrence, whichever revenue is the greater, shall
be at least 1.5 times the maximum debt service requirement for
any succeeding fiscal year on all debt incurred by EPEF, includ-
ing the debt to be incurred.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) "Debt" means any debt maturing by its terms more
than one year after the date on which it is orig-
inally incurred.
(ii)      Debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date
of execution and delivery of a contract, loan
agreement or guarantee agreement providing for
such debt.
(iii)     "Net revenue from its operations" means gross
revenue of EPEF from all sources, excluding reve-
nues from the sale of water rights, adjusted to


﻿-12-
take account of rates for the sale of water in
effect at the time of incurrence of debt even
though such rates were not in effect during the
fiscal year or twelve months' period to which such
income relates, less all operating and administra-
tive expenses, including provision for taxes, if
any, but before provision for depreciation and
interest and other charges on debt.
(iv)      "Debt service requirement" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund
contributions, if any), interest and other charges
on debt.
(v)       Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency
of the Borrower, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable by EPEF for the purpose of servicing
such debt.


﻿-13 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and ef-
fect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of EPEF thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Loan Agreement.


﻿- 14 -                                   %
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, ca-
ble, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For EPEF:
Etablissement Public des Eaux de Figeh (EPEF)
Damascus
Syria
Cable address:
FIGEDAM
Damascus


﻿- 15 -
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behAlf of EPEF may be taken or executed by
EPEF's Directeur General or such other person or persons as EPEF
shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. EPEF shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evi-
dence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of EPEF, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by EPEF pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿- 16 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ M.J.W.M. Paijmans
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
ETABLISSEMENT PUBLIC DES EAUX DE FIGEH
By 1sf Sabah Kabbani
Authorized Representative


﻿-.17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, the goods and works
shall be procured under contracts to be awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Cred-
its" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding.
2.   Contracts for civil works under Part A of the Project shall
be grouped as Phown below to create packages large enough to in-
terest foreign bidders:
Contract No. 1: Source works, tunnel and supply reservoir
Contract No. 2: Reservoirs II West, Wali pumping station
and Barada overflow
Contract No. 3: Distribution pumping stations and dispatch-
ing
Contract No. 4: Distribution reservoirs
Contract No. 5: Figeh pumping station (trial pumping and
final installation).


﻿- 18 -
Bids and combinations of bids shall be opened and evaluated simul-
taneously so as to determine the most advantageous bid or combina-
tion of bids.
3.   Non-Syrian contractors shall not be required to register in
Syria as a condition of bidding for any contract. Where said reg-
istration is required of a non-Syrian contractor after he has been
awarded the contract, EPEF shall take such action as may be neces-
sary to ensure his registration.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods, i.e. equipment or materials: (i) bidders shall
be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price
for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-
manufactured goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on
imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on domestically-
supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost to EPEF of
inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be in-
cluded.
5.   With respect to any contract for civil works or equipment
estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, EPEF shall furnish to the Bank,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the spec-
ifications and other bidding documents, together with a descrip-
tion of the advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding,
and shall make such modifications in the said documents or proce-
dure as the Bank shall reasonably request, Any further modification


﻿- 19 -
to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, EPEF shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of
the name of the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in Section 2.02
of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, together with the recommendations for award of the said
consultants, and the reasons for the intended award. The Bank
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, promptly inform EPEF and the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination and advise EPEF and the Borrower
of any cancellation pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 5
of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of any such contract.
6.   With respect to any other contract for civil works or equip-
ment, EPEF shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution


﻿- 20 -
and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of any
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank
shall, if it determines that the award of the contract is not
consistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, promptly inform EPEF and the Borrower, and state the
reasons for such determination and advise EPEF and the Borrower
of any cancellation pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6
of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of
not more than LS100,000 may be let under EPEF's local procure-
ment procedures acceptable to the Bank, provided, however, that
the aggregate of all items so procured shall not exceed LS1,000,000
equivalent.


