                       PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                                 CONCEPT STAGE
                                                  Report No.: AB6734
                                                  (The report # is automatically generated by IDU and should not be changed)


Operation Name                        GZ - PNDP Support IV
Region                                MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
Country                               West Bank and Gaza
Sector                                Sub-national government administration (44%);Central
                                      government administration (22%);Power (22%);Other social
                                      services (12%)
Operation ID                          P123437
Lending Instrument                    Development Policy Lending
Borrower(s)                           PALESTINIAN LIBERATION ORGANIZATION
Implementing Agency                   PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
                                      Palestinian Authority, Ministry of Finance
                                      Ramallah, West Bank
                                      West Bank and Gaza
                                      Tel: (970-2) 240-0650 Fax: (970-2) 240-0595
                                      mofirdg@palnet.com
Date PID Prepared                     September 1, 2011
Estimated Date of Appraisal
Estimated Date of Board               October 13, 2011
Approval
Corporate Review Decision             Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to
                                      proceed to ROC.

I.       Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement
The main focus of the Bank’s strategy is to continue supporting the Palestinian Authority’s
implementation of the National Development Plan as the successor to the Palestinian Recovery and
Development Plan, through the proposed DPG IV as well as other complementary operations. The
NDP’s success depends upon three critical factors: (i) the PA effectively carrying out promised reforms;
(ii) GOI relaxing the closure regime to release the private sector growth potential; and (iii) the
international donor community providing full support for the PA’s recurrent budget. The Bank is focusing
its efforts on the first and third factors.

The Bank continues to provide significant amounts of technical assistance to help the PA implement its
reforms. Through its ongoing policy dialogue, it is providing the government with advice and
encouragement to remain on track. In addition, the Bank, in consultation with the IMF, produces quarterly
reports on reform progress that provide donors comfort to increase their support through the Central
Treasury Account (CTA). This has been a successful effort as the PA received nearly US$1.15 billion in
budget support in 2010; over US$220 million of which was provided through the Bank managed PRDP-
TF. The PRDP-TF has provided US$657 million in support to the PA in its less than four years of
existence. However, in 2011 donor assistance has lagged behind the pace experienced in 2010. This
proposed fourth DPG is designed to both help the PA close its fiscal gap and to encourage donors to
continue to provide untied budget support through the CTA.
II.        Proposed Objective(s)
The proposed operation is designed to support the PA as it builds on the successful implementation of the
PRDP and implements the reform program detailed in the NDP, by supporting actions in two policy
areas: (i) strengthening the fiscal position and (ii) improving public financial management. The PA
implemented the PRDP throughout 2008-2010 and largely met the targets set in the plan. As detailed in
World Bank monitoring reports, the PA is making adequate progress. To have the largest impact, the
proposed DPG IV maintains the focus on the same two policy areas supported by the previous operations.
These are critical building blocks for the government of an independent Palestinian state and are also
crucial for attracting continued international donor support. The Bank’s involvement in monitoring and
providing technical assistance for the reform agenda described in previous operations’ policy matrices has
helped strengthen the PA’s capacity to achieve its desired reforms and to also build the required support
among donors. This fourth operation is expected to have a similar impact.


III.       Preliminary Description
The proposed operation will help the PA continue to implement the NDP. Following on the DPGs I, II
and III, DPG-IV will also support efforts to improve the fiscal position and increase government
transparency and accountability.

At the request of the PA, the Bank, in consultation with the IMF, will continue to provide reports
detailing the status of the reform process. The PA has also committed to strengthening the PFM system
by improving the standard accounting system used across all ministries, producing budgets in a
transparent manner, improving commitment controls, and continuing to publish accounts that are subject
to external audit.

The proposed National Development Plan DPG IV is a single tranche operation, focusing on the
following four key areas:

       •   Control Public Sector Wage Bill: The immediate agenda involves: (i) establishing a macro-
           fiscal unit within the MoF to oversee fiscal policy, planning and budgeting; (ii) completing the
           piloting of a new payroll system; and (iii) implementing pension reform provisions regulating
           new entrants to the pension system.

       •   Reducing Subsidies: Increasing electricity collections and transferring all electricity supply and
           distribution to distribution companies. The immediate agenda involves: the Palestinian Electricity
           Regulation Committee to set financial and technical performance targets for West Bank
           electricity distribution companies.

       •   Improving Domestic Revenue Collection: The immediate agenda involves: (i) establishing a
           customs court to handle disputes on payment of customs duty and VAT on imported goods; (ii)
           beginning unifying the VAT and income tax services for large taxpayers; and (iii) issuing
           guidelines to amalgamated municipalities on how to improve revenue generation.

       •   Public Financial Management: PFM remains one of the main pillars of DPG-IV, with reforms
           expected in all elements of the budget cycle and capacity building of the public oversight
           institutions. The immediate agenda involves: (i) improving fiscal reporting of donor and treasury
           financed development projects; (ii) adopting the new procurement law and setting up a Higher
           Council for Public Procurement Policies; and (iii) completing the FY2009 audit of the PA’s
           accounts and submitting the FY2010 financial statements for audit.


IV.        Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects

Poverty and Social Impacts

A recent poverty assessment report1 by the World Bank concluded that one of the strongest drivers of
poverty in the WBG is labor market outcomes, with the unemployed facing the highest risk of poverty.
Furthermore, the report states that public sector employment is increasingly playing the role of a safety
net, especially in Gaza. The PA recognizes these risks and drivers of poverty, and as a part of the NDP
2011-2012, it set a target of lowering poverty incidence from its current level of 22 percent to 13 percent
by 2013.

The World Bank, through DPG IV, will support the two main pillars of the PA’s National Development
Plan: First, while the operation does not specifically target the private sector, the program should
contribute to improving the environment for private sector development. A new and comprehensive
procurement law will result in a more open and equal distribution of business opportunities, allowing for
more small and medium firms to compete with the more established private sector actors. Ongoing
banking sector reforms with the goal of lowering transaction costs and raising lending by local banks are
expected to promote local investment. Second, the World Bank is working closely with the Ministry of
Social Affairs (MoSA) to improve the targeting and efficiency of social assistance programs, including
integrating the findings of the recent poverty analysis. Significant progress has been made in developing
a transparent targeting mechanism as part of MoSA’s Cash Transfer Program (CTP).

More recently, the MoSA adjusted its social transfers targeting formula, to include factors such as energy
consumption expenses as determinant for CTP eligibility. This will help direct aid to the most vulnerable
households. A new electricity tariff has also been developed by the Palestinian Energy Authority (PEA)
and the Palestinian Electricity Regulation Committee (PERC), taking into account the potential burden of
collection rates hike on vulnerable households. In cooperation with MoSA, PERC set the first block of
this new tariff to be billed at cost, thus providing poor households a basic amount of electricity
consumption at a lower price. To improve PERC’s regulatory capacity, new performance indicators are
being instituted in evaluating West Bank electricity distributors. These measures take into account both
technical and financial performance indicators and are designed to ensure the efficient provision of energy
to customers.

Environmental Aspects

The DPG IV operation will not have significant effects on the country's environment, forests and other
natural resources. The environmental and natural resource implications are driven to a large extent by the
nature of an operation. In the proposed operation, none of the prior actions as listed in the policy matrix
will have environmental impacts or risks. Additionally, the proposed DPG IV does not have any
investment lending subcomponent involving physical investment. None of the Bank’s safeguard policies
are triggered by the proposed operation.

1
    The World Bank, 2011: “Coping with Conflict? Poverty and Inclusion in the West Bank and Gaza?
V.    Tentative financing

Source:                                          ($m.)
Borrower                                             0
Special Financing                                  40
Borrower/Recipient
IBRD
Others (specifiy)
                                         Total    40

VI.     Contact point
World Bank
Contact: Nancy Claire Benjamin
Title: Sr Country Economist
Tel: (202) 473-0189
Fax:
Email: nbenjamin@worldbank.org


VII. For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
