                                                                                   78635
          Request for Replenishment of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank
                                          and
    West Bank and Gaza – Palestinian National Development Plan Development (NDP)
                                    Policy Grant V

                      CHAIR’S JOINT SUMMARY OF DISCUSSION ∗

                                 Meeting of Executive Directors


                                           May 23, 2013


        Executive Directors discussed the proposed Request for Replenishment of the Trust Fund
for Gaza and West Bank and recommended that the Board of Governors authorize a transfer
from IBRD surplus of the amount of US$55 million to the Trust Fund (R2013-0075;
IDA/R2013-0114). Directors also approved the West Bank and Gaza - Palestinian National
Development Plan Development (NDP) Policy Grant V to the Palestinian Liberation
Organization for the benefit of the Palestinian Authority (PA) in the amount of US$40 million on
the terms and conditions set out in the President’s Memorandum (IDA/R2013-0108).
        Directors recognized the fragility of the operating environment, the recent slowdown in
economic growth, and the uncertain economic growth prospects for West Bank and Gaza. They
welcomed the progress in implementation of the World Bank Group (WBG) program in the face
of uncertainty and susceptibility to political and security risks. Directors noted that the World
Bank’s trust fund support has a catalytic and leveraging effect among donors who provide
essential support for the economy. They viewed the WBG’s operational presence, advisory
services, and coordination with government and development partners as providing an important
signal about the need for peace and stability in the region.
         Directors recognized the importance of the Palestinian Authority’s fiscal consolidation
efforts and welcomed measures to strengthen public financial management and public
institutions. They welcomed the NDP’s focus on increasing government revenues, more efficient
public expenditure management, capacity building, and improved governance and transparency.
They particularly appreciated efforts to lower the public sector wage bill, maintain fiduciary
controls, and implement a successful cash transfer program. Directors noted that the
establishment of a World Bank-administered trust fund in 2012 to provide debt relief to West
Bank and Gaza was an important, albeit temporary, measure to relieve fiscal stress.
        Directors strongly emphasized the need to create an environment to promote private
sector activity, noting the critical need to accelerate economic growth and create jobs. Among
the constraints to private sector development, Directors recognized the need to address political
and security concerns and the movement of goods and people. They encouraged innovative
approaches by IFC and MIGA to stimulate private investment and encouraged the Authority to
continue reforms that support private sector growth. Finally, Directors expressed appreciation
for the dedication of staff involved in the WBG’s program in the West Bank and Gaza.


∗
 This summary is not an approved record.
