RESTR I CTED
-  CIRCUIJLATN C   OPY        Report No. P- 576
TO BE RETURNED TO ARCHIVES DMVION
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED BANK LOAN
AND ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
FOR A
HIGHWAY PROJECT
December 11, 1967



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Report and Recommendation of the President to the
Executive Directors on a Proposed Bank Loan, and
on a Proposed Development Credit to the Empire of
Ethiopia for a Highway Project
1.     I submit herewith the following report and recommendation on a
proposed loan and a proposed development credit, in amounts in various
currencies equivalent to US $13.5 million and US $7.7 million respectively,
to the Empire of Ethiopia to help finance a highway project. Sweden
participated in the appraisal of the proposed project and is expected to
participate in the financing with a credit on IDA terms of Swedish Kr.30
million (equivalent to US $5.8 million).
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.     Ethiopia was the recipient of the Bank's first loan to Africa, a
uS $5.0 million loan (31-ET) made in 1950 for the reconstruction, repair
and maintenance of national roads. Subsequently, the Bank made a loan
(166-ET) of US $15 million in 1957 for a second highway project. In 1963
IDA granted a US $13.5 million credit (35-ET) to help finance a third
highway project, formulated on the basis of engineering studies carried
out as part of the second project. This credit included the cost of
engineering and feasibility studies of the Awash-Tendaho road, the con-
struction of which is included in the presently proposed project.
3.     In 1965, the Ethiopian Government submitted a request for Bank/IDA
finance for a fourth highway project, estimated at that time to cost about
US $48 million. Late in 1966, when the project was ready for appraisal,
the cost had increased to about US $107 million, due to both revision of
cost estimates and expansion of the proposed project.   The appraisal
mission after consideration of the economic justification of the various
roads and the capacity of the Imperial Highway Authority (IHA) recommended
a project costing US $38.4 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange
component estimated at about US $27 million.
4.     The start of construction of roads financed under the Third Highway
Project was delayed by one year due to changes in design and specifications,,
Thereafter, delays due to slow mobilization and conflicting c'laims by the
parties concerned further impeded the progress of the Project. In September
1967, the Association agreed to a postponement of the closing date from
October 1, 1967 to December 31, 1969.



- 2 -
5.     Various disputes have arisen between the IHA and the contractors
engaged in road construction under the 3econd and Third Highway Projects.
Two of the contractors engaged under the Third Highway Project also
claimed that an amendment to the Civil Procedure Code introduced in 1965
abrogated their arbitration rights, thus rendering their contracts null
and void. The Government has stated that the amendment does not apply
retroactively and therefore does not affect the validity of the contracts,
and advised the contractors to submit their claims for review which the con-
tractors agreed to do. (One contractor subsequently dropped its claim of
nullity.) After having the various claims reviewed by the firm of the con-
sulting engineers employed for supervision of the Third Highway Project, the
IHA has held meetings with the contracting firms, has made counter-proposals
and for certain claims has requested the contractors to submit additional
evidence. The negotiations between IHA and one contractor seem to have
failed and the contractor has recently served notice for arbitration. The
second contractor has not yet taken a decision on its future action. The
IH4A has once again assured the Bank that the provisions of the contract
will be followed to comply with the contractor's appeal for arbitration.
6.     The Bank has taken the position that it did not want to get into
the merits of the disputes and would insist only that the IHA carry out
in an orderly manner the provisions of the contracts concerning settlement
of thedisputes.At this stage, given the IHA's assurances regarding obser-
vance of the contracts' arbitration provisions, the Bank's main concern
is in making sure that there are suitable procedures for solving any dis-
putes under the proposed Fourth Highway Project. The Ethiopian Parliament
has amended the Civil Procedure Code so as to permit arbitration on future
contracts when specifically authorized by the Council of Ministers.  The
Council of 4inisters thereupon authorized the use of arbitration for contracts
to be financed under the Fourth Highway Project, and agreement was reached,
as a result of visits to the Bank of the Minister of State for Public Works
and the Vice-Minister of Justice, on the wording of an arbitration clause
suitable for inclusion in contracts to be financed under the proposed loan
and credit. This clause is designed to produce more expeditious handling
of claims, and to eliminate difficult issues of interpretation.
7.     After the successful conclusion of discussions on the arbitration
clause, formal negotiations concerning the proposed Fourth Highway Project
were held in Washington in October/November 1967. The Borrower was repre-
sented by a delegation led by H.E. Dr. Haile Giorgis Workineh, IIinister of
State for Public Works, and including Ato Ywandossen IMangasha, Vice Governor
of the National Bank of Ethiopia, and Ato Abashawl Woldemariam, General
Manager of the IHA.  This delegation was advised by H.E. Ato Nerayo Issayas,
Vice Minister of Justice; Ato Shimelis Asfaw, Chief, Planning and Programming,
IlIA; and Ato Shiferaw Bezuneh, Deputy Chief Engineer, IHA. Negotiations took
place concurrently with the Kingdom of Sweden, represented by lMr. Bengt G.
Sandberg of the Swedish International Development Authority, and Mr. Hans
von Knorring of the Swedish BEbassy in Washington.



- 3 -
8.     The proposed loan would be the Bank's ninth to Ethiopia and the pro-
posed credit, the Association's third, and they would increase the total
amount of Bank Group finance to Ethiopia to slightly over US $110 million
(Bank US $70 million; IDA US $28 million; IFC US $12 million).
9.     The status of previous loans and credits to Ethiopia as of October
31, 1967 is as follows:-
Loan or                                              Amount (US $million)
Credit No. Year  Borrower    Purpose             Bank      IDA     Undisbursed
31-ET    1950  Ethiopia    Roads                 5.0      -           -
32-ET    1950  Ethiopia    Development Bank      2.0      -           -
42-ET    1951  Ethiopia    Telecommunications    1.5      -           -
166-ET    1957  Ethiopia    Roads               15.0       -           -
301-ET    1961  Dev. Bank   Agriculture  and
of Ethiopia  Industry            2.0       -           -
314-ET     1962  IBTE        Telecommunications    2.9      -           -
35-ET     1963  Ethiopia    Roads                  -      13.5        2.6
375-ET     1964  EELPA       Power                23.5      -          5.1
441-ET     1965  IBTE        Telecommunications    4.8      -          2.9
84-ET     1966  Ethiopia    Education              -      7.2         7.0
Total (less cancellations)            56.7    20.7         17.6
of which has been repaid to
Bank and others                     11.5
Total now outstanding                 45.2
Amount sold                 4.9
of which has been repaid  2.6         2.3
Total now held by Bank and IDA         42.9    20.7
Total undisbursed                       8.0     9.6        17.6



- 4 -
IFC has invested US $2.5 million in the Cotton Company of Ethiopia (approved
1964), US $1 million in the Ethiopian Pulp and Paper Company (as a result of
a US $1.7 million maximum underwriting commitment approved 1965) and US $9
million in HVA-Metahara (sugar growing and milling) approved in 1967.
10.     Other prospective operations are for telecommunication, water supply
and sewerage, and agricultural development. None of these projects are yet
ready for appraisal.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
11.     Borrower:               Empire of Ethiopia
Amount:                 Various currencies equivalent to US $13.5
million from the Bank and US $7.7 million
from IDA. (It is expected that Sweden will
participate in the project with a credit of
30 million Swedish Kronor, equivalent to
us $5.8 million, substantially on IDA terms.)
Purpose:                To help finance (a) the construction of about
440 kms. of primary roads; (b) bituminous
surfacing of about 170 kms. of primary roads;
(c) feasibility studies and review of designs
for about 800 kms. of high priority roads;
(d) advisory services, technical assistance
and training program.
Amortization:           Bank portion - 24 years, including 4-1/2
year period of grace, in semi-annual instal-
ments beginning July 15, 1972 and ending
January 15, 1992. IDA portion - 50 years,
including a 10-year period of grace, in
semi-annual instalments beginning January 15,
1978 and ending July 15, 2017.
Interest Rate:          To be supplied by amendment
(Bank portion)
Service Charge:         3/4 of 1% per annum
(IDA Portion)
Commitment Charae:      3/4 of 1% per annum
Bank portion



- 5 -
PART III - THE PROJECT
12.     A detailed appraisal of the project (TO-597a) is attached.
13.     The difficult topographical and climatic conditions of Ethiopia
make the provision of adequate transport facilities difficult and costly.
There are still, and will remain for some time, many isolated areas in
Ethiopia which through lack of communications are barred from participating
in the economic life of the country. During the past ten to fifteen years
the Government has made great efforts to expand and improve the country's
transport facilities, concentrating much efforts and expenditures on the
highway system which is the backbone of the country's transport system.
However, inadequate transportation is only one of the problems which are
holding back progress. What is required for the future is a coordinated
program with road construction more closely related to agricultural (or
industrial) development. In addition, research is required into more
suitable construction methods and materials and appropriate design standards
which would permit the construction of a better secondary and feeder road
network at a reasonable cost. The project now recommended will assist in
this direction.
1I.     The proposed project consists of (a) the construction of two pri-
mary roads (the !A.jash Tendaho road and the Bedelle Gore road of a total
length of approximately 440 kms.); (b)bituminous surfacing of two other
primary roads (approximately 170 kms.); (c) the preparation of feasibility
studies and the review of designs for about 800 kms. of high priority roads
(including about 600 kms. of secondary roads); and (d) a program of advisory
services, technical assistance, and training designed to improve the opera-
tion of the IHA. The project would provide reliable all-weather access to
areas of great agricultural potential which can be developed only if adequate
transport facilities are provided. In addition, there would be substantial
savings in vehicle operating costs.
15.     The Awash Tendaho road would serve the Middle-Awash Valley which
the Bank's economic report (AF-60a of August 31, 1967) recommended as a
priority area for the concentration of resources for the expansion of
modern farming. This road would also provide a more adequate transport
link between the region around Addis Ababa and the port of Assab, the main
ocean outlet in Ethiopia.  An FAQ survey conducted in 1965 (financed by
UNDP) stated that an area of 130,000 hectares in this region could be
developed for intensive irrigated agriculture. As a first stage, the
Ethiopian Government has agreed to prepare by December 31, 1969 a specific
irrigation development project covering about 20,000 hectares in the area
immediately influenced by the proposed road. The other primary road to
be constructed from Bedelle to Gore is an extension of a road financed by
-the Bank and IDA under the Second and Third Highway Projects which has
seen substantial traffic growth. The Bedelle-Gore road would open up a
region of fertile soil and adequate rainfall for agricultural development.
The roads to be surfaced under the project are expected to be carrying
200 vehicles per day by 1970, and substantial savings are expected in
vehicle operating costs from paving these roads.



16.     The carrying out of the project would be the responsibility of the
IBA, an autonomous agency of the Government established in 1951 at the time
of the Bank's first highway loan to Ethiopia. The governing body of the
IHA is the Board of Commissioners consisting of the Minister of Public Works
(ex-officio chairman), a Vice I'inister of Finance, a Vice Minister of Com-
merce and Industry and two other members appointed by the Emperor. The
administration of IHA is headed by a General Manager, an Ethiopian who is
a qualified engineer. Since the founding of the IHA, the responsibilities
of administration and operations have been progressively transferred from
expatriates to qualified Ethiopians.
17.     The performance of IHA since its inception has been improving de-
spite various impediments and the IHA is at present one of the better
organized and administered agencies of the Government. In order to evalu-
ate IHA's capacity to carry out an ambitious program as submitted for
financing, the Bank in 1966 engaged a consulting firm to report on IHA's
operations and procedures. The consultants found that the present organi-
zation of IHA is generally adequate, but made various recommendations for
administrative and procedural improvement. These recommendations were
generally accepted by the IHA and the Government has undertaken to imple-
ment them within an agreed time schedule. The proposed project includes
finance for the employment of consultants to assist IHA in introducing the
necessary changes.
18.     The project would be financed as follows:
Foreign Cost:                US $ Million
Bank                          13.5
IDA                            7.7
Sweden                         5.8    27.0
Local Cost:
Ethiopian Government          11.4    11.4
Total:           38.4
19.     The proposed loan of US $l3.5 million and credit of US $7.7
million together with the Swedish credit equivalent to US $5.8 million
would finance the estimated foreign exchange cost (US $27 zmillion)
of the project with an extimated total cost of US $38.4 million. Dis-
bursements of amounts eligible for finance shall be apportioned as
nearly as practicable in the following proportions: Bank - 50.0,.;
Association - 28.5%; Kingdom of Sweden - 21.5%.
20.     The construction and the bituminous surfacing of roads financed
under this project will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's nor-
mal procedure related to international competitive bidding.



- 7 -
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
21.     The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Empire of Ethiopia,
the draft Credit Agreement between the Association and Empire of ELhiopia,
the draft Project Agreement between the Bank, the Association and the
Imperial Highway Authority, the draft Administration Letter between the
Kingdom of Sweden, the Bank and the Association, the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Bank's Articles of
Agreement and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article
V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
22.     The draft Loan, Credit and Project Agreements conform substantially
to the pattern of agreements used for projects of this kind taking account
of the existence of a co-lender. By virtue of Section 5.10 of the draft
Loan Agreement, which is incorporated into the draft Credit Agreement, the
Bank and the Association retain the right to suspend disbursements in the
event that the time-table for the administrative and procedural improvements
in IHA's organization (see para. 17 above) are not implemented by certain
dates which have been agreed upon with the Borrower in a supplemental letter.
The draft Administration Letter provides for coordination between the Bank,
the Association and Sweden in respect of the administration of the project,
and for the concurrent, but separate, disbursement by the respective co-
lenders. As already noted (see para. 6 above) the Borrower has agreed to
incorporate a suitable arbitration provision in all contracts which are to
be financed from the proceeds of the proposed Loan and Credit.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
23.     A report on "The Economny of Ethiopia" (AF-60a, dated August 31,
1967) was circulated to the Executive Directors on September 18, 1967
(R.67-149). Ethiopia's performance in the mobilization of resources,
particularly in raising tax revenues, has been rather good, but the com-
position of developmental investment has been less satisfactory. The
economic report was discussed in draft with the Ethiopian authorities
who expressed agreement with the view that there was a need to design a
development strategy which would effectively initiate a significant pro-
cess of change in the large agricultural sector. They also welcomed the
appearance of the report at this time as an analysis useful to them in
drawing up the Third Five-Year Plan, which is being drafted with the
assistance of foreign economic advisers headed by a Bank-seconded economist.
24.     The closure of the Suez Canal has some economic consequences both
for Ethiopia's balance of payments and her fiscal position. Her foreign
trade was formerly carried largely by vessels passing through the Red Sea.
Alternative shipping arrangements may involve somewhat higher transport
costs and some delays. However, this circumstance, which would not impose
a major hindrance to Ethiopia's economic development even if continued for
some time, gives no reason to change the conclusion that Ethiopia's poverty
and economic performance, set against the background of Ethiopia's diffi-
cult position, justifies a continued blend of Bank and IDA lending.



PART VI - COIMLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
25.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan and credit would comply
respectively with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Association.
PART VII - RECOMENDATIONS
26.     I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolutions:
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to the Empire of Ethiopia
(Fourth Highway Project) in the amount of US $13,500,000
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to the Empire of Ethiopia in
an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirteen million
five hundred thousand United States Dollars (US $13,500,000),
to mature on and prior to January 15, 1992, to bear interest at
the rate of _ percent (__%) per annum, and to be upon such
other terms and conditions as shall be substantially in accord-
ance with the terms and conditions set forth in the form of
Loan Agreement (Fourth Highway Project) between the Empire of
Ethiopia and the Bank, and the Project Agreement (Fourth High-
way Project) between the Bank, the Association, and the Imperial
Highway Authority, which have been presented to this meeting.
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Development Credit to the Empire of Ethiopia
(Fourth Highway Project) in the amount of US $7,700,000
RESOLVED:
THAT the Association shall grant a development credit to the
Empire of Ethiopia in an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to seven million seven hundred thousand United States
Dollars (US $7,700,000), to mature on and prior to July 15,
2017 to bear a service charge at the rate of three-fourths
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum, and to be upon such
other terms and conditions as shall be substantially in
accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the
form of the Development Credit Agreement (Fourth Highway
Project) between the Empire of Ethiopia and the Association,
and the Project Agreement (Fourth Highway Project) between
the Bank, the Association, and the Imperial Highway Authority,
which have been presented to this meeting.
George D. Woods
President
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
December 11, 1967



