L-O) S5 3 - cr-
FILE   COPY                     R ESTRICTED
Report No. TO- 597a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. 'The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ETHIOPIA
November 24, 1967
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1. 0O.Eth$               US$0. 40
2. 5 Eth $            = US$,1. 0
1. 0 million Eth $    = US$ 400, 000
FISCAL YEAR
July 8 - July 7
UJNITS OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
METRIC: BRITISH/US EQUIVALENTS
1 kilometer (km)      = 0. 62 miles (mii)
1 meter (m)           = 3. 28 feet (ft)
1 hectare (ha)        = 2.47 acres (ac)
1 liter (1)           = 0. 22 Imperial gallons (I gal)
= 0. 26 US gallons (US gal)
1 metric ton (m tori)  = 2204 pounds (lb)



ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
SUMMARY                                                           i
1.   INTRODUCTION                                                      1
2.   BACKGROUND                                                        3
A.  Geographic and Demographic                                    3
B.  The transport Sector                                          3
C.  Co-ordination of Planning                                     4
3.   THE HIGHWAY SECTOR                                                6
A.  The Development of the Highway Network                        6
B.  Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic                    6
C.  Highway Administration                                        7
D.  Highway Planning and Finance                                  8
E.  Highway Design and Construction                               8
F.  Highway Maintenance                                           9
4.   THE PROJECT                                                      11
A.  Description                                                  11
B.  Primary Road Construction                                    12
C.  Bituminous Surfacing                                         13
D.  Feasibility Studies and Design Review                        14
E. Advisory Services, Technical Assistance and
Training Program                                             14
F.  Execution of the Project                                     16
G.  Cost Estimates                                               17
H.  Finance                                                      17
5.   ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION                                          18
A.  Introduction                                                 18
B.  Primary Road Construction                                    18
C.  Bituminous Surfacing                                         22
D.  Feasibility Studies                                          22
6.   CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMENDATIONS                                   24
This report was written by Messrs. S. Y. Park and F. D. T. Reid on the basis
of an appraisal mission in November, 1966, in which Mr. P. Eklund of the
Bank Staff, Mr. L. Brown (Agricultural Consultant) and representatives of the
Kingdom of Sweden also participated.



Table of Contents (Continuation)
TABLES
1. Road Inventory for the Past 10 Years
2. Motor Vehicle Registration by Types for the Period 1961-1965
3. Breakdown of Budget and Actual Expenditures (For Fiscal Years
1962/63 - 1966/67)
4. Design Standards
5. Cost Estimates
6. Estimates of Net Agricultural Benefits - Bedelle-Gore Highway
CHARTS
1. Present Organization - Imperial Highway Authority
2. Proposed Schedule for Advisory Services
MAP: ETHIOPIA: Fourth Highwiay Project



ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH HIGHWiAY PROJECT
SU4MARY
i.        The Government of Ethiopia has requested Bank/IDA assistance in
financing a Fourth Highway Project. A suitable project comprises: (i) the
construction of about 440 km of primary roads; (ii) the bituminous surfac-
ing of about 170 km of existing primary roads; (iii) feasibility studies
and the review of designs for about 800 km of high priority roads; and
(iv) advisory services to help reorganize highway administration and opera-
tions and a technical assistance and training program.
ii.       The total cost of the project, including contingencies, is esti-
mated at about US$ 38.4 million equivalent. It is based on final engineer-
ing and prices obtained in recent bids for similar works and is reasonable.
The foreign exchange component of cost is estimated at about US$ 27
million equivalent of which US$ 13.5 million would be financed by the pro-
posed Bank loan, US$ 7.7 million by the proposed IDA credit and a 30 million
Swedish Kronor credit (US$ 5.8 million equivalent at present rate) from
the Kingdom of Sweden. Local currency requirements will be met from the
annual budget of Ethiopia.
iii.      The design standards of the roads,as agreed during negotiations,
are satisfactory. Responsibility for the Project will rest with the
Imperial Highway Authority (IHA) supported by appropriate consulting and
advisory services acceptable to the Bank/IDA.
iv.       Because great importance is attached to improving highway
administration and operations, disbursement of loan and credit funds will
be linked to satisfactory compliance with an agreed time-schedule for the
reorganization of administrative and technical procedures in IRA.
v.        The program of advisory services and training will contribute
materially towards providing a more efficient organization capable of
developing and maintaining the country's highway network.
vi.       The construction of the roads and the bituminous surfacing pro-
gram will result in substantial savings in vehicle operating costs and wil:.
provide reliable all-weather access to important agricultural areas. The
economic return is satisfactory. Other benefits may be important but are
not readily quantifiable.
vii       Performance in earlier projects has been slow and marred by
unresolved disputes between the IHA and the contractors. The present
General Manager of the IHA is making a serious attempt to settle these
disputes witbin the terms of the contracts. Agreement was reached during



- ii -
negotiations on the form of a suitable arbitration procedure to resolve
any disputes which may arise out of contracts awarded under the proposed
loan and the credits.
viii.     The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$ 13.5
million and an IDA credit of US$ 7.7 million to the Government of Ethiopia.
A suitable term for the Bank loan would be 24 years including a 41 year
period of grace.



ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH HIGIMAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1       The Ethiopian Government has requested that the Bank/IDA assist
in financing a Fourth Highway project. The project as originally proposed
by the Government, costing a total of about US$ 110 million equivalent, was
considered by the Bank/IDA to be too large and contained some questionable
items. The project as negotiated comprises: (i) the construction of about
440 km of primary roads; (ii) the bituminous surfacing of about 170 km of
existing primary roads; (iii) feasibility studies and the review of designs
for about 800 km of high priority roads; and (iv) advisory services by
consultants and a technical assistance and training program. The estimated
cost of the project is about US$ 38.4 million equivalent of which the Bank/
IDA and the Kingdom of Sweden would finance US$ 27 million equivalent which
represents the estimated foreign exchange component.
1.2       The lWorld Bank Group has a 17-year history of participation in
highway development in Ethiopia. In September 1950 the Bank made a loan
of US$ 5 million (Loan 31-ET) for the reconstruction, repair and mainte-
nance of important feeder roads. The loan, which was disbursed over four
years, was used mainly to import equipment, machinery and spare parts
necessary for the rehabilitation and maintenance of these roads. As a
condition of the loan the Government established a semi-autonomous agency,
the Imperial Highway Authority (IHA), to develop and maintain the country's
roads. From its establishment until May 10, 1963, the senior management
and engineering staff of the IHA., including the Director, were provided
by the U.S. Bureau of Public Roads (BPR) under a management contract be-
tween the Governments of Ethiopia and the United States.
1.3       In July 1957, the Bank made a second highway loan of US$ 15
million (Loan 166-ET). The purpose of this loan was to finance the foreign
exchange cost of the construction of 850 km of high priority new roads
including the engineering costs of 1,000 km of future roads. Construction
under this loan was delayed due to reshaping of the project; the revised
list of roads was completed in 1963.
1.4       Progress in the execution of the second highway project was
hampered by financial disputes between the IHA and the Ministry of Finance
which were resolved during a Bank mission to Ethiopia in May of 1962 when
agreement was reached on the budget appropriations and schedule of payments
necessary to complete the project. Two contractors, Solel Boneh (Israel)
and Marples Ridgway (UK), submitted claims for extra compensation arising
out of contracts awarded under the loan. In the case of Solel Boneh's
claim, agreement was reached through negotiation; Marples Ridgway's claim
was settled by negotiation after an arbitration award; US$ 0.48 million
equivalent, representing about 50 percent of the arbitration award was paid to
the contractor. Subsequently, Marples Ridgway submitted further claims
totalling US$ 2 million equivalent. These claims have recently been
examined by the IHA who has held negotiations with the contractor in an
attempt to settle them but is willing, should negotiations fail, to submit
the claims to arbitration in accordance with the provisions of the contract.



- 2 -
1.5       In February 1963, IDA granted Ethiopia a credit (Credit 35-ET) of
US$ 13.5 million to assist with the country's third highway development progran.
The project consisted of the construction of the Lekempti-Ghimbi road (110 km)
and the Agaro-Bedelle road (96 km) as well as certain bridges; the bituminous
surfacing of 800 km of road; the employment of consultants to replace the BPR
in the management of the Imperial Highway Authority; and the employment of
consultants to carry out engineering and feasibility studies of a road through
the Awash Valley. The project also provided funds to complete the roads being
constructed under Loan 166-ET.
1.6       Construction of the roads between Lekempti and Ghimbi and between
Agaro and Bedelle is about 75 percent complete; the bid prices were slightly
lower than the cost estimates used in the appraisal. The work is about one
year behind schedule; disputes have arisen between the contractors and the IHA
on the interpretation of the contracts, particularly as to whether the period
fixed for completing the works included proper allowances for adverse weather.
Further disputes have arisen over the interpretation of other items in the
contract as well as over the effect of an amendment of 1965 to the Civil
Procedure Code which one of the contractors contends suppresses his right of
arbitration. Arising from these disputes one contractor has submitted claims
for extra compensation in accordance with his contract; the other contractor
has submitted claims whilst reserving the position that his contract has
become null and void as a result of the 1965 amendment to the Civil Procedure
Code. The IRA regards both contracts as unaffected by the amendment and has
had the claims examined by the consultants; the results of the examinations
have been communicated to the contractors, and discussions are now taking
place between the IHA and the contractors. The IHA has stated that it is
prepared to submit any disagreement to arbitration in accordance with the
provisions of the contracts.
1.7       This appraisal report is based on studies carried out by the Govern-
ment and its consultants and on the findings of a Bank/IDA mission which
visited Ethiopia in November 1966. The report was prepared by Messrs. Park
and Reid with assistance from Mr. Eklund and MAr. Brown, an agricultural
consultant.



- 3 -
2. BACK3ROUND
A. GeographLic and Demographic
2.1       Ethiopia, including the northern territory of Eritrea, covers an
area of approximately 1 million sq km, about twice the size of France. Its
northern boundary is the Red Sea, along the Eritrean-Dankali coast, with
the ports of Massawa and Assab; Somalia forms its eastern boundary; its
southern neighbor is Kenya while to the west and north lies Sudan.
2.2       No census has been taken in Ethiopia, and estimates of the total
population vary widely. A recent estimate places the population at about
23 million, mainly concentrated in the highlands.
2.3       The physical configuration of the country is marked by a vast
mountain massif, with a mean height of between 2,000 to 2,500 m, which
rises abruptly from the torrid plains, The abruptness of the physical
contours is reflected in contrasts of climate within a distance of a few
miles and in linguistic barriers. The great massif is cut in a direction
from northeast to southwest by the Rift Valley which is marked by the
Awash River and a group of large lakes in Southern Ethiopia.
2.4       The ruggedness of the topography has tended to isloate the country
from its neighbors and to divide the various ethnic groups within it. It
has also militated against the development of a satisfactory highway system.
B. The Transport Sector
a. General
2.5       The difficult topographical and climatic conditions of Ethiopia,
as well as its large size make it costly to provide even the minimum of
transport facilities. With the added handicap of limited natural resources,
it is imperative that the Government plan carefully its investments in ex-
pensive transport infrastructure; past performance in this respect has not
been extirely satisfactory (see para. 2.9). The capital, Addis Ababa, and
a number of other centers are served by road, rail and air transport but
highways provide the principal means of transportation in the country.
b. Railways
2.6       There are two railways in Ethiopia: the Franco-Ethiopian Railway
(781 km) which links Addis Ababa by way of Dire Dawa with the port of
Djibouti in French Somaliland, and the Massawa-Asmara-Agordat Railway
(188 km) in northern Eritrea. Owing to the steep grades which the rail-
ways have to negotiate in connecting the ports with the populated hinter-
lands on the interior plateau (about 2,400 m above sea level), the cost
of railway operation is high. Ethiopia has the right of access to the
port of Djibouti by a treaty with France signed in 1959.



-l4 -
c. Airways
2.7       Domestic air transport performs an important role in maintaining
national unity by making it possible to administer isolated areas. The
Government's road construction program, which will gradually eliminate sole
dependence on air transport by many of the isolated areas, is not expected
to diminish the importance of domestic aviation as a complementary means
of transport. Some international and all internal services are provided
by Ethiopian Airlines (EAL). Addis Ababa and Asmara are the only airports
in Ethiopia providing services for international traffic. In addition
there are 26 smaller airports and airfields served by regular EAL flights
catering for internal traffic. However, because of poor soil and drainage
conditions some of the airfields are closed for part of the rainy season.
d. Highways
2.8       The highway system (see map) radiates from Addis Ababa to all parts
of the country. There are only a few secondary links connecting these radial
roads with one another. This fact, together with an almost complete absence
of feeder roads, seriously inhibits agricultural development. The existing
pattern of ribbon-like development of agriculture is found everywhere except
in the vicinity of villages and towns.
C.  O-frordnat&a Of 
2.9       Co-ordination of planning for transportation has not been satis-
factory. In general, investment in the non-road sectors of the transporta-
tion field is small and the principal need is for better co-ordination of
road investment with that in other economic sectors, notably agriculture.
Programming of road investment is the responsibility of the IRA which has,
until now, been handicapped by a lack of communication between it and other
Government agencies, absence of realistic development programs in agriculture
and other productive sectors, and the difficulty of obtaining data. Non-
implementation of a realistic agricultural development program has been
one of the factors responsible for the IHA's emphasis on the construction
of primary routes at the expense of feeder roads. However, recent steps
taken by the Government show promise of improving the planning situation.
A new Ministry of Planning and Development was established in 1966, as well
as an interministerial Experts Development Committee which is to co-ordinate
the planning activities of the various governmental agencies. A member of
the Bank's staff has been seconded to the Ministry to co-ordinate the pre-
paration of the Third Development Plan. In addition, a unit has been
established in the Ministry of Communications with responsibility for
transportation planning. It is also expected that the IHA will receive the
benefit of a Road Investment Survey which has been proposed for Ethiopia
under the auspices of the United NIations Development Programme (UNDP).
2.10      The Ministry of Communications is responsible for the regulation
of transport activities, including the enforcemernt of traffic laws, and
vehicle size and weight regulations; the latter task, however, is currently
carried out by IHA traffic crews. Overloading of trucks is the rule rather



- 5 -
than the exception, and is largely responsible for a deterioration of
the road system. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that existing
regulations adequately provide for the imposition of penalties on those who
contravene the regulations, and the Government will take appropriate
measures to ensure that these regulations are more effectively enforced.
2.11      The collection of road user charges from both the city and
interurban road systems in 1965 totalled about US$ 15.0 million equivalent,
comprised as follows:
US$ Million Equivalent
Custom Duty & Transaction Tax
(a)  on vehicle & parts                         5.16
(b)  on tires & tubes                             .51
Motor fuel tax                                     8.86
Motor vehicle and other vehicle
license fees                                      .40
Driver's license fees                               .03
Total              14.96
2.12      About one-half of the total collection, or US$ 7.5 million
equivalent a year, represents payments by the users of the interurban
road system; this covers about 40 percent of the Government's annual
road cost or about 25 percent of the annual road cost plus interest.
This relatively low percentage of interurban user contribution suggests
the need for increased user charges, but in view of the small truck fleet
in Ethiopia (there are less than 4000 trucks and tractor-trailers in the
whole country), it would be unrealistic to expect that the taxes could be
increased sufficiently to cover fully the Government's expenditure on
highways.
2.13      The current levels of motor fuel taxes of US¢ 9.8 per liter for
gasoline and US¢ 8.2 per liter for diesel oil are about 100 percent of the
pumphead prices (net of tax). However, import tariffs on vehicles and
spare parts, which presently range from 10 percent of ad valorem cost on
trucks to 55 percent on larger passenger cars, are low. It is intended
that the question of road user charges be reviewed by the consultants who
will carry out the Road Investment Survey which has been proposed for
Ethiopia under the auspices of the United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP). However, at this date UNDP financing is not assured, so assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the Government will employ consul-
tants to review road user charges in the event that the UNDP study is not
carried out.



- 6 -
3. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A. The Development of the Highway Network
3.1        At the time of the Italian occupation in 1936, there were
approximately 2,000 kn of roads, of which 1,200 km were all-weather.   These
figures do not include the roads in Eritrea, which was also at that time
an Italian colony. During the ocaupation, which lasted five years, some
6,ooo lm of roads and trails were built. The roads consisted of a three to
four meter wide base constructed with handset stones. Approximately 2,500
km were given a single bitumen surface treatment. Road construction ceased
in 1942 and the existing roads were allowed to deteriorate.
3.2        In 1951, the IHA was created to develop and maintain the country's
highway system which by then was in a general state of disrepair. As a re-
sult of the efforts of the IHA, and with the assistance of two Bank loans and
an IDA credit, there are today almost 6,800 km of all-weather roads (see
Table 1).
B. Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
3.3        There has been a notable growth in the vehicle fleet in the 1960's.
Between 1961 and 1965 the total number of vehicles increased by 13.5 percent
per annum.  The number of buses, truck-trailer combinations and passenger cars
increased by 20 percent, 18.5 percent and 18 percent per annum, respectively;
the truck fleet, on the other hand, has not shown any increase, indicating
the economies inherent in using truck-trailer combinations. At the end of
1965, about 32,000 vehicles were registered in Ethiopia9 of which approximate)3y
75 percent wiere passenger cars and 13 percent were truck-trailer combinatioris
(see Table 2).
3.4        The IHA has 40 traffic counting stations.   Regular counts are
taken each year for a period of one week, twice during the dry and once
during the rainy season. However, since they are conducted in the immediate
vicinity of towns, traffic volumes tend to be overstated. In future, traf-
fic counting should be undertaken outside zones where local traffic may
distort the traffic picture, and mechanical methods should be used to supple-
ment the present manual system to ensure greater reliability. The average
daily count of all stations is between 60 and 100 vehicles. The IHA has re-
cently started origin-destination surveys on the roads branching out from
the capital. Advice on collecting and analyzing data for road planning will
be provided by the advisory consultants (see para. 3.10).
3.5        From 1960 to 1965, consumption of gasoline and automotive diesel
fuel rose by an average of 10 percent and 11 percent per year, respectively.
Regional retail trade data of gasoline sales for 1963 show that 58 percent
was sold in Addis Adaba, 11 percent in Asmara and 4.6 percent in Dire Dawa,
indicative of the uneven distribution of vehicles between the capital and
the provinces.



-7-
C. Highway Administration
3.6       As noted previously (see para. 3.2), responsibility for developing
and maintaining the highway system is vested in the IRA (see Chart 1). It
has its headquarters in Addis Ababa where facilities include an administra-
tion building, warehouse, central repair garage and shops, materials test-
ing laboratories, and a training center. For administration and executive
purposes, the IRA is divided into nine district headquarters and two sub-
district headquarters, with some 60 field maintenance camps and a dozen or
more construction camps. A center was established in 1956 to instruct
equipment operators, mechanics, surveyors and produce other essential skills
necessary for the operation of a highway department.
3.7       The governing body of the Authority is a Board of Commissioners
consisting of the Minister of Public Works as Chairman, the Vice Minister
of Finance, the Vice Minister of Commerce and Industry, and two other
members appointed by the Emperor. One of these other members is the General
Manager, who is a qualified engineer and is the executive head of the
Authority.
3.8       The original contract with BPR (see para. 1.2) continued until May
.1963, after which, in connection with the first IDA Credit (35-ET), the
management of the IHA was placed in the hands of Ethiopians supported by
expatriate managerial and technical advisors provided by Tippets-Abbett-
McCarthy-Stratton (TAMS), an American firm of consulting engineers working
in association with Scott, Wilson Kirkpatrick and Partners (SWK), a British
firm. There are also expatriate foreigners employed under individual con-
tracts. Even so, there is a shortage of competent technical and administrative
staff.
3.9       In 1966 the Bank arranged for a US firm of management consultants,
Public Administration Service (PAS), to undertake a thorough investigation
into the organization and administration of the IRA. These consultants
found that the administrative procedures of the ILIA frequently handicap
its basic operations: particularly they noted that (i) there is a failure
to delegate responsibility; (ii) averstaffing exists; (iii) related functions
are not properly co-ordinated; (iv) performance and pay standards need
improving; and (v) supervision and administration procedures of construction
contracts need revision.
3.10      PAS made detailed recommendations for improving the administrative
and operational efficiency of the Authority. Part of the proposed project
includes the employment of PAS to assist the IHA in implementing the
changes necessary in its administrative procedures and to train staff.



- 8-
D. Highway Planning and Finance
3.11      Planning of roads is the task of the Planning and Programm4ng
Division of the IHA. A branch of this Division is responsible for preparing
an inventory of roads which, however, has not been completed because of
lack of staff. The Division has prepared a plan of road development to
cover the next five years from July 1967 to July 1972. The funds required
over the period total approximately US$ 120 million equivalent and the
length of new road construction or improvement envisaged is about 6,500 km,
including the roads to be constructed and improved under the proposed pro-
ject. It is a formidable and ambitious plan, far beyond the present
capabilities and resources of the IHA. Assurances were obtained from the
Government that the IHA will give priority in its construction program
to carrying out the project.
3.12      Expenditures on highway construction and maintenance have increased
from approximately US$ 14 million equivalent in 1962/63 to an allocation
of US$ 18 million equivalent for the fiscal year 1966/67. Details of budg-
etary allocations and expenditures are shown in Table 3. Funds are made
available out of loans as well as from general revenues.
E. Highway Design and Construction
3.13      Road design is carried out by the Survey and resign Division of
the IRA under the overall supervision of TAMS engineers acting in an
advisory capacity. The geometric design standards are shown in Table 4
and are satisfactory.
3.14      Major road construction is carried out by foreign contractors
supervised by consulting engineers. Secondary and feeder roads are con-
structed by force account, under the direction of the Construction Division,
or, in some minor instances, of the Provincial Roads Division. Major road
projects undertaken since 1959 have ranged from approximately US$ 32,000
to over US$ 120,000 equivalent per km and the individual contracts have
varied in value from about US$ 1 million to US$ 6 million equivalent. The
usual contract is of the unit price type and the tender procedures are
satisfactory.
3.15      A 1965 law prohibits arbitration as a method for settling contract
disputes, but the IRA has informed contractors that the law does not apply
to contracts in existence when the law was promulgated. As a result of Bank
representation the Government has reconsidered the position and Parliament
has accepted an amendment which will permit, when specifically authorized
by the Council of Ministers, arbitration clauses to be included in administra-
tion contracts. The Council of Ministers has agreed that construction
contracts awarded under the proposed loan and credit will contain a clause
providing an adequate procedure for settling disputes, which was agreed with
the Bank.



3.16      A major consideration affecting current highway construction is
the inadequate delegation of authority by the IRA to the consulting engineer
appointed to supervise construction. Assurances were obtained during
loan negotiations that the consulting engineers will be given adequate res-
ponsibility for supervising the construction of the roads.
3.17      The methods of road design and construction generally follow
American practices.  While these were a sound basis upon which to begin
developing the road network, the time has come to consider whether they are
still appropriate. Research into soil and sub-surface conditions should
be carried out to develop design and construction techniques related to
local geological and traffic conditions. Advice in this respect will be
provided by the advisory consultants engaged under the project (see para.
3.21).
F. Highway Maintenance
3.18      Responsibility for road maintenance is vested in the MiIaintenance
Division of the IHA. The Chief Maintenance Engineer exercises both general
and administrative control over the nine districts into which the country
is divided. For the current fiscal year an average of about US$ 560
equivalent per km has been allocated for maintenance. The total amount
provided is sufficient if it is used only for maintenance, but part of
the funds are spent on minor betterments. No figures exist to show the
cost of minor betterment nor that of normal routine maintenance for dif-
ferent types of road surface. It is important that such cost breakdowns
be studied by the IA and also that routine maintenance be given priority
over new construction and improvement works in the allocation of fun cd.
3.19      As a result of a shortage of competent personnel in the Mainte-
nance Division proper maintenance practices are not carried out. A good
training system exists but pay scales need revision to retain trained staff.
Furthermore, increased performance standards should be set for all levels
of staff with a consequent reduction in numbers. The PAS report states
that there is little maintenance work being carried out on the roads by
district forces. Advice in remedying these shortcomings will form part of
the service to be provided by the advisory consultants (see para. 3.21).
3.20      Responsibility for road maintenance equipment rests with three
separate divisions. The Equipment Division prepares specifications for
the purchase of new items and is responsible for repairs to existing
equipment; funds for purchasing maintenance equipment are provided out of
the Maintenance Division's allocations, and the Parts and Supplies Division
is responsible for procuring spare parts. The result of this diffusion
of responsibility and of a shortage of qualified and experienced mechanical
personnel is that about 50% of road maintenance equipment is currently out
of commission. Furthermore, there are no suitable arrangements for prompt
replacement. Reorganization of equipment management will form part of the
services to be provided by the advisory consultants (see para. 3.21).



- 10 -
3.21      The proposed project includes the employment of qualified con-
sultants: (i) to advise the IRA on the changes necessary in its road
maintenance procedures; (ii) to improve pay and performance standards;
(iii) to reorganize equipment management; and (iv) to train staff.
Agreement was reached during negotiations that the Government will over-
haul its present road maintenance procedures in accordance with the
recommendations of the consultants within an agreed time schedule and that
it will provide adequate funds annually to maintain the expanding road
system in accordance with sound engineering and financial practices.



- 11 -
4. THE PROJECT
A. Description (See Map)
4.1       The project comprises four principal components including
assistance in reorganizing the IRA. Disbursement of funds will be sus-
pended if reorganization of administrative and operational procedures is
not carried out in accordance with a time schedule agreed with the Bank/
IDA.
Part A - Primary Road Construction
1.   the construction of a two-lane bituminous surfaced road between
Awash and Tendaho (303 km);
2.   the construction of a two-lane road between Bedelle and Gore
(138 km); and
3.   the supervision by consulting engineers of the construction
of the above roads.
Part B - Bituminous Surfacing of Primary Roads
1.   the laying of base and bituminous surfacing on the road
between Nazreth and Awash (125 km);
2.   the laying of base and bituminous surfacing on the road
between Jimma and Agaro (45 km);
3.   the provision for supervision of the bituminous surfacing.
Part C - Feasibility and Design Studies
The preparation of feasibility studies and the review of designs
for about 800 km of high priority roads.
Part D - Advisory Services, Technical Assistance and Training Program
1.   The implementation of the findings of the PAS report of October
7, 1966 in regard to the reorganization of the administration and opera-
tions of the IRA.
2.   A technical assistance program comprising the provision of about
12 man-years of senior expatriate personnel on the staff of the IRA for a
period of 2 years.
3.   A training program abroad for about 10 selected Ethiopian per-
sonnel per year for two years.



- 12 -
B. Primary Road Construction
Awash-Tendaho Road (303 km)
4.2       The proposed bituminous surfaced road will leave the existing
Addis Ababa-Harar road near Awash on the railway line from Addis Ababa to
Djibouti. It will follow the fairly level plan of the Awash River in the
Great Rift Valley to link up with the present Addis Ababa-Assab road near
Tendaho.
4.3       For the first 100 km from Awash, the road will pass through an
area of the Awash Valley known as the "Middle Valley Region" which is
suited to intensive agricultural farming. An FAQ study reports that there
are about 85,000 hectares suitable for development in the region. The road
will open up an area of 35,000 hectares of which about 20,000 hectares
could be developed for cotton and other crops by 1973 and the remainder by
1982. The cost of the first stage development to 1973, excluding the road,
is estimated at about US$ 16 million equivalent. The Government has accepted
the recommendation of the study and created a semi-autonomous agency, the
Awash Valley Authority, to be in charge of implementing it. A total of
about US$ 0.9 million equivalent has been included under capital (US$ 0.7
million) and recurrent (US$ 0.2 million) expenditures in the 1967/68 budget
for preparatory works such as topographical surveys and engineering designs
for irrigation facilities. The Government intends to approach external
financing agencies for the funds for the development of the basic infra-
structure; there is good reason to believe that once the infrastructure
particularly the road providing access - is built, private capital will
invest in agricultural production. During negotiations the Government
confirmed that it will prepare, by December 31, 1969, a specific irrigation
project for the development of about 20,UUO hectares which are in the
immediate area of influence of the road.
4.4       For approximately the next 100 km, the road will follow undulat-
ing terrain, climbing gradually onto a plateau to avoid several gullies
running into the Awash River. For the final 100 km or so to Tendaho the
route descends to a plain before crossing to the west side of the Awash
River, after which it climbs again to higher ground to avoid several streara
crossings. Throughout its length the road presents no problems either in
grades or soil conditions. It will provide a better route between Addis
Ababa and the port of Assab by avoiding the difficult mountainous terrain
on the existing road. Final engineering has been done by De Leuw Cather
(U.S.) under the third highway project (Credit 35-ET). The estimated cost
including physical contingencies is US$ 19.0 million equivalent.
Bedelle-Gore Road (138 km)
4.5       The proposed new road between Bedelle and Gore will be a con-
tinuation of the Agaro-Bedelle road which is being constructed under Credit
35-ET. The region to be served by the road possesses climatic and soil



- 13 -
conditions which are suited to the production of not only coffee, which is
now grown in quantity (see paragraphs 5.15 and 5.16), but also dairy pro-
duce and other agricultural products, particularly tea. During negotiatiorn3
the Government agreed to prepare, by December 31, 1968, a plan for a
phased program for agricultural development of the Bedelle-Gore region
including research into crop diversification particularly tea (see paragraphs
5.17 and 5.18). At present the area is served by a track which is generally
impassable during the rainy seasons. Trucking from Gore is costly and
nearly all goods are transported on pack animals. The road will traverse
undulating terrain which should present no problems in construction. Final
engineering and cost studies have been carried out by the IHA with the
assistance of TAMS. The estimated cost including an allowance for physical
contingencies is US$ 10.6 million equivalent.
Design Standards
4.6       The design standards conform with the IHA's standards for primary
roads (see Table 4) which are satisfactory; the width of bituminous surfac-
ing would be 6 m,
C. Bituminous Surfacing
Nazreth-Awash Road (125 km)
4.7       The Nazreth-Awash road, which is being improved to gravel sub-base
standard as part of the IHA's betterment program, has a traffic count of
about 60 vehicles a day. When the Awash-Tendaho road is constructed, the
Addis Ababa to Assab traffic, which at present uses the steep and tortuous
road via Kombolchia, will travel by way of Nazreth-Awash-Tendaho increasing
the traffic count between Nazreth and Awash to about 135 vehicles a day
and making it costly to maintain.   In order to provide for the expected
traffic it is necessary to lay a base course and double bituminous surface
on the road, which would then have a bituminous surface over the entire
distance from Addis Ababa to Assab. The improvement work is approximately
80 percent complete. It is necessary that it be completed satisfactorily
before funds are disbursed for the bituminous surfacing and agreement was
reached during negotiations with the Government that no contract will be
awarded for the bituminous surfacing of the road until the improvement work
is complete. The estimated cost of the work, including physical contin-
gencies, is US$ 2.5 million equivalent.
4.8       Since the justification for surfacing this road depends on the
decision to build the Awash-Tendaho road, (Part A.1 of the Project), the
Government has agreed that it will not award a contract for laying a base
course and bituminous surfacing on the Nazreth-Awash road until after the
construction work has started on the Awash-Tendaho road.
Jimma-Agaro Road (45 km)
4.9       Under the second highway project (Loan 166-ET) a road was built



- 14 -
to gravel standard from Jimma to Agaro to assist in developing the
agricultural potential of the area. As a result of the rapid development
which has taken place in the area, the road carries almost 200 vehicles a
day and has become costly to maintain. This part of the project provides
for the placing of a base course and a double bituminous surface on the
recently constructed road. The estimated cost, including an allowance for
physical contingencies, is US$ 0.8 million equivalent.
Design Standards and Final Engineering
4.10      The design standards for the bituminous surfacing conform with
the IHA's standards for primary roads (see Table 4) and are satisfactory.
Final engineering has been carried out by the IHA staff with guidance from
the advisory consultants (TAMIS) and is satisfactory.
D. Feasibility Studies and Design Review
4.11      As mentioned previously (see paragraph 2.8), there is a dearth
of secondary and feeder roads in Ethiopia. The Bank/IDA has identified the
following five roads, which appear, on the basis of a preliminary review, to
have a high priority but for which IHA has not as yet fully completed
final engineering:
Bonga-Mizam Teferi-Tepi               155 km
Asella-Boccoggi-Dodolla               120 km
Asbe Teferi-Gelemso-Mecharra          140 km
Asita-Dubti-Tendaho                    60 km
Hosanna-Soddu                          95 km
Total       570 km
A very tentative construction cost estimate for these roads of about US$ 7.0
million equivalent has been made by the IHA on the basis of engineering
completed to date. A firm of consultants will be engaged under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank/IDA to undertake feasibility studies
of these five roads making recommendations as to appropriate standards and
methods of construction and the preparation of more reliable cost estimates
on the basis of completed final engineering to be carried out by the IHA.
The same firm of consultants which undertakes the feasibility studies will
also carry out a review of the existing design of approximately 230 km
of existing primary roads and recommend economic standards and timing for
their construction. The estimated cost of all these studies is US$ 300,000
equivalent.
E. Advisory Services, Technical Assistance and Training Program
4.12      Considerable progress has been made in the development of a high-
way authority in Ethiopia, firstly under BPR management and more recently
with the guidance of consultants. The length of the highway system has



- 15 -
almost trebled in 15 years. This rapid growth is being felt in the
administrative and operational departments, giving rise to the various
difficulties described in preceding sections of this report. The Govern-
ment has agreed that the administration will now be overhauled along the
lines recommended in the PAS report to provide a suitable basis for
fLrther expansion. The principal recommendations of the PAS report call
for:
(1)  a clear delineation of responsibility between the Board
of the IHA and the management;
(2)  a reorganization of the IHA so that related administra-
tive services are grouped to provide better co-ordina-
tion and control (for instance the Parts and Supplies
and the Equipment Divisions should be combined);
(3)  the preparation of administrative manuals to define proce-
dures and responsibilities so that decisions can be taken
at the proper level of authority;
(4)  the rearrangement of the Engineering Department into three
divisions: Design, Operations and Contract Construction,
for better co-ordination of related functions and to avoid
duplication of operations; emphasis will also be placed on
research to determine the most economic design methods and
use of local soils as materials for road construction;
(5)  the review of road maintenance organization and practices
to provide more effective maintenance; and
(6)  assistance in recruiting skilled personnel to fill appoint-
ments for which no Ethiopians are available.
4.13      Because the reorganization of the IHA will require additional staff
to fill senior positions for which Ethiopian expertise is not readily avail-
able, it is proposed to employ expatriate personnel recruited with assistance
from PAS, on the staff of the IHA for an initial period of two years whilst
suitable Ethiopian personnal are being trained. About 12 man-years will be
needed for this purpose. It is proposed also to institute a training pro-
gram abroad for about ten selected Ethiopian personnel, per year, for two
years. The IHA has assured the Bank that it will take the steps necessary
to ensure that personnel so trained will remain in its service for at least
three years after their return to Ethiopia.
4.14      The total estimated cost of the advisory services, technical
assistance and training program is approximately US$ 1.13 million equivalent
with a foreign currency component of US$ 0.90 million which would be
financed from the loan and credits. A breakdown of cost is given in Table
5.



- 16 -
F. Execution of the Project
4.15      Responsibility for the project wtill rest with the IHA, assisted
by its consultants. Road construction and bituminous surfacing will be
undertaken by pre-qualified contractors on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank/
IDA. The Government confirmed its intentions in this regard during nego-
tiations.
Primary Road Construction
4.16      No difficulties are anticipated in obtaining right-of-way because
the IHA is authorized to take any privately owned land by eminent domain.
Contracts would be for appropriate lengths with estimated values of approxi-
mately US$ 10 million equivalent or more. Work could commence in mid 1968
and be completed in about 3½ years. Supervision will be by consultants
engaged under terms acceptable to the Bank/IDA. The cost of this super-
vision will be about US$ 1.5 million equivalent.
Bituminous Surfacing
4.17      WJork is expected to start in late 1968, and be completed by late
1970. Supervision will bo by qualified expatriate or local IHA staff who
have been trained under previous advisory services and will be given the
opportunity to gain experience in contract supervision. An assurance was
obtained during negotiations that consultants will be employed to super-
vise the bituminous surfac Ing if required by the Bank/IDA. An allowance
of US$ 0.15 million has bebn included in the project for this purpose.
Feasibility Studies aid Design Review
4.18      The feasibility studies and review of designs will be carried
out by a firm of consulting engineers to be selected on terms and condi-
tions acceptable to the Bank/IDA. These studies will commence in mid 1968
and be completed within about nine months.
Advisory Services, Technical Assistance and Training Program
4.19      The Government has agreed that the advisory services will be
supplied by PAS, the firm of management consultants which undertook, in
1966, the study into the organization and administration of the IRA (see
paragraph 3.9). These services will take account of the recommendations
of the PAS report of 1966 and will start in mid 1968 with reorganizing and
assistance in staffing, followed by training and advice in administration
and operations. Execution of this part of the project will proceed along
the lines indicated in Chart 2. Its satisfactory execution is considered
of vital importance. It was made clear to the Government during negotia-
tions that disbursement of funds from the loan/credit account will be
linked to satisfactory compliance with a time-schedule for effecting
improvements in its administration and operational procedures, which was
agreed between the IHA and the Bank.



- 17 -
0. Cost Estimates
4.20      A summary of the estimated costs of the project (see Table 5)
is as follows:
US$ Million Equivalent
Local    Foreign    Total
Road Construction and Supervision             8.370     19.530   27.900
Bituminous Surfacing and-Supervision          0.945      2.205    3.150
Feasibility Studies and Design Review         0.075      0.225    0.300
Advisory Services, Technical Assistance
and Training Program                       0.230      0.900    1.130
Contingency Allowances                        1.780      4140     5.920
Total        11.400     27.000   38.400
The contingencies include allowances of about 12½ percent. for changes
in physical quantities in the case of road construction and about 10 percent
for bituminous surfacing. An allowance of 7½ perc,nL   is also included for
price escalation. These estimates are based upon detailed engineering for
the road construction and bituminous surfacing and take account of unit price3
obtained in recent bids for similar work. The figures given for the advisory
services, technical assistance and training program and the feasibility and
design studies have been estimated by Bank staff. The foreign currency com-
ponent for the road construction and the bituminous surfacing was estimated
by the IHA with assistance from their advisory consultants (TAMS) at about
70 perc nt.   The foreign currency component for the advisory services,
technical assistance and training program has been estimated at 80 perc.anb
and for the feasibility and design studies at 75 percvns.
H. Finance
4.21      The Ethiopian Government has requested that the presently estimated
foreign currency component of the project be financed by the proposed Bank
loan and IDA credit. The Government has stated that it will provide the local
currency component out of normal budget appropriations. Disbursements will be
made directly to the consultants for the foreign exchange component of Parts
C and D of the project, and to IRA for 70 percxit  Df invoices submitted in
respect of Parts A and B of the project. Any surpluses which occur in one part
of the project may be applied to meet a deficit in the foreign currency com-
ponent in another part. The project is scheduled to be completed within about
four years. On the assumption that loan/credit signature would be in early
1968, annual foreign currency disbursements to be financed from the Bank loan
and the IDA and Swedish credits are estimated as follows:
Year                      1968     1969     1970     1971     Total
Forecast
Disbursements              2.5      7.5      9.5      7.5     27.0
US$ moin-
These disbursements will be financed in the proportions of 50 percent by the
Bank, 28.5 percent by IDA and 21.5 percent by the Kingdom of Sweden.



- 18 -
5. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. Introduction
5.1       The Bank's recent economic mission to Ethiopia recommended that a
rational investment program for the road sector should be prepared with
special emphasis on the transport requirements of agriculture and related
industries. For this purpose, it is expected that a road investment survey
will be carried out during 1968 with financial assistance from UNDP. In
view of the prospective survey, the main emphasis of the proposed loan is
on roads whose priority is already well established.
B. Primary Road Construction
Awash-Tendaho Road (303 km)
5.2       The proposed Awash-Tendaho road will follow the potentially produc.-
tive valley of the Awash River from Awash on the Nazreth-Harar road to
Tendaho on the Kombolchia-Assab road. This road serves a two-fold purpose:
(i) to open up the fertile river valley for implementation of an irrigation
scheme; and (ii) to provide a more adequate transport link between the
region around Addis Ababa and the port of Assab, the main ocean outlet in
Ethiopia.
5.3       The development of the Awash Valley region is supported by a sur-
vey conducted in 1965 by a group of FAO experts financed by the United
Nations Special Fund. This survey indicates that an area of 130,000 hectares
can be developed for intensive irrigated production using water from the
Awash River. The total costs of irrigation works and land development are
estimated to be about US$ 170 million and the total gross annual value of
production from the irrigation project would be about US$ 72 million. In
addition, a number of associated agricultural processing industries could
be developed. The survey report, however, emphasizes that its findings are
subject to confirmation by more detailed studies and that the development
of the whole Awash Valley should be implemented over a 10 to 25-year period
following a master plan prepared on the basis of number of detailed technicc-l
studies, such as agronomic studies, soil surveys, etc.
5.4       However, an immediate development is recommended, by the FAO expert,
for the region known as "Middle Valley" which begins near Awash and extends
for about 100 km northward along the river. The FAO report states that this
region has better climatic and soil conditions than the lower plains and ia
more suited to the development of intensive agriculture on commercial type
farms. (See para. 4.3)
5.5       The second objective, i.e. to provide a better transport link
between Addis Ababa and the port of Assab, is based on two considerations.
First, the alignment and grade of the present road via Kombolchia are unsatis-
factory for the large vehicles and tractor-trailer combinations which carry



- 19 -
goods between the capital and Assab. Improvement to adequate standards would
be prohibitively expensive. Second, it is expected that the Ethiopian port
of Assab will handle an increased proportion of Ethiopian cargo presently
moving through the port of Djibouti in French Somaliland.
5.6       The investments needed for these two objectives are not identical.
To develop the Middle Awash Valley, it is not necessary to build the entire
road from Awash to Tendaho, nor to the high standard proposed; a 100 km
gravel road from Awash would suffice. Since the gravel road can be justified
by agricultural benefits (see para. 5.7), the economic justification for
building the entire road between Awash and Tendaho to bitumen surfaced stan-
dards depends on the benefits to the Addis Ababa-Assab traffic and the addi-
tional cost necessary to build the through road. The cost breakdown, includ-
ing contingencies, is as follows:
US$ Million Equivalent
Total cost of a 303 km bituminous
surfaced road from Awash to Tendaho              19.0
Cost of 100 km gravel road from
Awash                                             5.4
Difference               13.6
5.7       The 100 km gravel road from Awash appears well justified.  The Bank
has estimated costs and benefits of the Middle Valley Development Scheme,
assuming that only the first stage development to 1973 will be carried out,
as follows:
US$ Million Equivalent
Cost of 100 km road                               5.4
Public Investment in Irrigation
Infrastructure                                 10.0
Private Investment                                6.0
Total Capital Cost       21.4
Annual value of gross production
of cotton and other crops starting
in 1973                                         5.6
Less cost of production                           2.6
Net Production             3.0



- 20 -
5.8       This net anmual production of U5$ 3 miLlion equivalent will repre-
sent a return of 11 to 12 percent on total public and private investments,
assuming conservatively an average economic life of 15 years. In fact, most
of the investment, particularly in the irrigation infrastructure, will have
a longer life, so that the rate of return would probably be somewhat higher.
5.9       The additional cost of US$ 14 million to raise the agricultural
road to surfaced standards and complete the remaining section to Tendaho
appears justified on the basis of savings in transport costs for the traffic
between Addis Ababa and Assab. Based on a sample Origin-and-Destination
Survey carried out by the IRA during 1966, the Bank estimates that about 75
of the 90 vehicles a day on the Assab-Konibolchia section of the road will
be diverted to the Awash-Tendaho road as follows:
Average Daily         Diverted to
Traffic - 1966         New Road
Automobiles                      12                   6
Trucks                           15                  11
Tractor-Trailers                 54                  50
Buses                             9                   8
Total           90                 75
5.10      Most of the traffic on the present road via Kombolchia is generated
by the port of Assab, but there are some vehicles, originating in the
plantations near Tendaho, transporting chiefly cotton to Addis Ababa and
the spinning plant in Dire Dawa (by way of Addis Ababa).  About one-third of
the port traffic consists of tankers carrying diesel oil and gasoline. This
traffic is expected to increase when the oil refinery (500,000 tons a year
capacity), currently under construction at Assab, is completed.
5.11      Assab is the main sea port and port traffic is likely to continue
to grow at least at the level of 8.5 percent per annum which has prevailed
in recent years. Based on this traffic growth, it may be assumed that traffic
on the Awash-Tendaho road wi]l grow at 7 percent per annum during the first
10 years and at 5 percent during the succeeding 10 years. This forecast is
conservative in that it does not take account of the gradual diversion of
traffic from other ports to Assab, in line with the Government's policy to
concentrate shipping requirements there.
5.12      Data provided by the IHA, confirmed by trucking companies in
Ethiopia, and with which the Bank agrees, indicate that vehicle operating
costs between Addis Ababa and Assab would be about 35 percent lower on the
new road than on the existing mountainous road. For instance, the operating
cost of a typical goods hauling vehicle on the road (tractor-trailer
combination) would be reduced from 350 (US equivalent) per km to 230 (US
equivalent). Applying these unit savings in vehicle operating cost to fuixYe
traffic indicates a return on the investment of about 10 percent during
the 20-year life of the road. Some additional benefits are lilkely to accrule



- 21 -
from agricultural development in the lower Awash valley, but it is not
possible to quantify such benefits at this stage.
5.13      The road should be constructed as quickly as possible for two
reasons: (a) a road through the Yiddle Valley is necessary to permit the
engineering and other preparations for the Development Scheme, and (b) in
view of the very favorable developmental potential of the Middle Valley
region, securing external financial assistance appears reasonably certain.
Even before public investment program in the region begins, the construction
of the road will permit private plantations to produce cotton on about 6,000
hectares.
Bedelle-Gore Road (138 km)
5.14      This road is an extension of the Jimma-Agaro and Agaro-Bedelle
roads. Traffic on the Jimma-Agaro road, wihich was completed about three
years ago, has grown substantially. The Agaro-Bedelle road is still under
construction with IDA assistance. However, a 20 km section was opened to
traffic last year, before the completion of work, because of the urgent need
for road facilities in the area.
5 15      The whole region from Jimma to Bedelle and on to Gore has fertile
soils and adequate rainfall. It is particularly suited for crops such as
coffee and tea, and for dairy produce. The area also includes the famous
coffee producing province of Kafa (whence the name "coffee" is believed to
have originated); the present production of the region accounts for about
10 percent of total coffee production in Ethiopia. Benefits of the proposed
road are expected to result from (a) improvement in the quality and some
increased production of coffee, and a reduction in its transport cost, and
(b) increased production of miscellaneous crops by intensified farming.
5.16      The new road will make it possible to provide the improved market-
ing and processing services planned by the Coffee Board. Measures to
improve coffee processing will include the introduction of cooperative
societies and perhaps the production of washed and fermented parchment in
cooperative factories. Improved processing is estimated to increase the
price of coffee from US$ 500 to us$ 880 equivalent per ton. The average
savings in transporting the coffee over the new road, compared with the pre-
sent transport by pack animal, are estimated at about US$ 22 equivalent per
ton. The Coffee Board estimates that if the road were constructed, production
would rise immediately to about 20,000 tons a year from its present level of'
7,000 tons; this would result from more wild coffee being picked rather than
any increased planting. In view of the quota restrictions on coffee export,
it will, however, be unrealistic to assume that such an increase in produc-
tion could be marketed. For this reason, only a small increase of 3,000 tons
is taken into consideration in estimating benefits. Initially, only a
reduction in transportation cost will be realized when the road is opened to
traffic. Improvement of the quality of coffee would begin slowly and reach



- 22 -
its optimum in about four years. Increased coffee production is assumed to
commence in the third year of operation of the road, reaching the total pro-
duction of 10,000 tons in the seventh year.
5.17      Other crops would be produced on a small scale at first and not
reach their production targets until early in the second decade. The esti-
mated schedules of increasing production are shown in Table 6, from which it
may be observed that the total net benefit from the road would increase
gradually from about US$ 0.5 million equivalent in the first year to about
US$ 5.0 million in the 14th and 15th years.  The proposed investment is esti-
mated to have an economic life of 15 years. Thus, the net value of production
estimated over the economic life of the road will yield a rate of return of
approximately 19 percent.
5.18      The Government has not investigated the potential of this area for
tea production but the Bank estimates that about 10,000 hectares in the area
of influence of the road are suitable for tea growing. The Government has
agreed to study the feasibility of tea production and, if results warrant it,
to prepare specific development proposals. The possible benefits from tea
production have not been considered in assessing the economic justification
of the project.
C. Bituminous Surfacing
Jimma-Agaro Road (44 km)
5.19      The Jimma-Agaro road carries a substantial traffic volume of almost
200 vehicles daily of which about 40 percent are trucks. The savings in
vehicle operating cost from paving this road will yield about 28 percent on
the cost of the project during its 15-year economic life. This very high
rate of return is due primarily to the low cost of construction arising from
the fact that the present gravel road was completed only recently with Bank
participation and the work necessary under the project involves only the
placing of a base and bituminous surface.
Nazreth-Awash Road (125 km)
5.20      The second road calling for bituminous surfacing is the Nazreth-
Awash road. This road at present carries only about 60 vehicles a day, of
which about 45 percent are trucks. On the basis of this traffic volume, the
proposed surfacing would not be justified. But if the Awash-Tendaho road
is built, the Assab port traffic will use this road to reach Addis Ababa,
in which case the daily traffic on the road in 1970 will be approximately
200 vehicles. On this basis the savings in vehicle operating costs will
produce a rate of return, during the 15-year economic life of the invest-
ment, of nearly 28 percent on the surfacing cost of US$ 2.5 million equivalent.
D. Feasibility Studies
5.21      The following five roads (570 km) appear to be of high priority:



- 23 -
Bonga-Mizam Teferi-Tepi               155 km
Asella-Boccoggi-Dodolla               120 km
Asbe Teferi-Gelemso-Mecharra          140 km
Asita-Dubti-Tendaho                    60 km
Hosanna-Soddu                          95 km
Total    570 km
5.22      Agricultural and other available economic data, however, are
inadequate to make reasonably firm estimates of expected benefits from the
proposed investment. Moreover, there are no reliable cost estimates.
Feasibility studies should take account of the conclusions and recommenda-
tions of the agricultural sector review conducted by a Stanford Research
Institute team, the first part of whose report has been produced, and which
indicates the ten most promising agricultural regions in Ethiopia. The
consultants should also maintain close liaison with the UNDP Road Invest-
ment Survey team which is expected to start its work in Ethiopia early in
1968 and complete its work in about 6 months. Based upon these studies it
will be possible to plan an extension of the secondary and feeder road
system to enhance the benefits to be derived from road investment in Ethiopia.



6. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOivIENDATIONS
6.1       The project, which comprises (i) the construction of about 440 km
of primary roads, (ii) the bituminous surfacing of about 170 km of existing
primary roads, (iii) feasibility studies and the review of designs for
about 800 km of high priority roads, and (iv) advisory services and a program
of technical assistance and training designed to improve highwiay administra-
tive and operational procedures, is technically sound. The cost estimates
for construction and bituminous surfacing are based upon detailed engineering
and recent bids for similar work in Ethiopia. They include an adequate
allowance for supervision of construction and contingencies, and are
considered realistic.
6.2       The Awash-Tendaho road will provide a better route between Addis
Ababa and the port of Assab, and provide access to a new agricultural area.
The Bedelle-Gore road will open up an imrportant agricultural area.  The
bituminous surfacing program will reduce vehicle operating costs.
6.3       The construction and bituminous surfacing parts of the project will
yield an adequate return.  The feasibility and design studies could lead to
a further project to develop the secondary and feeder road system. The advisory
services, and the program of technical assistance and training will assist
materially in improving highway administration and operations in Ethiopia.
6.4       Construction and bituminous surfacing will be carried out by
contractors on the basis of international competitive bidding procedures
acceptable to the Bank/IDA. Execution of the project will be carried out
by the IHA, employing consultants under terms acceptable to the Bank/IDA.
6.5       During loan negotiations the Government gave the following importJant
assurances:
(i)  road user charges will be reviewed by consultants (para. 2.13);
(ii) the IHA will overhaul its administrative and operational
procedures in accordance with the recommendations of PAS
within an agreed time schedule and disbursement of loan/
credit funds will be linked to satisfactory progress
thereon (paras. 3.10 and 4.19);
(iii) appropriate machinery will be provided for resolving
contractor disputes (para. 3.15);
(iv) consultants engaged under terms acceptable to the Bank/IDA
will be employed for the supervision of road construction
(paras. 3.16 and 4.16);



- 25 -
(v) it will prepare by December 31, 1969, a specific irrigation
project for the development of about 20,000 hectares which
are in the immediate area of influence of the Awash-
Tendaho road (para. 4.3); and
(vi) it will prepare by December 31, 1968 a plan for a phased
program for agricultural development of the Bedelle-Gore
region including research into crop diversification,
particularly tea (para. 4h5).
6.6       One condition of effectiveness is that the Swedish credit agreement
shall have been ratified by the Kingdom of Sweden and the Empire of Ethiopia.
A further condition is that consultants shall have been engaged under terms
acceptable to the Bank/IDA to advise on changes in highway administration and
operations.
6.7       The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$ 13.
million and an IDA credit of US$ 7.7 million to the Government of Ethiopia.
A suitable term for the Bank loan would be 24 years including a 14½ year
period of grace.
November 24, 1967



TABLE 1
IETHIOPIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Inventory for the Past 10 Years
.~~~~~~
(kilometers)
All-weather roads                                       Total of
Service to     Total All-   Dry-weather all roads
Year      Asphalt     Gravel 1/  Traffic 2/    Wleather Roads   Trails    & trails
1957-58       780         1875        -              2655         20345     23000
1958-59       800         2250        -              3050         19950     23000
1959-6o       870         2565        -              3h35         19565     23000
1960-61       935         3000        -              3935         19065     23000
1961-62      1065         3250        -             h315          18685     23000
] 962-63     1244         3578        -             4822          18178     23000
1963-64      1244         3702        -              4946         18054     23000
1964-65      1455         3869       137             5461         17539     23000
1965-66      1526         3778       451             5755         17245     23000
1966-67      1868         4257       657             6782         16218     23000
1/ Surfaced with crushed stone
2/ Earth roads,surfaced with selected material only
Source: Imperial Highway Authority



TABLE 2
ETHIOPIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Motor Vehicle Registration by Types
for the Period 1961-1965
Prop of
Passenger                                Truck-Trailer          Pass
Year     cars      Busses   Pickups   Trucks   Combinations    Total  Cars
1961   12,802       812      2,060     2,375        841      18,890    68j-o
1962     - _         _ _       _ _       _ 
1963   13,999       961      1,839     2,445       68h       19,928    705)
196h   21,408     1,559      1,498     2,135      1,029       27,629   77%
1965   24,554     1,698      1,422     2,288      1,661      31,623     78%
Average
Annual
Growth (%)
1961-65    18        20          -7       -1       18.5        13.5
Source: Imperial Highway Authority



ETHIOPIA                      TABTLE 3
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Breakdown of Budget & Actual Expenditures
(For Fiscal Years 1962/63-1966/67)
(In thousand Ethiopian dollars)
Fiscal Year         1962-1963     1963-1964      1964-1965     19651966     1967
I. Submitted & approved
budget
A. Submitted Budget:
I.E.G. Fund           23,300        29,882         33,799        35,916     39,671
Loan Fund             13,501        10,208         11,822        17,423     17,676
Total:           36,BO,1       r     090      45,621        53,339     *   17,3L7
B. Approved Budget:
I.E.G. Fund           20,000        23,700         25,042        25,106     26,356
Loan Fund             12 736          8,805        11,800         17,423    17,771
Total:             m           32,505         36,842        42,529      4,12_
II. Actual Receipts &
Actual Expenditures
A. Actual Receipts
I.E.G. Fund           20,000        22,102         24,637        25,106     26,356
Ministry of Finance                     434
I.B.R.D. 2nd Program   3,545           668
D.L.F.               8,279
I.D.A. 3rd Program                   5,318          6,420         8,736      7,45o
A.I.D.                                                           3,687     5,321
German Loan         _5_ 00o
S/Total:         31,B24                       31,057        37,529       ,127
Credit Granted         669           337          3,198          1,300     L,5co
Total:         32,493       -28B9           342529 42,627
B. Actual Expenditure
IT-Program            25,635        26,341         32,517         35,460    41,738
2)  Fixed Assets       1,727         3,684          2,625          2,197     2,312
3)  Inventories        4,629            921   Less (1,458)           625       971-
4)  Sundries & Suspen    502    Less(2 087)           571            547       606
Total:         32,4,93           28855                    38,829     Wzr'7
1/  Actual expenditure for F.Y. 1965-1966 and 1966-1967 are given on estinate
basis because the account books for F.Y. 1965-1966 have not been closed
at time of preparing this table.
Program expenditures include maintenance, construction (both contract
and force account) other engineering services and expenditures for
administration.
Source: Imperial Highwray Authority



ETHIOPIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Design Standards
-_   -- Primary ------------   -------- Secondary-----------   -------- Feeder -------------
Flat     Rolling Mountainous    Flat     Rolling  Mountainous   Flat     Rolling  Mountainous
Terrain  Terrain Terrain        Terrain  Terrain Terrain        Terrain Terrain   Terrain
Design Speed kph          100      80       40          70-90    50-to    30o4o         60-80    4o-6o    30-40
Roadway Width, meters       8       8        8            7        7         7            6        6        6
Pavement Width, meters      6       6        6           5.5      5.5       5.5
Maximum Gradient,
percent                           9       10                     9         9                     9       10
for 400 m                        for 1 km                       for 1 km
Minimum Radius, meters    436.6   268.7     67         249.5     134.3     8io3          194      87.3     58.2
Pavement Camber,
percent                    3      3        3           4         4        4             4        4         4
Design Axle Loading:   18,000 lb and medium traffic classification
Design Bridge Loading:   H.20-S.16
Bridge Width, curb-to-curb:   7.32 meters
Source:  Imperial Highway Authority



TABLE 5
ETHIOPIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Cost Estimates
US $ MILLIOIT
Local     Foreign     Total
Part A - Primary Road Construction
(i)  Awash-Tendaho                   5.070      11.830    16.900
(Ii)  Bedelle-Gore                    2.850       6.650     9.500
(iii)  Supervision                     0.450       1.050     1.500
Part B - Bituminous Surfacing
(i)  Nazreth-Awash                   0.690       1.610     2.300
(ii)  Jimma-Agaro                     0.210       0.490    0.700
(iii)  Supervision                     0.045       0.105    0.150
Part C - Feasibility Studies and
Design Review                   0.075       0.225     0.300
Part D - Other Consulting Services
and Training
(i) Advisoxy Services                0.150       0.550     0.700
(ii)  Technical Assistance            0.050       0.200     0.250
(iii)  Training Program                0.030       0.150     0.180
Contigencies:
Physical                          1.130       2.630     3.760
Price Escalation                  0.650       1.510     2.160
Totals:      11.400      27.000   38.400



TABLE 6
ETHIOPIA
FOURTH HIGHWPAY PROJECT
Estimates of Net Agricultural Benefits
Bedelle-Gore Highway
(In million Ethiopian dollars)
Net Value of
Year            Savings     Increased          Additional
(Starting       in coffee    value of coffee    Production
from opening    transport   production from             Other Crops,Live-
of highway)       cost      improved quality   Coffee   stocl: a F6re* tr   Total
1             .4               *9           -        .1                 1.4
2             .4              2.0           -        .2                 2.6
3             .4              3.0         1.0        .3                 4.7
4             .4              4.9          2.0       .6                 7.9
5             .4              4.9          3.0      1.0                 9.3
6             .4              4.9          4.0      1.5                10.8
7             .4              4.5          4.3      2.0                11.6
8             .4              4.9          4.3      2.5                12.1
9             .4              4.9          4.3      2.8                12.14
10             .4              4.9          4.3      3.1                12.7
11             .4              4.9          4.3      3.2                12.8
12             .4              4.9          4.3      3.3                12.9
13             .4              4.9          4.3      3.4                13.0
14             .4              4.9          4.3      3.5                 13.1
15             .4              4.9          4.3      3.5                 13.1



ETHIOPIA: FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
PRESENT ORGANIZATION - IMPERIAL HIGHWAY AUTHORITY
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
GENERAL
MANAGER
COMMITTEES|DEPUTY                                                                        SECRETARY
CHIEF AUDITOR                      PLANNING AND                        DIRECTOR OF                      CHIEF ENGINEER                   TRAINING ENGINEER
PROGRAMMING      ENGINEER              ADMINISTRATION
DEPUTY                             DEPUTY                             DEPUTY                             DEPUTY                              DEPUTY
Document Pre-Audit                 Press and Information              Administration                        OFFICE ENGINEER                 Administration
Administrative Inspection          Traffic Studies                      Radio                                                               General Services
Central Office Records             Size and Weight                       Pesonnel                                                           Engineering
Warehouse and Equipment            Inventory and Mapping                 Legal                           Right-of-Way                       Technical and Mechanical
Signs                                 Medical                         Parts and Supplies                 Field Testing and Training
Economics and Statistics              Procurement                     Equipment                          Trammg Projects
General Services                 Maintenance
Central Archives                 Materials and Research
Bridges
Finance                            Survey and Design
General Accounts                 Construction
Cost Accounts                    Provincial Roads
Financial Relations
Foreign Loans and Aid
Budget
Mechanized Coordination
SOURCE: Imperial Highway Authority                                                                                                                                               I
(R)IBRD-3421    H



ETHIOPIA: FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
PROPOSED SCHEDULE FOR ADVISORY SERVICES
CALENDAR MONTHS                           |      DISTRIBUTION OF MAN-MONTHS
SERVICE               ________________________                                    __jBY STAFF MEMBERS
0 )                  12                   2 4                   36A     B    C    D   E    F    G   TOTAL
GENERAL ADMINISTRATION                           . .                                               6    3                              9
LEGAL SERVICES                                                                                      I                                  1
PERSONNEL SERVICES                                                                                 2    5             24              31
FISCAL SERVICES                                                             ____                    I    I  15                        17
MANAGEMENT SERVICES                      ,::.                                                     18    6    3                        27
GENERAL SERVICES                                                                                                                       2 I  I  2
PLANNING AND PROGRAMMING                              __________|                                                           3          4
SUPPLIES AND EQUIPMENT                                                                             2    5    3   18             6     34
DESIGN                            E=                                                                                        3   12    16
OPERATIONS                                                                                         2    7                  1 2   3    24
CONTRACT CONSTRUCTION                                                                               I   2    3              6    3    15
36   30   24   18   24  24   24    180
ACTIVITY:       REORGANIZATION AND STAFFING
DEVELOPMENT AND DOCUMENTATION OF PROCEDURES
///Z/ TRAINING AND ADVISORY ASSISTANCE
STAFF CODE: A. OBM SPECIALIST (SUPERVISOR)  E. PERSONNEL AND TRAINING SPECIALIST
B. OaM SPECIALIST              F. TECHNICAL OPERATIONS SPECIALIST                                                          I
C. FISCAL SPECIALIST           G. SHORT-TERM CONSULTANTS (INCLUDES DESIGN                                                  D
D SUPPLY SPECIALIST              TECHNICAL ADVISOR FOR 12 MONTHS)                                              (R)IBRD-3422
(R) IBRD -3422 ~r,.



ETHIOPIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
I  _   \              W                            d   MASMT  eddte ccie  edo
pTeseoar   A S M -  -  '   er   \           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Esisscai,ba11  tseher rds
-'- r A= \   c,tncsrresig 33;LT
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ed Less cosstescse;
d          Lee) CZOND   |di t_ 35ST
3             a- -E                          E    9    i Ada      .-       *Rdsc ensteu
* ~ ~~ ~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -3 -Kroe           ase  Lea  16s-LT\\
G MRONDA                                                - 
*f     /<                                                     J        O -        ALE
\   Tc(> O N  L-  )Di1        _    <  (iOFA     )- S  5j~
V~~~~~~~~~~>                              \               5M    AR8~7 << IA
U G A N D A  i          's'-.,,            /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5-
d.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V
-.  May51.  f               0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......
I   §                      ~~~~~~~~~K  E  N  Y    A   /
NOVdMdRe L9s7                                                                                seen-isoses



