CREDIT NUMBER 111 ET
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fourth Highway Project)
BETWEEN
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 15, 1968


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 111 ET
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fourth Highway Project)
BETWEEN
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 15, 1968


﻿AGREEMENT, dated January 15, 1968, between the EMPiRE
OF ETHIOPIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
TVHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis of the
arrangements described in the Recitals to the agreement
of even date herewith (hereinafter called the Third Bank
Loan Agreement) between the Borrower and the Inter-
national Bank for Reconstruction and Development (here-
inafter called the Bank), to make a credit to the Borrower
in an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven
million and seven hundred thousand dollars ($7,700,000),
on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
Now   THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
Credit Regulations; Special Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of Development Credit Regulations No. 1
of the Association dated June 1, 1961 as amended February
9, 1967, with the same force and effect as if they were fully
set forth herein subject, however, to the following modifi-
cations thereof (said Development Credit Regulations No.
1 as so modified being hereinafter called the Regulations):
(a) Section 4.06 is deleted and the following new Section
is substituted therefor:
" Section 4.06. Payment by the Association. Payment
by the Association of amounts which the Borrower is


﻿j
4
entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account shall be
made to or on the order of the Authority."
(b) Paragraph 9 of Section 9.01 is deleted and the follow-
ing new paragraph is substituted therefor:
"9. The term "Project" means the project or proj-
ects or program or programs for which the Credit is
granted, as described in the Third Bank Loan Agree-
ment and as the description thereof shall be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower
and the Bank.''
SECTION 1.02. Except where the context otherwise re-
quires, the terms defined in the Third Bank Loan Agree-
ment shall have the same meanings as in such Third Bank
Loan Agreement wherever used in the Development Credit
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to make available
to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the De-
velopment Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, a
development credit in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to seven million and seven hundred thousand
dollars ($7,700,000).
SECTION 2.02. The Association shall open a Credit Ac-
count on its books in the name of the Borrower and shall
credit to such Account the amount of the Credit. The
amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account as provided in, and subject to the rights of can-
cellation and suspension set forth in, the Development
Credit Agreement.
SECTION 2.03. Except as the Borrower and the Associa-


﻿5
tion shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall be entitled
to withdraw from the Credit Account:
(a) such amounts as shall have been paid, or, if the
Association shall so agree, such amounts as shall be re-
quired to meet payments to be made, for the reasonable
cost of goods in respect of which withdrawals shall not
have been made under the Third Bank Loan Agreement
or u-nder the Swedish Agreement for Parts C and D of
the P'roject; and
(b) the equivalent of a percentage or percentages as may
be established from time to time by agreement between
the Borrower and the Association of such amounts as shall
have been paid, or, if the Association shall so agree, such
amounts as shall be required to meet payments to be made
for the reasonable cost of goods for Parts A and B of the
Project.
SECTION 2.04. The currency of the United States of
America is specified for the purposes of Section 3.02(a) of
the Regulations.
SECTION 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Associa-
tion a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
per cent (% of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
The Borrower shall also pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount outstanding from time
to time of any special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 4.02 of the Regulations.
SECTION 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-


﻿6
annual installments payable on each January 15 and July
15 commencing January 15, 1978 and ending July 15, 2017,
each installment to and including the installment payable
on July 15, 1987 to be one-half of one per cent (1 of 1%)
of such principal amount and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1 %) of such principal
amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of
the Credit to be applied exclusively to financing the cost
of goods required to carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Third Bank Loan Agreement. The spe-
cific allocation of the proceeds of the Credit and the meth-
ods and procedures for procurement of the goods to be
financed out of such proceeds shall be determined by agree-
ment between the Association, the Bank and the Authority,
subject to modification by further agreement between them.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause all
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
in the territories of the Borrower exclusively in the carry-
ing out of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) Sections 5.01, 5.02, 3.03, 5.07, 5.08,
5.09, 5.10 and 5.11 of the Third Bank Loan Agreement are
hereby incorporated into the Development Credit Agree-
ment with the same force and effect as if they were fully
set forth herein; provided, however, that (i) all references
to the Bank in such Sections or in any of them shall be
deemed to be references to the Association, and (ii) all
references in such Sections or in any of them to the Loan


﻿I
7
Agreement shall be deemed to be references to the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement and all references thereunder to
the Loan shall be deemed to be references to the Credit.
(b) So long as any part of the loan provided for under
the Third Bank Loan Agreement or the Bonds executed
and delivered pursuant to the provisions of Article IV of
such Third Bank Loan Agreement shall remain outstanding
and unpaid, all action taken, including approvals given,
by the Bank pursuant to the Sections of the Third Bank
Loan Agreement enumerated in the foregoing paragraph
shall be deemed to be taken or given in the name and on
behalf of both the Bank and the Association; and all infor-
mation furnished by the Borrower to the Bank pursuant
to the provisions of such Sections, shall be deemed to be
furnished to both the Bank and the Association.
SECTION 4.02. The provisions of the Sections of the
Third Bank Loan Agreement enumerated in paragraph (a)
of Section 4.01 of the Development Credit Agreement, ex-
cept Section 5.03, and all obligations of the parties there-
under shall terminate on a date twenty-five years after
the date of this Agreement, or on the date when the Third
Bank Loan Agreement and all obligations of the parties
thereunder shall terminate, whichever is the later.
SECTION 4.03. The r-incipal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories and free from all restric-
tions imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in
effect in its territories.
SECTION 4.04. The Development Credit Agreement shall
be free from any taxes that shall be imposed under the
laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories
on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registra-
tion thereof.


﻿8
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. (i) If any event specified in paragraph
(a) or paragraph (c) of Section 5.02 of the Regulations
shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days,
or (ii) if any event specified or referred to in paragraph
(b) of Section 5.02 of the Regulations or in Section 5.02 (b)
of the Development Credit Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower,
then at any subsequent time during the continuance thereof,
the Association, at its option, may declare the principal of
the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable imme-
diately, and upon any such declaration such principal
shall become due and payable immediately, anything in
the Development Credit Agreement to the contrary not-
withstanding.
SECTION 5.02. For the purposes of Section 5.02 (k) of
the Regulations, the following additional events are speci-
fied:
(a) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the Third Bank Loan Agreement shall have been
suspended in whole or in part.
(b) The outstanding principal of the loan provided for
in the Third Bank Loan Agreement shall have been
declared, or become, due and payable in advance of
the agreed maturity thereof.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTIOx 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section
8.01 (b) of the Regulations:


﻿I
9
The conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Third Bank Loan Agreement shall have been fulfilled,
subject only to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
SECTION 6.02. The date of May 15, 1968 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 8.04 of the Regulations.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1972
or such later date as may be agreed by the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Regulations:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Addis Ababa
Ethiopia
Alternative address for cables:
Ministry of Finance
Addis Ababa
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
SECTIoN 7.03. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated for the purposes of Section 7.03 of the
Regulations.


﻿10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
By s/ ATo BULCHA DEMEKSA
Authorized Representative
INTERlN. ONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By s/ GEORGE D. WOODS
President


