LOAN NO. 523 ET
CREDIT NO. 111 ET
Administration Letter
(Ethiopia: Fourth Highway Project)
TO
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
FROM
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTON
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JANUARY 15, 1968


﻿LOAN NO. 523 ET
CREDIT NO. 111 ET
Administration Letter
(Ethiopia: Fourth Highway Project)
TO
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
FROM
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTON
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JANUARY 15, 1968


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
January 15, 1968
His Excellency Hubert de Besche Svensk
Ambassador
Embassy of Sweden
Washington, D.C.
Ethiopia: Fourth Highway Project
Administration Letter
Sir:
1. We refer to the Development Credit Agreement (here-
inafter called the Association Agreement) between the
Empire of Ethiopia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the International Development Association (hereinafter
called the Association), the Loan Agreement (hereinafter
called the Bank Agreement) between the Borrower and the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(hereinafter called the Bank), the Development Credit
Agreement (hereinafter called the Swedish Agreement)
between the Kingdom of Sweden (hereinafter called
Sweden) and the Borrower, and the Project Agreement
between the Bank and the Association on the one hand
and the Imperial Highway Authority (hereinafter called
the Authority) on the other hand, all of even date herewith.
Pursuant to the said Agreements:
(a) Sweden has agreed to make available to the Bor-
rower a Credit equivalent at present parity rate as near
as possible to U.S.$5,800,000 (SKr 30,000,000);


﻿4
(b) The Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower a Credit of U.S. $7,700,000 equivalent;
(c) The Bank has agreed to make available to the Bor-
rower a Loan of U.S. $13,500,000 equivalent;
all to assist the Borrower in financing the Project described
in the Bank and the Swedish Agreements. The purpose of
this Administration Letter is to set forth the bases for the
withdrawal of the funds made available by Sweden, the
Association and the Bank and to provide for other matters
of mutual concern to the Association, the Bank and Sweden.
2. The withdrawal procedures set forth below are agreed
to be subject to change by further agreement between the
Association, the Bank and Sweden.
3. Application for Withdrawals
A. Whenever the Borrower shall desire to withdraw
any amount from the accounts established under the Asso-
ciation Agreement, the Bank Agreement and the Swedish
Agreement, it shall deliver to the Bank a written applica-
tion in such form, and containing such statements and
agreements, as the Bank shall reasonably request.
B. The Bank may deal with each withdrawal applica-
tion as a request to withdraw amounts pursuant to the
said three Agreements.
4. Withdrawals
A. If the Bank determines that the Borrower's applica-
tion is satisfactory (and such determination shall be
deemed to constitute acceptance of the application by the
Association also) there shall be disbursed from the Credit
Account and the Loan Account the amounts to which the
Borrower is entitled pursuant to the Association Agree-
ment and the Bank Agreement.
B. When the Bank has approved disbursement in accord-


﻿5
ance with the foregoing, it shall notify the Sveriges Riks-
bank, acting as agent for Sweden, that it has received from
the Borrower a satisfactory application to withdraw, and
has approved disbursement of specified amounts from the
Credit Account and the Loan Account. The notice shall be
in such form and contain such other information including
the currency or currencies in which disbursement is to be
made, and to whom and to the credit of whom payment is
to be made, as the Association, the Bank and Sweden shall
from time to time determine.
C. Upon receipt of such notice the Sveriges Riksbank,
acting as agent for Sweden, shall, subject to the provisions
of the Swedish Agreement (including any rights of sus-
pension or terminati .n of withdrawal thereof) promptly
disburse the amount to which the Borrower is entitled
pursuant to the Swedish Agreement.
D. In accordance with the foregoing and with the Asso-
ciation Agreement, the Bank Agreement and the Swedish
Agreement the amount to be disbursed by the Association,
the Bank and Sweden in respect of each of the applications
for withdrawal submitted by the Borrower shall be reason-
ably determined by the Bank by apportioning as nearly as
is practicable in the circumstances the amount requested
in such application to the accounts established under the
Association Agreement, the Bank Agreement and the
Swedish Agreement in the respective proportions of Asso-
ciation 28.5%; Bank 50%; Sweden 21.5% (or in such other
respective proportions as may from time to time be agreed
upon by the Association, the Bank and Sweden).
5. Sufficiency of Applications and Documents. Each appli-
cation and the accompanying documents must be sufficient
in form and substance to satisfy the Bank that the Bor-
rower is entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account
established by the Association Agreement and the Loan
Account established by the Bank Agreement the amount


﻿6
applied for and that the amount to be so withdrawn from
the said accounts is to be used only for the purpose specified
in the Association Agreement and the Bank Agreement.
6. Exchange of Information and Consultation
A. It is our intention that there shall be close collabora-
tion between us on matters relating to the execution, includ-
ing supervision of the Project, and on other matters of com-
mon interest to us in the administration of the Association
Agreement, the Bank Agreement and the Swedish Agree-
ment. To this end we shall keep each other currently in-
formed of the progress of the Project and consult with
each other before taking any action with respect to it which
is outside the normal course of administration. We shall
each retain, however, our respective independent rights of
decision and action under the Association Agreement, the
Bank Agreement and the Swedish Agreement, including
the right of the Association, the Bank and Sweden to permit
continued disbursements under its respective Agreements
with the Borrower in case of suspension or cancellation
under the other Agreements.
B. The Association and the Bank will inform Sweden and
correspondingly Sweden will inform the Association and
the Bank if any event comes to their knowledge which
threatens to increase materially the estimated cost of the
Project or which materially affects the progress of the
Project, or which threatens to impede it substantially, and
the Association, the Bank and Sweden shall consult each
other concerning the action which each proposes to take
in respect thereof.
C. The Bank will promptly inform Sweden if the cumu-
lative withdrawals from the accounts established under the
respective Agreements are likely to exceed four million
dollars equivalent before June 30, 1968, fourteen million
dollars equivalent before June 30, 1969, and twenty-three
million dollars equivalent before June 30, 1970, and Sweden


﻿7
will promptly inform the Bank whenever it appears possi-
ble that appropriated funds will not be sufficient to cover
the percentage assigned to Sweden under paragraph 4 D
above. Should any of the events specified above occur the
Association, the Bank and Sweden will consult with each
other as to what action should be taken in respect thereto.
D. The Association, the Bank and Sweden shall promptly
inform each other whenever one of them proposes:
(i) to modify materially its Agreement with the Bor-
rower;
(ii) to suspend or terminate in whole or in part, with-
drawals under such Agreement; or
(iii) to declare the indebtedness of the Borrower under
such Agreement to be due and payable in advance
of the agreed maturity thereof.
In each case the Association, the Bank and Sweden shall
afford each other all reasonable opportunity, in advance of
taking the proposed action, to exchange views with respect
thereto.
E. The Association, the Bank and Sweden shall exchange
information on the progress of the Project on the basis of
the findings of any inspection by their representatives.
F. Unless otherwise notified by Sweden the Bank shall
represent Sweden with respect to supplementary agree-
ments or arrangements with the Borrower regarding
changes in the supplemental letter on Allocation of Loan/
Credits Proceeds and Disbursement Percentages (Fourth
Highway Project) of even date herewith. Before agreeing
to any such change which is not of a purely formal nature
the Bank shall consult with Sweden and, in the case of a
change in the allocation of proceeds of the respective
Agreements, other than that specified in paragraph 5 of
the said supplemental letter on Allocation of Loan/Credits
Proceeds and Disbursement Percentages (Fourth Highway
Project), obtain the concurrence of Sweden.


﻿8
G. The Association and the Bank shall give Sweden, by
cablegram or radiogram three days' advance notice of their
intention of declaring the Association Agreement and the
Bank Agreement in force and effect. Notice shall similarly
be transmitted to Sweden as soon as the Association Agree-
ment and the Bank Agreement have come into force and
effect.
7. Exercise of Functions by the Bank. The Bank shall exer-
cise the same care in the discharge of its functions under
this letter as it exercises in respect of the administration
and management of its own affairs.
S. Miscellaeous. Any notice or request required or per-
mitted to be given or made under this Letter and any
agreement contemplated by this Letter shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by
mail, telegram, cable or radiogram to the party to which it
is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's
address specified below, or at such other address as such
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving
such notice or making such request:
For Sweden:
(a) for the purposes of paragraph 4:
Sveriges Riksbank
P.O. Box 2119
Stockholm 2
Alternative address for cables and radiograms
Riksbanken
Stockholm


﻿9
(b) for all other purposes:
Swedish International Development Authority
P.O. Box 342
Stockholm 1
Alternative address for cables and radiograms
SIDA
Stockholm
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Alternative address for cables and radiograms
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Alternative address for cables and radiograms
Intbafrad
Washington, D.C.
Please indicate your agreement with the foregoing by
signing the form of confirmation on the three counterparts


﻿10
of this Letter retaining one for your records and returning
the other two to us.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AsSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND    EVELOPMENT
By: s/ GEORGE D. WOODS
President
CONFIRMED:
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
By: s/ HUBERT DE BESCIE
Authorized Representative


