긔


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated                               1981, between
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNA-
A
TIONAL DEVELOPMENT 15SOCIATION (hereinafter called the Associa-
tion).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(B) any financing so provided by the Association would be
refunded, if the Association so requests, out of the proceeds of
any credit by the Association or loan by the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development which may later be granted to
the Borrower for the construction of the water supply, sewerage
and sanitation facilities to be engineered under the Project;
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
. . . . . . . . . . .


﻿-2-
(a) "MLMWD" means the Ministry of Lands, Mineral and Water
Development of the Borrower;
(b) "WDD" means the Water Development Department of MLMWD;
(c) "NWSC" means the National Water and Sewerage Corporation
established under Decree No. 34 of December 16, 1972, of the
Borrower;
(d) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and NWSC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all Schedules
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(e) "Project Coordination Unit" means the Project
Coordination Unit of MLMWD referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of
this Agreement; and
(f) "Uganda Shillings" and "USh" mean Uganda Shillings
in the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to seven million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 7,100,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be January 31, 1985
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each January 1
and July 1 commencing July 1, 1991, and ending January 1, 2031,
each installment to and including the installment payable on
January 1, 2001, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A.1,
C, D.3 and E.1 and 3 of the Project through WDD with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)  The Borrower shall establish and maintain within MLMWD
an adequately staffed Project Coordination Unit which shall be
responsible for coordinating all activities relevant to the
implementation of the Project.
(c)  The Borrower shall, by September 30, 1981, employ for
its Project Coordination Unit one engineer whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association.


﻿-4-
(d) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause NWSC to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable NWSC to perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
(e) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of paragraph (d) above, the Borrower shall transfer to NWSC as
an equity contribution, out of the proceeds of the Credit, an
amount in Uganda Shillings equivalent to six million seven hundred
thousand dollars ($6,700,000).
(f) The Borrower shall: (i) by October 31, 1982, prepare a
program, satisfactory to the Association, to revise the structure
of the water supply and sewerage tariffs of WDD and NWSC, such
program to be prepared taking into account the conclusions of
the study included in Part B of the Project and the comments of
the Association thereon; and (ii) by January 1, 1983, or such
later date as may be mutually agreed, put into effect such
program.
Section 3.02. (a) For the carrying out of Parts A.1 and
C of the Project, the Borrower shall, by May 31, 1981, employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of
Part E.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall employ one hygiene
specialist whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) cooperate fully
with the consultants and expert referred to in Section 3.02 above
in the performance of their services for the Project and make
available to them all information relevant to the Project; and
(ii) cause such consultants and expert promptly to furnish to the
Association drafts of the documents prepared by them for the
Project, including reports and designs, in such number of copies
as the Association shall reasonably request.


﻿-5-
(b) With respect to the evaluation and implementation
of the recommendations and other conclusions contained in the
documents referred to in the preceding paragraph:
(i) during the carrying out of Parts A.1, C, D.3 and
E.1 and 3 of the Project, the Borrower, the
Association and NWSC shall from time to time
exchange views on the said recommendations and
conclusions; and
(ii) before completion of such Parts of the Project,
the Borrower shall review with the Association
and NWSC the recommendations and conclusions
relating thereto and any comments the Borrower,
the Association and NWSC may have made thereon.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents, work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Parts A.1, C, D.3
and E.1 and 3 of the Project (including its cost and the benefits
to be derived from it), to identify the goods and services finan-
ced out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Association at regular intervals


﻿-6-
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning Parts A.1, C, D.3 and E.1 and 3 of the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded
and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of Parts A.1, C, D.3 and E.1 and 3 of the Project, its
cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the
performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respec-
tive obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) NWSC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement;


﻿-7-
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that NWSC will be able to perform its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement; and
(c) the organization, powers or responsibilities of NWSC
shall have been terminated or altered so as to affect materially
o-A adversely the performance by NWSC of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and NWSC; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that the execution and delivery of the
Project Agreement by and on behalf of NWSC have been duly autho-
rized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by NWSC, and is legally
binding upon NWSC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date                      is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to the Treasury
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 8147
Kampala
Uganda
Cable address:                      Telex:
FINSEC                             61170
Kampala
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿-9-
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Consultants and               4,400,000        100% of for-
experts services                              eign expendi-
tures
(2) Vehicles, equipment           1,300,000        100% of for-
and materials                                 eign expendi-
tures
(3) Civil works                     600,000        35%
(4) Unallocated                    800,000
TOTAL         7,100,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the


﻿- 11 -
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
Prnenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Part A:   Feasibility and Detailed Engineering
1.   Carrying out of feasibility studies and detailed
engineering designs for the rehabilitation and expansion of water
supply facilities, the upgrading of sewerage systems and the
improvement and expansion of sanitation facilities in the towns of
Masaka, Mbale, Mbarara and Tororo.
2.   Carrying out of feasibility studies and detailed engi-
neering designs for the rehabilitation and expansion of water
supply facilities, the upgrading of sewerage systems and the
improvement and expansion of sanitation facilities in the towns of
Kampala, Jinja and Entebbe.
Part B:   Water Supply and Sewerage Tariffs
Carrying out of a tariff study for providing an appropriate
framework for a water supply and sewerage tariff structure to be
applied by NWSC.
Part C:   Training
1.   Carrying out of: (i) a study of the manpower and train-
ing requirements of the water supply, sewerage and sanitation
sector; and (ii) a feasibility study for the establishment of a
training facility for technical staff of such sector.
2.   Preparation of a training program for technical staff
of the water supply, sewerage and sanitation sector.
Part D:   Civil Works, Vehicles and Equipment and Materials
1.   Construction of about six houses and the necessary
offices, and acquisition of eight vehicles, for the use by the
consultants and experts employed for the Project by NWSC.
2.   Acquisition and utilization of about fifteen thousand
water meters, including meter-testing and repair facilities and
various materials for NWSC's immediate needs.
3.   Acquisition of four vehicles for the use by WDD's
consultants and the Project Coordination Unit.


﻿- 13 -
Part E:   Technical Assistance
1.   Strengthening of the Project Coordination Unit.
2.   Strengthening of the Engineering Department of NWSC.
3.   Preparation of an educational program covering public
hygiene in relation to water use and sanitation.
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 1984.


﻿-14-
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis ofL international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower or NWSC, as the case may be,
shall prepare and forward to the Association as soon as possible,
and in any event not later than sixty days prior to the date of
availability to the public of the first tender documents relating
thereto, a general procurement notice, in such form and detail and
containing such information as the Association shall reasonably
request; the Association will arrange for the publication of such
notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The
Borrower or NWSC, as the case may be, shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods or off-the-shelf price of other goods, offered in such bid;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes levied in connection
with the importation, or the sales and similar taxes levied in
connection with the sale or delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the
goods shall not be taken into account in the evaluation of the
bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight and other expenditures
incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or
installation shall be included.


﻿- 15 -
4.   For bidding purposes, goods to be procured in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 1 above shall be grouped in such
manner as shall be acceptable to the Association prior to issuing
the invitation to bid.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works shall be awarded in accordance with
local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Associa-
tion.
2.   Contracts for the purchase of vehicles, drilling equipment
and laboratory instruments shall be awarded in accordance with
local procurement procedures satisfactory to the Association on
the basis of price quotations from at least three suppliers from
at least three of the member countries of the Association (includ-
ing, for the purpose of this paragraph, Switzerland).
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods or civil works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited or price quotations solicited,
the Borrower or NWSC, as the case may be, shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid or the solicitations to quote prices and the specifications
and other bidding documents, together with a description of the
advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding or for
obtaining the price quotations, and shall m.icke such modificationc
in the said documents or procedures as the Association shall
reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Association's concurrence before it is
issued to the prospective bidders or price quoters.
(b) After bids or price quotations have been received and
evaluated, the Borrower or NWSC , as the case may be, shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Associa-
tion of the name of the bidder or price quoter to which it intends
to award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the
consultants referred to in Section 2.03 (c) of the Project


﻿lb
Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids or price
quotations received, together with the recommendations for award
of the said consultants and such other information as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower (and
NWSC, as the case may be) and state the reasons for such deter-
mination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or price quotations solicited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower or NWSC, as the case may be, shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids or price quotations, recommenda-
tions for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guide-
lines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower (and NWSC, as
the case may be) and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower or NWSC, as the
case may be, shall inform the Association of the proposed modifi-
cation, waiver, extension or change order and the reasons there-
for. The Association, if it determines that the proposal would be
inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly
inform the Borrower (and NWSC, as the case may be) and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198 1.
FOR SECRETARY


