RETURN TO
REPORTS DESK
WTIN
|  WIa4MITINTE sATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Repor No. PA-140a
APPRAISAL OF
SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NORTH SUMATRA
INDONESIA
January 19, 1973
Asia Projects Department
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted I
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept resp_tibiity for the
accuracy or completenss of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1            =    Indonesian Rupiahs (Rp) 415
Rp 1           =    US$0.0024
Rp 1,000,000   -    US$2,410
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
1 hectare (ha)            -  10,000 m2               -  2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (km2) =  100 ha                   *  0.39 square miles
1 metric ton (MT)            1,000 kilograms (kg)  -  2,205 pounds
1 kilometer (km)                                     a  0.62 miles
1 millimeter (mm)                                    -  0.04 inches
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
drc       -    dry rubber content (of wet rubber or latex)
DPR       -    Dinas Perkebunan Rakyat (smallholder extension service)
GCC       -    Group Coagulating Centers
PMU       -    Project Management Unit
PNP       -    Perusahaan Negara Perkebunan (State-owned Agricultural
Estate Enterprise)
PT        -    Perusahaan Negara Perseroan - PERSERO (State-owned
limited-liability enterprise)
RSS       .    Ribbed Smoked Sheet (rubber)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1st to March 31st



INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NORTH SUMATRA
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMIMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ......................., i-iii
I.   INTRODUCTION ...........................................   1
II. BACKGROUND..                                                 1
A. General.                                                1
B. Rubber Smallholders.                                    2
Smallholder Rubber Marketing.                    3
Factory Processing ..........................   3
Smallholder Extension Service.                   3
Smallholder Agricultural Taxation ..             4
C.   Future Development ...............................   4
III. THE PROJECT AREA.                                            5
Population and Farm Size and Land Use.           5
Conmunications.                                  6
Credit Facilities.                               6
Land Tenure.                                     6
Processing.                                      6
IV. THE PROJECT. .. ..                                           7
A.   Objectives and Description.                           7
B. Detailed Features .3
Extension and Training.                          9
Construction   ................................  10
Feeder and Crop Extraction Roads .... ........  10
Group Coagulating Centers (GCC) ....   .........  10
Agricultural Development .....     ...............  11
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission composed of
'lessrs. A. Denness, P. Th. Grosjean, M. Huas of IDA, and C. W. Lavinder,
1U. Brookson and R. Smith, consultants, which visited Indonesia in November/
December 1971.



-2-
Page No.
V.   COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRMAGEMENTS ..............   12
A.   Project Costs .....................................   12
B. Project Financing                        ..                       13
C. Procurement and Contracts                     .        .          14
D.   Disbursement ......................................   15
E. Accounts and Audit                        ..                      16
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT                       .         .           16
A.   Organization ..................................                 .....   16
B.   Staffing ..........................................   17
Staff Salaries    ..............................   18
C.   Field Operations .................................    18
D.   Project Evaluation ............. ..................   18
E.   Post Project Operations ...........................   19
F.   Grants, Credits, and Rents ........................   19
Credit .................................    21
Rents .................................   21
VII.   YIELDS, MARKETS AND PRICES, FARMER BENEFITS, AND
GOVERNMENT BENEFITS ................................   22
A.   Yields .................................                       22
B.   Markets and Prices ................................   22
Rubber ..................................  22
Palm Products ...............................    22
Rice ..................................  23
C.   Farmer Benefits ................. .................   23
D.    Impact of Project on Government's Fiscal Situation   24
VIII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .............................   25
Economic Benefits .......         ....................   25
Sensitivity Analysis ......          ..................   26
Comparative Returns from Rubber and Oilpalms.   26
Foreign Exchange Benefits ...................   26
Income and Employment Benefits .....         .........   27
Demonstration Effect ............ ............   27
LX.    RECOMMENDATIONS    .......................................   27



-3-
AMNEXES
1.   Progress on IDA Agricultural Credits
2.   Taxation of Smallholder Rubber in Project Area
3.   Guidelines for Agreements between Government and
Project Participants
4.   Standard Agricultural Practices
5.   Project Phasing and Project Costs
Table  1:  Project Costs
Table  2:  Planting and Replanting Program
Table  3:  Cost *of Planting Rubber Rp/ha
Table  4:  Cost of Planting Rubber Man days/ha
Table  5:  Cost of Planting Oil Palm Rp/ha
Table  6:  Cost of Planting Oil Palm Man days/ha
Table  7:  Direct on-farm Costs Rubber
Table  8:  Direct on-farm Costs Oil Palm
Table  9:  Buildings and Vehicles
Table 10:  Feeder Roads Improvement and Group Coagulating
Centers
Table 11:  Administration, Operation and Maintenance Costs
Table 12:  Staff Costs
6.   Disbursement of IDA Credit
Table  1:  Categories of IDA Credit
Table  2: Estimated Disbursement Schedule
7.   Organization and Management - Organization Chart
8.   Plant Breeding and Planting Material
9.   Market Trends and Outlook for Project products
10.   Economic Rate of Return Calculation
Table  1:  Estimated Project Production
Table  2:  Economic Rate of Return
Table  3:  Sensitivity Analysis
Table  4:  Price Structure of Rice
Table  5:  Price Structure of Palm Products
Table  6:  Price Structure of Rubber
Table  7:  Economic Rate of Return of one ha planted
with Rubber
Table  8:  Economic Rate of Return of one ha planted
with Oil Palm
11.   Farm Budgets
Table  1:  Model Cash Flow - Replanting Old Rubber with
One ha of Oil Palm
Table  2:  Model Cash Flow - Replanting Old Rubber with
One ha of New Rubber
Table  3:  Model Cash Flow - New Planting - 2 ha Rubber
Table  4:  Model Cash Flow - New Planting - One ha Oil
Palm and One ha Rubber
Table  5:  Project Effect on Farmers' Income



- 4 -
12.   Draft Terms of Reference for Consultancy Group
13.   Estimated Cash Flow to the Governnent
MAPS



INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NORTH SUMATRA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project designed to raise the incomes and
living standards of about 18,000 rubber smallholders and their families,
totalling about 90,000 people now living at near-subsistence levels. An IDA
credit of US$5.0 million equivalent is proposed. The project is important in
that it represents the Government's first major effort to assist the small-
holder rubber industry, and is experimental in that by testing the reactions
of differing types of smallholders to a range of development activities it
should provide the information needed to determine the content and scope of
the improvement programs that are long overdue in the smallholder rubber
and other smallholder cash crop sectors.
ii.       Smallholders and their families depending solely on agriculture
for their livelihood form 75% of Indonesia's 118 million population. They
produce 70% of all agricultural exports. Rubber is Indonesia's largest
export (40% of total), of which 70% is produced by smallholders. Despite
the importance of smallholder rubber for tax revenues and foreign exchange
earnings, smallholders have received no significant technical or financial
assistance. The smallholder rubber sector lacks most forms of economic
infrastructure, and is characterized by very small, uneconomic-sized farms
producing low yields of poor quality rubber from over age trees. About 80%
of the farms are of 1 ha or less - about 1/3 the size necessary to provide
an adequate income for the average size family of five persons. Farm gate
prices average only 30% of rubber export value, and incomes are insufficient
to enable any direct reinvestments; as a result the industry is stagnating.
The three key requirements of any program designed to correct this situation
would be financial and technical assistance for planting, replanting and
primary processing facilities; making additional land available to smaller
growers; and improving communications and marketing.
iii.      The proposed project, whose main part would be carried out over a
nine-year period includes three main components. First, it would subdivide
7,800 ha of government-owned estate land and 1,400 ha of common land among 1,000
landless laborers who would be allotted 3 ha each, and 3,100 smallholders with
uneconomic-sized farms would be allotted 2 ha each. Farmers and laborers
allocated new land would receive loans to plant, intercrop with rice and
bring into bearing 3,700 ha of rubber and 2,600 ha of oil palm. Second, it
would provide 2,700 smallholders owning between 2 and 10 ha of old rubber
with either grants to replant 1 ha each of their rubber with rubber or loans
to replant with oil palm; 2,000 ha of rubber and 700 ha of oil palm would be
established in this way. Third, to assist about 16,000 rubber smallholders
in improving the primary processing and marketing of their rubber, 800 village



- ii -
group coagulating centers would be constructed. The project would provide
also an improved agricultural extension service and farm road network, staff
and farmer training, and aerial photography, studies and surveys of the project
and adjacent areas to assist in the planning and preparation of further proj-
ects.
iv.       Project participants allocated new land would pay rent until the
value of the land had been repaid; at that time, and subject to no default
in loan repayments, they would receive title to their holdings.
v.        Project costs are estimated at US$10.0 million equivalent.  The
proposed credit of US$5.0 million would finance 50% of project costs, of which
estimated foreign exchange costs are US$4.9 million. Where practical, project
procurement would be by international competitive bidding; goods obtained in
this way would have an estimated value of US$2.0 million. Local competitive
bidding would be used to obtain goods and services with a total value of
about US$1.4 million. The remaining project costs consisting mainly of
technical assistance, hired labor, planting materials and staff salaries
and operation and maintenance expenditures amounting to some US$4.3 million
would not be suitable for competitive bidding.
vi.       The project would be carried out by a project management unit
established especially for this purpose within the Ministry of Agriculture,
which would maintain separate project accounts. An Indonesian project
manager would be assisted by three internationally recruited technicians.
He would report to a project management board situated in Djakarta, which
would be responsible for approving project policy and budgets. To ensure
the participation and support of local Government authorities project
advisory committees would be set up at Provincial, District and Village
levels, where appropriate.
vii.      Total project annual production at macurity would be about 9,500
tons of rubber, 10,600 tons of palm oil, and 2,000 tons of palm kernels,
all of whlich would be exported and would have an estimated gross fob value of
about US$4.8 million. Rice intercropping during crop establishment would
produce about 29,400 tons of rice over a 9-year period. Based on the current
commodity price forecasts, the estimated economic rate of return from in-
vestment in the project is estimated at 13.4% assuming an opportunity cost
of labor of Rp 75 per day. A sensitivity analysis shows that if project
benefits fell by 10% and costs rose by 10% the return would be 10%; also
that if the opportunity cost of family labor is assumed zero, the rate of
return would be 15.6%.
viii.     Average per capita income in the project area is about US$25 com-
pared to a national average of about US$80. Project activities would increase
the per capita incomes of families participating in the planting components
of the project to levels in the range US$60 to US$90.  Those families replant-
ing their o.m holdings would see their income nearly double from about $50
to some $90 per capita annually.



- iii -
ix.       The project would be the Bank's eleventh agricultural lending opera-
tion in Indonesia. Of these operations four are concerned with the production
of export crops: the two North Sumatra Estates Projects (Credits 155-IND for
US$16 million and 194-IND for US$17 million) which included rubber and oil
palm, and the Tea Project (Credit 259-IND for US$15 million) in West Java.
The Fourth Agricultural Estates Project (Credit 319-IND) includes rubber, oil
palm and tea production in southern Sumatra. The first three Estates projects
experienced long delays in becoming effective and in appointing Management
Advisors and visiting Inspectors, but IDA financed activities such as planting
crops and implementing fertilizer programs are now progressing satisfactorily.
More serious has been the poor overall management where there has been little
progress, particularly in the North Sumatra projects, in raising standards of
budgetary and financial control, improving productivity or reducing production
costs. In late 1971, the Government took steps to implement a timetable, which
was agreed with IDA, to eliminate management deficiencies. Although some
changes in management performance have resulted, further substantial improve-
ment is required before acceptable standards of estate management can be
achieved.  The Association is endeavoring to obtain these improvements and is
presently discussing the matter with Government. The Tea Project, while still
at an early stage, has started well. The Fourth Estates Project was due to
become effective November 30, 1972, but the effective date has recently been
postponed until February 1st due to delays in the appointment of staff and
inspectors.
x.        With the assurances obtained, the project is suitable for an IDA
credit of US$5.0 million equivalent.






INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NORTH SUMATRA
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Indonesia has requested an IDA credit to
finance a project designed to raise the living standards and productivity
of about 18,000 smallholders in North Sumatra. Smallholders produce 70%
by value (US$330 million equivalent in 1969) of Indonesia's agricultural ex-
ports, or 27% of total exports including petroleum. Despite their importance,
Government has not provided smallholders with any significant degree of as-
sistance, either in terms of technical advice or finance. Consequently,
productivity of labor and land is low and one of the most important subsectors
of the economy is stagnating despite its considerable potential for making
a larger contribution to the economic development of Indonesia. The project
is intended to test smallholders' responsiveness to sound technical advice
and financial assistance, and if successful would serve as a model for the
introduction of similar schemes in other parts of Indonesia.
1.02      The project is based on a plan prepared for Government by the UK
Commonwealth Development Corporation financed under Credit 155-IND. This
report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. A. Denness, P. Th. Grosjean, M. Huas of IDA, and G.W. Lavinder,
W. Brookson and R. Smith, consultants which visited Indonesia in November/
December 1971.
1.03      IDA has made 10 agricultural credits to Indonesia totalling US$120.5
million. These credits comprise: four for rehabilitating Government-owned
estates; one for the multiplication of high yielding rice seed; four for the
rehabilitation of irrigation systems; one for fisheries development. Project
performance has been very variable and the greatest problem has been manage-
ment. Further details of these projects and more specific information on
progress and problems are in Annex I.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Indonesia consists of five main and about 3,000 smaller islands.
Total population is about 118 million, with an annual growth rate of about
2.6%. Sumatra, where the project is located, is one of the five main islands



2
and has an area of 470,000 km  and a population of about 20 million.  Agri-
culture accounts for more than half of national income and provides a liveli-
hood for about 75% of the population.  Per capita GDP is estimated at US$80
and the current five-year development plan aims to increase it by 2.3% an-
nually.
2.02      Indonesian smallholders produce a variety of cash crops; the most
important, in order, being rubber, coffee, copra, pepper and tobacco. Rubber
is the most important smallholder cash crop, and in 1970 smallholder produced
rubber exports amounted to about 570,000 tons valued at US$180 million,
or 30% by value of all agricultural exports. While the Government acknowledges
the importance of the smallholder subsector and accords high priority to
its improvement, it is doing little or nothing in practical terms to remedy
the situation. Major constraints to development are the lack of planning,
the small size of holdings (para 2.04), shortage of finance and the absence
of an effective extension service.
2.03      The number of smallholders producing rubber and the area they
cultivate is unknown. However, Government estimates that there are at least
one million (5 million people including families) rubber smallholders and
that these farm about 1.6 million ha of productive rubber. The total small-
holder rubber area, including unproductive rubber, probably is much larger
since surveys indicate that 502 of all rubber is more than 30 years old; the
exploitation of trees of this age can be only marginally profitable and
whatever tapping takes place is done on an intermittent basis.
B. Rubber Smallholders
2.04      Rubber planting by smallholders follo-wed its introduction
by the estate sector, and smallholders congregated on land remaining after
estate concessions had been granted, or established their farms in more
remote areas. It is estimated that about 80% of rubber holdings are of
1 ha or less - about one-third of the size necessary to provide an adequate
income for the average family of five people, 18% are between 2 and 10 ha,
and 2% over 10 ha. The predominance of very small holdings and low incomes
is a major constraint to raising productivity and living standards. Small-
holders can neither afford to plant new land, nor forego income from cutting
down and replanting existing low yielding farms, and the majority do not
have easy access to new land to extend their holdings to a more economic
size even if they had the resources to do so. Consequently, any program
to assist rubber smallholders has to combine financial and technical
assistance with making additional land available to the smaller growers.
2.05      Assisting larger growers poses a lesser problem since this group
could bear the temporary loss of income incurred through replanting part of
their rubber. They would require, however, similar levels of technical and
financial assistance to induce them to replant.



-3-
Smallholder Rubber Marketing
2.06      Smallholders sell most of their rubber as wet coagulum containing
a dry rubber content (drc) of about 50%. Quality is low due to heavy conta-
mination with extraneous material. Coagulum is transported to roadside
markets, frequently over long distances, where it is purchased by buying
agents for delivery to factories which manufacture exportable grades of
blanket and block rubber. The buying agents, who usually are financed by
the factory owners are the sole judges of quality and consequently fix
producer prices. As a result, and since most smallholders are in debt to
buying agents, producer prices generally are far below real market value.
2.07      It is estimated that many smallholders receive only about 30% of
the fob value of their rubber, compared with an estimated 67% in Malaysia.
Generally the smallholders who sell their own output at the local market
receive better prices, up to 45% of fob value, while those who sell at farm
gate receive less. With such returns, the smallholder rubber industry
continues to stagnate and rubber production will eventually decline, even
though a properly organized smallholder rubber industry could provide small-
holders with satisfactory incomes. To ensure a fair return to producers,
smallholder processing and marketing must be reorganized. This has been
achieved in Malaysia, where one successful development has been the creation
of small low cost processing facilities, Group Coagulating Centers (GCC),
each of which caters for about 20 smallholders, who use its facilities to
produce either high quality coagulum for sale to block producers or ribbed
smoked sheet (RSS) for direct export. As GCC rubber is marketed collectively
participants have the advantages of group bargaining and volume transactions.
Factory Processing
2.08      In the past natural rubber quality was judged on visual charac-
teristics, and it suffered in competition with synthetic rubber because the
physical and chemical properties of the latter could be specified. To over-
come this problem a system of technical specifications for natural rubber
has been developed. The system involves the manufacture of block rubber
under carefully controlled factory conditions; and following quality testing,
export certificates guaranteeing its physical and chemical properties are
issued. Indonesia is introducing this system both for plantation and small-
holder rubber. Block factories for processing smallholder rubber have been
established in North Sumatra and in the area of the proposed project. But
since these factories are unable to obtain sufficient supplies of smallholder
rubber of the required quality, processing costs are excessively high, and
the factories are uneconomic. By reorganizing the processing and marketing
of smallholder rubber, both smallholders and processing factories would
benefit, and the market for Indonesian rubber would be better insured by in-
creasing exports of high grade technically specified rubber.
Smallholder Extension Service
2.09      Agricultural extension work among cash crop smallholders is the
responsibility of the Dinas Perkebunan Rakjat (DPR) a provincial service



-4-
responsible to the Provincial Governors for administration and funds,
and to the Director of Smallholder Plantations in Djakarta for technical
matters. DPR is responsible for planting and replanting schemes for
smallholder rubber. Because of financial constraints DPR activities are
ineffectual; the extension staff is too small and its technical knowledge and
support services are insufficient to provide a satisfactory service to
smallholders.
Smallholder Agricultural Taxation
2.10      Indonesian smallholders are taxed on the area of land they farm and
the cash crop produced. Crop taxes vary according to the type of crop. Small-
holder rubber producers in the project area pay four main forms of tax:
direct; indirect; land; and "side of the road" taxes. Details of these taxes
which now total about 30% of the fob value of smallholders' rubber are given
in Annex 2, and summarized below:
(a)  Direct taxation comprises six separate taxes, levied at
the district, provincial and national levels. In total
they are equivalent to 17% of rubber fob value.
(b)  Indirect taxation includes the taxes levied on the inputs
required to operate rubber processing factories. It is
equivalent to 1% of the fob value of rubber.
(c)  Land taxes are calculated officially on the basis of 5%                 -
of the net value of production. On the average farm
producing about 400 kg dry rubber/ha this tax would be
about Rp 1,000 ha. However farmers and village authorities
claim that a flat rate of Rp 4,000 ha is levied in practice.
On the average farm this would represent 10% of rubber fob
value.
(d)  "Side of the road" payments have to be made by smallholders,
processors and transporters to police and army officials, to
supplement their very low wages. These payments are not legal
and are difficult to determine, but in North Sumatra they are
estimated to represent about 3% of rubber fob value.
Total taxes paid by rubber smallholders are about the same as those paid by
Malaysian growers.  Ilowever, the latter are returned about 60% of their
taxes in the form of an effective extension service and replanting grants;
the Indonesian smallholder receives virtually nothing.
C. Future Development
2.11      Unless prompt action is taken to revitalize the smallholder rubber
industry, Indonesia will be unable to retain its present share of an expanding
world market for natural rubber; Government revenue and foreign exchange



-5--
earnings will fall; and producers' living standards will decline. The
principal components of an action program should be:
(a) diversifying smallholder cropping so that both the
economy and the farmer are buffered against sudden
changes in world commodity prices;
(b) increasing producer prices by improving smallholder
rubber processing, marketing arrangements and the
roads used for trarsporting rubber;
(c) providing an eJfective extension service;
(d) providing new land to smallholders with uneconomic
holdings;
(e) providing smallholders with financial help to plant
new land and to replant low-yielding rubber.
Government recognizes the need of such an action program and affords it a
high priority. This project is the first step in implementing such a
program.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
3.01      The project would be carried out in parts of a lowland area of about
2,400 kr2 sltuate?' in t';e Labtifan 'atu Regency of North Sumatra.  Climate and
soil conditions are well suited to the production of rubber, oil palm and
dry land rice. Rainfall is uniform throughout the year with no pronounced
dry season. Soils are generally deep, well draining, and acidic. Available
plant nutrients are generally low, and fertilizer use is necessary for sus-
tained high yield production.
Population and Farm Size and Land Use
3.02      Total rural population is about 48,000 families comprising some
240,000 people. Of these families about 30,000 are rubber farm operators
with about 45,000 ha of rubber. Surveys indicate that 70% of this rubber
is more than 21 years old, 20% between 9 and 21 years old, and the remainder
planted since 1963. About 80% of operaters have holdings less than 2 ha,
17% have holdings between 2-10 ha, and 3% holdings of over 10 ha. Smallholder
dry rubber yields are estimated to average 400 kg/ha, compared with 650 kg/ha
in Malaysia under comparable soil and climatic conditions. The project area
includes 77,000 ha of privately-owned estates, 35,800 ha of Central Govern-
ment-owned estates, the PNP III group 1/, and three old and uneconomic
1/   PNP - Perusahaan Negara Perkebunan, State-owned agricultural estate
enterprise.



-6-
rubber estates, amounting to 8,100 ha, owned bv the North Sumatra Provincial
Administration. Some 1,000 ha of wet rice and about 11,000 h1a of dry land
rice are grown annually in the project area, but rice consumption normally
exceeds production (in 1969 by an estimated 7,000 tons). Small areas of
maize and cassava are also grown.
Coimmunications
3.03      The project area is served by a single track railway and an all-
weather paved road from Rantau Frapat, the administrative center of the
project area, to Medan, the provincial headquarters, and Belawan, the main
port of North Sumatra. Within the project area, road communications are
poor, and most smallholders are without adequate road access to their farms.
Smallholder rubber is conveyed to markets located on main roads by porters
or bicycles at a cost of about US$1.25/ton mile equivalent; by comparison,
commercial road haulage rates are between 2 and 5 US cents/ton mile. There-
fore, the main requirement in the project area is for simple feeder roads
and tracks suitable for crop evacuation by light motor vehicles. The Asso-
ciation is currently reviewing a UNDP-financed feasibility study of the main
highway from Medan south to Padang which passes through the project area.
Results of the review so far indicate that improvement of only a portion of
the existing road iimmediately south of Medan is justified in the next few
years with construction of the remaining portions of the road, including
that through the project area, being deferred for some time.
Credit Facilities
3J. 04    The only sources of credit to farmers in the project area are the
Bank Rakyat Indonesia which so far has restricted its activities to seasonal
lending mainly for rice production at an interest rate of 2-1/4%/month, and
rubber buvers and local money lenders who generally charge much higher rates
of interest.  Bank Rakyat does not lend medium- or long-term fcr tree crop
production because of past rates of inflation and the long gestation period
of tree cror. , particularly rubbez. The lack of such credit is a constraint
to development.
Land1
The Basic Agrarian Law of 1960 provides that all land is state-
f orntroi.led, although nct state-owned. Tt provides for the registration
,.and anJ th.e issuance of titles.  This is a major improvement on the
:n  itten custoiary, or Adat Law, which merely controls rights of usufruct
i-,  Consecuentlv land so held has no collateral value for credit.  While
thc BPasic Agrarian Law has not yet been implemented in the project area, it
%,i)l  facilitate long-term agricultural improvements and its provisions would
he c.arried out under the project.
: s^,essin
V !nss    Processinhg factories in the project area include one old factory
rro'duc f.ng crepe rubber (8,000 tons/annum) and three modern block factories



-7-
(33,000 tons/annum). All factories are privately owned. Total capacity of
41,000 tons is far above available rubber supplies, of which project area
smallholders produce some 12,300 tons. All factories therefore operate at
well below capacity.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Description
4.01      The project is designed to raise the living standards of about
18,000 farmers; or about 90,000 people in all who now live at near subsistence
level. This will be achieved through providing an effective agricultural
extension service; improving primary processing and marketing facilities and
services; training farmers in improved methods of rubber, oil palm and rice
production; and assisting them with the finance and inputs required to plant
new land and existing rubber farms with these crops. The project will re-
quire the subdivision of suitable areas of uneconomic estates and its alloca-
tion to farmers and estate workers. If successful the project will be a
model for similar activities in other areas of Sumatra.
4.02      The project will be carried out over the nine years 1973-82.
Principal project components will be:
Organization and Training
(a) establishing and equipping a unit to develop and manage
the project which will be responsible to the Ministry
of Agriculture;
(b) establishing and equipping a project agricultural
extension service;
(c) training personnel to staff the project extension
service and subsequently for employment elsewhere in
Sumatra;
(d) training farmers in rice, rubber, and oil palm production
and processing;
Construction
(e) constructing stores, offices and houses needed for the
project unit and extension service;
(f) repairing about 60 km of feeder roads and constructing about
180 km of crop extraction tracks in the project area;



-8-
(g) constructing about 800 rubber group coagulating centers
(GCC);
Agricultural Development
(h) acquiring from the Provincial Government four old and
uneconomic estates with a total area of about 8,900 ha,
and 1,800 ha from two of the Government-owned PNP III
group estates and subdividing this land together with
1,400 ha of common land into smallholdings;
(i) surveying, registering and leasing the smallholdings so
created as follows:
(i) 3 ha each to about 1,000 workers from the estates
to be subdivided; and
(ii) 2 ha each to about 3,100 smallholders with existing
holdings of less than 2 ha of rubber;
(j) assisting the estate workers and smallholders to establish
about 3,700 ha of rubber and 2,600 ha of oil palm on their
subdivisions. Assistance will include advice and the
provision of credit in the form of planting material, ferti-
lizers, and cash. All plantings will be intercropped with
rice;
(k) providing about 2,000 smallholders owning more than 2 ha
but less than 10 ha of rubber with grants to replant 2,000
ha of old rubber. The grants given will be similar
in content to the credits described in subparagraph (j)
and in the same way all plantings will be intercropped;
(1) providing about 700 smallholders living near Aek Nabara and close
to the proposed PNP III oil palm estates and able to take
advantage of the estate palm oil mills with credit (as in J)
to replace 700 ha of old rubber with oil palms; and
Surveys and Studies
(m)  aerial photography of the project area and adjacent zones
for the planning of both project and future operations; and
studies and subsequent preparation of other smallholder
improvement projects.
B. Detailed Features
4.03      Project activities will be phased as follows:



_ 9 _
… -----…Project Year---------
Total at end           Total
1     2     3      4     5  of Five Years  6   7  Project
Roads and tracks
(km)                100   140    -      -      -      240         -   -      240
Group coagulating
centers (no.)       100   200   300    -    200       800         -   -      800
Planting Program
Replanting rubber
(ha)               -    100   400   700   800   2,000           -   -   2,000
New rubber planting
(ha)               -    200   400 1,200 1,900   3,700         900 1,000 5,600
New oil palm
planting and re-
placing rubber
with oil palms
(ha)               -    600 1,100   800   800   3,300           -   -   3,300
Third ha provided
to ex-estate
labor (ha)         -    400   600    -       -    1,000 -O    1,000
Total ha         -  1,300 2,500 2,700 3,500 2                        11,900
4.04      The planting program is phased to permit the prior establishment
of the project management unit and the preparation of a project work program
which in year 1 will be devoted largely to constructing project buildings,
roads and GCC; purchasing equipment; selecting and training extension staff;
and establishing rubber and palm nurseries for the plantings planned for
year 2. The allocation of new hectarage between oil palm and rubber planting,
3,300 ha and 5,600 ha respectively is tentative. It is possible that oil
palm hectarage will be increased if sufficient processing capacity becomes
available and the demand from participants for oil palms is sufficiently
high. During credit negotiations assurances were obtained that project
work and planting programs would be agreed annually with IDA.
4.05      Organization.  The project management unit (PMU) will be estab-
lished within the Ministry of Agriculture. Capital costs of establishing
and equipping the management unit and a declining share of its operating
costs during the project development period will be financed under the project.
Extension and Training
4.06      The Ministry of Agriculture does not have sufficient experienced
staff to provide a satisfactory extension service in the project area where
currently there are only 4 extension agents to about 30,000 smallholders.
The salaries of these agents are low and their technical knowledge poor,
they lack adequate transport and receive little supervision and guidance
from headquarters in Medan. The project provides funds to establish and



- 10 -
equip an agricultural extension service for the project area. The number
of extension agents will be increased to about 1 to 320 growers for GCC
operations and 1 to 140 for planting and replanting. Salaries will be
raised to the level of staff with equivalent duties in Government-operated
estates, and agents will be provided with the training, transport and equip-
ment necessary for them to carry out their work efficiently. Training of
both extension workers and farmers will be carried out on the Damuli and
Londut estates where 670 ha of young, potentially high yielding rubber will
be retained for this purpose, and operated by the project mianagement unit.
As project farmers become more experienced, the intensity of smallholder
supervision will be gradually reduced and project staff would become available
for transfer to other areas (para 6.05 and Annex 7).
Construction
4.07      The management unit will nake maximum use of existing buildings
in the project area but these alone will be insufficient. Project head-
quarters will be at Aek Nabara, the approximate center of the project area,
and a Government owned former estate recreation center will be modified to
provide office and guest house accommodation. Additional housing and stores
will be constructed. During negotiations assurances were obtained that
the Aek Nabara buildings will be made available for project purposes.
Feeder and Crop Extraction Roads
4.08       About 60 km of feeder roads will be repaired and abou' 180 km of
ne'q crop extraction tracks constructed to facilitate project executiorn and
the efficient evacuation of farm produce. The PMU will be responsible for
this work and will use labor intensive construction methods, aiploying local
contractors as well as carrying out some work on force account. Some equip-
men  would be hired from local contractors and the Provincial Pubi c Works
Department. During credit negotiations assurances were obtained that
Government would cause all roadU in the project area tc be adequately
maintained and all necessary repairs to be promptly made.
Group_CoagulatingCenters (GCC)
4.09      About 800 GCC will be built and equipped at suitable locations in
the project area. Each GCC will consist of a simple building of about
30 n,l constructed of locally made mud brick and timber with a corrugated
metal roof.  Equiipment would include latex coagulating tanks and mangling
Faciities, and be sufficient for production from about 20 smallholders.
;. may a2~ serve a3 centers of extension activity from which smallholders
wm2UI^ be selected to receive assistance under the project planting and re-
ri-inting schemes. They will also be employed as basic marketing units where
7Varketing agents or processors can buy coagulum from smallholders under
PIMI supervision. CCC will be initially owned by PMU and could be handed
o01 r progressively to smallholders groups when they are formed. Smallholders
1, 1 ,maintain the GCC and purchase from PMU the inputs required for their
ope r;Sltion .



- 11 -
Agricultural Development
4.10      During negotiations Government agreed to make available the following
lands and buildings thereon:
(a)  three old uneconomic rubber estates at Londut, Damuli
and Situngir, with a total area of about 8,100 ha;
(b)  an unused estate at Bandar Gula totalling about 800 ha; and
(c)  two areas of old rubber land belonging to the Government-
owned PNP III group of estates comprising:
(i) 1,000 ha from the Aek Nabara estate; and
(ii) 800 ha from the Rantau Prapat estate.
The acquisition of these lands and the buildings thereon, free for use under
the project, is a condition of credit effectiveness. Out of the total area
of 10,700 ha about 7,800 ha is plantable and will be subdivided together
with 1,400 ha of common land made available by village authorities among
workers from the estates and smallholders living within 2 km of the estates
with rubber farms of less than 2 ha in size. Estate workers will be leased
3 ha and smallholders 2 ha. All land allocated under the project will be
surveyed and registered by the Lands Department (Agraria) and temporary
leases issued to project participants. Annual rents will be paid for the
use of the land to Agraria until the value of the land and the crop loans
have been repaid at which time titles will be issued under the Basic Agrarian
Law. Details of the proposed lease, rental, and title arrangements are given
in para 6.17 and Annex 3. It was agreed during negotiations that Government,
under the Basic Agrarian Law, would issue leases and titles to all land
allocated to project participants, with lease and titling arrangements
satisfactory to IDA. A condition of Credit disbursement for goods for farm
inputs would be that Government had prepared a form of lease acceptable to
IDA.
4.11      All project participants allocated new land will receive loans
to establish 2 ha of rubber or 1 ha each of rubber and oil palm. Credit
arrangements are described further in para 6.15 and 6.16. Oil palm planting
would be restricted by PMU to areas served by existing or planned palm oil
mills. Estate workers receiving 3 ha of land would receive no assistance
to plant the third hectare, and it is assumed that they would develop this
with their own resources.
4.12      Existing Smallholders.  About 2,000 existing smallholders with
usufruct rights (under the Adat Law) to between 2 ha and 10 ha (average of
about 5 ha) of rubber, who nevertheless are very poor, will receive grants to
replant 1 ha of rubber each. Loans to these smallholde.rs would be impracti-
cable (see para 6.14) since land held in this way cannot be used as



- 12 -
collateral, and there are many uncontrolled market outlets for rubber.
Another 700 smallholders will receive loans for replacing 1 ha of rubber
with oil palm. The latter is a higher value crop, and the market outlets for
the oil palm fresh fruit bunches would be secured, and repayments could
therefore be collected.
4.13      Cost of Grants and Credit.  The cost of grants for replanting
rubber is estimated at between Rp 121,000 (US$292/ha) and Rp 132,000
(US$318)/ha depending on conditions.  The costs of credit for planting rubber
on subdivided land would be similar and those for planting oil palms about
Rp 102,000 (US$246/ha). The bulk of these expenditures would be in kind -
planting material and agricultural chemicals - and the balance cash. Each
payment whether in cash or kind would be made only if the participant had
completed specific tasks to the satisfaction of PMU (see Annex 3, Schedules
A and B).
4.14      Aerial Photography and Studies.  To facilitate implementation of
the project and future planning of subsequent projects, aerial photography,
at a scale of 1:20,000 will be made over a total of about one million ha of
selected smallholder areas both within the project and adjacent areas. An
assurance was obtained that the areas to be photographed would be agreed with
IDA. As described in para 7.09 the cost per farmer assisted under the project
is high and for future schemes this cost must be reduced.  Funds also will
be provided under the project for necessary studies and project preparation.
Before the studies commenced it would be necessary for PMU to become thoroughly
acquainted with the problems of the project area and to have determined the
responsiveness of farmers to project actions. During credit negotiations
assurances were obtained from Government that the timing of these studies,
and the consequent project preparation work, would only be undertaken after
consultation with IDA to agree on the scope, the terms of reference and the
personnel required.
V.  COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL AR.1NGEMENTS
A. Project Costs
5.01      Project costs during the proposed 9 year IDA credit disbursement
period are estimated to total Rp 4,157 million (US$10.0 million equivalent)
of which the foreign exchange component would be about Rp 2,022 million
(US$4.87 million equivalent) or 49%. Cost contingencies include (a) physical
contingencies of 5% per annum and (b) a price contingency of about 4% per
annum during the project disbursement period in line with recent experience
in Indonesia.
5.02      Administration and supervision expenses account for about 36% of
total costs. They form an integral part of the project and are regarded
as capital costs. The breakdown of costs is given in detail in Annex 5 and
summarized in the following table:



- 13 -
Foreign
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total   Exchange
----Rps Million----     …-----US$'OOo…------      %
On-Farm Costs
Oil palm                    216    262    478       520    632  1,152       55
Rubber                      298    456    754       718  1,099  1,817       61
Subtotal               514    718  1,232   1,238  1,731  2,969          58
Other Costs
Building and vehicles       272    313    585       656    754  1,410       54
Administration, operation
and maintenance costs   298    107    405        718    258    976        27
Administration staff        476     -      476   1,147      -   1,147       -
Consultants                  -     310    310        -     747    747       100
Feeder road improvement    29       29      58       70     70    140       50
Aerial photography            5     30      35       12     73      85      85
Training estate              16      17     33       39     41      80       50
Land survey                  13       5     18       31     12      43      30
Studies                      25     25      50       60     60    120       50
Contingencies:
Physical 5%                81     79    160       194    191    385       49
Price                     406    389    795      978    937  1,915        49
Total                 2,135  2,022  4,157   5,143  4,874 10,017          49
5.03      Project costs are free of import duties.  Costs exclude farm family
labor which involves no cash outlay. Costs are based on up-to-date building
costs, recent quotations received from suppliers to other IDA financed proj-
ects in Indonesia, and farm labor requirements collected by a number of
Indonesian and Malaysian organizations. Salaries and wage scales are based on
those paid by Government-owned estates for personnel with equivalent experience
and responsibilities rather than on Ministry of Agriculture scales which are
considered too low (see para 4.06).
B. Project Financing
5.04      The proposed IDA credit of US$5.0 million (Rp 2,075 million) will
meet 50% of total project costs. The Government would meet its share of project
costs from budgetary resources. Funds for provision of credit to smallholders
would flow through an account in the Bank Rakyat Indonesia under the control
of the Project Management Unit. The Bank Rakyat Indonesia would act as
the fiscal agent of the Government and would bear no risk in the extension



- 14 -
of credit to smallholders from this account. Funds for grants, PMU overhead
expenditures and project infrastructure would be made available directly
to the PMU.  Project funds would be replenished at quarterly intervals on
the basis of an annual budget prepared by the Project Management Unit and
approved by the Project Management Board, and revised quarterly as
appropriate. During negotiations assurances were obtained that:
(a)  the Government will establish and maintain within the
PMU a project account in which all payments for the cost
of goods and services required for the project would be
recorded;
(b) the funds made available for the project will be
administered by the PMU under annual budgets approved
by the project management board, such budgets to be
revised as necessary;
(c) the Government will ensure that sufficient liquid
funds to cover the budgeted expenditures estimated
by the PMU to be made during each calendar quarter
for the Droject shall be available not later than the
fifteenth day of such quarter; and
(d)  the Government and the Association will review from time to
time the effectiveness of the financial procedures under
which the funds required for the project are made
available, and the Government would implement such
procedures as vwere agreed with the Association to be
necessary for the diligent and efficient carrying out of
the proJect.
C.  PrDcuremert ana Contracts
5.05      All vehicles, tractors and implements, fertilizers, and pesticides
valued at Kp 838 million (US$2.0 million equivalent) would be procured
tnrough international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guide-
lines. For the purpose of bid coimparison, a 15% preference margin, or
Ahve actual tariff duty, whichever is less, would be granted to local
l*Mnufacturers. Contracts for new buildings, road construction and repair,
a-rm the renovation of existing buildings, costing Rp 574 million (US$1.4
dijion), vwould be awarded after local competitive bidding under procedures
open to-all interested parties; this is considered appropriate in view
('f the diversity and small size of these contracts. Other items costing
ab:'ut Rp 1,800 million (US$4.3 million) and consisting mainly of consult-
.:t services, aerial photography, staff salaries, PMU operating costs,
Iianting material, and cash payments to project participants would not
lenl --hemselves to s dding procedures. Preferential import duties are



- 15 -
not granted currently for goods imported from any Bank or IDA member coun-
tries.
D. Disbursement
5.06      Disbursement of the IDA credit will be made against:
US$ Million
I.   C.I.F. documents or, in the case of locally
produced goods, the ex-factory price net of
Indonesian taxes for vehicles and tractors          0.41
II.   C.I.F. documents or, in the case of locally
produced goods, the ex-factory price net of
Indonesian taxes for fertilizers and agrocides
provided to farmers                                 1.29
III.   Foreign exchange cost of internationally
recruited technicians' contracts                    0.75
IV.   60% cost of studies and aerial photography          0.12
V.   60% of contract cost for the cost of
constructing Group Coagulating Centers and
new project buildings                               0.56
VI.   60% of cost of tools, cover crop seeds, plant-
ing materials and cash payments provided to
farmers.  (Disbursement to be made against a
statement of expenditure certified by the
Extension and Training Officer and counter-
signed by the Financial Controller the docu-
mentation for which is not submitted for
review, but is retained by the Borrower and
available for inspection by the Association
during the course of a project supervision
mission.)                                           0.69
VII.   Unallocated                                          1.18
Total                                          5.00
Estimated disbursements by categories are detailed in Annex 6, Table 1.
Any surplus funds remaining should be used for extending further smallholder
plantings, subject to IDA approval.



- 16 -
E. Accounts and Audit
5.07      A project account, recording all payments for the cost of goods
and services required for the project would be established and maintained
by the PMU. It would be kept in accordance with established accounting
principles, and assurances were obtained that an independent auditor
satisfactory to IDA would be employed to audit the account, that the form of
audit would be i-reed with IDA, and that such audited accounts would be
made available to IDA within 4 months of the close of each financial year.
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Organization
6.01      The project would be carried out by the Project Management Unit
(PMU) established for this purpose within the Ministry of Agriculture.
The unit would enjoy a large measure of managerial and financial autonomy
and be headed by a manager responsible to a project management board located
in Jakarta. The chairman of the board would be the Director General of
Estates, and he would report directly to the Minister of Agriculture. The
Director of Smallholder Estates and one senior representative of the
National Planning Agency (BAPPENAS), the Ministry of Finance and the Bank
Rakyat would be members.
6.02      The value of such a board located in Jakarta, 2,000 km away from
project headquarters, arises from the fact that project actions, policies and
results will determine to a large extent the fuLure organization and scope
of extension and associated agricultural support services in other small-
holder areas of Indonesia. Thus, it is essential that responsible central
Government officials participate in formulating project policies and are
kept fully in touch with the problems and the results of implementing these
policies. A further consideration is that the local direction of agricultural
and associated services for smallholders is weak, and that the officials
concerned have very limited powers. A board composed of these officials
would therefore be of limited utility. It is anticipated that the project
manager would attend a board meeting each three months, and would submit
monthly progress reports to the board.
6.03      Equally important is the participation and support of local
Government authorities at Provincial, Disttict and Village levels. Without
such support the prospects for the success of the project would be small,
in particular as the Provincial Government enjoys a high degree of autonomy.
This participation and support will be obtained by establishing project
advisory committees, as appropriate, at these levels. The key provincial
committee would meet at Medan, the administrative center for North Sumatra.



- 17 -
Committee members may include senior representatives of the army, police,
Bank Rakyat, Office of the Director General for Government-owned Estates (BCU)
and the Ministries of Public Works, Finance, Education, Agriculture and
hlealth, who would be of such seniority as to ensure the full support of the
departments and entities represented.  At the district level, a project area
advisory committee would be appointed under the chairmanship of the admin-
istrative head of the project area (the Bhupati). The committee would be
made up of representatives from the same departments and entities represented
on the provincial committee. Village committees would be established, where
appropriate, by PMU throughouz the project area. During credit negotiations
assurances were obtained that the terms of reference of the provincial
and other committees would be mutually acceptable to Government and IDA.
6.04      Conditions of credit effectiveness include:  that the project
management board, with members appointed, has been established with terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA; that the project management unit has been
established with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA; and that the Project
Manager has taken up his duties.
B. Staffing
6.05      The rapid expansion of agricultural development programs in
Indonesia since 1966 has produced an acute shortage of experienced techni-
cians, particularly in the fields of land use planning, agricultural extension
and training, and financial control. Consequently, priority should be given
to training Indonesians in these specialized fields by enabling them to work
under the direction of qualified and experienced technicians.
6.06      It was therefore agreed during negotiations that the project
manager would be Indonesian, and that he would be assisted by three experienced
technical assistants each in charge of one of the headquarter's divisions.
These technicians, who would be recruited internationally, either independently
or through a firm, would fill the positions of Financial Controller, Extension
and Training Officer, and Land Use and Planning Officer. All will be full
time employees with executive responsibility. The Indonesian counterpart
working with each technician would be required to have some experience and
to be capable of assuming the technician's role within three to five years.
The technicians' contract would last for five years but would be renegotiable
after three years following a review by the Government and Association.
During credit negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that the Project Manager would have qualifications satisfactory to IDA. The
three posts filled by internationally recruited technicians are subject to
IDA approval, as are the terms and conditions of their service. A condition
of project effectiveness will be that they have been appointed.
6.07      The remaining senior staff required for the project will be drawn
from experienced staff already serving in the Ministry of Agriculture



- 18 -
and estate supervisors; no difficulty is expected in filling these
appointments.
6.08      Project junior staff will be recruited from existing Ministry
of Agriculture staff, and from young men who now have agricultural diplomas
or higher qualifications and cannot find employment suited to their training.
Details of project staff requirements and the timing of recruitment are
given in Annex 7.
Staff Salaries
6.09      Salaries paid to the Ministry of Agriculture staff are insufficient
to either attract suitable persons into the service or to provide sufficient
income. Staff are forced to supplement their meagre salaries by outside
employment and they have little interest in their work. During negotiations
an assurance was obtained that project staff will receive total annual
emoluments equivalent to those received by Government Estate staff with
similar experience and qualifications. Details of proposed project staff
cogts are given in Annex 5, Table 12.
C. Field Operations
6.10      Field operations for the establishment of rubber and oil palTLs,
and rice intercropping are given in Annex 4, and details of plant breeding
and planting material in Annex 8.  Farmers receiving new land would in r.nost
cases be expected to plant their second hectare in the third year of their
program. However, some of the more responsive farmers would, under the
directidn of PMU, plant their second hectare in the same year. Initially
one rubber variety GT 1, would be used for smallholder plantings. Other
potentially good clones are available but further testiing is required before
they could, on the recommendation of the Dlant breeding consultants appointed
under Credit 155, be safely ussed for smallholder plantings.  Germinated oil
palm seed of high yield porenteaJ (T1utra i Pisifera) would be supplied by the
Government-owned Marihat Oil Palm Research Station ir, North Sumatra, which
aiso supplies the seed requirements of Government-owned estates. Should
'Iarihat be unable to supply project requirements, suitable seed would be
pUrchased from recognized sources as approved by the plant-breeding consul-
tants appointed under Credit 319. Assurances to these effects have been
given by the Government during credit negotiations.
D.  Project Evaluation
6k11      Since it is expected that the project would serve as a model for
slv.ilar programis elsewhere in Indonesia and in view of the uncertainty con-
eemain farmer reaction, an important element of the project would be an
s:going evaluation of its technical, social, and economic results.  PMU would
r'ave  hilis responsibility and, therefore, all project reports, including those



_ 19 9
of the three division chiefs, would record project physical progress and
farmer reaction, and would critically evaluate project methods and results.
In particular, a close evaluation will be made of the necessary incentives to
stimulate a change in the smallholder's production pattern; the farmers'
response to development through grants viz a viz loans; and the social
implications, if any, in differentiating between grant and loan-assisted
farmers. This information would be essential for the studies and project
preparation described in para 4.14. After the completion of IDA credit
disbursements, evaluations, carried out by the strengthened Provincial staff
and the Bank Rakyat, would be continued, particularly with respect to credit
repayments and their method of collection.
E. Post Project Operations
6.12      After completion of IDA credit disbursements PMU would be either
disbanded or moved to another area, and Government's provincial agricultural
extension service would assume responsibility for maintaining services to
farmers. The Lands Department (Agraria) in conjunction with the agricultural
extension service and Bank Rakyat would become responsible for ensuring
that project participants complied with their lease terms, that rents were
paid and credit repayments made, that the conditions of the leases would be
effectively enforced, and titles issued after completion of credit repayments
and rental payments. Assurance to these effects were obtained from
Government during credit negotiations.
F. Grants, Credits and Rents
6.13      There are few alternatives to rubber that can be grown extensively
in the project area and return as high incomes per ha; this is particularly
important since the average holding is so small. Furthermore, project area
farmers are experienced in rubber production, and the economy of the area is
built around this crop.  With present levels of technology, soils and climate
preclude sustained annual cropping of crops such as rice and maize. Expansion
of oil palm is an alternative, but a major program of development would require
heavy investment in roads and processing. Beyond this, coconuts, cocoa, and
cloves appear to offer scope. Coconuts, however, have a long gestation
period; and for cocoa much more research is required, particularly on disease
and pest control before the feasibility of growing it can be determined; in
the case of cloves there are indications that in recent years Indonesia may
have planted as many clove trees as market demand justifies. Consequently,
any early improvements in farm incomes depend upon improving the productivity
of the smallholder rubber industry.



- 20 -
6.14      Grants.  Raising the incomes of rubber farmers will require Govern-
ment to make a major financial contribution towards increasing the efficiency
of the industry, both through providing extension and other support services
and through direct financial assistance to growers. Farmers need such
financial assistance because most are so poor that they would be unable to
implement extension advice even if this were provided. One means of
alleviating the financial position of rubber smallholders would be to relieve
their tax burden. Unfortunately, this would do little to help the small
growers; the relief provided would be insignificant compared with the invest-
ment required to replant rubber, which is the basic means of increasing the
efficiency of the industry. Further, the loss of income to Government would
be substantial since such relief would have to be extended to all rubber
growers, and probably intolerable under Indonesia's current tight fiscal
situation. The only feasible alternative is to make funds directly available
to farmers for replanting. This can be done either by giving subsidies to
farmers who undertake a replanting program or by providing credit. Subsidies
have been used very effectively in Malaysia and Ceylon both of which have
executed successful smallholder replanting schemes. In these countries it
is accepted that subsidies are justified in view of high taxation levels;
taxation levels which have the objective of providing funds - through a
virtual system of forced savings - for replanting. The Indonesia situation
is somewhat different. Although taxation levels are as high as for example
in Malaysia, and revenues from rubber are an important component of Govern-
ment fiscal resources, virtually none of this income is reinvested in the
rubber smallholder industry. Apart from the degree of assistance, it is
necessary to determine whether it should be given as a subsidy (grant) or in
the form of credit. The farm budget at Annex 11, Table 3, shows clearly
that at current interest rates of 12% per annum, it is unattractive for
smallholders to borrow to replant rubber, and that a heavy degree of credit
subsidization is necessary if a credit scheme is to be effective. While
there are circumstances under which a subsidized credit scheme is applicable
and could be implemented with a reasonable cnance of success (see para 6.15),
this would not be the case with the large majority of smallholders. In the
presence of customary land ownership in the project area and all other small-
holder rubber areas, the only real security for credit is the borrower's crop.
The only practical means of collecting loan repayments, without heavy expense,
is by requiring the borrower to market his crop through an agent empowered
to deduct such repayments. There are so many market outlets for smallholder
rubber that such control of the typical smallholder would be difficult to
enforce. It appears, therefore, that the only effective way to initiate
improvements in incomes of the majority of rubber smallholders is to provide
them with grants to replant up to 1 ha of rubber. Under the project some
2,000 smallholders replanting 2,000 ha of existing rubber would receive grants
in cash and kind averaging about Rp 125,000 (US$300) to assist them in
replanting 1 ha of rubber, provided that they agree with the PMU on a farm
plan for the general improvement of their holding.  The grant would be disbursed
over a five-year period and individual disbursements would be conditional
upon the smallholder making proper use of previous installments and having
complied with his farm plan. All other project operations would be under-
taken on a credit basis as described below.



- 21 -
Credit
6.15      While the provision of credit for replanting is impractical for the
reasons discussed above, it is possible to operate a credit scheme for the
smallholders and ex-estate laborers who would be provided with new land under
the project or who would replace existing rubber with oil palms. The new land
provided would be in blocks, would be convenient to supervise, and one of the
conditions of occupancy would be that the farner met his repayment obligations
on any loans made to him by official agencies. Oil palm plantings would also
be in reasonably large blocks and the only market for oil palm produce would
be two or possibly three palm oil mills with which arrangements would be made
for the deduction of loan repayments. Further, the forecasted financial
returns from oil palms, and their shorter gestation period, permit this crop
to be financed with credit on current official terms; and new rubber plantings
on the blocks could service credits, although on concessional terms. Credit
terms, which would be subject to change if standard lending terms and condi-
tions in Indonesia are amended, will be agreed with IDA. In Annex 3 details
of anticipated interest rates and terms are given, and these would be the
equivalent of: for oil palms, 12% interest over 20 years with a 5-year
grace period for interest (to be capitalized) and principal; for rubber,
6% interest for 22 years with a 7-year grace period for principal, during
which period interest would be waived.
6.16      Loans will be disbursed by the Bank Rakyat upon the authorization
of the PMU. The Bank will act as the agent of Government, keep records of
disbursements, and will be responsible for the collection of loan repayments.
Under its present policies Bank Rakyat could not assume full financial
responsibility for the credit program; since the project is small, the first
of its type, and in some ways very innovative, it is not considered desirable
that the Bank Rakjat change its present modes of operation. During negotiations
the above arrangements were agreed with Government and assurances obtained
that they would be applied; assurances were also obtained that Bank Rakyat
would act as Government's agent for the credit component of the project under
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. Conditions of credit disbursement
against smallholder loans would be that a suitable form of loan agreement
between Bank Rakyat, or the PMU (for grants), and project participants had
been agreed with IDA, and that arrangement between Bank Rakyat and Government,
governing the former's role in the project and satisfactory to IDA, had been
made.
Rents
6.17      The value of the land that would be provided to ex-estate laborers
is estimated at Rp 40,000/ha. Participants receiving such land would be
required to pay an annual rent of Rp 2,000/ha, with no interest, for each
ha cultivated as from the year in which cultivation commences, and until
such time as the full cost of the land had been repaid. Following the com-
pletion of rental and loan repayments, titles would be issued, see para
4.10.



- 22 -
VII. YIELDS, MARKETS AND PRICES, FARMER BENEFITS
AND GOVERNMENT BENEFITS
A. Yields
7.01      Project rice, rubber, and oil palm yield estimates (Annex 8) are
based on experience in the project area. Estimates take into account the
inevitable variation in farm management standards that would occur among
such a large number of smallholders, and average about 70% of commercial
estate yields. It is estimated that at maturity project rubber and oil palm
would yield 1,250 kg of drc/ha and 18 tons fresh fruit bunches/ha, respec-
tively. Rubber would begin yielding in the sixth year and oil palm in the
fourth year after planting. Rubber yields would increase progressively from
year 6 to year 14, remain stable until year 21, and gradually decline to
year 25, after which tapping on a permanent basis probably would be uneconomic.
Oil palm yields would increase from year 4 to year 8, remain stable until
year 18, then decline gradually until the end of a tree's economic life in
year 25. Rice yields are estimated at the equivalent 1,500 kg rice/ha,
equivalent to 2,300 kg of paddy.
B. Markets and Prices
Rubber
7.02      Primary marketing of project smallholder rubber would be organized
by PMU which would arrange for bulk sales from project GCC to block rubber
factories in the project area. A study of world market supply and demand
for rubber prepared by the Bank's Economics Department is given in Annex 9.
It concludes that by 1980 when project plantings are coming into produc-
tion the cif New York price for RSS No. 1 would be US17 cents/lb. at 1972
constant prices. (The price quoted for July 1972 is US 16 cents/lb.) Since
the project would not produce fi st quality rubber a price discount of USO.5
cents/lb has been applied. Thus a price of US16.5 cents/lb in terms of 1972
prices has been used to evaluate the economic and financial viability of the
project. Annex 10, Table 6, shows the structure of rubber prices.
Palm Products
7.03      Farmers would bring their fresh fruit bunches to roadside collec-
tion points where transportation would be organized by PMU for delivery
to palm oil mills. The Bank's Economics Department forecasts that when
project oil palm begins to come into production in 1977 prices of palm oil
and kernels would be US$160 and US$123 per ton, (in constant 1972 dollars)
respectively, and remain at these levels thereafter. (The prices quoted for
July 1972 are US$212 and US$112 per ton, respectively.) These prices, as



- 23 -
detailed in Annex 10, Table 5, have been used in the economic and financial
analysis of the project. Project oil palm plantings will be restricted to
areas served by existing or planned palm oil mills (para 4.12) and during
negotiations an assurance was obtained that suitable arrangements will be
made for the transportation and processing of smallholder production.
Rice
7.04      Retail prices of imported rice are based on a fob Rangoon price
of US$80/ton in 1972. They are in line with prices of locally-produced rice
which averaged Rp 50/kg in 1972. The Bank's Economics Department anticipates
a decline in the fob Rangoon price to US$75/ton in 1975 (in constant 1972
dollars) and a return to about US$80 in 1980. The values have been used in
the economic analysis. For the financial analysis, however, a constant
retail price of Rp 50/kg has been assumed since in the seven years that
project rice would be produced, Government controls should prevent any
significant change in internal prices.
C. Farmer Benefits
7.05      There is no detailed information on the present income distribution
in the project area. However, the information at para 2.02 indicates that
the average rubber holding is 1.5 ha and yields about 400 kg of dry rubber/ha
annually valued at some Rp 30,000. Additionally, it appears that the average
rubber farm family comprises about five persons and produces its own subsis-
tence food requirements valued at about Rp 20,000/annum. Total family income
would thus be about Rp 50,000, and per capita income about Rp 10,000 (US$25),
which is well below estimated national per capita income at about US$80.
7.06      Four groups of farmers would be helped under the project: (a)
users of GCC; (b) farmers helped to replant one hectare of rubber with either
oil palm or rubber; (c) estate laborers provided with 3 ha of land; and (d)
smallholders with uneconomic-sized farms provided with 2 ha of additional
land. Model cash flows and a table showing the project effect on farmers'
income are at Annex 11. Except for the GCC users who would profit only
marginally from the project, the average income per family of five persons
would increase from the present level of about Rp 50,000 (US$120) to an average
income of about Rp 154,000 (US$370) per annum over the life of the new
investment, an increase of about 210%. Incremental incomes would start to
accrue in year 4 or 6 of project participation depending whether the farmer
grows oil palm or rubber.
7.07      All new plantings and replantings of rubber and oil palm would be
intercropped with rice in the first three years of their establishment, and
the proceeds of rice sales would be an important component of income during
the period before the tree crops come into production. Other sources of
income during the development phase would be the cash provided as grants or



- 24 -
credits to farmers in categories (b), (c) and (d); the proceeds from cropping
the third ha provided to ex-estate laborers in category tc); and the income
from the existing operations of farmers in category (d). The cash flows at
Annex 11 give details of the estimated financial status of participants during
the development phase.
D. Impact of Project on Government's Fiscal Situation
i.08      With its large rural population of about 85 million and its limited
financial resources, an important consideration to Indonesia is the cost per
farmer assisted in agricultural and rural development projects. The net
financial cost to Government per farmer assisted under this project is high,
at US$1,200 equivalent 1/ or US$750 equivalent per ha planted, compared to
about US$600 equivalent for estate plantings. The cost of administrative,
extensicr and other services average about US$900 for each farmer. W4hile
those farmers with title to their land will eventually repay loans made to
them, those without title who replant rubber will receive grants of about
US$300 equivalent each. In future projects of a similar type, it should be
possible to reduce overhead costs which in the current project are high, and
reflect a deliberately heavy staffing intensity and a significant training
component. Heavy staffing is essential to ensure the success of this impor-
tant first project in the smallholder rubber sector and to acquire the ex-
perience and data needed to determine the economies that should be possible
ir. future projects. Intensive field supervision, in particular, is of
critical importance to prevent the misuse of inputs supplied to participants.
.rl future pro4ects it may also be possible to reduce the direct financial
*istar-e  wlhether credit or grant provided to smallholders; this would be
U.ve- Iipott- in the course of the project.
The cash flow at Anex 13 shows Government expenditures on the
project and compares these vith the incremental revenues which should accrue
-r Overnm7net (both Central and Provincial) as a consequence of project
.ev!tiesi  The inflow and repayment of the IDA credit are also included.
evr'e'-: w^culid include Government taxation on project induced palm produce,
u-ber and rice production; land rents and taxes; and loan repayments.
i-i sasn f'ow indicates that from 1982 revenues would more than cover annual
L tntres, and that by 1993 all Government expenditures on the project
- ,i hacvc beven recovered.  Cumulative deficits are projected to peak in
it about Rp 3.0 billion (US$7.1 million).
Eased on total costs for 6,800 farmers over 11 years, to take into
*OUt the development of plantings committed up to year 7, less the
tos s of Group Collecting Centers, and taxes and revenues due from the
)sOiecr



- 25 -
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
8.01      The principal economic benefit of the project would be the
increased production and export of rubber and oil palm produce, and of rice
for domestic consumption. Of equal or even greater importance, however,
would be the experience gained from the project through (a) testing a
variety of ways of helping rubber smallholders to improve their incomes
and to diversify their cropping, and (b) establishing and training extension
and other support services to assist smallholders. Experience gained from
the project would be invaluable in designing future programs for improving
the highly important smallholder rubber industry of Indonesia.
Economic Benefits
8.02      The economic rate of return of the project over its 30-year life
is estimated at 13.4%. This is considered to be satisfactory in view of
the pioneering nature of the project and the unquantified benefits contained
in paras 8.05 to 8.07. Details of the analysis are at Annex 10. Major
assumptions employed include:
(a)  the rubber, palm produce and rice prices discussed
at para 7.02 through 7.04 and the yields at para
7.01;
(b)  a shadow price of Rp 75/day for on-farm family labor,
on the grounds that alternative employment opportunities
are restricted in the project area. This price is 50%
of the wage that such workers could obtain for casual
labor on estates, the only major employer of labor, if
the opportunity arose. No account is taken of the small
amount of hired farm labor which may be employed by a few
existing smallholders to replant rubber, as it would have
an insignificant effect on the economic rate of return;
(c)  inclusion in the cost stream of all staff and adminis-
trative costs; it is probable that not all such costs
should be included since one of the principal functions
of the project would be to train staff who after completion
of the project development period would be transferred
to other areas where their training should result in
additional production increases, if 75% and 50% of such costs
are attributed to the project the rate of return would be
17% and 20% respectively;
(d)  although no provision has been made for replacement of
processing facilities outside the project, a charge is
included under processing for this purpose;
(e)  deduction from project benefits of the value of about
10,000 tons of rice; this production is expected to be



- 26 -
foregone in the first nine years of the project when parti-
cipants will be developing their new land and will have
to give up some of their current operations.
Sensitivity Analysis
8.03      The sensitivity of the rate of return has been tested to changes
in benefits and costs, see Annex 10, Table 3. These tests show that in
the unlikely event that a 10% fall in the economic value of project induced
production were combined with a 10% increase in all project investment and
operating costs the rate of return would be 10%. The sensitivity of the
rate of return to delays in project implementation has also been tested;
and if project benefits were delayed for one year without a related delay
in investment, the rate of return would decrease by about 2.5 percentage
points. Such a delay is not likely to occur since the project development
schedule allows for a very slow build-up in rubber and oil palm establishment.
Comparative Returns from Rubber and Oilpalms
8.04      The original concept of the project was to provide services to
smallholders to expand their production of rubber through a replanting and
land reallocation program. Because of the locality selected, and the existence
of underutilized oil palm processing facilities, it was decided to include
the development of some oil palm in order to diversify the farm production
pattern. The economic rate of return from oil palm is estimated to be 30%
higher (see Annex 10) than rubber, and it might be argued that, in the micro-
economy of the project area, a greater emphasis should be placed on oil palm,
even to the extent of the provision of new processing facilities and improved
road communication.  Such an expansion of oil palm could obscure the real
intent of the project which is aimed at determining means by which smallholder
rubber farmers, the majority of which are unlikely to be afforded the oppor-
tunities of oil palm production, could make radical changes in their family
incomes through the introduction of better varieties of rubber, improved
agronomic practices, and in some cases through resettlement on new land.
The results and evaluation of the project would be crucial in determining the
future strategy for smallholder rubber production in Indonesia. The inclusion
of oil palm in the project strengthens the overall economics of the invest-
ment and the long-term prospects of smallholders, in that a new crop for
smallholders would be evaluated under reasonable conditions.
Foreign Exchange Benefits
8.05      At full development in 1990 project plantings would produce
some 9,500 tons of rubber, 10,600 tons of palm oil and 2,000 tons of
palm kernels for export annually. During the first eight years of the
project when rubber and oil palm plantings would be inter-cropped with rice
about 29,400 tons of rice would be produced. This rice would substitute for
imports. The net foreign exchange benefits over the life of the project
would be about US$57 million equivalent.



- 27 -
Income and Employment Benefits
8.06      The impact of the project on improving the incomes of a particu-
larly poor section of the population is described in para 7.05 through
para 7.07. Employment benefits are more difficult to compute; however, under
the project some 8,200 ha of currently unproductive and unworked land would
be brought into cultivation. When in production this land would provide
some 3,300 man years of employment annually. In addition the labor require-
ments on old rubber farms replanted with either rubber or oil palms would
increase; most of this increase would be met by family labor now under-
employed and very little by hired labor. Estimates indicate that replanting
would result in some 500 man years of additional work annually.
Demonstration Effect
8.07      If recent improvements in economic stability in Indonesia are
to be maintained, measures must be taken to raise the living standards
of rural families, such as those in the project. Implementing appropriate
measures pose, however, difficult organizational and financial problems,
the answers to which cannot be determined fully at this stage. Consequently,
the project provides for an investigation of the reaction of differing types
of smallholders to a range of development activities. This investigation
would be invaluable in determining future types of rural development programs.
The project thus would have an important experimental and demonstration ef-
fect.
IX. RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following
principal points:
(a)  the following land and buildings will be made available
for project purposes:
(i) Londut, Damuli and Situngir estates together with
all buildings and processing facilities thereon;
(ii) Bandar Gula estate;
(iii)  two areas of land belonging to the Government-owned
PNP III group of estates comprising 1,000 ha from
the Aek Nabara estate and 800 ha from the Rantau
Prapat estate; and
(iv) 1,400 ha of common land (para 4.10);
(b) Government under the Basic Agrarian Law would issue leases
and titles to all land allocated to project participants,
with lease and titling arrangements acceptable to IDA
(para 4.10);



- 28 -
(c)  the timing of studies and the consequent project preparation
work would only be undertaken after consultation with IDA
to agree on the scope, the terms of reference and the
personnel required (para 4.14);
(d)  the emoluments of project staff would be equivalent to those
of Government Estate staff with similar experience and
qualifications (para 6.09);
(e)  after the project development period, The Lands Department
(Agraria) in conjunction with the agricultural extension
service and Bank Rakyat would become responsible for ensuring
that:
(i) project participants complied with their lease
terms;
(ii)  rents were paid, and loan repayments made;
(iii)  conditions of leases would be effectively enforced;
(iv)  titles would be issued after completion of loan
repayments and rental payments (para 6.12).
9.02       Conditions of credit effectiveness will be that:
(a)  the lands and buildings necessary for the project are
acquired, free for use under the project (para 4.10);
(o)  a project management board with terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA is established, and that its
memibers appointed (para 6.04);
(c)  a project management unit with terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA is established and the project
manager has taken up his duties (para 6.04); and
(d)  internationally recruited technicians approved by IDA
have been appointed (para 6.06).
9.03      liTne project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$5.0 million
equivalent.
November 24, 1972



ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Progress on Agricultural Credits IND-127, 155, 194, 195,
211, 220, 246, 259, 289 and 319
C.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Credit No. 127 - Irrigation Rehabilitation
This project has progressed well and irrigation works are scheduled
for completion in March 1974. In order to obtain full economic benefits
from the project the remainder of the drainage works must be completed, and
this is expected to take until mid-1975 which is about one year behind
schedule. At the time of appraisal of all the irrigation rehabilitation
projects a sensitivity analysis was carried out allowing for a two-year
delay in construction. In no case did the economic return drop below 20
percent.
Credit No. 155 - Agricultural Estates
This project is about one year behind its original schedule due to
delay in appointing management advisors and visiting inspectors. The proj-
ect development program is now being followed satisfactorily with the excep-
tion of oil palm planting and replanting programs, which have been restricted
by an unforeseen lack of suitable planting materials. However, suitable
material is now being produced. The project also suffers from weak manage-
ment and inadequate Government control of the estates involved. A timetable
of specific improvements and managerial changes is being discussed with the
Government. The Government is also reviewing the findings of a management
survey report (financed under Credit No. 216) covering all Government agri-
cultural estates, and is discussing with the Association the implications
of the consultants' recommendations for estates in which IDA credit funds
have been, or are being, invested.
Credit No. 194 - Agricultural Estates II
Comments on the progress of this project are the same as Credit
No. 155 above. The managerial problems are, however, not so acute.
Credit No. 195 - Irrigation Rehabilitation II
There were initial delays in disbursement on this project, due to
difficulties in establishing a new project authority and in following
procurement procedures. However, construction contracts have now been
awarded and disbursements are progressing satisfactorily.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Credit No. 211 - Fisheries
This project is about one year behind the original implementation
schedule and disbursements are low. The principal cause for the delay has
been the unsatisfactory management and engineering assistance. Arrangements
with new engineering consultants have been concluded and proposals for
improved management assistance to the project are being considered by the
Government. Prospects for successful project implementation remain good.
Credit No. 220 - Irrigation Rehabilitation III
Necessary rehabilitation of irrigation works has been found to be
-much more extensive than originally estimated.  To allow credit disburse-
ments to be continued throughout the project execution period, the disburse-
ment rate for civil works contracts has been lowered. While the project
is behind the original schedule, major contracts are now being awarded and
disbursements are expected to increase rapidly.
Credit No. 246 - Seeds
Progress of this project has been hampered by delays in the
provision of funds by the Government and by slow procurement of equipment.
Remedial action has been taken by the Government, and the projec(t is now
expected to progress satisfactorily.
!redit No. 259 - Tea
This project is progressing satisfactorily.
tcl-- No. 289   irrigation Rehabilitation IV
This relar-J7i'y r- pLoject was declared effective in May 1972.
Stvr.cs on groundwater availability. water storage, and further rehabilita-
r-c4ects are anderway.  The consultants for the main project commenced
-^rrk in June 1972, and first civil works contracts are expected to be
-a a-'ded' in May,r 1973.  An agricultural extension advisor is still being
.-.)U . 1 lh t7
>redit +o 319 - Fourth Agricultural Estates
The original terninal date for effectiveness of this credit of
No-rrher 10, 1972 has been Dostponed to January 31, 1973, to give the
Jvcim-ent adfdtional time to appoint executive assistants for oil palm,
~bhber -ne, commercIal operations.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NORTH SUMATRA
Taxation of Smallholder Rubber in Labuhan Batu
November 1971
Rp/kg     x FOB
1.        Local Tax (PADJAK PEMBANGUNAN DAERAH).
Officially 4% of the price at which coagulum is
sold by producers to agents. Practically
Rp 2.5/kg of dry rubber.                                     2.5      2.38
2.        M.P.O. (Corporate Tax) on the seller
of coagulum. Officially 2% of the price at
which coagulum is sold by producers; practically,
2% of a fictional selling price of Rp 50/kg dry rubber   1.0          0.95
3.        A stamp duty of 1% (Bia Materai Dagang)
of the fictional price (see 2 above); 1/2% paid
by the buyer, 1/2% paid by the seller.                       0.5      0.48
4.        Sale tax (Padjak Pendjualan) paid by
the purchasing agent. Officially 5% of the
purchase price, practically 5% of the fictional
price (2 above).                                             2.5      2.38
5.        M.P.O. (Corporate Tax) on the processor;
Rp 5 per US Dollar earned. Officially an advance
payment on the annual corporate tax; in practice
however, this payment is levied regardless of
profit.                                                      1.05     1.00
6.        Export Tax.  10% of the net proceeds of
the sale (i.e. 10% of the f.o.b. price, less
various charges) or 10% of the check price,
whichever is the highest.                                   10.25     9.76
Total Direct Taxation                       17.80    16.95
7.        Import tax on spares needed for processing,
and various taxes on processing inputs.                      1.00     0.95
8.        Payments levied at various check points
during transport, estimated to total.                        3.00     2.86
Total (see Note 3)                          21.80    20.76



ANNEX 2
Page 2
NOTES:
1.        FOB price for Crepe No. 3 estimated at USg 11.50/lb in
November 1971, i.e. Rp 105/kg.
2.        Tax 1 is paid to the local government (Labuhan Batu); taxes
2 to 7 are collected by the provincial government (North Sumatra) on
behalf of the central government (Djakarta).
3.        If the land tax of Rp 4,000/ha is prorated on an average
yield of 400 kg of dry rubber per ha, the total taxation increases by
another Rp 10/kg to Rp 31.80 or 30.3% of the f.o.b. price.
4.        If f.o.b. prices were to increase, the total taxes expressed
in terms of percentage of f.o.b. would be reduced.
May 24, 1972



ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NORTH SUMATRA
Guidelines for Agreements
between Government and Prolect Participants
A. Smallholders and Ex-Estate Laborers Allocated New Land
Land and Titles
1.        Each smallholder would be registered by the Lands Department
(Agraria) as an occupier of a registered lot of about 2 ha (3 ha in the
case of ex-estate laborers). The boundaries of the lot shall be defined
on the ground by an iron peg in concrete placed at the corners of the holdings
and recorded in a survey plan.
2.        The land occupied would be held initially under a 25-year lease
issued by the Lands Department (Agraria) which would provide for title to the
holding to be given as soon as the smallholder would have completed his
rent payment schedule. If for reasons other than default (see para 4),
rent payments are not completed after 25 years, the lease would be extended
by 5-year tranches up to completion of payment.
3.        Conditions of entry
(a) Landless estate laborers
(i) each participant would be a permanent employee of
the Damuli, Londut or Situngir rubber estates and
have some field experience of growing rubber; and
(ii) participants would be able to muster from their
families the equivalent of two adult workers who
would be available for work on the lot during the
period of credit disbursement.
(b) Smallholders
(i) each smallholder would have a rubber holding
of less than 2 ha and would already be utilizing
the facilities of a Group Coagulating Center;



ANNEX 3
Page 2
(ii) smallholders would be able to muster from their
families the equivalent of 2 adult workers who
would be available for work on the lot during the
period of credit disbursement;
(iii)  smallholders would be full-time farmers achieving
good agricultural results on their existing holdings
under present conditions in North Sumatra; and
(iv) existing holdings would be within 2 km of the lot.
4.        Main obligations under the Agreement
(a) Government would agree to provide each occupier with
loans in cash and kind, up to a total value of about
Rp 132,200 (see Schedule A) to plant and bring to
maturity 1 ha of rubber; and up to a total of about
Rp 104,800 (see Schedule B) to plant and bring to maturity
1 ha of oil palm. Government would also provide satisfactory
extension and supervisory services;
(b) terms of the loans described in (a) would be the equivalent of:
(i) rubber: term 22 years, interest 6%. Repayment
commencing in the 8th year following 7 years of
grace for principal which would be concurrent
with a 7-year waiver of interest; and
(ii) oiiLpalm: term 22 years, interest 12%. Payment
commencing in the 6th year following 5 years of
grace for principal during which interest would
be capitalized.
Loans would be disbursed by Bank Rakyat on the authoriza-
tion of the PMU, and Loan accounts would be maintained
by both PMU and Bank Rakyat. Bank Rakyat would be res-
ponsible for the collection of loan repayments.
(c)  occupiers would plant 2 ha of the land allocated to them
either with 2 ha of rubber, or with 1 ha each of rubber
and oil palm. Where approved by PMU both hectares could
be planted with oil palms. The first hectare would be
planted in year 1 and the second in year 3 of project
participation, although the second planting could for
certain farmers be undertaken earlier with the agreement
of P,UT, starting with the hectare of oil palm, if any;
(d)  during the three years following rubber planting and
the two years following oil palm planting, occupiers
would agree to plant paddy on the land between the
rubber and oil palm trees; and that no paddy would be
planted within one meter of rubber or oil palm trees;



ANNEX 3
Page 3
(e) occupiers would agree to pay Rps 40,000/ha for land
allocated to them under the project. Payment would be
in 20 annual rent payments of Rp 2,000/ha and which
would commence for each hectare in the year that
hectare was planted with rubber or with oil palm.
Ex-estate laborers receiving 3 ha of land would commence
rent payments for the third ha in the year in which
cultivation of any part of that hectare was started.
Payments would be made to the Lands Department which
would maintain an account in respect of each occupier;
(f) occupier would agree to tap their rubber trees and harvest
their oil palms according to the instructions of the
Ministry of Agriculture; to process and sell their rubber
through designated Group Coagulating Centers; to sell
their oil palm bunches to a designated processor to whom
they would give authority to deduct from sale proceeds
annual amounts equivalent to annual credit repayments;
(g) the lease would also include the following stipulation:
(i) at all times occupiers would maintain the land
occupied according to the tenants of good
husbandry;
(ii) occupiers would not sublease the land;
(iii) occupiers would not transfer or change the land
until rent payments had been made in full and
title issued; and
(iv) the land would not be subdivided.
5.        Penalty
At any time the land is held under lease, occupiers failing to
comply with their obligations under the agreement, or to undertake such
work as the Ministry of Agriculture might reasonably require to be carried
out, would be liable to cancellation of their leases and enforced vacation
of their holdings. The Lands Department would be responsible for such
disciplinary action which would be taken after issue by the Ministry
of Agriculture of two written warnings to the occupier at not less than a
one-month interval. Occupiers who leave their holdings in this way would
not be eligible for compensation.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
B. Grant Agreement between Government and Smallholder
Replanting Existing Rubber with Rubber
6.        Conditions of entry:
(a)  the smallholder would have a holding of at least 2 ha
and not more than 10 ha of tapped rubber;
(b)  the smallholder would be able to muster from his family
the equivalent of 2 adult workers who would be available
for work on the replanting during the grant disbursement
period; and
(c)  the smallholder would be a full-time farmer achieving
satisfactory agricultural results in North Sumatra
conditions on his existing holding.
7.        Obligations under the Agreement
Government would agree to provide assistance in the form of cash
and materials to the smallholder as a grant in installments as set out in
Schedule A. The value of the grant would be up to Rp 132,000/ha 1/. Govern-
ment would undertake to provide satisfactory extension and supervision
services to participants.
8.        The smallholder would agree to:
(a)  implement a farm plan, which he would agree with the
PMU, for the overall improvement of his holding;
(b)  allow staff of the PMU access to the land at all
reasonable times;
(c)  follow the instructions of the Ministry's staff for
all operations relating to replanting rubber with rubber,
and for the overall improvement of his holding; and
(d)  tap the replanted rubber when mature according to the
instruction of the Ministry's staff and to carry out
satisfactory latex processing.
1/   Amount would depend on degree to which land is infested with lallang.
In areas where lallang is not a problem grant would be about Rp 17,500/ha
lower.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
9.        Penalty Clause
In case of persistent cultural malpractice, disbursement of the
grant would either be suspended until improvements were carried out, or
cancelled. In the latter event, the disbursed part of the grant would be
reimbursed to the Ministry of Agriculture bearing an interest rate of 12%
per annum as from the date of cancellation.
C. Loan Agreement between Government and Smallholder
Replanting Existng jRubber with Oil Palms
10.       The loan arrangements would be the same as for smallholders
planting rubber on new land. In this case, however, the penalty for
noncompliance would be the suspension of any outstanding loan disbursements,
and a demand for the immediate repayment of the loan. As in the case of
rubber the loan amount would be dependent upon the degree of lallang
infestation of the farm to be replanted with oil palms.
June 22, 1972






ANNEX 3
Schedule A
Page 1
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NORTH SUMATRA
Installments of Credit or Grant in Cash and Material
for Planting Rubber in Sheet Lallang _
(Rp/ha)
Value in Rp
Year                      Details of Advances               Cash     Material
1.       (i)  On registration and land allocation:
tools                                      -         2,000
arboricide                                 _          1,000
(ii) On satisfactory completion of felling,
stacking, and burning of old rubber,
and satisfactory lallang cutting:
herbicide                                  -         17,500
(iii) On satisfactory lining, holing and
land preparation for paddy:
cover crop seeds                           -          1,000
budded stumps                              -         15,400
rock phosphate                             -          1,000
compound fertilizer - NPKMg                -          5,000
urea, doublesuperphosphate (DSP),
muriate of potash                        -          7,200
(iv) On completion of weeding, lallang
control and paddy harvesting to a
satisfactory standard:
cash payment for good husbandry          6,000          -
Total                           6,000       50,000
2.       (i)  On satisfactory completion of circle
weeding and preparation of land for
paddy:
budded stumps - supplies                                400
compound fertilizer - NPKMg                -          7,500
urea, DSP and potash                       -          7,200
(ii)  On satisfactory completion of paddy
harvest:
cash payment for good husbandry          6,000          -
Total                           6,000       15,100
1/   The cost of planting rubber in areas covered by sheet lallang is higher
than that for replanting old rubber. Thus, figures show maximum amounts
likely to be paid to farmers.



ANNEX 3
Schedule A
Page 2
Value in Rp
Year                       Details of Advances               Cash     Material
3.       (i)  On satisfactory completion of circle
weeding and preparation of land for
paddy:
compound fertilizer - NPKMg                -         10,000
urea, DSP and potash                       -          3,600
(ii)  On satisfactory completion of paddy
harvest:
cash payment for good husbandry          6,000          -
Total                            6,000       13,600
4.       (i)  On satisfactory completion of circle
weeding and eradication of previous
years' paddy residues:
compound fertilizer - NPKMg                 -        10,000
cash payment for good husbandry          6,000          -
Total                            6,000       10,000
5.       (i)  On satisfactory completion of circle
weeding:
compound fertilizer - NPKMg                -         10,000
(ii) On completion of tapping training:
cups, spouts and hangers                   -          8,200
tapping equipment                          -          1,200
Total                              -         19 400
Total over 5-Year Period              24,000    108.200
132,200
MaV 24, 1972



ANNEX 3
Schedule B
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NORTH SUMATRA
Installments of Credit in Cash and Material
for Planting Oil Palms in Sheet Lallangy1
(Rp/ha)
Value in Rp
Year                      Details of Advances              Cash      Material
1.       (i)  On registration and land allocation:
tools                                     _          1,000
arboricide                                _          1,000
(ii) On satisfactory completion of felling,
staking and burning of old rubber and
satisfactory lallang cutting:
herbicide                                 -         17,500
(iii) On satisfactory lining, holding and
land preparation for paddy:
cover crop seed                           -          1,000
oil palm seedlings                        -         35,000
rock phosphate                            -            500
compound fertilizer - NPKMg               -          2,700
urea, doublesuperphosphate,
muriate of potash                       -          7,200
pesticides                                -            300
(iv) On satisfactory weeding, lallang control
and paddy harvesting:
cash payment for good husbandry         6,000          -
Total                           6,000       66,200
2.       (i)  On satisfactory completion of circle
weeding and preparation of land for paddy:
budded stumps - supplies                  -          3,500
compound fertilizer - NPKMg               -          3,800
urea, DSP and potash                      -          7,200
(ii)  On satisfactory completion of paddy
harvest:
cash payment for good husbandry         6,000          -
Total                           6,000       14,500
3.       (i)  On satisfactory completion of circle
weeding and eradication of previous
years' rice residue:
compound fertilizer - NPKMg               -          5,700
urea, DSP and potash                      -          5,400
cover crop seed                           -          1,000
Total                             -         12 100
Total over 3-Year Period              l          9
104,800






ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Standard Agricultural Practices
A. General
1.        After the selection of project participants and when land had been
allocated and the leases issued, adjacent farms would be organized into
groups of about 20 farmers each. Each farmer would be individually respon-
sible for all work of his farm, but farmers would be expected to work as a
group so that farm operations within a group are carried out during the same
period.
B. Rubber
Establishment
2.        Land clearance:  Old rubber trees on the allocated area would be
poisoned using sodium arsenite (30 gram/tree) mixed with tapioca flour and
water. Signs reading "Awas Ratjun" would be posted around the area, and the
local authorities would be advised that poisoning was taking place. The
poison would be applied to a debarked strip approximately 25-30 cm wide,
located directly above the root collar.  Debarking would be done using the
blunt side of an axe to crush the bark, prior to stripping from the tree.
Care would be taken not to cut into the wood.
3.        Lallang 1/ would be slashed after waiting a minimum of three weeks
after tree poisoning. After a further three weeks, the trees would be
felled, piled up and burnt with the lallang. When the lallang has regen-
erated to a height of 45 cm, it would be sprayed with a mixture of 16 kg of
gramavin in 1,000 liters of water with a sticking agent (0.05% on volume);
this mixture would be sufficient for one ha. The area would be thoroughly
sprayed applying an even coat of spray to all lallang. Two weeks after
this initial spraying, a repeat spraying would take place using a similar
spray mixture but containing 14 kg of gramavine instead of 16 kg.
4.        Rubber planting:  The area to be planted would be marked out using
a transit instrument or a simple plane table, with master stakes set at
8 m intervals, and full in stakes at intervals of 3 m. The latter would be
set by using a chain or rope marked at 3 m intervals. A total of 52 master
1/   A weed spreading by underground rhizomes.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
stakes and 364 fill in stakes would be required per ha. This would provide
markers for about 400 trees per ha set at 3 x 8 m apart.
5.        After staking, planting holes would be dug 60 x 60 x 60 cm at all
plant points. Rock phosphate fertilizer (125 gram per hole) would be mixed
with a small amount of earth and placed in the bottom of the hole. After
satisfactory completion, the budded rubber trees in polythene bags would be
delivered for planting. The entire plant and bag would be placed in the
hole, the polythene would be torn to prevent root growth restriction, and
earth would be packed firmly around the young tree until level or slightly
level than the surrounding ground.
6.        Intercrop planting (rice and legume cover crop):  The area between
the newly planted rubber trees would be lightly dug with a local hoe, known
as a "tjankol" to remove the dead lallang, and then planted to rice and
fertilized with a mixture containing 50 kg urea, 100 kg DSP and 50 kg
muriate of potash (rates per ha). The area planted to rice would be the
center inter row space, with a strip of 1.5 m on either side between the
rubber and the rice planted to a cover crop mixture consisting of Pueraria
phaseoloides, Centrosema pobescons, Calapogonium muconoides and Pshosocarpus
palustris mixed in a ratio of 1:4:4:1 respectively, and applied at a rate
equivalent to 25 kg per ha. The cover crop would be planted in earth,
loosened by the hoe, with a small amount of rock phosphate. Circular ring
weeding, (1 m. in. diameter) would be carried out around each rubber seedling,
leaving an area of 1 x 3 m for the cover crop to grow in. Lallang "wiping"
would be carried out monthly, after the final spray round, for a period of
three months, using a 2% solution of gramavin in water a sticking agent
at 0.05% on colume.
J.        Field operations after crop establishment in year of establishment:
Weeding would be carried out monthly and fertilizer applications, when
necessary would take place immediately after a weeding round. The trees
would be fertilized at 2 months after planting by spreading 250 gram of NPKMg
fertilizer mixture (10:16:4:2) in the clean area around each tree. A second
;:op dressing of the same amount would take place 8 months after planting.
_>ertilizer for rice (50 kg urea/ha) would be broadcast over the 5 m cultivated
ztrip 10 weeks after planting at a rate of 100 kg per ha. Rice harvesting
would take place 5-6 months after planting.  After harvesting, using a
;':all knife, padi vould be thrashed and sundried.  The paddy is then either
-,ored or sold.
-.'i'urrent Operations
Second year:  Lallang rounds would be made at monthly intervals
using a type of potato hoe called "garpu", to dig out lallang shoots. All
ahe rubber trees would be ring weeded, pruned and fertilized with 750 gm of
sNPKMg mixture. Any vacant plant points would be supplied with a new
. ^4ded stump.  The 5 m strip between the cover crop would be hoed in prepara-
-lon for rice planting, removing all weeds and remains from the previous
rice crop. The rice when planted would receive 150 kg urea per ha. Harvest-
i:ng aid thrashing would be carried out as in the first year.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
9.        Third year:  The area under rubber would be subjected to the same
cultivations as in year 2, but the NPKMg fertilizer application to rubber
would be increased to 1 kg per tree, and the fertilizer application to
rice would be reduced to 75 kg of NPK mixture at planting and to 25 kg urea/ha
at top dressing.
10.       Fourth year:  Normal weeding cultivations would take place and the
cover would be allowed to spread into the area where rice was grown in the
preceding year. The fertilizer rate for rubber would remain at 1 kg/tree.
11.       Fifth year:  Cultivation and fertilization would follow the same
pattern as for year 4. However, during this year, tappers would be trained
on old rubber trees on how to lay out panels and open cuts. The S2D2
(half spiral every alternate day) system would be stressed, with particular
emphasis on low bark consumption. After training, equipment would be
installed and initial cuts would be made on the trees. A small weighing
shed with storage space would be constructed out of local materials.
C. Oil Palm
Establishment
12.       Land clearance:  The same measures are taken as those described
for rubber in the preceding paragraphs.
13.       Oil palm planting:  Master stakes and full in stakes would be
set up using transit or plane table level. Oil palm is planted on the tri-
angle in staggered rows with 7.5 m between rows and 9 m between plants within
the rows. There would therefore be 140 plant points per ha, requiring 52
master stakes and 88 fill in stakes. At each stake holes would be dug
(60 x 60 x 60 cm) and into each hole would be placed 180 gram of rock phosphate
mixed with some earth. The oil palm seedlings in polythene tubes would be
placed in each plant hole, and the polythene would be torn to prevent root
growth restriction. The hole would then be filled with earth, packed
firmly until level or slightly lower then the surrounding ground.
14.       Intercropping (rice legume cover crop):  The area between the oil
palm seedling would be lightly dug with the "tjankol" to remove dead
lallang and the land would be prepared for rice planting. The area so
prepared would be 4-1/2 m wide leaving 1-1/2 m between rice and oil palm.
The latter strip is planted to the same cover crop as shown for rubber.
Rice is planted with fertilizer at a rate of 200 kg per ha of NPK mixture.
15.       Field operations after crop establishment in year of establishment.
Weeding would be carried out monthly, and fertilizer application to the
oil palm would take place immediately after a weeding round. Lallang 'wiping'
would be carried out for the first 3 months. The palms would be fertilized
at 2 months after planting by spreading 250 gram of NKPMg fertilizer (12:12:17:2
mixture) in the area weeded around the plant. A second dressing of the
same amount of fertilizer would be made 8 months after planting. A top dressing






SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NORTH SUMATRA
PROJECT COSTS
(Rp Milli..s)
De10il. iA   P,.olaclYIr        1            2            3           4              5          6            7            8           9
TDble  o.i    Pro      Y       1973         1974         1975        1976         1977         1978        1979         1980        1981            Total      Foreign Eschsnge
A.   READO,OATdR5
(i) Establfshtmee5
1900555                             9                         153.7          27.5        21.3                                                                                      202.5         30        60.8
BuildSegI 9                                                    15.0         20.0         10.0                 -            -           -                  -           -             45.0         30        13.5
Vehiles.  U/                        9                          38.6          34.3        18.2        26.3          34.5        12.7        21.9         10.5         4.1           201.1         85       170.9
R..ds                              10                          23.0         35.5          -                         -                         .           _           _             58.5         50        29.2
CrouP -gulatO  centers              10                         17.0          34.0        51.0          -           34.0          -            -           -           -            136.0         50        68.0
Subtot.1                                               247.3         151.3       100.5        26.3         68.5         12.7        21.9         10.5         4.1           643.1         53       342.4
(il)  Operatin.  Expenses
TErO,, 1.g                                                     33.0           -           -            .             .           -            -                       -             33.0        50         14.9
A.ri i ph-lss-aphy                                                     -                 35.0                                                                                       35.0        85         30.0
SEadies                                                         -            -           50.0          -             -           -                        -           _             50.0        50         25.0
Seeff  i/                          12                         110.4        120.2        139.1       139.1        129.4         62.5        33.9         28.3        15.3           786.2        40        310.5
Upkeep & Bildl.ga  V/              11                           2.5           6.7         8.6         9.9           9.2         8.O         6.8          5.0         3.0            59.7         10         6.0
upkee p of roads                   10                           1.0           2.5         6.3         6.3           5.9         5.1         4.13         3. 2        7.9            36.5         30        11.0
VehIc7e  po  tons 1/                I1                         10.0          20.6        23.8        23.8          22.1        17.8        14.1         00.2         5.9           149.1       3TO         44.7
Group CoagIlaCEng Center
-peroelon  2/                     10                           3.5         13.0         29.0        39.0         45.0           .           -            -                        129.5        30        38.9
Sundry charges  iL i El                                         2.0          3.0          4.0         5.0          4.7          4.1         3.5          2.6         1.5            30.4        20         6.1
Sub-505-1                                              163.2        174.0        295.8       223.1        216.3         97.5        62.6         49.3        27.6         1,309.4        37       488.7
T.Es1  -eRdqarter coac                                        410.5        325.3        396.3       249.4        284.8        110.02       84.5         59.8        31.7         1,952.         43       831.1
B.   DIRECT ON FAP8  COSTS
(i)  Oil Palm
Land turvey                         a                                         1.2         2.2         1.6           1.6          .           .            .          ..              6.6        30          2.0
T=ols                               8                                        0.6          1.1         0.8          0.8           .           .            _                          3.3        10         0.3
ArbmriCidee,herbicides etc.         8                                       11.3         20.7        15.0         15.0          0.9         0.8                       _             63.6        85        54.2
Cover crop seed                     8                           .            0.6          1.1         1.4          1.9           -                        -           .              5.0        -
se dli.g.                           8                                       21.0         40.6        31.8         30.8          2.8          -            -           _            127.0        60        76.2
PertiOleers                         8                           _            6.2         18.0        27.2         29.4         17.7         8.9                                    107 .4       85        91.3
Cash Pa-Yents                       8                           _            3.6         10.2        11.4          9.6          4.9          .            _           _             39.6        .
Roadn                            -                                                                   24.0         44:0         32.0        32.0          -            -            132.0        30        39.6
S.b-t.otl                                                            44.5         93.9       113.2        133.1         58.1        41.7                       _            404.5        54       263.6
(it)  Rtbber
Land survey                         7                                        0.6          1.6         3.8          5.4           -                                    _             11.4        30         3.4
Toola                               7                                        0.6          1.6         3.8          5.4          2.9         7.5         17.9        25.4            65.0        10         6.5
HrherlrldSa. hsrhlcldeA  trc       27                                         5.5        14.8        35.2         49.9           _            .                       .            105.4        85        89.6
Cover crop seeds                    7                           .            0.3          0.8         1.9          2.7           -           .            -           -              5.7
blndded eruenp                      7                           -            4.6         12.4        29.6         42.4          1.1          -                        _            90.1         60        54.1
Fretilitara                         7                           _            0.0         15.0        40.9         77.4         76.5        63.7         46.0        27.0           350.5        85       306.4
Cash psy-ents                       7                           .            1.9          6.6        18.0         34.2         32.4        27.6         16.2          _            136.8 9                   -
Scsh.roxal                                               _            17.4        52.8       133.2        217.4        112.9        98.8         80.1        52.4           764.9        60       460.0
Total on fa.r  soas                                             -           61.9_  146.7            246.4    _350.5           170.9       140.5        90.1         52.4         1,249,4        58       723.5
TeteS  (A U  B)                                               410.5        387.2        543.0       495.8        635.3        281.1       225.0       139.9         84.1        3,201.9         49     1,554.7
Cont lnRenc ie a
Physlcol                                                       20.5         19.4         27.2        24.8         31.8         14.1        11.3          7.0         4.2           740.3        49        78.5
Price                                                          79.9         41.9         94.2       116.2        203.0         97.2       101.        7n.3         50.3           794.6        49       389.4
45.2         61.3       121.4        141.0        234.8        111.3       113.1        77.3         54.5          954.9                  467.9
Total Rp nillium                                              454.7        446.5       664.4        636.8        870.1       392.4        338.1       217.2        138.6        4,156.8         49    2,022.6
TOTAL US5  000                                              1,086          1,081       1,601        1,535        2,096         945         815          524         354           10,017        49       4,874
/  Frpt yesr 1927 thsea -osEs sox consIdored                      1 estnun  co-ts required to hribg   -tra-ure pl 5 . ag. ro  .st.r.iy.  Up 10 yet
1976 a11 pl_ntIngs ItnAture,  In 1977  - 937. cr.acre , 1978 - 81Y., 1979 . 69/., 1980   I17-, 1981 - 307. acd from 1982 a11
plt _ingo see consIdered racurn
21  F-o  197b oru--dssll grouycot.rcorer   ..:1hcuprionedbyycuduccc anpdcbt -r.foro. u1c u.T.. b..ecoan... - -
AMgu,er 1, 1972



INDONES IA
SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NORTH SUMATRA
PLANTING AND REPLANTING PROGRAM
(Hectares)
Number of      Project Year           1           2            3           4           5              Total
Farmers           Year              1973        1974        1975         1976        1977
Unit 1.  DANULI:
(i)  Planting:                                             1/
(a)   Estate labor                     1,000       OP -                     -          400         600          -           -              1,000
-         R                       -           -           -          400         600             1,000
-         A                       -          400         600          -            -             1,000
(b)   Smallholders                     1,100       OP                       _          200         300         300         300             1,100
-          R                      -           -           -          200          300               500
(ii)  Replanting                               -         _                       _           _            _           _
Total Unit I per crop              -         OP                      -          600         900          300         300             2,100
-         R                       -           -           -          600         900             1,500
-         A                       -          400         600          -            -             1,000
Total Unit 1                   2,100                               -        1,000       1,500         900        1,200            4,600
Unit 2. BANDAR GULA
(i)  Planting - Smallholders                   800        R                      -          200          200         200         200               800
* -      R                       -           -           -          200         200               400
(ii)  Replanting - Smallholders                 900        R                      -           100         200         300         300               900
Total Unit 2                  1,700         R                      -          300         400         700          700            2,100
Unit 3. AEK NABARA
(i)  Planting - Smallholders                  500       OP                      -          -            100         200         200               500
-        R                                  -           -           -           100               100
(ii)  Replanting - Smallholders                700       OP                      -          -            100         300         300               700
500        R                      -          -           100         200          200               500
Total Unit 3 per crop            1,700       OP                      -          -           200          500         500             1,200
-        R                       -          -           100         200         300               600
Total Unit 3                 1,700       _                        -          -           300         700         800             1,800
Unit 4.  AEK GOTI
(i)  Planting - Smallholders                  700        R                      _          _           200          200         300               700
-        R                       -          -            -           -          200               200
(ii)  Replanting - Smallholders                600        R                                 -            100         200.        300               600
Total Unit 4                1,300         R                      -                      300         400         800             1,500
Total all Units per crop          -         OP                      -          600       1,100         800          800             3,300
-          iR                     -          300         800       1,900       2,700             5,700
-         A                       -          400         600          -            -             1,000
Total Project              6,800                                -        1,300       2,500       2,700       3,500            10,000
1/  OP      =    Oil Palm
R     =    Rubber
A     =    Third hectare allocate
August 1, 1972



ANNEX 5
Table 3
INDCNESIA
SMAILHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NCR2H SUMATRA
Cost of Planting Rubber in Sheet Lallang-Chemical
(Rupiahs per hectare)
A. CASH INPUTS
Years                       Details of Expenditure                                  Total
1        Tools                                                        2,000
Poison                                                       1,000
Herbicide: 35 kg  @ Rp  500                                17,500
Cover crop seeds                                            1,000
Budded stumps in polythene bags - 400 C Rp  38.50          15,400
Fertilizers: Rock phosphate 50 kg  @ Rp  20                  1,000
NPK Mg (16-10-4-2) 200 kg  @ Rp  25            5,000
Urea-double super phosphate - Muriate
of Potash 200 kgS @ Rp  36                    7,200
Cash payment for good husbandry                             6,000        56,100
2        Fertilizer: NPK Mg 300 kg  @ Rp  25                          7,500
Urea, PeK  - 200 kg  @ Rp  36                   7,200
Budded stumps - supplies - 10 @ Rp  40                         400
Cash payment for good husbandry                             6,ooo        21,100
3        Fertilizers:  NPK Mg. 400 kg  @ Rp  25                      10,000
Urea, P.K. - 100 kg  @ Rp  36                 3,600
Cash payment for good husbandry                             6,000        19,600
4        Fertilizer:   NPK Mg - 400 kg  @ Rp  25                     10,000
Cash payment for good husbandry                             6,ooo        16,000
5        Fertilizer:  NPK Mg& 400 kg  @ Rp  25                       10,000
Cups, spouts, hangers                                       8,200
Tapper equipment                                            1,200        19,400
US$       319.32   Total Cost2/             Rp         132,200
1/ Excludes survey cost of Rp 2000/hectare
2/ Excludes the cost of family labor
June 13, 1972



INDONESIA
SMALLHQLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NORTH SUMATRA
PLANTING RUBBER IN SHEET LALLANG - CHEICAL
(Man-days per hectare)
LABOR INPUTS
Years                            Details of Works                              Total
1      Poisoning, felling and clearing                             42
Lallang spraying                                           21
Lining and holing                                           12
Planting rubber                                             8
Land preparation                                            20
Planting rice and cover crop                                10
Weeding and slashing                                        32
Pruning and fertilizer application                           5
Paddy harvesting and threshing                             30         180
2      Lallang eradication                                         15
Land preparation                                            20
Planting rice                                               10
Weeding and slashing                                        40
Supplying, pruning, fertilizer application                  5
Paddy harvesting and threshing                             30         120
3      Lallang eradication                                         11
Land preparation                                            20
Planting rice                                               10
Weeding and slashing                                        30
Fertilizer application, road maintenance                     4
Paddy harvesting and threshing                              20         95
4      Lallang eradication                                         11
Weeding and slashing                                        60
Fertilizer application, road maintenance                     4         75
5      Lallang eradication                                          4
Weeding and slashing                                        35
Fertilizer application, road maintenance                     4
Task preparation, panelling, fixing hangers, cups
and spouts                                                  7
Construction of group coagnlation center                   20          70
TOTAL  - Man-days              540
January 11, 1972



ANNEX 5
Table5
INDCNESIA
SALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NCRTH SUMATRA
1!
COST CF PLANTING OIL PALM:CHEMICALS
(Rp  per hectare)
Years                      Details of Expenditure                            Total
1       Tools                                                    1,000
Poison                                                   1,000
Herbicide: 35 kg  0 Rpg  500                            17,500
Cover crop seed                                          1, 000
Seedlings     140 @ Rp '250                             35,000
Fertilizer: Rock Phosphate: 25 kg @ Rp  20                 500
N.P.K. Mg (12-12-17-2) - 70 Kcg @ Rp 38      2,700
Urea, double super phosphate, muriate
of potash:  200 kg  @ Rp  36               7,200
Pestic ides                                                300
Cash payment for good husbandry                          6,000      72,200
2       Supplies - 10%                                           3,500
Fertilizer: N.P.K. Mg. 100 kg  @  ftp 38                 3,800
Urea, double super phosphate,
muriate of potash 200 kg 0 Rp 36            7,200
Cash payment for good husbandry                          6,000      20,500
3       Fertilizer:  N.P.K. Mg. 150 Kg  9  Rp  38                5,700
Urea, double super phosphate,
muriate of potash 150 kg @ Rp 36           5,400
Cover crop seed                                          1,000      12,100
US$    253.14    Total Cot!            iRp         104,800
1/ Excludes survey cost of Rp 2,000/ha
2/ Excludes the cost of family labor
June 13, 1972



ANNEX 5
Table 6
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
NCRTH SUMATRA
COST OF PLANTING OIL PALM
(Man-da~s per ha)
Year                                 Works                                     Total
1         Felling, poisoning, clearing                             42
Lallang eradication                                     21
Lining and holing                                       10
Planting oil palm                                        5
Land preparation                                        20
Planting rice and cover crop                            10
Weeding and slashing                                    32
Fertilizer application and pest control                  5
Paddy harvesting and threbh*ing                         30           175
2         Lallang eradication                                      15
Land preparation                                        20
Planting rice                                           10
Weeding and slashing                                    40
Supplying, fertilizer application                        5
Paddy harvesting and threshing                          30           120
3         Lallang eradication                                      11
Land preparation                                        20
Planting rice                                           10
Weeding and slashing                                    30
Fertilizer application, road maintenance                 4
Paddy harvesting and threshing                          20            95
Total Man-days           390
June 13, 1972



INDOhES IA
SMALLhOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NORTH SUMATRA
DIRECT ON-FARM COSTS
RUBBER
(Rp Million)
ProjectYear           1           2              3            4            5            6             7            8            9
YEAR            1973         1974          1975         1976         1977          1978         1979         1980         1981           TOTAL
Annual Pl.nting (h.)                  300          800        1,900        2,700
tat Year                                         Cost/ha 1,
(R '00)
Land S.rvey                                   2..0               -          0.6            1.6         3.8          5.4          -            ---11.4
Tools                                           2.0                -         0.6            1.6         3.8          5.4          -             -                                       11.4
Poison, herbicides                            18.5                -          5.5           14.8       35.2          49.9          -            _             _             _          105.4
Cover crop seeds                                1.0                -         0.3            0.8         1.9          2.7          -             -            -             -             5.7
BPdded stumps                                 15.4                -          4.6           12.3       29.3          41.6          -            -             -             -           87.8
Fertilizers                                   13.2                 -         4.0           10.6        25.0         35.6          -             -            -              -           75.2
Cash                                           6.0                 -         1.8            4.8        11.4         16.2           -            -            -             -            34.2
58.1                -        17.4           46.5       110.4        156.8           -            -            -              -          331.1
2nd Year
Fertilizers                                   14.7                 -         -              4.4        11.8         27.9         39.7           -            _              _           83.8
Supplies                                       0.4                 -         -              0.1         D.3          0.8           1.1          -            -              -            2.3
Cash                                           6.0                 -         -              1.8         4.8         11.4         16.2           -            -              -           34.2
21.1                -          -             6.3        16.9         40.1          57.0          -            -              -          120.3
3rd Y ar
Fertilizer                                    13.6                 -         -              -           4.1         10.9         25.8          36.7          -              -           77.5
Cash                                           6.0                 -         -              -           1.8          4.8         11.4          16.2          -              -           34.2
19.6                -         -              -           5.9         15.7          37.2         52.9          -              -          111.7
4th Year
Fertilizers                                   10.0                 -         -              -           -            3.0           8.0         19.0        27.0             -           57.0
Cash                                           0.0                 -         -              -           -            1.8           4.8         11.4        16.2             -           34.2
16.0                -         -              -           -            4.8          12.8         30.4        43.2             -           91.2
5th Year
Fertili-ers                                    10.0                -          -             -           -             -            3.0          8.0        19.0           27.0          57.0
Cups, spo-ts, hangers                           8.2                                                    2-            -             2.4          6.5        15.6           22.2          46.7
Tapper Eq.ipe--t                                1.4                                                                                                         2.3            3.2            6.9
19.4                -          -             _           _            -             5.8         15.5        36.9           52.4         110.6
134.2                -         17.4          52.8       133.2        217.4         112.8         98.8        80.1           52.4         764.9
Tools                                            -                 -          0.6           1.6         3.8           5.4          2.8           7.5        17.9          25.4           65.0
Poizon - her-bi-des                              -                 -          5.5          14.8        35.2         49.9            -             -           -              -          105.4
Cover crop seeds                                 -                 -          0.3           0.8         1.9           2.7           -             -           -              -            5.7
Sodded stoops ,                                                               4.6          12.4        29.6         42.4           1.1            --                         -           90.1
F-tedli-tms                                      _                 -          4.0          15.0        40.9          77.4         76.5         63.7        46.0           27.0          350.5
Cosh                                             -                            1.8           6.6        18.0          34.2         32.4         27.6         16.2             -          136.8
Lbnd Survey                                     -                  -          0.6            1.6        3.8           5.4           -             -           -              -           11.4
17.4          52.8       133.2        217.4         112.8         98.8        80.1           52.4          764.9
1/ 3rr Toble 3
Asjg-t 1, 1972



INDONES IA
SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPrENT PROJECT
NORTH SUMATRA
DIRECT ON-FARM COSTS
OIL PALM
(Rp  Milion)
Project Year    1              2            3            4              5             6             7
Year       1973          1974         1975          1976          1977         1978          1979          Total
Anuual Planting                    600        1,100           S00           800          -             -            3,300
Cost/ha It
(Rp '000)
Land Survey                                           2.0              _            1.2         2.2           1.6          1.6            _
Tools                                                 1.0              -           0.6          1.1          0.8           0.8            -             -             3.3
Poison                                                1.0                          0.6          1.1          0.8           0.8            -             -             3.3
Herbicides                                           17.5              -          10.5         19.3         14.0          14.0            -             _           57.8
Cover crop seed                                       1.0              -           0.6          1.1          0.8           0.8            -             -            3.3
Palm Seedlings                                       35.0              _          21.0         38.5         28.0          28.0            -                        115.5
Fertilizers                                          10.4              -           6.2         11.4          8.4           8.4            -             -           34.4
Pesticides                                            0.3              -           0.2          0.3          0.2           0.2            -             -            0,9
Cash payment                                          6.0              _           3.6          6.6          4.8           4.8            -             -           19.8
74.2              -          44.5        81.6          59.4          59.4            -            -           244.9
2nd Year
Supplies                                              3.5              -                        2.1          3.8           2.8           2.8            -           11.5
Fertilizers                                          11.0              -           _            6.6         12.1           8.8           8:-,           -           36.3
Cash payment                                          6,0              -                        3.6          6.6           4.8           4.8            -           19.8
20.5             -            -           12.3         22.5          16.4          16.4           -            67.6
3rd Year
Fertilizers                                          11.1              -           -            -            6.7          12.2           8.9          8.9           36.7
Cover crop seed                                       1.0              -           -            -            0.6           1.1           0.8          0.8            3.3
Road making                                          4D.0              -            _           _           24.0          44.0          32.0          32.0         132.0
52.1              -           -           -            31.3          57.3         41.7          41.7          172.0
146.8              -          44.5        93.9         113.2         133.1         58.1          41.7          484.5
SUMMARY
Tools                                                                  -           0.6          1.1          0.8           0.8            -             -            3.3
Poison                                                                 -           0.6          1.1          0.8           0.8            -             -             3.3
Herbicides - Pesticides                                                -          10.7         19.6         14.2          14.2           0.8          0.8           60.3
Cover crop seeds                                                       -           0.6          1.1          1.4           1.9                          -            5.0
Palm Seedlings                                                         -          21.0         40.6         31.8          30.8           2.8            -          127.0
Fertilizers                                                            -           6.2         18.0         27.2          29.4          17.7          8.9          107.4
Cash payments                                                          -           3.6         10.2         11.4           9.6           4.8            -           39.6 0                1
Road making                                                            -            -            -          24.0          44.0          32.0         32.0          132.0
Land survey                                                            -           1.2          2.2          1.6           1.6            -             -            6.6
-          44.5        93.9         113.2         133,1         58.1          41.7          484.5
1/ See Fable 5
August 1, 1972



INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NORTH SUMATRA
HOUSES, BUILDINGS AND VEHICLE COSTS
(Rp Million)
Project Year       1           2            3           4            5           6            7           8            9
Year          1973        1974        1975         1976         1977        1978         1979        1980         ?;)1           Total       Foreian Exchange
(Rp  '000)
Houses
General Manager                        7,000            1            _           _            _           _            _            _          _             -              7.0
Division Head                          6,000            3            -           -            -           -            -            -          -             -             18.0
Managers                               5,000            11           _           _            _            _           _            -          _             -             55.0
Assistants                             3,000            9            -           -            -           -            -            -          -             -             27.0
Superintendents                        1,500           15           10          10            -           -            -           -           -             -            52.5
Clerks                                    500          20           20          11            -            -           -            -          -             -             25.5
Others                                    750          57           10           3            -            -           -            -          -             -             17.5
Total                         (Rp Million)      153.7         27.5         21.3         _            _           _            _          _             _            202.5          30         60.8
Buildings
Offices:  Headquarters                 3,000             1           -           _            _            _           _            _          _             -              3.0
Area Units                  2,000            1            2           1            _           _            _           _           _             _              8.0
Workshops                               5,000            1           2            1           -            -           -            -          -             -             20.0
Stores:   Headquarters                 2,000            1            -           -            -           -            -            -          -             -              2.0
Area Units                  3,000            1            2           1            -           -            -            -          -             -             12.0
Total                         (Rp Million)        15.0        20.0         10.0         -            -            -           -           -            -             45.0          30          13.5
Vehicles
Saloon (G.M.)                          4,000            1                         -           1            -           -            I          -             -             12.0
Four wheel drive                        1,800          11           11            -          11           11           -            9         10             _            113.4
Motorcycle                                250           15          10          25           10           25          15           10         10            10             32.5
Lorries                                2,500             2           -            -           -            2           -            -          -             2             15.0
Tractors and attachments               3,000             2           4            4           -            2           4            3          -             2             63.0
Total                         (Rp Million)        38.6        34.3         18.2        26.3         37.1         15.7        31.7        20.5          13.5         235.9          85         188.7
TOTAL - Houses, Buildings
and Vehicles                           207.3         81.8         49.5        26.3         37.1         15.7        31.7        20.5          13.5         483.4          54         263
August 1, 1972
m >



INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NORTH SUMATRA
FEEDER ROAD IMPROVEMENT AND GROUP COAGULATING CENTER COSTS
(Rp Million)
Project Year       1       2         3         4          5         6        7         8        9                          Foreign Exchange
Unit Costs             YEAR           1973   1974    1975          1976      1977     1978     1979      1980    1981           TOTAL             %     Amount
(Rp '000)                             --------------------Units-----------------------------------
Road Constructi_.
Feeder roads                           450/km                               20       40        -          -         -        -        -          -       -             27.0
Crop extraction roads                  175/km                               80       100                  -         -                  -         -                     31.5
(Rp Million)         23.0    35.5      -           -         -        -        -         -       -             58.5           50       29.2
Upeep
Feeder roads                            45/km                                 -       20       60        60        60       60       60         60      60             19.8
Crop extractlon roads                    20/km                               50       80      180       180        180 __180         180       180    180              27.8
Total                                                               1.0_   2.5        6.3       6.3       6.3       6.3      6.3       6.3     6.3           47.6           30       14.3
(Rp Million)         24.0    38.0       6.3        6.3       6.3      6.3      6.3       6.3    6.3           106.1           41       43.5
Group Coagulating Centers (G.CCC.)
Construction                           170 each                             100      200      300         -       200         -        -         -       -            136.0           50       68.0
Upkeep and ,?erating costs          Rp 'million/year                          3.5    13.0    29.0        39.0      45.0    45.0    45.0         45.0   45.0           309.5           30       92.9
tYrAL o c.c..                                (Rp Million)         20.5    47.0    80.0         39.0      45.0    45.0    45.0        45.0   45.0           445.5            36      160.9
August 1, 1972



INDONES 1A
SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NORTH SUMATRA
ADMINISTRATION, OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS
(Rp Million)
Project Year       1             2            3            4           5           6           7           8            9
YEAR         1973         1974         1975         1976        1977        1978         1979        1980        1981        Total        Foreign Exchange
Unit Costs                                                                                                                                        %        Amount
(Rp '000)
Maintenance of Construction
Total value of houses (see Table 9)                        153.7        181.3       202.5        202.5       202.5       202.5         202.5      202.5        202.5          -           -         -
Cost of maintenance                       at 4%              2.0          6.1         7.2           8.1         8.1         8.1          8.1        8.1          8.1        63.9
Total value of buildings (Table 9)                          15.0         35.0        45.0         45.0        45.0        45.0          45.0       45.0         45.0          -           -         -
Cost of maintenance                       at 4%              0.5          0.6         1.4           1.8         1.8         1.8          1.8        1.8           1.8        13.3         -         -
Total                                                   2.5          6.7         8.6          9.9         9.9         9.9           9.9        9.9          9.9        77.2        10        7.7
Vehicle Maintenance and Operating Costs                         ------------------------------------------Units-------------------------------------------------
Saloon and four wheel drive               600/year           12           23          23            23          23         20            20          20           20        110.4
Motorcycles                                 80/year          15           25          35            35          35         35            30           25          20         20.4
Lorries and tractors                      600/year            4            8          12            12          12         12            10           10          10         54.0
--------------------------------------------Rps Million----------______________-_____________
Total                                                  10.8         20.6        23.8         23.8        23.8        22.0          20.4       20.0         19.6       184.8         30       55.4
Miscellaneous Charges                                        2.0          3.0          4.0          5.0         5.0         5.0          5.0         5.0          5.0        39.0        20        7.8
TOTAL                                                  15.3         30.3        36.4         38.7        38.7        36.9          35.3       34.9         34.5        301.0        20       70.9
August 1, 1972



INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NORTH SUMATRA
STAFF COSTS
(Rp Million)
Project Year    1           2         3         4         5         6          7         8        9                      Foreign Exchange
Unit Costs           YEAR         1973    1974        1975      1976      1977      1978      1979       1980     1981        TOTAL         %       Amount
Rp '000/Year                         --------------------------------Units --------------------------------
Senior and junior Staff
General Manager                              2,400                             1         1         1          1         1         1         1          1        1          21.6         -         -
Division Head (Exp)I/                      20,700                              3         3          3         3         3         -         -          -        -         310.5        100      310.5
Division Head (Nat.)                         2,040                             -          -         -         -         -         3         3          3        3          24.5         -         -
Division Assistants                          1,440                             7          7         7         7         7         3         3          3        3          67.7         -         -
Unit Managers                                1,200                             4         4         4          4         4         4         4          4        4          43:2         -         -
Unit Assistants                                600                             9         9          9         9         9         9         6          4        4          40.8         -         -
Unit Supervisors                               360                            15        25        35         35        35        35        30        25        20          91.8         -         -
------------------Rp Million ----------------
90.2      93.7      97.4      97.4      97.4      35.7       32.0      29.0    27. 3       600.1         52      310.5
Skilled Labor and Workers
-------------------------------Units--------------------------------------
Field Assistants                               240                            30        50        66        66        66         66        60        50       40          118.6        -          -
Clerks                                         240                            20        40        51        51         51        51        40        30        30          87.4         -         -
Typists, store keepers, mechanics              180                            18        38        41        41         41        41        30        20        20          52.2        -          -
Drivers                                        108                            13        13        13         13        13        10        10        10        10          11.3         -         -
Guards, messengers                              96                             0        20        23        23         23        23        20        15       10           16.2        -          -
Workers                                         78                            34        34        34         34        34        34        25        15        15          20.2   _      _
--------------------------------Rp Million--------------------------------
Total                                                                 20.3      34.4      41.7      41.7       41.7      41.5      34.5      26.5    23.6         305.9         -         -
Total Staff Costs                                                    110.5    128,1    139. 1    139.1    139.1          77.2      66.5      55.5    50.9         906.0         34     310. 5
1/ No provision is made in project costs for the possible Indonesian,
incone taz liability of the expatriate staff.  This could amount
to about US$375,000.
August 1, 1972



INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NORTH SUMATRA
CA-KGoRIES OF IDA CREDIT
(Rp millions)
Percentage    Project Year   1            2         3         4         5         6         7          8         9                             US$         As per proposed
Disbursement      Year         1973      1974      1975      1976      1977      1978      1979      1980       1981          TOTAL         Equivalent   Credit Agreement
'000
Categories
I. Imported vehicles & tractors               85                         32.8      29.2      15.5      22.4      29.3      10.8      18.6        8.9       3.5          171.0             412              410
II. Imported chemicals & fertilizers
Chemicals for oil palm               85                          -         9.6      17.6       12.8      12.8       0.7       0.7        -         -            54.2              -                _
Fertilizer for oil palm              85                          -         5.3      15.3       23.2      25.0      15.1       7.6        -         -            91.5
Chemicals for Rubber                  85                         -         4.7       12.6      30.0     42.5        -         _                                 89.8              -
Fertilizer for Fubber                85                          -         3.4      12.8       34.8     65.8      65.1       54.2      39.1      23.0          298.2
Total Category II                 85  -                       -        23.0      58.3    100.8    146.1        80.9      62.5       39.1      23.0         533.7            1,285            1,290
111. Technical Assistance                      100                         62.1      62.1      62.1       62.1     62.1        -         -          -         -           310.5              749              750
IV. Studies and aerial photographs             60                          -         -        51.0        -         -                              -         -            51.0              123              120
V. Civil Works
Construction of Q.C.C.                60                        10.2      20.4      30.6        -        20.4       -         -          -          -           81.6
Houses                               60                         92.3      16.5      12.8                            -                    -         .           121.6
other buildings                       60                         9.0       12.0      6.0        _         _         _         -          -          -           27.0              .                -
Total Category V                  60                        111.5      48.9      49.4       -        20.4                             -         -           230.2              555              560
VI. Farm inputs & cash payments
Oil Palm:
Tools                                 60                         -          0.4      0.7        0.5       0.5       -         -          -          -            2.1              -                _
Cover crop seeds                      60                         -         0.4       0.7        0.9       1.2       -         -          -          _            3.2
Planting material                     60                         -         12.6      24.4      19.1      18.5       1.7       -          _          _           76.3              -
Cash payments                         60                          -         2.2       6.2       6.9       5.8       2,9       -           -         -           24.0              -
Rubber:
Tools                                 60                         -         0.4        1.0       2.3       3.3       1.7       4.5      10.8       15.3          39.3              -
Cover crop seeds                     60                          -          0.2      0.5        1.2       1.7       -         -         -          -             3.6              -
Budded stumps                        60                          -         2.8       7.5       17.8      25.2       0.7       -         -         -             54.0              -
Cash payment                         60                           -         1.1       4.0      10.8      20.6      19.5      16.6       9.8        -            82.4              -
Total Category VI                 60                          -        20.1      45.0      59.5      76.8       26.5      21.1      20.6      15.3          284.9              687              690
Vil. Unallocated                                                            20.0      30.0      60.0      70.0    120.0       60.0      60.0      40.0      33.7          493.7            1,189            1,180
TOTAL                                                       226.4    213.3    341.3    314.8    454.7    178.2    162.2    108.6              75.5        2,075.0            5,000            5,000
US$ '000 equivalent                                                   545       514       823       758    1,095        430       391        262       182        5,O00              5"000             5,000
1/ Eighty-five percent of Project costs are equivalent to 1007. c.i.f. costs
August 1, 1972



ANNEX 6
Table 2
INDONESIA
SMAILHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NORTh SUMATRA
Estimated Disbursement Schedule of IDA Funds
IDA Fiscal Year and Quarter                        Cumulative Disbursement at end of Quarter
US$ '000
1972/73 (FY 1973)
March 31, 1973
June 30, 1973
1973/74 (FY 1974)
September 30, 1973                                                150
December 31, 1973                                                 400
March 31, 1974                                                    550
June 30, 1974                                                     700
1974/75 (FY 1975)
September 30, 1974                                                850
December 31, 1974                                                 950
March 31, 1975                                                  1,050
June 30, 1975                                                   1,200
1975/76 (FY 1976)
September 30, 1975                                             1,400
December 31, 1975                                               1,600
March 31, 1976                                                  1,900
June 30, 1976                                                  2,000
1976/77 (FY 1977)
September 30, 1976                                             2,150
December 31, 1976                                              2,400
March 31, 1977                                                  2,600
June 30, 1977                                                   2,800
1977/78 (FY 1978)
September 30, 1977                                             3,000
December 31, 1977                                              3,200
March 31, 1978                                                  3,700
June 30, 1978                                                   3,800
1978/79 (FY 1979)
September 30, 1978                                             3,900
December 31, 1978                                              4,100
March 31, 1979                                                 4,200
June 30, 1979                                                  4,300
1979/80 (FY 1980?
September 30, 1979                                             4,400
December 31, 1979                                              4,500
March 31, 1980                                                  4,600
June 30, 1980                                                  4,650
1980/81 (FY 1981)
Septc,mbor 30, 1980                                            4,700
December 31, 1980                                              4,750
March 31, 1981                                                 4,800
June 30, 1981                                                  4,900
1981/82 (FY 1982)
September 30, 1981                                             4,950
December 31, 1981                                               5,000



ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NORTH SUMATRA
A. Organization
1.        The project would be carried out by a Project Management Unit
established within the Ministry of Agriculture for this purpose. The
Management Unit would be responsible to a project management board in
Jakarta which would have the following membership:
Chairman: The Director General of Estates
Members:  The Director of Smallholder Estates;
Senior representatives of:
BAPPENAS, The National Planning Agency,
the Ministry of Finance, and Bank Rakyat.
The board's main functions would include:
(a) reviewing policy and recommending any changes to the
Ministry of Agriculture;
(b) approving annual work programs and the budgets required
to carry out such programs;
(c) reviewing project quarterly progress reports, including
financial reports and pteparing reports for the Minister
of Agriculture;
(d) considering views of Provincial committee;
(e) assuring that all Government agencies involved in the
project provide satisfactory assistance to the project;
B. Management
Project Management Unit
2.        The Project Management Unit which would be the executive body
responsible for carrying out the project would consist of:



ANNEX 7
Page 2
(a) Headquarters - responsible for the detailed planning
of annual operations, financial control, selecting
and training project participants, establishing project
extension service, and procuring project input requirements.
(b) Area Unit Offices - responsible for carrying out field
work programs including farm and GCC inspection, marketing
of rubber from GCCs and organizing supplies of farm inputs.
3.        Project headquarters under the Project Manager would be responsible
to the board for preparing detailed project work programs and estimates for
the Board. This would include the following:
(a) arranging in conjunction with the Lands Department (Agraria)
for the survey and registration of the new farms to be
established under the project, and for the issuance of
leases in respect of these new farms;
(b) phasing and timing field operations such as felling,
clearing, lallang eradication, planting, intercropping,
cover crop establishment, weeding, fertilizer application,
supplying, and disease and pest control;
(c) approving the detailed technical features for the
establishment of smallholder rubber and oil palm inter-
cropped with rice. Proposed work schedules for both
smallholder and oil palm are given in attachments 1 and 2
to this Annex;
~d)  seoect-Ing project participants from the (1) estate laborers
displaced by project operations, (2) smallholders with
-%isting rubber farrn2 of less than 2 ha and living within
2 km of the new land to oe allocated under the project, and
{3) farmers owning betwee:, . zo 10 ha of established rubber
requiring replanting. In selerting those smallholders
wPh less than I ha of established rubber, preference would
be given to those who participated effectively in Group
Coagulating Centers;
(e) e3tablishing, equipping, and supervising GCCs at strategic
locations throughout the project area, and arranging the
marketitig of the coagulum produced at these centers;
'sA recrruiting and training project staff;
ig,  arranging for project participants to be employed for
trainiing on the area of young established rubber reserved
for the purpose at the Damuli Estate;
:i:,  surveying the alignment of and construction of the feeder
tracks to be built under the project.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
The principal functions of the Area Unit Offices would include:
(a) regular farm visits during the crop establishment periods;
(b)  delivery of chemicals, equipment, planting materials and
fertilizers;
(c) farm inspection prior to authorizing annual cash payments;
(d) supervising GCC operations, coagulum sales and land rent
payments;
(e) preparing monthly progress reports and accounts;
(f) arranging regular extension work activities among project
area farmers.
C. Staffing
4.        The relationship between the consultants and project senior manage-
ment is described in para 6.12. Project junior staff would be recruited from
existing Ministry of Agriculture staff, and from young men who now have
agricultural diplomas or higher qualifications, who presently are unable to
find employment suited to their training. The latter group would be engaged
on junior staff terms with the long term possibility of selected promotion
to more senior positions as vacancies occur. All junior staff would receive
in-field training and, where necessary, those staff with ability who have not
graduated from an agricultural college, would have the opportunity of in-
service training at a college, so that they would be qualified for absorption
into the agricultural extension service. The project would require the
following incremental senior and junior staff:
Project. Year
Post                      Number        1      2      3
General manager                   1          1      -      -
Division heads                    3          3      -      -
Division assistants               7          7      -      -
Unit managers                     4          4      -      -
Unit assistants                   9          9      -      -
Unit supervisors                 35         15     10     10
Field assistants                 66         30     20     16
June 20, 1972






INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMEN1 PROJECT
NORTH SUMATRA
PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART
Minister of
Agric.lture
PROJECT MANAGEMENT BOARD
Chairman:   -Director General of Estates
M.nbers:    -Diiector of Smallholder Estates       mmmmummminmm_    inmmm.j
-Bank Rakyatindonesia
-Ministry of Finance                                                            E
-BAPPENAS
Line of Command                                              PROJE    T MANAGEMENT_                                                 PROVINCIAL AND DISTRICT
Linedo Coodvinaio                                                 Project Manage                                                     (Membership as Appropriate)
and AdvieI
Financial                      Etnin and         |Land Use and
|   Division                              D  r inigDision          Planning Division|
4                                                I
I
UNTUNIT II                                                                UNI'T 3                             UNIT 4                    |ILGE
DAMULI     ___           BAN~~~~11DARGU LA      _ _            AK NABARA               _             AEK GOT__                      AVSRCMIES
I~~~~~~~~~
I~~~~~~~
_                                                .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I^s.e g  15: 






ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NORTH SUMATRA
Plant Breeding and Planting Material
A. Plant Breeding
1.        In the first North Sumatra Estates project, Credit 155-IND, the
Government agreed to implement plant breeding programs for all Government
owned estates in North Sumatra, and to appoint oil palm and rubber plant
breeding consultants acceptable to IDA to monitor such programs. As stated
in the main report, these consultants would be responsible also for recom-
mending rubber varieties suitable for smallholder planting.
B. Planting Material: Oil Palms
2.        The oil palm fruit comprises a kernel inside of hard shell,
surrounded by a mass of oily flesh; individual fruits develop in bunches
of approximately 1,200 attached to a fibrous core. A healthy palm produces
about 10 bunches a year and on a mature palm the average bunch weight is
about 18 kilograms; the fruits represent approximately 78% of total bunch
weight. Palm oil is extracted from the flesh and palm kernel oil from the
kernel in separate processes. Plant breeders have aimed at reducing the
proportion of shell in each fruit, which is the only nonoil bearing part,
and have achieved this by crossing thick-shelled (Dura) fruit, with fruit
with no shell (Pisifera) 1/ to produce a thin-shelled fruit (Tenera). High
yielding hybrid material with these characteristics is now generally
available throughout the world, including Indonesia, and technically is
known as D x P.
3.        Under Credit 155-IND measures were taken to increase the produc-
tion of D x P oil palm at the Government-owned Marihat Oil Palm Research
Station in North Sumatra. Seed production from the station would be
expanded to supply project requirements. Should the supply be insufficient,
however, in the first project year, suitable seed would be purchased from
Malaya.
1/   In theory Pisifera, with no shell, would be ideal planting material,
but in practice, small fruit size, a high sterility rate and a very
small proportion of kernel preclude its use.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
C. Planting Material: Rubber
4.        The most common rubber varieties (clones) planted on Government-
owned (PNP) estates in recent years have been PR 107 and GT 1, both
classed as Grade One clones, by the Rubber Research Institute of Malaya
(RRIM), the acknowledged authority which classes only four clones as
Grade One. GT 1 has performed very well on estates in the project area,
and consequently it would be the clone used for project smailholder plantings.
There are indications that other Grade One clone RRIM will be suitable,
but the information at present available is insufficient on which to base
a sound judgment of its true merits. Investigations of this clone by
hte plant breeders appointed under Credit 155 are continuing and a variety
other than GT 1 would be used only on their recommendation.



ANNEX 8
Table 1
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rubber Yield Estimates
Years From              Tapping                Yields Dry Rubber
Planting                Year                kg/ha            lb/ac
6                      1                   300             268
7                      2                   700             624
8                      3                   900             803
9                      4                 1,000             892
10                      5                 1,100             981
11                      6                 1,100             981
12 through 22               7-17                1,250           1,115
23 through 24              18-19                1,100             981
25                     20                 1,000           1,115
Rice Yield Estimated
Year of Establishment    2nd Year        3rd Year
of Tree Crop        of Tree Crop  of Tree Crop
Milled Rice               kg/ha             lb/ac  kg/ha  lb/ac  kg/ha  lb/ac
Planted Under Rubber      1,500             1,338  1,500  1,338  1,000   892
Planted Under Oil Palm   1,500              1,338  1,200  1,070    -        -
Paddy Equivalent
Under Rubber              2,310            2,060  2,310  2,060  1,540 1,370
Under Oil Palm            2,310            2,060  1,850  1,650    -       -
May 17, 1972



ANNEX 8
Table 2
IDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NORTH SUMATRA
Estimated Yields of Palm Trees
Year.from         FFB       01 extraction       Oil      Kernel extraction  Kernels
Planting         tons/ha       rate (%)        tons/ha        rate (%)        tonsAa
1             -____
2             -
3             -
4             4.0          16              0.614         4               0.16
5             7.0          18              1.26          4               0.28
6            U.Q           20              2.20          4               0.44
7            12.0          20              2.40          -4              o.48
B            114.0          20             2.80           4              0.56
9 thru 12    18.0          20              3.60          4               0.72
13 thru 14    17.0          20              3.40          4               o.14
15            16            20              3.20           4              0.64
16 thru 25    14             20             2.80      - 4                 0.6
May 18, 1972



ANNEX 9
Page 1
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NORTH SUMATRA
TRENDS AND OUTLOOK FOR PROJECT PRODUCTS
A. Natural Rubber
1.        Natural rubber is among the most important primary commodities
exported by the developing countries. Its production, of which only small
amounts are consumed in producing countries, is highly concentrated in
Southeast Asia. More than 90% of natural rubber exports originate in four
Asian countries - Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand and Ceylon: the first two
alone account for about three quarters of the total trade. The rest is
supplied by some fifteen countries in Asia and Africa, of which India,
Liberia, Nigeria, Khmer Republic and Zaire are significant producers. (See
Table 1.)
2.        The bulk of natural rubber is used in the manufacture of tires
and other automobile parts. Other uses include surgical appliances, house-
hold goods and toys. Demand for these goods has expanded quite rapidly in
the postwar period, averaging 7% per annum, but the supply of natural rubber
expanded only at an average annual rate of 2.6%. The deficiency in the
elastomer supply was met by the development of synthetic rubbers, of which
the most widely used are styrene-butadiene, poly-butadiene and poly-isoprene
rubbers. Over the years the producers of synthetic rubbers have not only
improved their quality, but have also succeeded in reducing their costs of
production, and as such have come to actively compete with (and sometimes
even displace) natural rubber.
3.        The tardy expansion in natural rubber supplies relative to the
total elastomer supply has naturally led to a decline in the share of the
former in the market. In countries other than those conventionally classed
as centrally planned, this share has declined from 65% in 1950-52 to around
32% in recent years. In the United States, which is foremost in the research
in and production of synthetic rubber, the share has dropped to 23%, while
in most other consuming countries it ranges from 35 to 45%. Some researchers
in the field believe that about a quarter of the elastomer demand, under
the existing technology, is specific to natural rubber, but there is a wide
difference of opinion in this respect.
4.        Natural rubber is particularly threatened by the expansion of
production of poly-isoprene, which is so far the closest (still not perfect)
synthetic analogue to the natural product. It is generally believed that



ANNEX 9
Page 2
poly-isoprene could successfully replace natural rubber under the existing
conditions in the remaining uses, provided it could be produced more cheaply,
and/or the price of RSS1 variety of natural rubber were to exceed 20 cents
per pound. While the search for a more economic process for producing poly-
isoprene goes on in the developed and centrally planned countries, the
natural rubber supplies are expected to increase at a particularly fast rate
and it is unlikely that the long-run price of natural rubber would exceed
that limit in the current decade.
5.        It will be seen from Table 2 that, disregarding enormous yearly
fluctuations, the price of natural rubber has shown a declining trend. The
price has been particularly low in recent years, reaching a level of 18
cents per pound (RSS1, New York) in 1971 as compared to 26 cents in 1969.
The price in recent months has centered around 17 cents, but this low level
is more due to short-run economic factors (e.g., economic recessions, uncer-
tainty about the U. S. dollar, etc.) than due to the long-run market forces.
6.        With the development of high yielding clones, the productivity of
rubber lands has been enormously increased. Recent researches in Malaysia
promise yields of 3,000-4,000 pounds per acre (with a possibility of even
reaching 6,000 pounds eventually) as against the current average of 1,200
pounds in that country. Under current cultural practices, yields of up to 2,000
pounds are fairly common in lands planted with the new material. Thus it
is replanting old rubber lands with the high yielding clones that promises
a much more rapid expansion in rubber supplies. 1/
7.        The yields of the existing crop of trees can also be increased
by the use of yield stimulants. Of these Ethrel 2/ is particularly important.
Extensive experiments have been carried out at the Rubber Research Institute
of Malaya and elsewhere to test the long-term effects of Ethrel use. Although
there still exists some conflict of opinion among the researchers, there is
a fair degree of consensus that in the short run the use of Ethrel will have
far-reaching implications from the point of view of rubber output and the
tapper's productivity. Recent experiments have shown that yields can be
increased by 40-100%, particularly if the chemical is applied to older bult
well-looked-after trees. In addition, it may make natural rubber supply
more responsive to the short-run market forces, and hence may reduce the
extent of price fluctuations. However, on the negative side, while Ethrel
has the advantage of easy application to the tree, its cost to the farmer,
estimated at about US$13 per acre, is regarded as rather high for its exten-
sive ute by smallholders.
1/   ror details, see IBRD, Efficiency in Resource Allocation:  The Case
of Natural Rubber, EC-179, July 13, 1972.
2, Ethrel is a brand name for a chemical manufactured by a U. S. Firm.
This chemical when applied to a rubber tree acts as a decoagulant,
whereby it increases the flow of latex from the tree. For details,
see P. D. Abrahams "Field Trials with Ethrel", RRIM Planters' Con-
ference, July 1970.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
Market Outlook
8.        Table 3 gives the probable course of natural rubber supply and
elastomer demand in the current decade. As a result of extensive replanting
and new planting of rubber areas with the new high yielding clonal material
rubber output has expanded much more rapidly in the last few years than in
the 1950-65 period. Output of natural rubber increased from 2.4 million
metric tons during 1964-66 to 2.6 million tons in 1968 and 2.9 million tons
in the following two years. This rate of expansion is expected to be
further stepped up in the next few years, when, according to the estimates
prepared by the International Rubber Study Group (IRSG), output would
reach 3.9 million tons in 1975 and 4.8 million tons in 1980. These estimates
exclude the possible effect of an extensive use of Ethrel, which, if success-
fully applied, would probably add another 100,000 tons and 500,000 tons
respectively to the supply in the two bench-mark years.
9.        The growth in elastomer demand in the current decade has been
estimated on the basis of growth of the industrial activity in the OECD
countries. It has been observed that the growth of industrial output and
the growth of elastomer consumption in major consuming countries, as well
as for the world as a whole, are very closely associated. This is explained
by the fact that the single most important source of demand for elastomers
is the automobile and other trans-related industry, which in turn is highly
correlated with the growth of industrial output.
10.       The results of a regression on 1951-69 data showed that 98%
of the variation in elastomer consumption outside the centrally planned
countries was explained by the growth in industrial production and that, on
an average, 1% increase in industrial production was associated with 1.13%
increase in the demand for elastomers. Similar relationships have been
observed to hold also for certain individual consuming countries, such as
the United States, the EEC and Japan.
11.       The estimates of elastomer demand in 1975 and 1980 in Table 3
are based on the above-observed relationship between the growth in rubber
consumption and industrial output. On the basis of projections of the GNP
and industrial output in OECD countries, world consumption of elastomers
outside the centrally planned countries is expected to reach a level of 9.2
million metric tons per year by 1975, and 12.2 million tons in 1980. In
addition, according to the IRSG, net imports of natural rubber into the
centrally planned countries are projected to reach 800,000 metric tons in
1975 and 1 million tons in 1980.
12.       In view of the very rapid expansion in natural supplies and a
virtually unchanged rate of growth of elastomer demand, the declining trend
in the share of natural rubber in the rubber market, will be arrested:
the share in recent years has remained around 32%, but is expected to rise
to 34% in 1975 and will decline once again to 31% in 1980. The disposal
of large additional supplies in the market would obviously necessitate



ANNEX 9
Page 4
maintaining natural rubber prices competitive with the prices of synthetic
substitutes. Broadly speaking, the rubber market seems to be characterized
by the following features:
(a) Supply of natural rubber in the short run is quite
price inelastic. Output cannot be expanded significantly
because of the limits imposed by the existing tree
capacity. On the other hand, a decline in rubber price
does not result in a significant reduction in output since
resources devoted to rubber production are quite "use-
specific" and for most producers not many alternatives
are available. Furthermore, where producers do have a
choice to move to more profitable pursuits, the decline
in supply is compensated for by an increase from intensive
tapping by those producers who have no such alternatives
available to them but wish to maintain their subsistence
income from rubber. 1/
(b) Supply of synthetic rubber is highly price elastic.
Not only are the synthetic producers able to respond
to price signals more quickly, as the gestation period
in the industry is relatively short, but also a fairly
substantial excess capacity usually exists in the synthe-
tic industry. The normal production level is estimated
not to exceed 75% of the rated capacity. 2/
(c) Since almost the entire demand for elastomer is derived
from the demand for manufactured goods, price elasticity
of demand for rubber is low.
(d) Leaving aside a certain number of special uses, there is
a fairly large possibility of substitution between the
different types of rubber, particularly between polyisoprene
and natural rubber, and therefore a competition for the
same market. A change in the price of natural rubber
relative to the prices of such substitutes as styrene-butadiene
rubber (SBR), polybutadiene and polyisoprene does encourage
substitution within certain limits, but the extent of shift
depends also on the length of time for which the particular
trend in the price persists. Over the long run, the price
of natural rubber has to be such that it competes effectively
with the substitutes, although in the short run it frequently
diverges from this trend.
13.       The implications of these features are that synthetic producers
as a group more readily adjust their supplies to the existing state of
elastomer demand and supply of natural rubber. Natural producers, on the
1/   For details, see IBRD op. cit., Chapter II.
2t   Cf., C.  F. Rubensaal "World synthetic rubber - its manufacture and
markets".



ANNEX 9
Page 5
other hand, manage to dispose of their supplies at a price which is largely
determined by the synthetic producers, although many other factors, such
as market expectations, obviously also influence the state of the market.
According to this model, therefore, the producers of natural rubber behave
as if they were the "price-takers", and it is for this reason that the
price of natural rubber has been projected in this note on the basis of
the expected trends in the costs of production of the main synthetic substi-
tutes rather than being a result of simple demand and supply forces. Since
data on costs of production are available only in current dollar terms, an
attempt is made to project first the current actual price, and then to allow
for the possible inflationary effect.
14.       Since the most important single element of cost of production
is the cost of the basic monomer, the synthetic producers have devoted most
of their research efforts to finding means of reducing its cost. This has
been successfully realized in the past and some further decline in this
element of cost is anticipated in the case of the butadiene-based
synthetic rubbers, that is, polybutadiene and SBR.  The status of butadiene
is expected to change from being a product primarily produced for synthetic
rubber conversion to a by-product of another major chemical product, ethylene.
Cost reduction in the raw material input of polyisoprene, which, as stated
above, is the closest synthetic approximation to natural rubber and hence
competes most directly with it, may also result from economies of scale in
the manufacture of isoprene. The net effect of such technical improvement,
on the one hand, and the effect of anticipated inflationary pressures, on
the other, is expected to be such that the price of polybutadiene would
decline to around 15 cents per pound and that of polyisoprene to around 18
cents per pound by 1975. Some cost reduction is expected to take place also
in the case of SBR, but the rate of decline would be considerably smaller
than that recorded in the early sixties. The price of oil-extended SBR is
likely to be in the neighborhood of 13 cents per pound.
15.       The price of natural rubber in 1975 is expected to lie somewhere
in the middle of the 15-18-cents range, based on the above-mentioned prospects
for polybutadiene and polyisoprene prices. In particular, the price of
polyisoprene will serve as a ceiling, since protracted movements of natural
rubber above that ceiling would lead to an accelerated expansion of capacity
in polyisoprene. The projected price (in current dollars) of natural rubber
is therefore estimated to be around 17 cents (c.i.f. New York) per pound for
RSS1 grade in 1975.
16.       The cost of production of synthetics has so far remained conspicuously
unaffected by the increases in capital and labor costs as well as by the recent
increase in the petroleum price. Since labor costs are a relatively small
portion of cost and since substantial excess capacity in the synthetic industry
is known to exist, it is expected that a moderate rate of inflation in
developed countries would affect the forecast price to a smaller extent than
in the case of manufactured goods generally which are expected to rise at an
annual rate of 2% per annum during much of the 1970's.



ANNEX 9
Page 6
17.       For the period 1975-85 - during which new and replanted natural
rubber installed after 1970 would be maturing - it is assumed that the
price of natural rubber could rise to around 19 cents per pound, given the
anticipated inflation and technical developments in the field of synthetic
rubber. The current excess capacity in the synthetic industry is likely
to be fully utilized by the mid-seventies, thus necessitating installation
of new plants. Labor costs, although small, are continuously rising and
the cost of fixed capital is also likely to be considerably higher in the
future. In addition, concern with pollution-free plants will also add to
the coAt of producing synthetic rubber. Some reduction in cost due to tech-
nical improvements is bound to occur, but on balance the costs are expected
to rise as in the case of other manufactures.
18.       This price forecast could be substantially altered if some way
of producing polyisoprene more cheaply is discovered. Currently, research
efforts are being made by the industry to adjust the petro-chemical produc-
tion stream so as to derive isoprene, the major raw material input, as a
by-product. The history of success in solving technological problems in the
butadiene-based rubbers suggests that this aim might be achieved though
for the present no such technical breakthrough is in sight.
B. Palm Oil and Palm Kernels
World Oils and Fats Situation
19.       Oils and fats consist of vegetable oils (edible and industrial),
animal fats and marine oils. Improvements in agricultural techniques as
well as in processing and refining techniques have resulted in increased
substitutability of the various oils and fats in the manufacture of end-
products. In addition, the development of synthetic products such as
detergents and synthetic alcohol has offered competition to products
(mainly nonfood) containing oils and fats. Thus the complexity of the
world market situation does suggest that competitive pressure on the
individual oils and fats is likely to remain strong.
20.       World production of oils and fats increased at 2.7% yearly during
the 1960's while growth in world consumption was 2.9% yearly. Although
consumption was in excess of production in 1965 and 1966 - the reverse
position of the 1950's and early 1960's - stocks had reached a relatively
high level by the end of 1968. During 1969 and 1970, stocks were reduced
when world production of several leading vegetable oils was relatively low.
Although there are indications that stocks are rising, the end-1972 level
is expected to remain below the end-1968 level.
21.       During the past decade world exports of oils and fats increased
at 3.7% yearly while the vegetable oil group showed a higher yearly growth
at 4.2%. This expansion in trade could only be absorbed at declining
world prices as shown in chart I. The level of international prices in



ANNEX 9
Page 7
1970 and during the first half of 1971 was abnormally high because of
relatively low crops in 1969 and 1970 in copra, groundnuts and fish oil
and reduced exports of sunflowerseed oil. World production of oils and
fats in 1971 compared with 1970 showed the largest increase for a decade -
about two million metric tons. In 1972 total output is expected to increase
by one million tons or 2.4% over 1971 due mainly to producer response to
high prices for annual edible oilseed crops, favorable weather after periods
of drought and continuing expansion of areas coming into higher yields
(palm oil and palm kernels). In contrast, output of industrial oils has
been reduced owing to the sharp fall in linseed production. Because of
adequate stocks of linseed and oil, exportable supplies will be more than
adequate to meet expected demand. This situation is reflected in the
downward movement of prices as shown in Table 6. The level of the Unilever
index of major oils and fats prices by December 1971 had fallen to 99 com-
pared with 120 in July and 115 for the year. The FAO index of edible/soap
oils and fats prices showed a similar trend (Chart I).
22.       Most important to world trade in oils and fats is the import
demand in the developed countries. They accounted for approximately three-
quarters of world net imports in 1970. Although Western Europe accounted
for 60% of the world total, their rate of growth of import demand has
declined to 2% yearly in the last half of the 1960's compared with 2.5%
in the last half of the 1950's. This decline has been offset by a substan-
tial increase in Japanese demand (14% of net world import demand by 1970)
resulting in continuing growth in demand in the developed countries. On
the other hand, as prices declined, import demand in the developing countries
was stimulated. Their share of world net imports increased from 13% in
1961-63 to 22% in 1970.
23.       Over the decade of the 1970's world production of oils and fats
is expected to increase at about 3% yearly. This will mean that the rate
of increase in export availabilities by 1980 will accelerate to 4.1% yearly
compared with 3.7% during the 1960's.  If this expansion is to be met by
an equally large increase in import demand, mainly in developing countries,
prices would have to move fairly sharply downward from the high levels of
recent years. In the process of achieving equilibrium it is assumed that
price will play an important role. Some downward adjustments in the produc-
tion targets of the various development schemes may take place and some
upward adjustments in consumption may be expected.
24.       To sum up, the world oils and fats situation by the mid-1970's and
on to 1980 is expected to be similar to the years 1962 and 1968 when
supplies were plentiful and prices relatively low (Table 6). Because it
will be essential for a number of individual oils to increase their share
of the total oils and fats market by 1975 and onward, prices fairly
comparable with or perhaps somewhat below the 1962 and 1968 levels seem
likely.



ANNEX 9
Page 8
Palm Oil
25.       Palm oil is produced mainly in Nigeria, Malaysia, Zaire and
Indonesia. These four countries accounted for 75% of the world total in
1970 as shown in Table 1. During the 1960's output of palm oil increased
at 2.7% yearly. In recent years, however, the rate has accelerated and
1972 production is forecast at 2.3 million metric tons compared with 1.8
million metric tons two years earlier. In a number of countries large oil
palm development schemes are in operation while some other areas are in
the process of being opened up for oil palm production.
26.       World production of palm oil in 1980 is expected to amount to
4.3 million metric tons which is considered a conservative estimate. This
is the mid-point of a range from 3.8 to 5.0 million metric tons. The high
alternative assumes that all known planting schemes will be carried out as
currently planned to 1975; the low, that no more plantings will be carried
out in the early seventies. The mid-point figure implies that palm oil
production will increase at 9.3% yearly over the decade of the 1970's com-
pared with 3.0% for output of total oils and fats. As a result palm oils'
share of total oils and fats production will double from 1970 to 1980.
27.       Assuming that domestic consumption in the producing regions is
1.5 to 1.8 million metric tons by 1980, world export availabilities may
amount to 2.8 million metric tons based on the mid-point production. This
implies that palm oil's share of the world oils and fats market will have to
increase from about 6% in 1970 to around 19% by 1980.
28.       The above-mentioned figures and those for palm kernels (para 13)
were prepared by FAO. During the February 1972 session of the Inter-Govern-
mental Group on Oilseeds, Oils and Fats the world figures, which were based
on individual country information, compiled by FAO were considered at the
meeting. As a result of comments of Governments, they were revised in
mid-April and are included in this paper. FAO also prepared, in collabora-
tion with various international financing institutions, the amount of oil
palm production generated as a result of international project financing.
As of November 1971, 546 thousand metric tons of palm oil and 132 thousand
metric tons of palm kernels in 1980 may be attributed to this type of project
financing.
29.       The Indonesia oil palm projects 1/ under consideration will produce
15,800 metric tons and 5,400 metric tons, respectively, of palm oil in 1980
as a result of Bank financing. The first project's production will reach
its maximum of 38,500 metric tons in 1992. The latter project will attain
maximum output in 1985 of 11,900 metric tons. Bank Group participation in
palm oil projects, already approved, amounts to production of 317,000 metric
tons by 1980. When these two projects are added, total production of palm
oil generated by Bank financing amounts to about 338,000 metric tons. Since
most of the projects are export-oriented, around 12% of the world exports
of palm oil in 1980.will result from Bank financing. A considerable share
of the expansion attributed to Bank financing was included in the national
1/   Fourth Agricultural Estates Project and Smallholder Development Project.



ANNEX 9
Page 9
development plans of the countries concerned. It is quite likely that a
high proportion of the 338,000 metric tons of palm oil would have materialized
without Bank financing.
30.       For the market to absorb this increased level of world palm oil
exports, it is essential that palm oil's share in total usage of oils and
fats increases substantially. This can only be achieved by palm oil being
relatively cheaper than other oils and fats and by exporting countries
providing a steady supply of quality oil. It has been estimated that the
palm oil price will experience a much greater than average decline when
compared with most other vegetable oils and settle around t 68 per long ton
c.i.f. Europe in 1975 through to 1980 compared with E 110 in 1970 and E 72
in 1968 (the peak and trough of a 15-year period).
Palm Kernels
31.       World production of palm kernels in 1980 is expected to amount to
1.6 million metric tons. As noted for palm oil, it is the mid-point of a
low estimate (1.5 million tons) and high estimate (1.8 million tons). To
achieve this figure the rate of growth of production over the decade
(1970 to 1980) would be 5.3% yearly whereas from 1960 to 1970 there was an
absolute decline of 90,000 metric tons, as shown in Table 2. Palm kernel's
(in oil equivalent) share of total output of all oils and fats in 1980 will
be only 1.4%. The new varieties of oil palm being planted have a smaller
nut and higher proportion of pulp containing the palm oil which accounts for
the more rapid growth in palm oil production than for palm kernel.
32.       Assuming that world exports of palm kernels continue to account
for about 60% of world output, exports could reach approximately 966,000
metric tons (454,000 tons oil equivalent) in 1980. This implies that palm
kernel oil's share of the total oils and fats market by 1980 may be about
3.0% compared with 3.6% in 1970.
33.       The two projects under consideration are expected to generate
4,000 metric tons and 1,100 metric tons, respectively, of palm kernels in
1980. When these figures are added to the amount already financed, produc-
tion of kernels in 1980 resulting from Bank financing will be 82,500 metric
tons. Assuming that about 75% of the output is exported, approximately 7%
of world exports of palm kernels in 1980 will be accounted for by Bank
projects.
34.       It is assumed that palm kernel prices will be in line with other
oils and fats prices over the long term. A price of E 50-55 per long ton,
c.i.f. Europe by 1980 seems likely for palm kernels. The 1972 January
average price was E 50 because it had dropped sharply from the unprecedented
high 1970 average level of f 71 under the pressure of the steep price decline
in the copra price. The vegetable oils from palm kernels and copra are
classified as lauric oils since they contain high lathering qualities and
fatty acids which the other edible vegetables do not. However, they are
used mainly for food products and contain a high degree of saturated fat.



ANNEX 9
Page 10
Their use in nonfood products (toilet soap and lauric alcohols) has
declined due to competition from synthetics in the last 10 years. It is
unlikely that copra will continue at its recent relatively low price for
too long a period since this period is approaching the level at which there
is little incentive to pick the coconuts unless economics in production
costs can be achieved.
June 20, 1972



ANNEX 9
Table 1
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NORTH SUMATRA
NATURAL RUBBER: PRODUCTION BY REGIONS AND COUNTRIES
AND SHARE OF REGIONS AND COUNTRIES IN WORLD TOTAL
Yearly
Region/Country                                       Rate        Share in World
Production          of            Total-/
1955-57  1966-68  1969  Change  1955-57  1966-68  1969
(..1,000 metric tons.... ..........) (p.percent .....     )
Developed Countries         None     None    None   None    None        None    None
Developing Countries
Asia:
Malaysia               705.4  1,032.2 1,267.9  3.5        36.4     41.0   43.9
Indonesia              714.0    743.2   790.4  0.4        36.9     29.5   27.4
Thailand                135.0    226.7   281.8  4.8        7.0      9.0    9.8
Ceylon                  97.3    141.0   150.8  3.4         5.0      5.6    5.2
Vietnam                 68.7      39.7    26.2 -4.9        3.5       1.6    0.9
Cambodia                30.5      52.1    51.8  5.0        1.6      2.1    1.8
India     /2            23.6      61.5    80.0  9.1        1.2      2.4    2.8
Other Asia -     2      19.6      24.2    24.8  1.9        1.0       1.0    0.9
Total Asia-   1,794.1  2,320.6 2,673.7  2.4         92.7      92.2   92.7
Africa:                                           /3
Liberia                 38.8      59.8    66.9-4 .0        2.0      2.4    2.3
/3 
Nigeria                 36.6      58.3    56.8  'i.3       1.9       2.3    2.0
/3 
Zaire                   31.0      30.4    35. O-O 2       1.6       1.2    1.2
Others                   4.9      21.5    22.844           0.3      0.8    0.8
Total Africa      111.3    170.0   181.5  3.9        5.8       6.7    6.3
Latin America:
Brazil                  23.0      22.8    24.0 -0.1        1.2      0.9    0.8
Other Latin America       6.1      7.0      7.0  1.3       0.3      0.3    0.2
Total Latin America  29.1       29.8    31.0  0.2        1.5      1.2    1.0
Total Developing           1,934.5  2,520.4 2,886.2  2.4    100.0    100.0  100.0
World (excluding centrally
planned countries)      1,934.5  2,520.4 2,886.2  2.4    100.0    100.0  100.0
Centrally Planned
Countries                None      None    None   None    None       None    None
World (including centrally
planned countries)      1,934.5  2,520.4 2,886.2  2.4    100.0    100.0   100.0
/1   Excluding centrally planned countries.
E2   Includes Oceania.
/3   Net exports data have been taken because of nonavailability of production
figures for 1969.
Source:   International Rubber Study Group (IRSG), Rubber Statistical Bulletin,
various issues.
FAO, Production Yearbook, various issues.



ANNEX 9
Table 2
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NORTH SUMATRA
PRICE OF NATURAL RUBBER - RSS1 NEW YORK
1920-1971
(US cents per pound/US cents per kilogram)
Actual
US £/lb     US  Mkg
1920-29                     36.8          81.1
1930-38                     12.6          27.8
1948-54                     31.7          69.9
1948-67                     38.1          83.9
1955-59                     42.3          93.3
1960-64                     36.9          81.4
1965-69                     23.1          50.9
1950                        41.4          91.3
1951                        60.7         133.8
1952                        38.8          85.5
1953                        24.2          53.4
1954                        23.6          52.0
1955                        39.2          86.4
1956                        34.2          75.4
1957                        31.2          68.8
1958                        28.1          61.9
1959                        36.6          80.7
1960                        38.1          83.9
1961                        29.5          65.0
1962                        28.6          63.0
1963                        26.2          57.8
1964                        25.3          55.8
1965                        25.7          56.7
1966                        23.6          52.0
1967                        19.9          43.9
1968                        19.9          43.9
1969                        26.2          57.8
1970                        21.0          46.3
1971                        18.0          40.0
Source: IBRD, Commodity Price Trends of 1971.



ANNEX 9
Table 3
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NORTH SUMATRA
PROJECTIONS OF DEMAND AND SUPPLY OF NATURAL RUBBER
(thousand metric tons)
Actual                       Projections
1964-66   1967    1968    1969    1970    1975        1980
Production             2,437   2,487   2,632   2,885   2,898   3,900    4,800
Exports to centrally
planned countries      556     584      709     752      706     800    1,000
Supplies to market
economies            1,881   1,903   1,923   2,133   2,192   3,100    3,800
World consumption
of all rubbers/1    4,846   5,240   6,014   6,550   6,750   9,200   12,200
Share of natural
rubber in world
consumption/i           38.8    36.3    32.0    32.6    31.5    33.7        31.1
/1   World excluding centrally planned countries.
Source:   International Rubber Study Group and Trade Policies and Export
Projections Division, Economics Department, IBRD.



ANNEX 9
Table h
INDoNESIA
34ALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NORTH SUMATRA
WOfELD PRODUCT ION AND EXPORT OF PALM OIL
(Thousand metric tons)
Forecast
1960-64  -196-69            1970    1971    1972
Production
Indbnesia                  147       176             215     225      2145
Malaysia                   255        L17            434     595      780
Cameroon                    39        48              40      40       40
Dahomiey                    39         35             45       50      50
Ivory Coast                 23         31             52      67       85
Nig,ria                    498       1432            488     500      600
Sierra Leone                35         142            47       50      52
Zaire                      224       200             227     250      250
Colbmbia                     1        10              26      34 110
All others                  4s7        30            170     129      138
World                 1,308      1,121          1,741   1,91940   2,280
rxports, Net
Indonesia                  109       1142            155     170      190
Malaysia                   103        220            398     555      750
Dahomey                     11         11             114     15       15
Ivory-Coast                  1          1             13       35      145
Nigiria                    148        65              25      25       26
Zaire                      148       1114            1214    112      112
ARU others                  21        28              31      38       42
*rld                     51i        581            760     950   1,180
Source:  Production and Trade Yearbooks, FAO and Report, of lhird Sessiorn
of Statistical Ju;b-i'.on-, intergovernmerntal OGroup on Oilseeds,
Oils and Fats, QCP:OF 72/11, February 1972, FAO.



ANNEX 9
Table 5
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NORTH SUMATRA
WORLD PRODUCTION AND EXPORT OF PALM KERNELS
(Thousand metric tons)
Forecast
1960-64   1965-69          1970    1971    1972
.Production of kernels
Indonesia                 33         37              47       51      55
Malaysia                  54         91              92      126     164
Cameroon                  314        47              45       47      47
Dahoney                   54         53              60       66      66
Ivory Coast               114        23              19       23      34
Nigeria                  413        295             296      311    1426
Sierra Leone              57         149             57       60      60
Zaire                    119         95             130      130     130
All others               268        303             l90/a   218      2141
World                1,0o46       993             936/a. 1,032   1,223
ExDorts (Oil ecuivalent)
Indonesia                 16         16              22       24      214
Malaysia                  10         14              13       '1      10
Camneroon                  7          9              12       11      11
Dahoney                   25         22              27       28      28
Ivory.'Coast               6          6               9       11      16
Nigeria                  195        155             139      146     1h7
Sierra Leone              27         25              27       28      28
Zaire.,                   50         41              50       50      50
All others                55         146             37       34      34
World                  391        334             336      343     348
/a  Adjusted figure.
Source:  Production and T-rde Yearbooks, FAG and Renort of Tnird Session
of Statistinofq             in:-.-.cr!, Iner:cvermnental Grouo on Uilseecs,
Oils anid Fa-,    S':Y 72/11, February 1.972, FAO.






ANNEX 1 0
Page 1
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NORTH SUMATRA
Economic Rate of Return
Calculation
1.        Table 1 details yields, outputs and annual project production.
Table 2 shows details of annual costs and returns used in calculating the
economic rate of return on investment.  A sensititivy analysis for different
variations of costs and benefits is given in Table 3.  The breakdown of
prices for rice, palm products and rubber is given in Tables 4, 5 and 6.
Tables 7 and 8 shows the economic rate of return calculation for one ha of
rubber and one ha of palm respectively. The overall economic rate of return
is calculated as 15% and the following assumptions and data have been used.
Project Life
2.        Oil palm and rubber trees are assumed to have an economic life
of 25 years and since plantings would be spread over the first five project
years a 30-year project life is assumed.
Returns
3.   (a)  Yields and output of rice, rubber and palm products are
given in Table 1. More details about yields can be found
in Annex 8, Tables 1 and 2.
(b) Prices
(i) Rice - The price structure for rice is at Table 4.
An economic value of Rp 25 for milled rice at farmgate
is used.
(ii) F.F.B. - The price structure for palm products is at
Table 5.  An economic value of Rp 8,302/ton of FFB at
farmgate is used.
(iii) Rubber - The price structure of rubber is at Table 6.
New York cif prices for rubber are assumed to be
USi 17/lb (1972 dollars) and this is reflected in the
Rp 91.81/ kg value used in the economic rate of return
calculation from 1980 onwards.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
(c) Miscellaneous benefits
(i)  Rice - it was assumed that smallholders owing less than
2 ha of rubber at the time of joining the project will
forego 800 kg of rice per year over the first four years
of their participation in the project. This would occur
because all available family labor would be fully employed
on project plantings and consequently none would be
available for rice production outside the project. Once
the major investment in planting would have been completed
after four years, participants would have sufficient time
to return to their original levels of rice production.
The foregone rice production valued at Rp 25/kg was
deducted from project benefits.
(ii) Rubber quality improvement - Group Coagulating Centers
constructed at the beginning of project life, would
improve the quality of smallholder coagula and enable
factories to produce export rubber with a fob price
estimated at US* 1/lb above present levels. During the
first project years, the 800 centers would coagulate
about 12 tons of dry rubber annually from non-project
smallholdings. Once project rubber production starts,
the limited capacity of these centers would first be
used for project rubber, thus reducing the quantity
of non-project planted rubber handled by these centers.
4.        Costs
(a) Costs are derived from project costs given in Annex 5. Post
project investment period costs take into account a gradual
reduction in management costs. Costs after the development
period include replacement and management of project assets
to which no residual value is attributed at the end of project
life.
(b) Hired Labor - Laborers employed by the project organizations
were charged at a rate of Rp 200/day, equivalent to the total
cost of workers on plantations. Since only a few of the
smallholders with between 2-10 ha employ a small amount of
hired labor, the cost of this labor - which is difficult to
estimate - would have no significant effect on the economic
rate of return, and was therefore not included in the
calculations.
(c) On farm labor - Part of the labor force available in a family
unit would not be employed productively if the project was
not carried out and could therefore be valued at zero. Part,
however, would find jobs at a maximum rate of Rps 150/day.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
The opportunity cost of family labor lies therefore between
zero and Rps 150 per day. The rate of return was calculated
on the mid-range value of Rp 75/day considered as the most
probable.
5.        Contingencies
(a)  Physical contingencies are included in the project costs over
the investment period.
June 20, 1972






INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NORTH SUMATRA
ESTIMATED PROJECT PRODUCTIONS
1        2         3         4         5         6         7        8         9         10        11        12
YEAR      1973    1974        1975    1976       1977      1978     1979      1980      1981       1982      1983      1984
RICE
Yield per ha under rubber (tons)  1/                        1.5       1.5        1.0      -         -         -         -         -         -         -          -         -
Yield per ha under oil palm (tons) 2/                       1.5       1.2        -        -         -         -         -         -         -
Annual plantings (ha of rubber)                              -     300.0      800.0   1,900    2,700          -         -         -         -
(ha of oil palm)                          -     600.0   1,100.0       800       800        -         -         -         -
Total rice production (tons)                                 -   1,350.0   4,020.0   6,870    9,860    6,910    2,700             -         -
Foregone production 3/ (tons)                                -     320.0      960.0   1,680    2,480    2,160    1,520            -         -
Net incremental production due to project (tons)             -   1,030.0   3,060.0   5,190    7,380    4,750    1,180             -         -
RUBBER (Dry Rubber)
Yield (kg/ha)                                                -       -         -        -         -          300       700       900    1,000    1,100        1,100    1,250
Annual planting (ha)                                         -     300.0      800.0   1,900    2,700          -         -         -
Total Rubber Production (tons)                               -       -          -       -           -         -         90       450    1,400    3,160        4,730    5,540
13       14        15        16          17       18
YEAR     1985      1986      1987      1988       1989      1990
(Tons)    6,045    6,435    6,720    7,125         7,125    7,125
PALM PRODUCTS
Yields:  Tons of FFB/ha                                      -       -           -          4        7        11       14         18        18        18         18        18
% of oil in FFB                                    -       -           -         16        18       20       20         20        20        20         20         20
% of kernel in FFB                                  _       -           -          4         4         4        4          4         4        4           4         4
Annual Plantings (ha)                                        -      600.    1,100.       800       800                       -              -         -          -         -
Total Production (Tons)
FFB                                                       -      -            -       -       2,400    8,600  17,500    28,100   36,000   44,600    51,400   56,200
Oil                                                       -       -           -       -         384    r,460   3,218        5,380    7,088    8,920    10,280   11,240
Kernel                                                    -       -           -       -          96       344      700      1,124    1,440      1,784      2,056    2,248
13       14       15         16        17        18          19       20& onwards
1985      1986    1987       1988      1989      1990       1991      1992 &  2002
17       17       16         14         14       -           -         -
20       20       20         20         20       -           -         -
4        4        4          4         4        -           -         -
59,400   58,800  57,700    56,300   53,200   50,200    47,800   46,200
11,880   11,760  11,540    11,260   10,640   10,040           9,560    9,240
2,376     2,352   2,308       2,252    2,128      2,008      1,912    1,840
1/  Equivalent to 2,310 kg and 1,540 kg of paddy respectively
2/  Equivalent to 2,310 kg and 1, 850 kg of paddy respectively
3/ New smallholders only at 800 kg/family/annws for 4 years.



MU 006A
2973      o97o      2903      1976       0903      2900     2379     290       2902     L239     2903      29t"       M99       299       I" 29      '"39     I9         2990I     IWO"        99MI       9       199'am    Ins        99        692%      2990      299                 no300      m
92120   I.0. Ico ..                            1,350     4.020     6.90       O.66       0.910   2.00       -                                                                                                                                                                                                           
Dr  obr00.                                                                                          90      930    2.w9    3.260    4.,Jo       S 3,34     6.04       6..25    6020      7. 05 025             1. 20     I. 22      3.125     0.122     0.035    6.903      6.390     6.Los      S.03 IS    .490.    LOW       u.S          -
021  l.  it(to).                                                                 00-    A   .609  23730    20400   3  00_2q   ".00 %1400    50390 TN        9.W9    009,W    97.700    50.300       93 _ 00    30200.   90,M 009   94        64.29     44200   20.0        66 .200     0.200    40.20     3790       MM40    0-m0
NT..   7.o54     67 23,090/12.  .      3.3      92       292.3       227.3      232.0    93.5     .        .           .                                                                                                                                                                                  
0040.00024.00  OoTqoo* 9r24605920    .   3~~.3  233     3.           9.0      52.7   37., 5                                            --                                      -.-                                                  -.                                                                                
lcOt0-I..2v.          .                   23.6      32.0    122.6        273.       220.2 -  3.0      .        .           .                                                                                                                                   
T.2020f  a.4092    ,9 6920203.                    .         .                               -       0.0    42.3      220.5    290.2 I  04.2      500.0       330.0     S90.3    0231.0    054.2      63.2      634.2     934.2      634.2     636.2      20.0    903.9    203.0       200.1      5279       657. 2     303.6   217.9
9.0      29 0      %340         32.0      09.0    96.0    92.0       *'.3     44.      99        41.0        39.       22.0     09.0       23.0      230  2     3.0  25.0      2     3.9      09.0  25.0           53.0IL   25.9       03.  23.9  2.   25.0            23.0     23.9    is.e
0.46.0.1               .       ~~~~     ~~~~~~~6.0  06.3  39.0  32.0      09.0    20.3       23. 3  229.5s   93.2    20.2       599.6       202.0     002.01   66.0      639.2      679.2I    679 2    93.          79269.1             630.      992.9    90.0       "S3.5     592.9      20  2      399.0    29..    23. 0
Op 0.20409.. 770                                                               1    9.9  69.3   292.0   223.'    292.       042M.4    426.5    433.9      982.4      479. 5    99367,    %  431. 3.2I    00.0          238.4      334.6     326.4      374.4    334 4     29. 374.      9 7.   379 4      I", 3      in, S      0.
00342 KW073                             .       3.4       95.3      27.,        26.        3.0 062        90.0       50.2-     2.       9.      ,0.         ,0.    2.99,   2.2I5   220.'. 220.I.05I                     .066.042.332,    2,032.3    204.6.I  .013.3  292.6.            MA9.      923.3      In.5       332.9    233. 3    03.3
I20  0023  otS90.3    323.3                            399.3     249.4        204.0     122.0    86.3    59.        32.3      .                                                                                                                                                                        
p3)0000.0,... 0903* 02     -          . ~ ~         ~ ~            ~~ .  .  2.4  30.9   230.    202.4   000.5   1222.0   1222.0    t222.0       1220.0    120.0    222.0      202.0     23.0       222.0     202.0    1202.0      222.0     1222.0    272.0   1222.0    1222.0       222.2      222.0    1222.9   123.0
0600  2*-     .0760                           17.4       32.0     233.2       223.4      M2.0   99.9    03.0         9.      24.09    29.0      24.0        29.9       29.6     2 4.0     14.0       29.       24.0      29.9       20.       24.0       29.0      24.0     24.0      24.0       24.0       24.0      22.9       3.0
90-tom  02.5. . 022 7.20    .       94~~~~~.3  93.9     223.2       239.2      60.0    59.2    10.5       26.5     26.5     26.5      24.3        26. 5     2.3      26.5       29. 5     29, 3      63        2.5       2.6.5 265 1.  6        6.5     26.3      26.       1 2.5     L6.5        23.5       0.9      4.9
8.4.200.2               92~~~~~~10.3    537.2  534.2    695.9     033.3      33.3,   36.    24. 7      0206.9    253.0    233. 3    233.3       253.3     233.3    233).3    253.9      2 53.3    253.3     2532.3     25$3.3)    253.3     252.3    233.3    233.3      253.2      233.3      290.3     292.9    233.0
C.t10020.  2o..-  33X         00.3      29.4      23.2      0.          323         3.7    29.     13.2       22L.3     3.7      7.0      3.7          7.7       7.3      0.37      7.7        0.0       7.7       0.7        3 .3       .   7.73.           0.3      3.3        7.3       7.7        02         I.2      6.3
097920093  (-.90 i429  2.340         932.0    409.2       7. 570   $00.3       200.9    032.2   920.0   279.0    020.2   2[62.0    262 0    262.0            202.0     262.0    262.0      262.0     29.2      202.0      292.0     202.0     262 0       121.0     MA2 0   2.02.      202.2     00.9        25.0 i2?.   .0    go0I
907 OmPr  1-o.OdI1 2.0.31            1432.0)  2373.07   2474.02   (204.22      2927. 4)   2 90.9) (232.90   95.2     20.0    534.5    039.7    094.0         922.9     990.2    952.0      974.4     209.2     924.9      M0. 5     092.5     892.3       M93.     032.3     93.9      090.9     766.3      930.7      922.9    232.5    23.3
L.4. 0- 2 O  759.y                              123.2     20.3      63.3        94.3      60.4    30.2    49.0       62.0      63.2     04.2     09.6         85.2     035.2     83.2      052        0.         32       0.          32        32         8.        50        .         5.2      032         0.          .       376 
907  0.907230 220204200 2.6232  432.00    f.1 (329.7 1222.00     20.02  (32.7)   (290.23 (292.0)   35.4    200.      972.3    654.6    339.4        006.2     033.0    "7.,      309.0      904.0     039.7     02.3       607.3     900.3      390.2  _7031  .2 3900        39.        "I2.2I     552.9     339.      025.     25.3
22  - Oros...    370. f-  03,953(-0. 109274 to9   500102  909
it   ...0 002  0322-30  7'.  --0,02033  0232 0- 00 994  2, t            4*90
MI252 20



ANNEX 10
Table 3
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NORTH SUMATRA
Economic Rate of Return - Sensitivity Analysis
Variation in Comodity Prices
+20%        +10%         0%        -10%        -20%
Assuming Opportunity Cost of Farm                        Economic Rates of Return
Labor to be Zero:
Project costs as estimated               18.63      117.15      15.61      13.96       12.19
10% increase in project costs            17.02      15.61       14.12      12.53       10.81
20% increase in project costs            15.61      14.24       12.80      11.25        9.57
Assuming Opportunity Cost of Farm
Labor at Rp 75 per Day:
Project costs as estimated               16.52      15.03                  11.72        9.88
10% increase in project costs            14.90      13.43       11.88      10.21        8.37
20% increase in project costs            13.43      12.01       10.50       8.85        7.01
August 1, 1972



ANNEX 10
Table i
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NORTH SUMATRA
RICE - PRICE STRUCTUREV
US$/ton                  Rp/kg
A. ITported. Milled Rice
?.O.B. Rangoon  42% broken                    80.00                       33.12
Freight to Belawan                            20.00                        8.28
C.I.F. Belawan                               100.00                       141.40
Distribution to retailers                      6.11                        2.53
Retailers profit                              14.66                        6.07
Retail Price                                 120.77                       50.00
B. Locally Produced Milled Rice
Retail Price                                                              50.00
Transfer to retail shops                                          4.00
Retailers profit                                                  4.00
Taxes                                                             3.00
Direct processing charges                                        10.00
Processor's profits                                               3.00
Transport from farm gate to rice mill                             4.00    28.00
FARM GATE PRICE  (Equivalent to Rp 14.3/kg of paddy)                      22.00
C. Farm Gate Value used in Econamic Analysis
Farm gate price (milled rice equivalent)                                  22.00
Taxes                                                                      3.00
TOTAL                                      25.00
T In constait 1972 dollars.



ANNEX 10
INDONESIA                      Table 5
SMULIHOIDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NORTH SUMATRA
Price Structure of Palm Products
Palm Oil                  Palm Kernel
US$/ton    Rp/kg            US$/ton     Rp/kg
London Market price          160.00     66.40            123.00       51.05
Freight Belawan               35.00     14.53             42.00       17.43
FOB Belawan                  }2.00_ _r___                7r.00        33.67
Taxes and Cess
Export Tax                  12.50      5.19              8.10        3.36
Cess                         1.45      o.60              1.45        o.60
Corporate tax (MPO)          1.52      0.63              1.00       0.42
Sub-total           15.47       6742             1_377       77
Factory to FOB
Transport to Belawan         7.25      3.01              7.25        3.01
Handling in tanks            0.17      0.07               -           -
Storage costs                0.31      0.13              o.48       0.20
Loading charges              0.17      0.07              0.36        0.15
Bank charges                 0.72      0.30              o.46        0.19
Sub-total            U77        7375                         757
Processing charges
Processing costs            11.59      4.81               -           -
Profit margin                2.42      1.00               -           -
Sub-total           14.                                       -
TOTAL COSTS                   38.10     15.81             19.10        7.93
VALUE AT FACTORY GATE         86.90     36.06             61.90       25.69
Equivalent per ton of FFB2/  17.38       7.21              2.48        1.03
FFB
US$/ton   Rp/ton
Value of 1 ton of FFB at Factory Gate      19.86    8,240
Collection cost                             2.60    1,076
Price at collecting centers                 17.26    T164
Transport to collecting centers             1.25       519
FARM GATE PRICE for 1 ton of FFB           16.01    6,645
ECONOMC VALUE of 1 ton of FFB at FARM
GATE  /                                   19.53    8,104
1   In constant 1972 dollars.
FFB contains 20% of palm oil and 4% of palm kernels.
Farm gate price plus taxes and cess on oil and kernel content - Rp 1,284
and Rp 175 respectively.



ANNEX 10
INDONESIA                   Tabe 
SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NORTH SUMATRA
Price Structure of Rubber 1
USiAb 
N.Y. Market price, RSS No. 1             17.00                155.16
Xiscount for SIR 20 /                     0.50                   4.56
N.Y. Market price for SIR 20             16.50                150.60
Freight and Insurance                     2.63                 24.00
F.O.B. Belawan                           13.87                126.60
Taxes
Direct                                            20.54
Indirect (on processing costs)                     1.00
Side road payments                                 3.01     24.55
Processi,g charges
Processing costs                                  13.96
Factory to F.O.B.                                  5.02
Profit on processing                              10.96     29.94
Transport from GCC to factory                         1.93
GCC processing costs                                  2.92      4.85
TOTAL COSTS                                       59.334
FARM GATE PRICE                                                67.26
ECONOMIC VALUE OF lkg of dry rubber at FARM GATE 3/            91.81
Price forecast for 1980 expressed in 1972 dollars.
2/ Standard Indonesian Rubber 20.
:/ Farm gate price plus taxes.



Z(mKtQC Ran  OF BZIU S0         7 0IT}1 3A 8tA) UiIR  mm
Iea             2           3           4           5          6           7           8          9           10          11          12        13-21         22          23          24          22          26
Kille4 Uce  (kg)                              1500        1500        1000                                3G0          -                       - 9  I   1           I
Dry obbOr  (kg)                                             -           -          -                      300         70          9         1000        1100        1100        1250        1200        1100        1000        10           ;00
RI  U Bp 25/k8 (RP'000)              -        37.5        37.5        25.0                                             -           -           -                 -          -                             -           -           -
lut,e   S Up 91.81l. S (Uv'°°°)                                                                          2 -  -  - .  17.5  64.2  $2.4       91.8       101.0      101.0        134.8       7Dl.0       51.0          1.1t       9.5          UA.
TStol  a..Hto                             37.5       37.5        2S.0          _                     27.5       64.2        92.6        91.8       101,0       101.0        114.8       101.0       101.0        91.8        91.5        82.6
lldrecc On-Ears 00*15
Ears luot. sad ah psysets                    5 6.1      21.1          19.6        16.0        19.4       2.6        2.6         2.6         26.62.6                             2.6          2.6         1.6         2.6         262.6
Labor t Rp 751"ay                           513.5         9.0           7.1        5.6         5.2      12.0        12.0       12.0        12.0        12.0        12.0        12.0         12.0        12.0        12.0        12.0        1O
S.b-tot.1                      -         69.6        30.1          26.7       21.6        24.6      14.6        14.6       14.6        14.6        14.6        14.6        14.6         14.6        14.6        14.6        14.6        14.6
Indirect cost.
PM capital cost.                 35.0        10.0         5.0           -           -           -                    -           -                       -           -           -            -
2t0l r-c-rr t cots               11.0        16.0       19.3          20.5        21.0        17.3      17.3        17.3       17.3        11.2        11.2        11.2        11.2         11.2        11.2        11.2        11.2        11,2
S.b-tet.2                    50.0        26.0        24.3          204        21.0        17.3      17.3        17.3        17.3       11.2        11.2        11.2        11.2         11.2        11.2        11.2        11.2        11.2
Total .ubject to coot1n.   es      50.0        95.6        54.4         47.2        42.6        41.9      32.9        31.9       31.9        253.        25.8        25.8        23.8         25.8        25.9        25.8        25J.        25.8
Physical co1 tlngenclsa/            2.5         4.1        2.3           2.0         1.9         1.8       1.0         1.0        1.0         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.7          0.7         0.7         0.7         0.7         0.7
7otal coscs                   52.5        99.7        56.7         49.2        44.5        43.7      32.9        32.9       32.9        26,5        26.5        26.5        26.5         26.5        26.5        26.5        26,5        26.5
NMT BENEFITS                        (52.5)      (62.2)      (19.2)       (24.2)      (44,5)      (43.7)    (5.4)        31.3       49.7        65.3        74.5        74.5        88.3         74,5        74.5        65.3        65.3        56.1
1/ 5X on total  0,ts cIdi.g ld  b-c     ,-t,                                                                                               Rate o0 totro   152'
Klay 10, 1972



830&ILIElI         V im   86r(
zm c or  081 M                 VAll D WM  OIL MM 
1          2           3           4           5          6           7           S           9           10          11          12          13          14          is          16       17-26
lllld tice (ks)                                1300       1200                      -                       -           -           -                                                          -           - _
tods.   Fp-s (to)                   -                                  -           4           7           11          12         14          18          18          18          is          17          17          16          14
- oil (kg)                 -                 -                     640        1260        230         2400        230D        36070°      367°        300         3600        3400       3m00         330         18CO
-  eul(kg)          -                                             160        280          440         480         360         720         ?20         720        73          680         660          640         560
t.* e Rp 251kg                       -           37.5        30.0       -           -           -           -           -          -           _           _           _           _           _           _
Pot. Oil & Keuel t9 AP 8104/ton      -           -          -           -          3'.4        56.7         89.1        97.2       713.5       5.15.9     1.459      1i45.9       1745.9      337.8       137.8       22.7        713.5
TOTAL BIENETS                          -           37.5       30.0        -           v.14        56.7       89.1        97.2        113.5      145,9        145.9       145.9       145.9       137,8      137.8       229.7        113.5
Dcros t on-fs r coat
DI=     tut and c   pay_nte                      72.2       20.5       12.1         5.0         5.0         5.0         5.0          3.0         5.0        5.0         5.0         5.0         5.0         3.0          5.0         5.0
Labo, at Lp 75/yan a-                          13.9        10.5        7.1         3.5        4.2         4.4         4.4          5.1         5.1         5.1         3.1         5.1         3.0         5.0         4.7         4.7
Sob-total                          _           86.1        31.0       13.2         8.5         9.2        9.4         9.4         10.1        10.1        10.1        10.1        10.1        10.0        10.0         9.7         9.7
InAireot co-to
8Wt capitol toni.                 35.0         10.0         5.0       -                       -           -           -            -           -
PHUl  currcnct ..Stc              15.0         16.0       19.3       20.5        21.0        17.3        17.3        17.3         11.2        11.2        11.2        11.2        11.2        11.2        11.2        11.2        11.2
Sob-totl                        50.0         26.0        24.3       20.5        21.0        17.3        17.3       17.3         11.2        11.2        11.2        11.2        11.2        11.2        11.2        11.2        11.2
Total .object to contiugenola.      50.0        112.1        55.3      39.7        29.5        26.5        26.7        26.7         21.3        21.3        21.3        21.3        11.3        21.2        21.2        2D.9        20.9
Phymical .oottng cci-v               2.5          4.9         2.2        1.6        1.3         1.1         1.1         i.1          0.6         0.8         0.8         0.8         0.8         0.8         0.8         0.8         0.8
IOAL ISTS                             52.5        117.0        57.5       41.3        30.9        27.6       27.8        27.8         22.1        22.1        22.1        22,1        22.1        22.0        22.0        21.7        21.7
NET BENEFITS                         (52.5)       (79.5)      (27.5)     (41.3)        L           '         61.3        69.4         91.4       Lj3.8       33.8        123.2       123.8       115.8        15.8       108.5        91.8
Rate of Retots  '  227.
1/ 52 on total coits -x-l-x,ng labor colt..
May 10, 1972



SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NORTH SUIMATRA
FARM BUDLIr - ONE HA OF RUBBER REPLANTED WITH OIL PALM
(Rp '000)
Year        1          2          3          4          5          6           7         8          9         10         11         12         13         14          15         16-20        21-25
PRODUCTION
Paddy (kg)                                        2,310      1,850          -                     -          -          -          -          -          -           -          -          -          -          -             -             -
Oil palc  FFB (ton)                                    -          -          -          4          7         11        12         14         18          18         18         18         17         17          16           14            14
INFLOW
Credit in kod   I h.  il                             66.2        14.5       12.1        -          -          -          -          -         -           -          -          -          -          -           -            -             -
-5 cash )                                      6.0        6.0        -
Sole of poddy  @ Rp 14.3/kg                          33.0       26.5         -         -           -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -           -          -            -             -
Sl.J  of oij polo prod.1ts  @ Rp 6,645/-o             -          -          -         P(.C 6       C.7      73.1       79.7       93.O      119.6      119,6      119.6      119.6       11.3.0     113.0      106.3          93.0         93.1
TOTAL INFLOW                                105.2       47.0       12.1         ,1       4L,        /.1       '73.!       93.       1 119.     119.f      119.f      119.6      113.0      113.0       106.3         93.0          93.0
OUTFLOW
Oil palm e-takllshknet                                66.2       14.5       12.1        -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -           -          -                       -             -
Fungic-des, fertili-er and
equipment  (rcrrert)                                -          -          -          5.0        3.0        5.0        5.0        5.0        5.0        5.0         5.0        5.0        5.0        5.0        5.0           5.0           5.0
L..d ta.  - vil p.loi 1A                               1.3        1.0        1.0        0.9        1.8        3.1        3.4        3.9        5.2        5.2        5,2        5.2        4.9         4.9        4.5          3.9           3.9
Credit repaymeot - Ist ha, oil palm                    -          -          -          -          -         23.2       23.2       23.2       23.2       23.2       23.2       23.2       23.2        23.2       23.2         23.2           -
TOTAL OUTFLOW                                67.5       15.5       13.1        5.9        6.8       31.3       31.6       32.1       33.4       33.4       33.4        33.4       33.1       33.1       32.7         32.1           8.9
S-rplo- (Def-cit)                                      3 17.7      31.S      (1.0)          7          7       41.     4d,.1         6O.9       86.2       86.2       86.7       86.2       79.9       79.9        73.6         60.9           4l,
Mao-doys tmployed                                      105        140         95         39         48         56         59         58         68         68         68         68          66         66         63           62            62
Surpl-s per m-n-day   fRp)                           ;?^,         225                 .            K 7        71W        '1.     1,050       1 I.l6                I,i65      163         ,2        1,211      1,164 lc        932        1,?11
I/ See Table 4 - Note 3.
2/ Annual average sorplos frot  year 6 ,o Rp 74,260.
May 12, 1972



IRIRIESIA
SHALLHOLDER IEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NORTH SUhATRA
FARM SU?DCET - ONE RA OF RUBBER BEPLA24TEO WITH NEW RUBBER
(Rp '000)
PreducUen                         2         3         4          5         6          7          8          9       10        11       12-20       21        22        23        24        25
Production
Padd  (kg)                    2,310       2,310     1,510                                  -                   -         -                    -         -                   -          -              -
Rubber (kg)                           -          -         -         -               300        70D        90       1,000     1,300     1,000    1,250     1,100      1,100    l,OD       1,000       900
Inf1m
Orant in kind 1/               37.1 1/    15.O       13.6      10.0       19.4      *           -          *         *          *        *         _         _          _         _         _         _
Orant in cash                   6.0         6.0       6.0       6.o        -        -           -          .          _        _         _         _          _         _
Sale of Paddy 0 Rp 14.3/kg       33.0        33.0      22.0       -          _        -           -          _          _         _        _
Sale of Rubber * Rp 67.2/6Ag                                                          20.2       4?..1      60.5       67.3      7o.0      74)4     84.1       74.0      74-.      67.3      67.3      60.5
TOTAL INFLOI    76.1        54.1      [1.6       160       19.4      20.2       47.1       60.5       57.3      14.0      74.4      84.1      74.0      76.0      67.3      67.3      60.5
Outflo
i.lubber Etatblishment           37-1  /    15.1       13.6      10.0       19.4       -          -          -         -          -        -         -          -                   -         -         -
Pwsgicides aid Equipment
(Recurrent)                         -               -         -          -         2.6        2.6       2.6        2.6        2.6      2.6       2.6       2.6        2.6      2.6       2.6        2.6
Lend Tax 2/                       1.3         1.3       0.8       1.0        1.0       0.9        2.2        2.9        3.2        3.6      3.6      4.1        3.6       3.6       3.2       3.2       2.9
TOTAL OTLOW    38.4         16.4      1414      11.0       20.4       3.5        4.8        5.5        5.8        6.2      6.2       6.7       6.2       6.2       5.8       5.8       5.5
Surplua (Deficit) 3/             37.7        37.7      27.2       5.0      (1.0)      16.7       .2.3      5.0        61.5       67.8    67.8       77.4      67.8      67.8      61.5      61.5      55-o
M.y-day. -mpIoy,d                 210         110        90       70         70       160        160        160        160        160      16o       160       160       160       160       160        160
Cash Surplus per NKn-dy (Rp)      180         343       302        71        -         104        264        344        384        424      424       484       424       244       384       384       344
V/ Replanting Rubber costs Rp 13,COO less than in Block planting
2/ See Uble h, Note 3/                                                                                                                                                                                                         x
_/ Annval Average Surplus fr.. year    is RP-66,OO, 
My 10, 1972



SM6I.OLDER DEVEmI4ENT PiOECT - NORThi SOM&TBA
FARM4 BUDGET - NEW0 P'LotrING 204  HA. OF R2tBE1ES
(Op '0001
Year!          2        3        4        0        6         7        0        9        10        11       12       13       14        15       16       17       18        19        20       21       22        23      -24        21
FROIUCrION
Paddy (k3                              2310     231C     3850      2310    23340     1240        -        -        -        -         -        -                 -         -        -        -        -         -         -        -        -         -        -         -
Rubber (kg)                              -         -        -        -        -       300       700     1200     1700    2000       2100     2350    2350      2500     2500      2500     2500      2500     2500      2500     2350    2350       2100     2100      2000
Wrdl  in kInd)                         30.      15.1     13.6     10.0     19.4       -        -                  - -  -       -         -            -         -        -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -        -              -
Credit in .ash)lt6                       63,'    4.0        6.0      6.0               -         -        -        -         -        -        -                 -         -        -        -         -        -         --                          ---
Credit in kind) 2nd ha-                                     0.1    15.1      13.6    10.0      19.4       -        -        -         -                 -        -         -        -        -         -        -         -        -        ----
Credit in cash)                           .       -         6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0       -        -        -        -         -        -        -                  -        -        -         -        -         -        -        ----
Sale of paddy @ Rp 14.3 kg               33.0    33.0      55.0     33.0    33.0    22.0         -        -        ---                                                     -        -        -         ---
Sale of r.bber 0 Rp 67.26 kg             -         .        -        -        -       20.2    47.1       80.7   114.3   134.5   141.2   150.1   150.1   160.2   160.2   168.2   168.2   160.2    260.2   168.2   158.1   118.1    141.2   141.2    134.1
Total inffnee                     89.1    54.1   130.7        70.1     72.0      58.2    66.5    80.7   114.3   134.5   141.2   158.'   150.1   168.2   168.2   160.2    168.2   J68.2   168.2   168.2   158.1   138.1    141.2   141.2   136.5
OUITFLOW
Ru-bber ..tabliabhet                     30.1    15.1      63.7     25.1     33.0     10.0      19.4           -        -        -         -                 -        -         -             -        -         -        -         -        .                  -        -
Fumglcide, 4 &    lnetrcrnt                   -        -        -             -         2.0      2.6      5.2      3.2       5.2      5.2      5.2      5.2       5.2      5.2      5.2       2.2      5.2       5.2      3.2       5.2      3.2      5.2       5.2      5.2
Land rae -,                               1.0      1.0      0.1      2.3      1.0       1.0.     3.2      3.0       5.5      6.1      6.0       2.6      7.6      0.2      0.2       8.2      8.2      0.2       8.2      8.2       7.0      2.6       6.8      6.0       6.5
Credit repaynn.et lat h. 3/                                 .        -        -        -         .       13.6     13.6    13.6       13.6    13.6    13.6       13.6    13.6       13.6      13.6     13.6     13.6      13.6    33.6       13.6      -           
Credit repy.ent 2nd he           . 1/.                      -                 . -                .         .               13.6      13.6    13.6    13.6       13.6      13.6     13.6     13.6      13.6     13.6    13.6       13.8      13.6     13.8      13.6
Rant let ha                              2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0       -        .-
SecL 2nd ha                              -        .         2.0      2.3      2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0      -                  -
Total outflow                      53.9    10.9    69.0       31.4     38.0      10.0     29.2     26.6     20.3    42.9    43,2    44.0    44.0           44.6    4-4.6    46.6    4-4.6    44.6         44.6     44.0      42.0    42.0       25.6     25.6      11.7
C..h S.,pl.. (DetStOit                  35.2    35.2    60.9    38.7    33.2    39,7    37.3             54.1    86.0    91.6        98.0   114.1   114.1    123.6   123.6   123.6   123.6   123.6    123.6    123.6    116.3   116.3    113.6    115.6    122.8
Ylaodays -nploy.d                    206      112      297       183      161      231      230       320      320      320      320       320      320      320       320      320      320       320      320       320      320       320      320      320       320
Cash earplus per Ban day  lop)   171          314      205      211      206       172      162      169      269       286      306      357       357      306      386       380      306      380       386      386       363      363       361      361       383
Cash -~rpl.. per nan day lip)
under ater,native credit term
22 y-a  loans -ith 7 v-a  g-a.  p-r/d
(-t ....t  ap~t Il-or   -,  ...... I through 7,
I/' ILnt.ruS                                                                             1     3       155       183      203      204      234       281      283      283       283      283       283      283       260      240       276      276       383
@ 97. internet                     .......unchanged                         ........              108       208      227      247      298       298      327      327       327      327      327       327       327      304      304       296      294       183
@ 6% interest                                                                                 5 149         249      262      202       333      333      362      362       362      362       362      362       362      1339     339       361      351       383
1)   One he planted .o year I and one ha. in Yea  3
21   S Ice blah    4. 5010 3
3/   Iutr-ost Caid fIron -war   to   '(hr ylo,-           ch-c 47 I.ctr-t race V,r -unor Sc  ha-ged
A .. Inaa  -urrog   su-Pl    rout f -    I   <    rb, r-rd- L cOn   Rnn       ,ca   oO  104,000.
Play 10, 1972



s   ¢ S _ e a O   .      C    HW = = a5. a.3 5         'S i         5._ ° °  .    V,.  
e ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ C  S' v                         T r@_b:    
-. _                         -    0 o  ItS: ~~j-.             0   705,5 c .a0ff   
N~ ~~~ 3    o _                       7-i   S   a         -1 r- I.  es
-z  3     ~  0   _                 55                      0   7_51.  C 7 57
Co          -            r        -  0  _                             O.0.
S~~~ o       
,,   -.                                     a-,a.
~~~7                c     S      v         77   we_.b    C          
D~~     '7  '^91  l°@Q                                   vo-                              0- 
_ ~ ~ ~ -           --   s      0~ G       - V O                             -                        0     
A~~~~~ 7000    V                                  0O.Da -s   0            0                         =
n~~~~~ 7077                                        So 72  o      F     .C@wto
o             '~                                  ' o0 wl>w_7-st111 S 
0 wO, 7700                         0 w wS              . 07C                         7 .      1_7 
-                 7          o5 07707           , o     ,PoE_t 
7 ,,,77 0r__    .0w                     a< ' o0  
e  ~       ~~ 0 v7                                    0 7_H,'     ooa.   
.> ~    ~    ,             7770-g  W            Not     ,,,,,               S 7. 
OT ~ ~              '* 77777 0 0                    1O Z400
a91ll                            7W              !§>                    - 
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0    7 I077                                    0 
11 ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~ ~       0 7-00



I N D O h E S I A
SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NORTH SUM4ATRA
PRNOJCT EFFECT ON FARMERS INCOME
Categor-es of                                                  Average Annual Incomse                                                          Average Annu-l income                             Increase    Time
Pro-ert Parricipants                 be-                   per fanily of five without project                                             per family of five over project life                          x          tag 1/
-___.____   (years)
Amount                     Assti,tions used                               Amount                        AsEMMteins used
Rip       S                                                               Rp         S
a)  'CC  users                      16,000         50,000      120      Farm gate pri-e of Rp 51/kg of dry                    60,000     145       Far.s gate price of Rp 67/kg of dry                    20          1
rubber over 1.5 ha yielding 400 kg/ha                                     rubber over 1.5 ha yielding 400 kg/ha
and subsistence                                                           and subsistence estimated at Rp 20,000 _/
b;  Fatpers replonting
one ha of old robb-r
with
)  rubber                2.000       10D0,000     240      Fare gate price of Rp 51/kg of dry                   184,000      443      Far  gate price of Rp 67/kg  f dry                                 6
rubber over 4 ha yielding 400 kg/hb                                        rubber aer 4 h. yielding 400 kg/h.
and  ubsisteece                                                           and one ha yielding 1,250 kg plus
subsistence less expenses (see Table 35
ii)  oil pale                700       100,000      240                  idem                                     191,000      460      Far.s gate price of Rp 67/kg dry                        91         4
rubber end 4 ha yielding 400 kg/ha
and one ha yielding 18 tons of FFB at
Rp 6,747/ton less eapensen 'see Table l)
c)   Ex-estait laborers               I 000        47,000      113      2axirun of Rp 150/day                                179,000      431      One ha producing 1,250 kg of dry                       2S1         4
worked and full -eploy.rt                                                  rubber sod one ha producing 18 tons
bruough the year                                                          of FFu ant one ha producing ocna tonre
and additional food crops 3/
at above prices less expenses (see Table 4)
d)   F-erns planting
2 ha on ex-estate land
with
i)  rubber                1,500        50,000      120       Farm gate prt-e oi Rp 51/kg of dry                  110,000      265       Two ha yielding 1,250 kg of dry                       120         6
rubber o er 1.5 ho yielding 400 kg/ha                                      rubber plus  Iubsiscenre lesb expenses
and subsu-te-ce                                                            (see Table 3)
ci)  r-bb-r and            1,600        50.000      120                  id..                                     124,000      299       One ha yielding 1,250 kg of dry                       148          4
oil palm                                                                                                                            rubber and  one ha "ielding 13 toss of
FFB plus subsistence less expenses
(nee Table 4)
2/    Time lag between the lime whnn larmers join the projent and begin to earn iunreased income
2/    900 kg of rie at Rp 22/kg yr Op 20,000 per annu.
3/    z,500 kg of ric- at Rp 22/kg. or o        -he crops valued at Rp 55,000 per annun
May 23.  972






AMNEX 2,
SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT P)JEF-CT
NORTH S9MWTRA
Draft Terms of Reference for Consultant Ass1stants
1.        The Government of Indonesia proposes to appoint a com ultancy group
of three experts, recruited individually or from a firm, to advise and assist.
the Government in carrying out a development project designed to raise the
incomes and living standards of smallholders in North Sumatra.  Goverrment
has requested the International Development Association (IDA) to assist in;~
financing the project.
2.        The project is designed to raise the standard of living of about
18,000 farmers, of which 11,200 would be only marginallv effected, who now
live at near subsistence level. This would be achieved through providing an
effective agricultural extension service, improving primary processing and
marketing facilities and services, training farmers in improved methods o.f
rubber, oil palm and rice production and assisting them with finance and
inputs to plant new land and old uneconomic rubber farms with these crops.
It is expected that the project would be a model for similar activities in
other areas of Sumatra.
3.        The project would be carried out over the nine years 1973-82 and
its principal components would be:
(a)  the establishment and equipping, within the organizational
framework of the Ministry of Agriculture, a unit to develop
and manage the project, including the establishment of an
extension service, the training of staff for the project and
elsewhere in Indonesia and the training of project farmers
in the crops under consideration;
(b) the construction of stores, offices, houses for the project
unit; the repair and construction of feeder and crop extraction
roads; the construction of rubber group coagulating centers
(GCC) to improve the quality of the rubber marketed,
(c) the acquisition from the Provincial Government of four old
and uneconomic estates totalling 8,900 ha, and 1,800 ha of
similar land from the Government owned PNP III groups estates,
and subdividing, registering and leasing this land as well
as 1,400 ha of common land, to smallholders. These smaliholders
would consist of:



ANNEX 12
Page 2
(i)  about 1,000 workers from the estates under subdivision,
and
(ii) about 3,100 smallholders with existing holdings of less
than 2 ha of rubber (i.e. of a size too small to produce
adequate incomes). Over the five-year period the small-
holders would establish 3,700 ha of rubber and 2,600 ha
of oil palm on their sub-divisions, and would receive
advice, grants and financial assistance in the form of
planting material, fertilizers and cash incentive
payments. All plantings would be intercropped with rice;
and
(d) the provision of grants or loans to about 2,700 smallholders
owning more than 2 ha, but less than 10 ha, of rubber to
replant 2,700 ha of old rubber with about 2,000 ha
of rubber and 7007ha of oil palm.  The grants and loans
would be given as described in subpara (c), and in the same
way all plantings would be intercropped.
4.        The consultancy group would be appointed for a five-year period.
To take into account experience acquired during the initial period, the
contract would be renegotiable in year 3.
5.        The consultants to be appointed would be full time employees of
the Project Management Unit (PMU), responsible to the Project Manager, and
would have executive responsibilities.
6.        The consultancy group would consist of three consultants who would,
in the first instance, fill the positions of Financial Controller, Extension
and Training Officer, and Land Use and Planning Officer. The Government
would appoint Indonesian officers, with some experience and capability,
to work under these officers with a view to their replacing eventually the
three expatriates.
7.        The responsibilities of the three consultants in the group would
be:
(a) Financial Control through the Financial Controller, who would
be responsible to the Project Manager for all PMU accounts.
He would assist the Project Manager to prepare the annual PMU
budget, and would prepare annual accounts for auditing by
independently appointed auditors. Other duties would include
the provision of full financial, cost accounting, stores and
general services, as well as reporting on the financial aspects
of smallholder grants and loans and financial assistance for
establishment of crops.
(b) Extension and Training through the Extension and Training
Officer who would be responsible to the Project Manager for
the establishment of field services to the farmers. In



Page 3
particular he would a sint  he Project Manager to ,epare
quarterly work programs, and  cn conjunction wi.th the Land Use
and Planning Officer see that develepment took pi.ace as
scheduled.  He would o-,ganize inservice training for project
staff and would ensure that partici:patinog farmers recei--ted
adequate training in the nqw aronomioi and processing
techniques to be used under the prolect.  lie and his staff
would be responsible for selection of farmer particiDar",iS
and would see that the development of -roup coagtulating
centers proceeded as planned, He would also assist ti3>
groups of farmers in negotiating im?proved purchasin5 arevT-
ments with txhe local rubber processing £facto-ies, anzJ
arrange fresh fruit bunch marketing.
(c)  Planning and Construction through the Land Use and Plannirzg
Officer who would be responsible to the Project Manager for
all project activities invelving planning, sur-ae-ing anid
demarcatiorn of holdings and roads and the locatIng and phasing
of group coagulating cenaters; and the supervisior. of ioe.i
contractors enmployed to construct project buildings. o^f4ces
houses and roads,  he would also be responsible for eausur:'ng
that the smallholders, and local authorities provided ad^quate
maintenance of project roads, He would work in close
cooperation with the Lande Department in the issuance of
leases to the smalliolders acquliring new land. He would also
be responsible to define the type and the scope of studies
and future project preparation works, including tbe need and
the extent of aerial photography.
(d)  Evaluation.  Since the project is experimental in nature, it
is important that a thorough evaluation is carried ouxt to
determine the necessary incentives to stimulate a change Ifn
the smallholder production pattern; the farmers' response to
development through grants viz a viz loarn; the social
implications, if any, in differentiating between grant and
loan assisted farmers; and determining methods for improved
loan repayment collection.  The consultants would therefore
be expected to submit regular reports on all these aspects.
8.        The consultants should have the following qualific,ation and
experience:
Financial Controller - preferably employed with a large
professional firm culminating in a recognized accountine
qualification. At least 10 years experience of c.MTrliprcial
accounting, witl' at least 3 years experience as a 5Cen>.or
accountant or financial controller of a large o:g tin
(preferably a plantation).
Extension and Training Officer- would be expocted to ha'-e
a degree in Agrilulture with at least ter years experience



ANNEX 12
Page 4
in Indonesia or similar conditions involving rubber and oil
palm either at estate or smallholder level. However, pre-
ference would be given to a man with Indonesian experience
especially having a good working knowledge of the local
language.
Land Use and,Planning Officer - would be expected to have
technical qualifications backing at least five years of
land planning, low cost road design and building experience
in Indonesia or similar conditions. Preference would be
given to a man with Indonesian experience, especially having
a good working knowledge of the local language.
June 20, 1972



(UP  Liltlo
1I73     1971.    19 75     1976     1977      19 78    19 79    19908    1981      1982      3993    2994      1981     1988      1987     1 998     1989      1990     1991     1992      1993     3991      1993     3896      19 7~  1998
T....e ,At.I. 79 Rp 3,0OOIwnoa                         3. 1      9.2     15.8      22. 1     14. 3     3. 5      .                  -        .        -         .         --.                                                                                                   --
Vol. fc-ftwl Ca 4.280/no           -          -                           0.4       4.3      31      8. 4       .3      3. a     8.0      9.5       18.4.    18.3     10.1      9.9       9.4      8.       9.04      8.1       2  8.9   8.       8.1        .         .       8.
Pol. Oil 9 Rp 6.420/ton            -                            -         2.3      9.3      20.71   34.8    49.9 '    17:3      66.8     75.1       16.3     78.3     74. 1    72E3     6,8.4    64.5    61.4        59.3     S9.3      59.3     59.3      39.3     39.3      59.3
l.bobI..  (a987 21.350/con          -         -                   -                          1.9    9.7    30.2        68.1    lOlA?   119.4    130.3    138.7    144.8   153.5    153.5    153.7    133.5    1533.           M53.     133.3    5333.    153.9    153.5   339.
Onbnot.l                               -        3.1      9.2      19.6      25.0      23.1     29.2   49.2       82.0    133.2    176.8   201.3       217.0   224.3    229.0   235.7    231.2    226.0    223.3    220.9   220.9    2.0.9   22.19   220.9   220.9   220.9
Rent Ex-t301   I-,1  (9 Rp2,000/hr
no,n 20 y....                                        2.4      6.4       9.8      14.6      16.7.    18.4    L8.4      18.0     28.7.    18.4     18.4       18.4     18.4    18.4.   19.4        18.4     18.0      18.4     18.7.     18.4     16.8      12.8      8.8       3.8      2.4
Oil Pola                                     -         -         -         -         - .         13.8    39.4     518.     768  7.6      76.6 1     6.6      76.6      76.6     76.6    76.6      76.6  6,       76.6     76.6     76.6      82.7     37.1      18.6
8.bb..                                                                                                                                                      j             .   2 2.  83 8.  60.3    6~0.3  -60.3  80.3  60.5   .  ~  67.3L 60.3L£.  60.9  603    57.8     S2.1~  33.8
S.btot.r                                                   .        .1                          13.9   39.4    60.7       84.8    301.1    126.9      138.8   136.9    138.9   13.9    136.9    126.          236.9    738.9   136.9    223.0    97.6         26.2      52.1     33.8
I.,4 To,
Oi ol P.,.3.8                                             1.7      2.0        3.0      3.9      10.2   11.2      12.9     17.2      17.2    17.2        17.2     17.2     16.2    16.9      12.9      12.8     12.9      i2,9     22.9      12.9    92. 9      l*.89    12.9      12.9
R.66~.r                                          0.2       0.6       3.9       9.0      9.3       7.6     7.6      6.8.    22.8   2_z         26z.3      27,0     27.4     27.4 __31. 2      31,2      31.2     31.2      31, 2    31.2      31.2     51.2      27.4     27.6      24.3
S40no.1                               .        1.0      2.3       6.6      11.0      11.2     17.8    38.8      19.7     59.2     39.2    41.9        40.8     64.6    43.6    46.2        04.1     64.1____4.    1         40.   4.1     44.1      46.1    60.3-  60.3         37.3
'277AL 407003290NT S71'OCES                   .        6.3      17.9     33.8       30.6     52.7      79.3  123.8   180.8   275.6    335.6   388,1          461.8   424.6   427.9  437.2    430.7   426.2   622.7   420.3   420.3   600.0   374.6    346.0   327.3    293.9
TVA4 C-dit1                                 226.4    213.3   341.3   314.8        436.2    173.2   162,2 186            73                 -                   .                 .        -                  .                                                             
7T761. S0URCES                             226.4    219.8   359.2   346.6         503.3   230.9   261.3  234.6   236.3   273.6    333.6   368.1    418.9   424.4   427. 9  037.1    630.7    426.2    622.7   42~.%3   420,3   606.3   376.4    346.0    337.1   295.9
770  - lnonte.4 10.3    323.3   398.3   249.4                                     284.8   110.3    84.5    59.8         31.7       .                -                   -                                                                                                      7              
P7U1   R .-oon-t                             -         -                            is.134   70.9    I00.   102.6    118.3   1222.0    122.8   122.0          122.0   122.0   122.8G  122.0   I222.0   122 0    122.0   12'2.0    122.0    1'22.3   122.0    122.0    322.8   122.0
C.. f.n   cno-oll pula                                44.3     9'3.9   11'3.7      133.1     38.1    403.7      .        -         -       .                                                                          -         -         .           
O-.f-n.           Rbb--8.4.                           17.1      52.8S   133.2      217.4    1182.8     98.8    80.1     32.4               -         .         .        .         .       -         .        .-                          -..
lobtot.l                          .410.5   387.2   543.0   495.8          830.7   332.0   325.3  242.3   202.6    122.0    122.0   122.0             122.0    122.0   122.0   122.0    122.0    122.0    322.0    122.0    122.0    122.0    122.8    122.0    122.0   322.0
Cont-.ti,,&  S it  Ph.y.L,,1                 20.3     19.4      27.2     24.8       32.3     17.6      16.3    12.1     10.1      6.1       8.1      6.1        8.1      6.1       6.1     6.1      6.1       6.1      6.1       6.3       6.1      6.1      8.1       6.1       6.3      6.1
77100              22.~~~~'l7  39.7    9,0C   109.9      194.0   113.0  _130. 3   36_0.9   104.6        04.1      84.1     84.1      84.1      84.3     86.3    I47       8.       04,_3    04.1A    84.7_  80.1          84.1l    94.1      84.1     84.1      84.3
Tota1  4oLnoo.                                2.2     59.1   316.,2    124.7       26.3    132.6    146.0  122.0  _114.7         90.2      900.2   90.2   90.2    .               902      02       9.2      96.-2  90.2        90.2      90.2     90.2      9'3. 2   97.2      3). 2    94. 2
T-:1 oppl0o-tt.. b.f... d.60
I 0m.                                     452.7  446.3   639.2   630.5    877..2   404.8   471.9  365.3   337.3    212.2    212.2   212.2                  212.2    212.2   212.2  212.2    212.2    212.2    212.2   212.2    217.2    212.2    212.2    212.2    212.2   212.2
I2)A S.rvc. ch-o.e                            15.6    15.6     15.6      15.6       35.6     15.6     13.6    13.6      i3.6     13.3      19.4     15.2       10.1     24.9      34.8   14.6      14.5      14.3     14.27    14.0      13.3      13.1     12.8      12.1     53.7    51.2
PTizcip.L ctiob--O~nt                         .                           -          -        .                          .         .       2.0      70.8       20.8     20.8      20.8    20.8     20.8      20.8      20.8     20.8    6,2.3      62.2    67.3       ,2.3:    62.3      623
Tota1 So-m.1.6    15636                                           5.         13.6     13.6      13.8    13.6     15.6      15.6     30,2      36.0  ~35.9        33.7      338     3.         33      3.1       3.          9      7.       73.4__   74.9      74.4      74.0     72.3
TOTAL. AMI2.CATICONS                       4.68. 3   '-SI7.9   674.8    n.61       073      502       479 309          329       279      204       282       201      279       278 276           37.5    247.3    247.2    247.0    290.0    207.0    247.1    286.6    386.3    295.7
!I.t C-.h Fl-,                            (241.97 (242.11  (315.6) (299.35   (787.3) (209.37  (246.0)(146.5) 4 76,6)    67.8               87.2    139.9      168.8    176.3    380.1  389.3    183.2    178.9    175.3    173.3    132.3    2164.           87.3     39.6      3-0.9    10.2
,.-I.18t   Co~  VIot.Fl                  (241.95  (694.0) (799.63(109q.1)  (1486.6)(1755.9)(200l.8)(O06.4)(2225.0)(2172.2)(2090.0) (193.1) (1781.3)(1604.8)(1424.7)(1235.2) (3052.03  (873.1) 1697.6) (926.3) (392.0) (278.6) (388.33  (128.95   (88.03   (87.83
L.S0.t 1, 1872






IBRD-3945
MAY 497Z
\- N  D O N E S I A
SMALlHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NORTH $UMATRA
-ProjeCA area
___._-_-  Roods
(   t  E                . 0      | # ,  ~~~~~~~~~~~~Railoy
SL  -/*   sFCh    ; -   -    *  Mbber remitling ftotries
C,                    U ,_T,hj ttDo   *  Robbkjr crumb foctories
ATJEH1       P~~~~Ian, kalan  (                                   
A TJ E H                                                     v     oilkin       j: V V  fietories
_ -, - - Prov'inciOI bv4wndkries
(         L A NGKdAT 
Bindjni
SEPANG  * Ting Tinggi
(   g~~~~~~~~   4    ¢ta~~~~~~~Inrpura 
Kabondjohe                            s.
tARO                                          Perde-A
N\                                PeSrisrnrflta°Permatanq        E  li
)    <-                  ~~~~~~~   ~     ~~~Sionfria
/ DA IR                   SINAIUNGAN              A S A  A N
\        [~APANULI           0   J>     
CNi L T- V        rA PAAILU )
2'-
;;   ;               <       ; x                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OGunungluo  -
L     -      o   07                               9PQdang Sidimpuon(
: 0-   -  %                   \                       ) ~~~~~~~~~R  I A  U
O c ce a f
*PQ Affr   al eapr b bw    ~-      <-
:~~~~~~              ~~~~~              Otfo  0  rH   \, 
'     VAN  MOO 'A PA NUZ I
M  A t A Y Sj A?
0, d~~~~~~~~~I
-WEST SUMA A RA
____________________________  9.~~~~~~~~~~~~Igo






IBRD-3946
99 30              T, Kff"ta                 99o45                     .                   oooo                                          'MAY 1972
_~4           I  g         1j                             *                                    I   /i4a/acca            Strait
Pulau Radjo .
SOCFINDO                         \
= '           C8><~-4                  -1  '             ,                                     fyk          PANAI
---  *   A; ,99!   X  b;z-/                       I        K U A LO   H I L I R   ,   OKempong                     H I L I R
.ipen                            .                                . jMesdlid
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0-, -; ',, B  .," ik__ __
2~~~~~~~~~~~23'
H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-/  SlKL               2A          E          ASf3O f
ZGz * .  *,                3<    C F ~~~~~AKN A T A S               <   
\PANA I    TENGAH
z.    |    ,:  Ekun~81rdur EUrhin   ;            ,                                             -- 
*,/   /                   .)nANTAGEN AG.
Negerilnmo
. g) . - gs4k Blu < KW*.                    M 'b_ "  l
2~~~~5  N   TAPA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I~~~IL>J  ~~~                      I215'
LAU
. *   UH       B                                             eU                                                       ennoh     8g                      -
VI RADJA   NA    IBSXt    ---
*                                                                                                                                L3S/aS   ?  -   S   A L Z\/  ,/  I(l  k ,  -JA    KP    RADJA
IFWE/V6AZ*./ E8LA__
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-20oC'                                                                                                                                                              2'00O
-2000 I~~~ N D  O N E S I A .0a ,-00r2o
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER IN THE
PROJECT AREA                                                                         KOTA  PIN  G
P,oject area                                >     ;         \\+                                           tn
M U    I Management unit                                         4ek Gott
Roads                                                                                                             0\KGr fih -ph zIs.; /, oepal h h
6 TI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vu
-i~Ra llways                                                   -                                                    .   <0.It rd f3e,,k -d It O1 1fillite
- ~   Rivers                    .*                  *     > Y       /,-~   
District boundaries
.... *..*.   Regional boundaries       *                                                           >   ....T.....            S      %
_o4 5   JX                     Major market town             *         S UNGEI  KANAN                             i                    \
*   Rubber remilling factory    .                                           jiepeE ri         *           \  SUMATR         r       ed
0        Rubber crumb factories            -s,.4                                   *               *
V       Oil factories                                                                                                            R.
.  . g  /   . .\. . . *    e                  ~~~~~~~~SVibogoa| 
5       0       5       IC      15      20                     1 -                                                                 \             RIAU
KILOAAETERS                                                                                          Indln7/n  n
Ocean
99°-30'                          T. S/"IgSbo/ga    90945'                                 t10 °                                          SUMATRA



