CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 358 ID
Development Credit
Agreement
(North Sumatra Smallholder Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 14, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 358 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(North Sumatra Smallholder Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 14, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 14, 1973, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General .Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Area" means parts of a contiguous lowland area of about
2,400 km situated mainly in the Labuhan Batu Regency of North Sumatra;
(b)   "Project Management Unit" means the unit to be established by the
Borrower pursuant to Section 3.02(a) of this Agreement;
(c)   "Project Manager" means the person to be employed by the Borrower
as head of the Project Management Unit in accordance with Section 3.02(a) of
this Agreement;
(d)   "Project Management Board" means the board to be established by
the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.02(b) of this Agreement;
(e)   "Rupiahs" and "Rps" mean the currency of the Borrower; and
(f)   "Project Account" means the account to be established and maintained
in accordance with Section 3.03 of this Agreement.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to five million dollars (S5,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than tools, cover crop seeds, planting materials and services of
consultants) required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with, and subject to, the procedures
set forth or referred to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May I and
November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each May I and November 1 commencing
May 1, 1983 and ending November 1, 2022, each installment to and including
the installment payable on November 1, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.


﻿5
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound economic, financial, administrative,
agricultural and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall, for the purpose of carrying oLIt the Project:
(a)   establish within its Ministry of Agriculture, under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association, a Project Manageme,  Unit, with headquarters at
Aek Nabara, and, thereafter, until completion of the Project, maintain such Unit
and staff it with qualified and experienced personnel headed by a Project Manager
who shall have qualifications satisfactory to the Association and who shall be
assisted in the discharge of his functions by three experts acceptable to the
Association to be appointed, upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, as Financial Controller, Extension and Training Officer and Land Use
and Planning Officer, respectively. Before any appointment is made to the position
of Project Manager the Association shall be informed of the names, qualifications
and experience of the persons considered for appointment to such position and
shall be afforded a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower
on the qualifications and experience of such persons;
(b)   establish, in Djakarta, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, and maintain until completion of the Project, a Project Management
Board which shall supervise the activities of the Project Management Unit and which
shall have as its members the Director-General of Estates, who shall act as Chairman,
the Director of Smallholders and one senior representative each of the National
Planning Agency (BAPPENAS). the Ministry of Finance and such institution as
will have entered into the agreement provided for in Section 3.1 1 of this Agreement;
and
(c)   establish, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and
maintain until completion of the Project, Project Advisory Committees at provincial,
district and village levels.


﻿6
Section 3.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree and without
restriction or limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement:
(i)         The Borrower shall establish and maintain within the Project
Management Unit a Project Account in which all payments for
the cost of goods and services required for the Project shall be
recorded;
(ii)        the funds made available for the Project shall be administered
by the Project Management Unit under annual budgets approved
by the Project Management Board, such budgets to be revised
as necessary; and
(iii)       the Borrower shall ensure that sufficient liquid funds to cover
the budgeted expenditures estimated by the Project Management
Unit to be made during each calendar quarter for the Project
shall be available to such Unit not later than the fifteenth day
of such quarter.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall review from time to time the
effectiveness of the financial procedures under which the funds required for the
Project are made available including those described in paragraph (a) of this Section
and the Borrower shall implement such procedures as the Borrower and the
Association shall agree are necessary for the diligent and efficient carrying out
of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall implement Parts III and IV of the Project
in accordance with policies and procedures to be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall insure, or make adequate provision for
the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair
such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish, or cause to be furnished, to
the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,


﻿7
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules, for the Project,
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower (i) shall cause the Project Management Unit to maintain
records adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the-Association's
representatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Pr( :t, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the
goods and services fiianced out of such proceeds.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in respect of land, and
all such buildings, as shall be required for carrying out the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause the Project Management Unit to
adhere to the annual programs to be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association for the implementation of the Project works, including particularly
the planting of rubber and oil palm under Part IV of the Project.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall ensure that, in the implementation of Part
IV of the Project:
(a)   oil palm plantings are restricted to areas served by existing or planned
palm oil mills;
(b)   that suitable arrangements are made for timely transportation and
processing of smallholder fresh fruit bunch production,
(c)   germinated oil palm seed of high yield potential will be supplied by
the Marihat Oil Palm Research Station in North Sumatra or, if said Research Station
will be unable to supply such seeds, they will be purchased from recognized sources
as approved    by  the plant-breeding consultants appointed   pursuant to the
Development Credit Agreement (Fourth Agricultural Estates Project) dated
June 28, 1972 between the Borrower and the Association: and
(d)   only rubber clone GT-1 will be used for smallholder plantings unless
and to the extent that, the plant breeding consultants appointed pursuant to the
Development Credit Agreement (North Sumatra Agricultural Estates Project) dated
June 20, 1969 between the Borrower and the Association shall concur.


﻿8
Section 3.10. The areas to be surveyed by aerial photography under Part
V of the Project, and the scope and terms of reference of, and the personnel
for, the studies to be carried out under Part V of the Project shall be agreed
upon by the Association before such survey or studies may commence.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall conclude arrangements satisfactory to the
Association with Bank Rakyat Indonesia, or another lending institution acceptable
to the Association, whereby such institution shall be authorized to act as the agent
of the Borrower for the purpose of implementing credit arrangements under Part
IV of the Project.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall ensure that, after the Project Management
Unit has completed its functions in respect of the Project, the Lands Department
(Agraria), in conjunction with the smallholders extension service established under
the Project, and such lending institution as will have entered into the agreement
with the Borrower provided for in Section 3.11 of this Agreement shall assume
responsibility for supervision of the operations of the smallholders who have
participated in the Project, with particular reference to credit repayments,
enforcement of leasing terms and conditions and issuance of titles.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall cause all roads in the Project Area to be
adequately maintained, and all necessary repairs thereof shall promptly be made.
Section 3.14. Compensation of Project Management Unit staff shall be as
agreed between the Borrow%er and the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or shall cause to be
maintained, records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate  accounting   practices  the  operations, financial  resources and
expenditures of the Project Management Unit.
(b)   The Borrower shall: (i) have the Project Account and pro forma
financial statements specifying the aggregate amounts received and expended under
each of the main categories of the Project Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than four months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of such pro forma statements and (B) the report of such


﻿*                                   9
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasoitably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the Project Account and such pro forma statements and
the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
exp,,nditures of the Project Management Unit, and, in respect of the Project, of
other departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations and financial condition, resources and expenditures of
the Project Management Unit, and, in respect of the Project, of other departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, and the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.


﻿10
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:


﻿(a)  The Borrower has established the Project Management Unit, and has
appointed the Project Manager, the Financial Controller, the Extension and Training
Officer, and the Land Use and Planning Officer, in accordance with the provisions
of Section 3.02(a) of this Agreement, and the Project Manager has taken up his
duties;
(b)  The Borrower has established the Project Management Board and has
appointed its members in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02(b) of
this Agreement; and
(c)  The Borrower has acquired the following lands and buildings free for
use under the Project:
1.   the lands now occupied by Londut, Damuli, Situngir and Bandar Gula
estates, about 1,000 ha of Aek Nabara estate and about 800 ha of
Rantau Prapat estate, together with all buildings and processing
facilities thereon, including the recreation center on Aek Nabara estate
and about 5 ha surrounding that center; and
2.    about 1,400 ha of common village land.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)  that the Project Management Unit has been duly and lawfully
established within the Ministry of Agriculture, pursuant to Section 3.02(a) of this
Agreement;
(b) that the Project Management Board has been duly and lawfully established
pursuant to Section 3.02(b) of this Agreement; and
(c)  that the lands and buildings referred to in paragraph (c) of the
preceding Section have been duly and lawfully acquired by the Borrower and are
free for use under the Project.
Section 8,03. The date May 16, 1973, is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.12 and 3.13
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development


﻿12
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-five years after the date
of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 21
Jakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:
Ministry Finance
Jakarta
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿13
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Sjarif Thajeb
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ I.P.M. Cargill
Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                      Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
I.    Vehicles and tractors                410,000       100% of foreign
with implements                                    expenditures
(C.I.F.) or 95%
of local expendi-
tures (ex-fac-
tory)
II.   Fertilizers and pest-              1,290,000       100% of foreign
cides provided to farm-                            expenditures
ers under credits and                              (C.I.F.) or 95%
grants                                             of local expendi-
tures (ex-fac-
tory)
III.  Experts employed in                  750,000       100% of foreign
Project Management                                 expenditures
Unit
IV.   Studies and                          120,000       60% of total ex-
aerial surveys                                     penditures
V.    Group Coagulating Cen-               560,000       60% of total ex-
ters and other                                     penditures
Project buildings and
facilities
VI.   Tools, cover crop seeds,             690,000       60% of total ex-
planting materials and                             penditures
cash payments provided
to farmers under credits
and grants
VII. Unallocated                         1,180,000
TOTAL                   5,000,000


﻿15
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)   expenditures tinder Category VI unless said expenditures are certified
by the Extension and Training Officer and countersigned by the Financial
Controller, referred to in Section 3.02(a) of this Agreement;
(c)   expenditures under Category VI unless and until the Borrower has (i)
furnished to the Association standard forms of lease, credit and grant agreements,
satisfactory to the Association, to be used under Parts III and IV of the Project,
and (ii) entered into an arrangement with a lending agency in accordance with
Section 3.11 of this Agreement, and furnished to the Association a copy thereof;
and
(d)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required


﻿16
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association   shall have reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of local expenditures under Category I or
II or of total expenditures under Category IV, V or VI shall increase and no
proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such Category, the
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is an agricultural development program designed to raise the
productivity and living standards of about 18,000 smallholders living in the Project
Area in North Sumatra. The Project consists of the following parts:
Part I:     Organization and Training
(a)   establishing, equipping and operating a smallholders extension service
and training of its personnel; and
(b)   training the smallholders in rice, rubber and oil palm production and
processing.
Part II:    Construction
(a)   Constructing new   or repairing existing stores, offices and houses
required for the Project Management Unit (including its headquarters)
and the extension service;
(b)   repairing about 60 km of feeder roads and constructing about 180 km
of crop extraction tracks in the Project Area; and
(c)   constructing about 800 Group Coagulating Centers, to serve about
18,000 smallholders. Such Centers shall consist of buildings containing
tanks and mangling facilities, to meet the requirements of smallholders
and to serve as basic marketing units for coagulum.
Part III:   Land Distribution
Subdividing the land to be used for the Project, surveying, registering and
leasing the subdi.isions so created, as follows:
(a)   3 ha each to about 1,000 laborers from    the estates so subdivided;
and
(b)   2 ha each to about 3,100 smallholders with existing holdings of less
than 2 ha of rubber.


﻿18
Part IV:    Assistance to Smallholders
(a)   assistance to the estate laborers and smallholders referred to in Part
III of this Schedule during the first years of development of their
plots to enable them to establish as a minimum about 3,700 ha of
rubber and about 2,600 ha of oil palm on the subdivisions thereby
created; the trees to be intercropped with rice; the assistance to include
advice and provision of planting material, fertilizers, pesticides, tools,
cover crop seeds and cash, and to be made available under appropriate
credit arrangements;
(b)   provision, as a grant with appropriate conditions, of planting material,
fertilizers, pesticides, tools, cover crop seeds and cash to enable about
2,000 smallholders with existing holdings of more than 2 ha but less
than 10 ha of rubber, to replant about 2,000 ha of old rubber; the
trees to be intercropped with rice; and
(c)   provision, under appropriate credit arrangements, of planting material,
fertilizers, pesticides, tools, cover crop seeds and cash to enable about
700 smallholders with existing holdings of more than 2 ha but less
than 10 ha of rubber, near Aek Nabara and sufficiently close to the
estate of Perusahaan Negara Perkebunan (PNP) III to allow the use of
the palm oil mills thereof, to replace about 700 ha of old rubber with
oil palm.
Part V.     Survey and Studies
(a)   aerial photography of the Project Area and adjacent zones for the
planning of both Project and future operations; and
(b)   studies and subsequent preparation of other smallholder improvement
projects.
The Project is expected to be completed by 198 1.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    Scope of Guidelines
1.    Vehicles, tractors and implements, fertilizers and pesticides shall be procured
on the basis of international competition under procedures consistent with the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published
by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972.
2.    Goods and services (other than consultants' services) required for construction
of Group Coagulating Centers and other buildings, shall be procured on the basis
referred to in paragraph (1) above save that, at the option of the Borrower,
advertisements may be limited to newspapers of general circulation in Indonesia,
and that copies of invitations to bid (or the advertisement) need not be transmitted
to representatives of member countries of the Bank or Switzerland.
B.    Information and Concurrence
With respect to any contract estimated to cost the equivalent of S25,000
or more:
(a)   If bidders are required to prequalify, the Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be
followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement
of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its
comments before the applicants are notified and the Borrower shall make such
additions to or deletions from the said list as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of


﻿20
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended
award. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract.
2. With respect to any contract, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$25,000, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of bids (including a copy of
the record of the public opening of the bids and a bid examination report),
recommendations for award and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract is not consistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
C.    Supplemental Rules on Bid E,aliuation and Conparison
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for contracts for
vehicles, tractors and implements, fertilizers and pesticides, customs duties and other
import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally produced
goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter provided, and bidders
shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported
goods, or the ex-factory price for locally produced goods. The cost to the Borrower
of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be taken into account in the evaluation
of bids in accordance with paragraph 4.7 of the Guidelines for Procurement.
2.    For purposes of the provisions hereinafter set forth, the following terms shall
have the following meanings:
10


﻿21
(a)   Preferred Domestic Bid means a bid offering goods manufactured in
Indonesia if the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Indonesia of not less than 20%     of the ex-factory bid price.
(b)   Non-preferred Domestic Bid means any other bid offering goods
manufactured in Indonesia.
(c)   Foreign Bid means any bid other than those specified in (a) or (b)
above.
3.    For goods included in Category I of the Allocation of Credit Proceeds, a
margin of preference may be granted by the Borrower to Preferred Domestic Bids.
Such preference shall be granted by adding to each Foreign Bid, for the purpose
only of comparison with Preferred Domestic Bids, an amount (hereinafter called
"Domestic Preference Margin") equal to the smaller of (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay
for the goods offered in the bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods.
4.    If Preferred Domestic Bids are received, the comparison among all evaluated
bids for each contract shall be made in the stages and with the preferences indicated
below:
Stage               Bids to be Compared               Preference
I               All Preferred Domestic Bids          None
and Non-Preferred Domestic
Bids.
11        (a)   Lowest evaluated bid under           Add Domestic
Stage 1, if Preferred                Preference
Domestic Bid, with all               Margin to
Foreign Bids;                        Foreign Bids
or
(b)   Lowest evaluated bid under           None
Stage 1, if Non-Preferred
Domestic Bid, with all
Foreign Bids.
III             If lowest evaluated bid under        None
Stage II is not the lowest
evaluated bid under Stage 1,
all Foreign Bids.
0


﻿5.    The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be
granted to Preferred Domestic Bids, the information required to establish the
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such Preference.


