Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6777
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
WESTERN SAVANNAH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1181-SU)
May 20, 1987
Eastern and Southern Africa Region
Northern Agriculture Division
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed withoui World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
CA      -   Cooperating Agencies
GOS     -   Government of Sudan
IDA     -   International Development Association
IFAD    -   International Fund for Agricultural Development
MOA     -   Ministry of Agriculture
MOFEP   -   Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
NWC     -   National Water Corporation
ODA     -   Overseas Development Administration (British)
RPA     -   Range and Pasture Administration,.South Darfur
SFD     -   Saudi Fund for Development
VSA     -   Veterinary Services Administration, South Darfur
WSARP   -   Western Sudan Agricultural Research Project
WSDC    -   Western Savannah Development Corporation
WSP     -   Western Savannah Project
GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
*i



THE WORLD BANK
Washmoion. D.C. 20433
US.A.
0sk do Dttecitowreal
Opwatun EvAutinf
May 20, 1987
ME1ORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOPq AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Sudan Western Savannah
Project (Credit 1181-SU)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Sudan Western Savannah Project (Credit 1181-SU)"
prepared by the Eastern and Southern Africa Regional Office. Further
evaluation of this project by the Operations Evaluation Department has not
been made.
Attachment
This document has a mstricted disuibutin and may be used by ecipients on in theptfdonnace
of their offkial dutis Its contents may not otherw  be disclkd without Wrd Dnk authorination.



FO  OFIIA USE ONLY
SUDAN
WESTERN SAVANNAH PROJECT
(Cr. 1181-SU)
PROJECT COMPLETXON REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface  *4000..,ee..404eeo@..O....o*.e*.ee.e.o.e    i
Baeic Data Sheet *..o...... ..........,.*......,,,.  ii
Evaluation Summary * ....... ..... ............e. ...e.iii
I.   BACKGROUND o1*qeeqeeoeeeoeo**q****e..                           1
A.  The Agricultural Sector  ...........................   1
J.  Experience with Past Lending                                2
C,  Project Formulation *...                                    3
II.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION eeeeeo.eC,o.o.........o.eo.*..e*oe   5
A. Directly-Implemented Components                              5
Adaptive Research ....... .... ........... ..........    5
Settlements *...... 0e00.......... ..... .......    7
Remote Sensing   ............................  10
Range and Livestock Management ...,11
Umm Belut -  Sedentary Livestock Community .........  12
Wadi Ibra/Sania Doleiba -- Transhumant Community  ..  13
Rangeland Regeneration at Umm Belut ........-...9.   13
Livestock Production Parameters at Umm Bslut .......  14
Cultivation of Alluvial Soils *...,,,.e,--..o*,.  15
Flood Irrigation .*. ...e.***** *.e......*.e...   17
B. Components Implemented by Cooperating Agencies .......,  17
Wateryard Rehabilitation by NWC ........,,,............  17
Veterinary Services .....     *. ...... ..............   19
Range and Pasture Administration                          20....................  20
C.  Engineering Services .....................       . .       20
D. Management and Administration o...,,..o.,...e.e...   21
Statfing         .....       .                            21
Monitoring and Evaluation   ......... .............  22
Project Relationship with Repional Government ....,....  22
This document has a restrictd distributionand may be ued by rcipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwis, be discled without World Bank authorization.



Paxe No.
III.   PROJECT BENEFITS  .oee .o..                                    23
A. Wateryard Rehabilitation        ..........................  23
B. - Range Enclosure ..o.o....oo..,.oo*oo.. o.o*.eoo.....,,,,*  23
C. Phosphate Fertilizer Use ***v§§vo¢oo¢¢ooo e@*¢o**X^  23
D.  Animal Traction ..e.ooooo.*.,e..so.o,.e.eroeoooooooee oeeo 23
g.  Naga'a Cultivation  oe.o.**,*..,..0,, 0. 00.,, 00.0,0,...0oo  23
o  Settlements e.,.,,,.....,,.......o.eooO...o.oo  24
G.  Economic Evaluation oo,,,.,,,oo.,o,oo,.o,o..*.oooe*.ooo   24
IV,   INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE o ..... o*o*o**4******e*o**o  25
A.  Borrower                                           *, **v 25
B.  Regional Government and Cooperating Agencies   ,.......  25
C.  Project Management ..0.0..0... ..... *0.... 0*¢ *0*0  * oo   25
D.  Accounting and Auditing . .*6e 00600*0*0*0*0*00    26
V.   BANK PERFORMANCE .oo                                           26
A.  Identification .....00.......00000......0..*.*..eo*o ...    26
B,  Project Supervision  .....................   27
C.  Performance of Consultants .*.o***e.e*,,.,..*..**......e.   28
VI.  CONCLUSIONS e                                                   28
List of Text Tables
Table 1:  Darfur Region Crop Production Statistics                   4
2:  Crop Response to Fertilizer:
Umm Rakuba and Dimsu 1976-83                          6
3:   Completion of Settlements as Identified by SAR            8
4:   Pasture Productivity at Umm Belut                        14
5:   Livestock Production Parameters at Umm Belut             14
6:   Naga'a Crop Production Model                             24
ANNEXES
i    Key Indicators of Project Implementation and Performance       30
2     Disbursement Schedule                                         31
3     (a)  WSDC Expenditure by Categories                           32
(b)  WSDC Expenditure Summary                                 33
4     Compliance with Major Covenants                               34
Chart 1:  WSDC Organization Chart                                   35
Maps:    Western Savannah Project Area                              36
IBRD 15643



(i)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPOKT
SUDAN
WESTERN SAVANNAH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1181-SU)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion keport (PCR) of the Western
Savdnnah Project in Sudan, for which Credit 1181-SU in the amount of
SDR11.2 million (US$13.0 million equivalent) was approved on October 6,
1981. Co-financing for the project was provided by the Overseas
Development Administration (US$1.2 million) and by the Saudi Fund for
Development (US$4.4 million). The Credit was closed June 30, 1986, one
year behind schedule; after full disbursement. The final disbursement was
made on October 20, 1986.
The PCR was prepared by the Bank's Eastern and Southern Africa
Region, following a mission to Sudan in April, 1985. The PCR is based in
part on a review of the Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3426-SU) dated July 17,
1981, the President's Report (No. P-3107-SU) dated August 6, 1981, the
Credit Agreement of February 4, 1982, correspondence with the borrower and
documents on the Project as contained in relevant bank files.
A copy of the draft report was sent to the Borrower on February
11, 1987 for comments. No comments were received from GOS.
This project has not been subjected to an audit by OED.



(U)
PROJEC  CoUE?OUREOR
WUSTUN SAVANU  PROJECr - CRDIT 1181-l1u
Dowit Oats
KEY PRJC PtAA
UT  n    ctal T    A I 40 2
Apaisal    Votimemi   oet   pat"sl
Total Preject Cst (UI   illion)           21.5         27.0            126
Credit fntow
D8Raillief                               11.2         11.2           110
(056 amlton teqivlt)                      (13.0)       (13.0)         (100)
DiLutald  (tU  mllion)                   (13.0)       (12.0)         (100)
Canllted (toS dUton) 1/                     (.) I-)                    (-)
Co-tinanciag (oss Million)
Owersem  Developmnt Adunistretion         1.2
Saudi tund for Development                4.4
Dte Board Approvcl                          -         10/06/81
Credit Apreeat Date                         -         02/04/82
Date of Effectivenes                     05/05/82     08/20/82         14312
Dace Physical Coapoents Completed         06/84        06/84           131
Proportion Then Completed (2)            100           90            90
Closing Date                             06/30/85     06/30/86         12IL2
coenomi Rate of llturn                      /3           /1
tmutitutional Ferfo a                       - onfcot                    -
lmtituttaaal ftirtatu-                     Satisfactory
Technical Perfotm_                          -           mtae
N_ber of Direct taetficiarti
Settler Familte                          1,400         1,177         84
Persons with tprovd Iatr Supply    500,000           100,000         60
StAINP T e
FY76  ms9  mo  Ml  Ft82  P3  FY64  m5    66  tOTAL
Identifi tcationlrep.  0.1   -    -    15.9                            -    16.0
Apprais0l             -     -     -    56.5   -     -     -     -      -    56.5
Hegotiatione          -     -     -     0.6   5.7   -     -     -      -     6.3
Suprvtiton            -    0.1    -    0.5   7.4   1.6  12.8  1_2   9.8  _51_
TOTAL             0.1  0.1    -    73.5  13.1   1.6  12.8  19.2  9.8  130.2
CUn nLATIV  DIS W9RSUWS
F"at      M      F3    FY84    "85
Appraial Ettmate (US$ m1illOn)          0.9      5.2     7.7    10.3    11.2
Actual (US mlltion)                     0        0       5.1     8.2    10.9
Actual *a  2 of etteate                 0        0       66      80      97
Dote of final Disbursemnt (Oct.20.1986)
HISSIOi DATA
Speialits-
Dote      No. of   tiona         Performance         Typ  of
MissioC          (so./yr.)   Persons   ReP  sntd  Rat            Trn   Problems
Appretsal          02/81        5      A.LS,E,PS
Superviston 1      01/82        2      A,LS
Supervision II    04/82         2      A,LS              2         2      0
S6ervieton III   08/82          1      A                 I         I      0
Supervision IV     12/83        3      I.SE.FA           I         2      0,F
Supervision V      04/84        2      LS,E              1         2      0
Supervison VI    10/84          4      LS,E,A            1         2      0,1
Supervtoton VIl   03/85         3      LS.E              I         2      O,f
OTUR PRtJECT DATA
Borro6erl                              Dmocratic bepublie of the Swa.
cqutti  Aenc y                         Ihe en S"aannh Dvelopmnt Corpratton
fi eol  sOru  So eIrroeers             July I to Jue 30
h# or nc    (Ag b  tbreToon);      SWOMNG   Ftuu (LSD)
M Y BEngaRates
A4prtoi  i"       average           USI.00 - LSDO.8
Intervening Years Avera             USSI.00 * LD1I.I
Completton Year Averae              USSI.00 * L1.9
FOlO - OD Fro1 ct:
11 ewestern Sovantah II Froject
Crdit Imber                         1640-S
Credit Avount (US$ millton)         10.6
Dote of  ward ApprOvl               12/03/85
/a A baleIne of Ust3.124.74 wtil be cacelled.
/T  Celculkted Ln ters of moths from date of baerd aVproval.
/3  An eonomtc rate of return Ma not been calculted *or this project s only
about one percent of investmnts ba ben ditrctly aimd at Itcrang
production.
/4  Input as staff weeks.  Source   Ioarld Pa  nkPnn  amd  sadetitng
Cepertent.
/5  A - Agriculturist; LS - LUvatock Specialiat; PA * Pinetntl Aalyst;
E * economist; PS * Fastur Specitltst.
/6  l - Problo_-free or mdnor Proble; 2 - boderate problem; 3 * NAjot
problem.
/7 1 * leprovins; I - Stationary; 3 * Deterioroting.
/I F - Pinancial; O - Other (inadequete participaeion of co¶porettng agencies).



SUDAN
WESTERN SAVANNAH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1181-81)
PROJECT COIA2LETION REPORT
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
The Western Savannah Project (WSP) emerged as a pilot project to
consolidate, on a reduced scale, two projects which were being implemented
in Darfur region in the late 1970s. These, the Savannah Development
Project (Credit 719-SU) and the South Darfur Rural Development Project,
faced implementation problems resulting from the worsening economic and
financial situation in the Sudan at the time, as well as from inadequate
infrastructure and basic services in the area.
0b§jectives
The project's objectives derived from its predecessor projects
and aimed at laying the foundation for a long-term strategy for development
of the Western Savannah. Specifically, the project was to (a) test
strategies for improving livestock and range production; (b) identify and
test agronomic packages both for area and yield increase, and for soil
conservation; (c) test approaches to settlement with land leasehold titles;
and (d) provide support for wateryard rehabilitation and veterinary
services. The impact of the project was expected to include arresting the
ongoing degradation of the area's natural resources, sustaining local per
capita food availability, increasing exports of live animals and
groundnuts, and introducing permanent farming and grazing systemue. The
estimated cost of the project was US$21.5 million.
Implementation Experience
Project components were either directly implemented by the
Western Savannah Development Corporation (WSDC) or by the cooperating
agencies, i.e., the National Water Corporation (NWC), the Veterinary
Services Administration, and the Range and Pasture Administration, with
WSDC direction and financial and administrative assistance. WSDC was
formed in 1978 to coordinate and implement development projects in the
Darfur Region. Management of WSDC was satisfactory, and technical assist-
ance provided under WSk' was helpful. Cooperation and coordination among
the implementing agencies and with the various levels of government posed
some implementation difficulties. During the early part of WSP, the Darfur
Regional Government (RG) was being formed, and some areas of friction
between RG and WSDC became evident. The institutions have since matured,
and have cooperated in implementing the Project. A joint committee
composed of representatives of the central government, Regional government
and WSDC reviewed the project evaluation report prepared by independent
consultants.



(iv)
It was concluded in this evaluation that the objectives of WSP
had been achieved to a reasonable level, that WSDC had proven its
management capabilities, artd that there was potential for further
advancement under a follow-on project. The consultant's report listed the
policies and strategies needed to meet the main requirements of the target
population and identified the components of the follow-on project. The
evaluation review found the consultant's report generally acceptable. IDA
carried out a review mission in October 1984 which confirmed the findings
of the Government and consultants' evaluations of WSP, At the end of the
project period, the final cost of WSP was US$27.0 million, or 26% higher
than expected. Immediately, a follow-on project was approved in December
19b5 to continue achievements of WSP and expand into new areas within the
Darfur region.
Results
Since 1982 when WSP became effective, WS)C has made significant
progress in relation to many of the project components, and experimental
results have been obtained which could be used over much of the project
area to promote agricultural development in an environmentally sound
manner. It has continued the program of adaptive research begun
pre-project, established four controlled settlements for 1,200 settler
families with secure tenure, and successfully pioneered the creation of
registered land enclosures to provide grazing in the dry season to a
village group of sedentary livestock owners. Contact has been made with a
group of nomads, and a program for rotational deferred wet season grazing
is underway. A mechanized cultivation technique for sorghum has been
developed for the previously unused but fertile alluvial clay (Naga's)
soils which cover 30% of South Darfur. A newly-developed, labor saving
weeder/seeder implement suitable for operation with donkeys also has been
introduced. WSDC worked closely with NWC to rehabilitate and maintain 150
wateryards, benefitting about 60,000 families through provision of a
reliable water supply. The Veterinary Services Administration was assisted
with materials and vaccine to control a series of rinderpest outbreaks and
will benefit from a supply of remote area buildings, vehicles and
equipment. A number of small but critical improvements were made to roads
and tracks in the project area.
Progress in crop production in WSP, based on pre-project work at
WSDC's three Development Centers, was initially limited because of the lack
of contact between these centers and farmers in the areas they serve.
Similarly, early activities did not focus sufficiently on the need to
identify permanent farming systems for their locations. From 1983
following tne first project cropping season, the focus of technical effort
was shifted more towards identifying, sustaining farming systems and
conductlng triale on farmers' fields, and this strategy has quickly
produced positive results. For example, the positive effect on millet
yields of application of phosphatic fertilizer was known pre-project, but
phosphate stimulates the parasitic weed striga, and it was therefore not
used. Control of striga has now been achieved by rotating millet with
pulses. Short-term agronomy consultancies early in the project period did
not adequately substitute for a resident agronomist, but the appointment of
an internationally-recruited agronomist in mid-1984 has assisted WSDC in
these areas,



(v)
Under WSP, a cost recovery program for water was initiated. When
first approached, the regionai Government did not agree to endorse new
higher water charges proposed oy the National Water Corporation, but GOS
persuaded tViem to do so. The spontaneous, positive response of wateryard
users to higher charges coupled with better water availability clearly
demonstrated the wi3.1ingness of the rural population to pay more for an
assured supply. A revolving fund for veterinary drugs under which users
pay for their costs in addition to a service fee was started under WSP and
has been similarly well-received by livestock owners. Likewise, the use of
treated seed has spread beyond the areas in which it was originally
introduced by the Agricultural Extension Department, simply because it was
found to be beneficial.
Sustainability
The cost recovery mechanism established under the project would
be continued during the follow-on project. WSDC in cooperation with
regional agencies would review regularly the adequacy of the water rates
and veterinary services charges. As a result of full cost recovery, the
System would sustain project facilities on a self-financing arrangement.
Findings and Lessons
The project showed that location specific technology to increase
agricultural production can be identified quite quickly through an applied
research component it the farmers' constraints to increased production are
accurately assessed and addressed in well managed technology trials
(para. 2.08).
WSDC has demonstrated that local management can be effective in
achieving successful project implementation even in so remote an area as
South Darfur if adequate Government and Bank supervision and support
is provided (para. 4.03).
GOS over-estimated the capacity of the Regional Government to
finance project cooperating agencies. They therefore received more support
than was provided in the project design (para. 2Z.46).
Because of the remoteness of the project area, more p- aration
work to determine alternative ways to speed up procurement and scaffing for
the project would have hastened early implementation. However, these
shortcomings were largely overcome by imaginative management and did not
have serious adverse effects (para. 5.03).
WSDC has been able to establish a good working relationship with the
district councils, especially those of Eastern, Southerr. and South Western
districts, where most project activities have taken plaae (para. 6.02 (e).



(vi)
Circumstances have made it necessary so far for WSDC to work
primarily througn the district councils in establishing the settlements,
although tribal authorities have been closely involved in development of
grazing schemes, particularly in the nomad community. The Government did
not officially recognize tribal authorities until very recently, and their
current status is still unclear. However, it will be necessary, during the
follow-on project for WSDC to pay more attention to traditional
institutions. A training component for tribal leaders has been included in
the Second project to achieve the cooperation needed.



I. BACKGROUND
A. The Agricultural Sector
1.01      The agricultural sector which accounts for about 40 percent of
Sudan's Gross Domestic Product, is the source of virtually all exports,
provides employment for over two-thirds of the labor force and supplies
inputs for a substantial proportion of industrial activity. The
agricultural sector has some 1.6 million hectares (ha) of modern
capital-intensive irrigation and 2.2 million ha of large-scale rainfed
mechanized activities co-existing with some 4.3 million ha of traditional
rainfed subsistence agriculture and a widespread traditional livestock
subsector. The major irrigated crops are cotton (accounting for about 50%
of Sudan's total exports), groundnuts, sorghum and wheat; the productivity
of these crops registered a steep decline during the second half of the
1970s, The crops grown in the rainfed areas are sorghum, millet, sesame,
groundnuts and snort staple cotton. Like the irrigated subsector, the
mechanized farming subsector has suffered a marked decline in productivity
within the last decade. During the same period the traditional sector
expanded in area with little improvement in productivity.
1.02      The principal reasons for the deterioration in Sudan's
agricultural performance during the second half of the 1970s and early
198Os include low prices to producers for export crops, inadequate foreign
exchange allocated for imported agricultural inputs, the failure of
cultural techniques in rainfed mechanized schemes, and a series of years
with below normal rainfall. Steep increases in the prices of imports,
deterioration in export performance, a sharp deterioration in the balance
of payments situation and shortages of domestic budgetary resources in
certain areas became mutually reinforcing.
1.03      As part of an economic recovery program, Government of Sudan
(GOS) re-ordered investment priorities and started to operate within the
framework of a rolling Three-Year Public Investment Program. This program
concentrates on the completion of ongoing projects and investments which
will contribute most quickly to the growth of exports and domestic
revenues. New projects are limited to those that rehabilitate existing
production schemes and help alleviate marketing bottlenecks. This program
has yielded excellent results in the irrigated schemes. Following heavy
investment by GUS in rehabilitation of irrigation capacity, yields for
cotton, groundnuts and sorghum have increased dramatically since 1980/81.
Livestock exports, mainly sheep to Saudi Arabia, have been stimulateC by
GOS progressively lowering export taxes and improving services to exporters
over the last five years. Export volumes have increased threefold since
1981 and now include about 600,000 sheep per annum.
1.04      Bank reports on the Sudanese economy show that while Sudan still
has rainfed agricultural resources whose potential for exploitation may be
unparalleled among developing countries today, declining rainfall, and
shortages of imported crop production and marketing needs, had during the
decade prior to 1982/83 brought about declines of 30, 39, 40, 42 and 60 per
cent respectively in production of groundnuts, sorghum, sesame, gum arabic
and millet.  Apart from cotton, which is almost all grown under irrigation,



-2-
these crops account for most of the country's total production. During the
last two years tnese problems, most particularly further declining
rainfall, have been accentuated. There is now a general awareness of
declining land fertility and of the problem of increasing population
pressure on land in much of the better-watered rainfed area as the result
of migration from locations affected by desertification, These sectoral
constraints have been exacerbated In Kordofan and recently to some extent
In Darfur by the lack of stability in land tenure for small farmers or
communities and by the allocation of large tracts of land in Kordofan
(leasehold) for mechanized farming. Leases contain obligations that
leaseholders practice good husbandry, but these are neither followed nor
enforced.
1.05      The modern, capital-intensive irrigation and rainfed mechanized
tarming activities lie mostly astride and adjacent to the Nile corridor,
far to the east of the proposed project area. In the past, these
activities have received the majority of GOS budgetary allocations. As a
result the rainfed agriculture subsector, particularly traditional rainfel
agriculture, has been starved of investment. Much of the potential for
increased production lies within the Western Savannah which is located
between latitudes 10* and 14w, and extends from the Nile corridor west to
the Chad border, In this area the virtual absence of all-weather roads, an
unreliable railway system and paucity of other infrastructure is a direct
reflection of low GUS budgetary allocations in the past   Social services
are limited to major centers of population and difficult to sustain. GUS
staff are reluctant to accept postings to these areas, al2d many positions
remain vacant for long periods of time. In addition, the semi-arid climate
ot the Western Savannah makes sedentary farming and herding difficult,
particularly in the abseuce of assured year-round sources of water. The
major form of land use which has evolved is shifting cultivation of millet
and sorghum for subsistence, and groundnuts for cash.
1.06      In Western Sudan by the mid-196U's, a substantial water drilling
program provided a network of assured water supplies, mainly on the sandy
(Qoz) soil systems. New settlers entered the area, and varying numbers of
transhumant cultivators and nomadlc herders' famllies, or parts thereof,
formed sedentary farming comunities.  Most acquired or continued to keep
varying and at times large numbers of livestocK. These animals are tended
under a variety of arrangements by hiired herders or family members or
relatives, some of whom have chosen to remain nomadic or transhumant, while
others prefer a sedentary life tending livestock In tne vicinity of a
village. As a result, the distinction between livestocK owners and crop
cultivators Is not clear cut.
B. Experience with Past Lending
1.07      Agricultural credits make up about half of total Bank lending to
Sudan. During the last decade, eight irrigation projects, three rainfed
mechanized farming projects, five smallholder development projects, an
agricultural research project, two livestock marketiug projects, and two
Agricultural Rehabilitation Program Credits have made up IDA commitments of
about US$0.5 billion. Three quarters of these funds have been devoted to



-3-
irrigation projects which aim to restore the country's capacity to produce
cotton (cotton production had fallen from 1,4 million bales in 1970/71 to
less than 0.6 million bales in 1980/81). These investments and the
improvements in producer incentives and institutional reforms with which
they were associated, have reversed the decline, and during the last three
years yields and total production have recovered to the 1970 levels.
Mechanized farming. with assistance from three IDA credits, produces about
70% of Sudan's marketed sorghum and 4U% of its sesame, The LUvestock
Marketing Project has helped to boost the export of sheep threefold over
the last five years, making livestock the second largest net earner of
foreign exchange.
1.08      The Sahelian belt across Africa which includes the project area
in Darfur has received little attention from researchers prior to the last
decade, and the technical or sociological knowledge of ways to Increase
agricultural production or conserve agricultural land are minimal. It was
against that background that GOS put into place the Western Sudan
Agricultural Research Project (WSARP) whichi became effective in 1980, and
WSP which became effective in 1981. WSARP addresses the needs for a
continuing development of improved agricultural technology to enhance
production and land conservation within the farming systems employed
throughout Kordofan and Darfur. WSARP began field work at Kadugli in
southern Kordofan in 1982 and at E1 Obeid in northern Kordofan in 1984.
Research under that project is scheduled to begin later this year in Darfur
on completion of the stations at El Fasher and Gnazaia Gowazat, WorK under
the Western Savannah Phase II Project and the work of WSARP at Ghazala
Gowazat will be complementary, and will jointly be the engine for the most
comprehensive effort yet made in the Sahelian zone to reverse erosion and
declining crop yields. The urgency of this work in the project area is
brought sharply into focus by the estimates of population increase by
migration of 20-30%, including 100,000 refugees since the drought began,
and the pcpulation census of 1983 which showed the province then held 1.2
million people. Scientists working in WSARP believe southern Darfur has
the greatest potential for increased production of any rainfed area in
Sudau, in part because the province has a cattle population of 3 million of
which 2 million are in the project area,
C. Project Formulation
Project Origins
1.09      The project (WSP) has its origins in the IDA/Saudi Fund-supported
Savannah Development Project (Credit 718-SU and Loan 4/41, respectively).
The delays in implementing that project led to an estimated doubling of the
appraised costs of US$38.2 million. WSP was also based on the ODA/Abu
Dhabi Fund-supported South Darfur Rural Development Project which was
approved earlier and faced similar implementation problems. GOS suggested
that the two projects be cancelled and replaced by a new project adjusted
to the total resources available. Agreements in principle on the scope,
content and funding were reached in November 1980. The Abu Dhabi Fund
directed its resources to other projects. The proposed WSP would replace
the two ongoing projects. It was proposed that a) US$16 million of the



-4-
original US$17 million credit (718-SU) be cancelled upon signing of the
proposed new credit, and b) the balance of US$1 million of disbursed and
committed funds be prepaid from the new credit upon its effectiveness.
WSP was prepared and appraised in 1981 and declared effective on August 20,
1982.
1010      WSP was established as a pilot operation with limited scope and
objectives to help lay the foundation for a long-term strategy for
development of the Western Savannah. It aimed to: a) test strategies for
improving livestock and range production; b) identify and test agronomic
packages both for area and yield increase, and for soil and fertility
conservation; c) test approaches to settlement with land leasehold titles;
and d) provide support for wateryard rehabilitation and veterinary
services. In addition and in so doing, the project would: arrest the
ongoing degradation of the natural resources involved; at least sustain the
current availability of food per person in the expanding rural population
which the area must support; and introduce permanent systems of farming,
grazing management and land tenure.  It would also increase exports,
directly through increased production of live animals and groundnuts, and
indirectly through the increased production of grain staples.
1.11      During WS? and earlier, WSJC collected data by surveys of the
sedentary, transhumant and nomad agricultural and pastoral production, and
land use, in the project area. The declining yields of grain staples are
illustrated in Table 1.
Table 1
Darfur Region Crop Production Statistics
(10-year running means ending in year indicated)
Year         Millet       Sorghum       Groundnuts       Sesame
1970 I/       580           867            694           254
1971          603           872            722            250
1972          590           876            732           237
1973          558           835            740           246
1974          551           819            758           262
1975          553           830            764           248
1976          550           843            781           226
1977          524           850            759           21b
1978          515           856            785           217
1979          493           768            755           206
1980          467           699            747            199
1981          452           683            700           202
1982          433           658            666           196
1983          423           608            623            191
1/ Mean of 10-year period 1961/62-1970/71.
Source:  Area, Yield and Production Major Crops, Sudan 19b1/62-1983/84,
Department of Statistical Planning and Agric. Econ. Admin.,
Ministry of Agriculture, May 1984.



- 5 -
II. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
2.01      Project components were either directly implemented by WSDC or
were implemented by the Cocoperating Agencies (CAs), the National Water
Corporation (NWC), the Veterinary Services Administration (VSA), and the
Raage an4 Pasture Administration (#PA), with WSDC direction and financial
and administrative assistanc-.
A. Directly-Implemented Components
Adaptive Research
2e02      Following the Land Use Planning Survey, carried out by Hunting
Technical Services (HTS) in the early 1970s, six "development farms" were
envisaged to carry out agronomic experiments in the Western Savannah area.
Several of these development centers were established in 1975 and 1976 with
the objective of investigating some of the agronomic problems identified
during the resource surveys. Key issues such as soil fertility, animal
traction, phosphatic fertilizer and Naga'a cultivation, were raised during
establishment of the centers. A sound start was made with investigation of
these issues pre-project, and work on time-of-planting and row spacing was
also completed.
2.03      Under the project, three of these development centers were
further developed by the provision of buildings, water supply, vehicles,
equipment, staff and other operating costs. These centers were programmed
to carry out adaptive agronomic research including the testing of ox-drawn
equipment. Concurrently, agronomic trials concentrated on the selection of
improved varieties of currently grown crops, identification of possible new
crops suited to local conditions, and the testing and adaptation of
improved crop husbandry practices. The aim was to develop a proven package
of locally adapted technology tor dissemination to local farmers. Work on
the development centers suffered considerably from lack of funds during the
four-year period prior to the commencement of the project in !982. During
that period, activity was focussed on limited variety screening trials, not
because they were considered to be more important than, for example, soil
fertility work, but because of a lack of capacity to complete any adaptive
research, other than simple varietal trials.
2.04      The effect of this long period of relative inactivity was low
staff morale, particularly whtere living and working conditions were poor
and where repeated promises of assistance and improvement had not been
forthcoming because of delays in project implementation.
2.05      During the project, trial programs were significantly different
to those of earlier years and demonstrated the awareness of WSDC that the
work of the development centers needed to be re-oriented towards activities
more closely related to local needs and circumstances. Particularly on the
sandy Qoz soils, where the majority of the activlties of the project
relating to settlement are focussed, there is an urgent need to develop a
self-sustaining permanent agricultural system. The traditional philosophy
of "crop to exhaustion and move on" cannot support indefinitely the demands
being generated by the increased human population wno will, under this



- 6 -
system, consume the Qoz land resources within the foreseeable future. This
problem was reflected in the SAR, where it was indicated that the
development centers would include the introduction of legumes, and the
effects of legume seed inoculation on yields of pe8ture and crop legumes in
their agronomy programs. This occurred only in 1984 and 1985, and suitable
strategies for converting the present over-grazed, exhausted, bare fallow
into a productive, recuperative phase remain conjectural.
2.06      During pre-project work (1974), the underlying concept was of
polarization of the agricultural sector into specialized livestock
husbandry and crop husbandry enterprises, integrated vertically rather than
horizontally. This was shown by the project to be inappropriate for the
situation, which suggests that a staole agriculture system can only be
established on the Qoz sands, utilizing both cropping and livestock
enterprises, through the development of a regenerative and productive
non-cropping phase based on forage or food crop legumes and involving
livestock. WSP has moved towards tuis integrated approach to development,
but has only since 1984 commenced to address the major constraint to the
establishment of a long-term stable farming system; the incorporation ot
forage or food crop legumes into cropping rotations. The most significant
finding of the crop trials has been that low application of triple
superphosphate to 8oz soils gives a high yield response. These results are
illustrated in Table 2.
Table 2
Crop Response to Fertilizer: Umm Rakuba and Dimsu 1976-83
(millet/phosphorous)
kg/ha
Equivalent           Yield
Rate ot       Without      With       X Increase in
^ 205         TSP        TSP       Yield with TSP
All 15 trials 1/       37-50           440        880            100
All 9 trials           18-25           460        940            104
With                   37-50           460      19060            131
All 4 trials            9-10           540        940             74
18-20          54U       1,080            100
With                   37-40           540      1,290            139
1/   Six trials at Umm Ratuba and nine trials at Dimsu.
Mean annual rainfall 1976-83: Umm kakuba - 482 mm
Dimsu      - 494 mm
Source:   Report on visit by consultant agronomist May-July 1984, Savannah
Development Project, 11S, 1984.



-7-
2.07      Future programs in the follow-on project would investigate a
range of sub-tropical legumes, grasses and fodder trees, While
investigation of the most desirable species are essential, prevailing
conditions are likely to be suitable for a range of species including
buffel grass (Cenchrus ciliaris), stylos (Stylosanthes hamata, and scabra),
pigeonpea (CajZanus cajan), Leucaena leucocephala and  irosopa chilensis.
RPA also recommend the us                ternatea    ao,               i
spp, and Vigna unguiculata. Particular care would be given to inoculation
with rhizobium, and further investigation of the minor element status
identified in early soil analysis work should be conducted.
2.08      An important result of the project's technical research concerns
an environmental issue. The research findings from work on the most
erodable soils -- the sands -- indicate that by use of small amounts of
phosphate (20 kg/ha) and use of rotations to control pests and diseases,
the yield per unit area of the staple cereal can be doubled at the least.
Therefore, use of those findings would reduce the area needed to feed the
population by half, restore the ability of producers to include adequate
restorative crops or at the worst adequate fallow periods and so obviate
the soil deterioration which has come about in recent years as a result of
an increasing intensity ot cropping0
2.09      The animal traction component of project activities was
originally divided between oxen for cultivating alluvial soils and donkey
power for weeding/seeding sandy soils. However, progress to date has been
notable only with the donicey-drawn weeder/seeder.
Settlements
2.10      Under the project, a pilot program of organized resettlement of
cultivators was to be initiated to test the feasibility of a) re.lleving
population pressure in already-settled areas and safeguarding the livestock
routes against encroaching cultivation; and b) introducing iwproved farming
methods as they became available (from the work on the development centers)
in order to arrest degradation of the land and increase population and
productivity. Four settlements were to be established on sandy Qoz soils
as follows:
El Amud El Akhdar  -  on the Qoz Dango In the Southern District
Qoz Afin           -  on the Qoz Dango in the Southern District
Umm Rakuba          -  on the Qoz Ma'aliya in the Eastern District
E1 Leid            -  on the Rizeiqat Qoz in the Lastern District
Each settlement would contain 350 families, each of whom would be allocated
a holding of 70 feddans, together with dry season grazing rights for a
limited number of livestock in a restricted access area. The physical
achievements of the project in relation to settlements are sh.wn below.



-8-
Table 3
Completion of Settlements as Identified by SAk 1/
Qoz       El Amud        Umm         El
Afin     El Akhdar      RaLtuba     Leid
Survey and demarcation           100%       100%          100%       100X
Water supply                     100         100          100        100
buildings                         -          -            -          -
Settler selection                100         100          100        100
Number of families settled       292         320          160        162
Z of families at completion    3a2           365          160        330
1/   For design reasons the total number of units within the settlements
will be 1,177, not the 1,400 indicated in the S&d.
Source: WSDC
2.11      Considerable preparatory work was involved in settlement
modelling and in selecting the individual settlers. Farm allocation took
account of soon-to-be-married sons, and farmers with two wives (and
.ramilies). No tood support was received from the world Food Program (which
had originally been hoped for), and with the exception of a few settlers at
El Leid, no removal transport was provided. Both these services #ere
foreshadowed in the SAR. The lack of food support and transport for
removal probably did not htinder the program, except in 1984 when the poor
season in 1983 meant that farmers were unable to pay casn for
transportation. in general, the willingness of tanmers to bear this
expense, and that of bush clearing (also planned for in the SAkL) is an
indication of the attraction ot the settlements and a pledge of their
serious intent.
2.12      In addition to the project buildings (not yet provided), the
wateryards (operating at all settlements) and the provision of settlement
officers at each settlement, the project has provided assistance with the
layout and establishment of the village areas. Additionally, pilot farms
are planned for establishment on each settlement. Selected farmers, or
WSDC staff, will demonstrate the advantages of thie improved techniques as
they are developed and proved at the development centers.
2.13      Two of the objectives for settlements were to relieve population
pressure on already settled areas and to safeguard livestock routes against
encroaching cultivation. It was envisaged (SAR, para. 3.08) that
resettlement of persons blocking tradition stock routes would be of direct
and immediate benefit to the pastoralists, and would be a form of



-9-
compensation for the grazing areas they forego in the new settlements.
This has not occurred. bettlers have been selected as the most deserving
people applying for settlement land, who meet criteria of family structure,
are affected by the creation of the settlement, have no other major
employment, are prepared to live permanently on the settlement and abide by
the rules, and are currently cultivating land in Southern Darfur. Tribal
affiliations are also taken into consideration. No specific attempt has
been made to select settlers from stock routes. The decision not be adopt
the original approach of selecting settler communities from areas blocking
traditional stock routes was made for reasons of immediate practicalitv.
In addition, the strategy on which this approach was based became
questionable once the project collected detailed information on potential
settlers.
2.14      The logistical problems associate with moving whole communities
over the long distances required to transport settlers out of the stock
route areas to the settlement sites would have been considerable, It is
now clear that many of the farmers cultivating the stock route areas are
also livestock owners. The task of persuading the farmers to leave this
mixed grazing-cropping system and recommence farming on the Qoz would have
been formidable.
2.15      It is too early to comment on the longer-term use of the farms
(exhausted) left by the settlers. Some have been passed on to poorer
members of their families, but WSDC staff report that this is not a general
rule. This aspect of the settlement program will be monitored
post-project, and WSDC is considering the establishment of reclamation
trials on the abandoned areas. The degree of exhaustion on farmers'
original sites was an important criterion for settler selection. The
selection committees inspected the areas concerned before making decisions
on settler selection.
2.16      Formal leases have not yet been issued to any of the settlers.
However, "letters of intent", which indicate agreement to the principle
conditions on the application forms (proportion of plot cropped and a
requirement to sign a lease in due course) have been signed by settlers.
WSDC is developing a completely new legal procedure for establishment of
settlements. There are no precedents in Sudan, other than the registration
of building land in the cities. The mechanized farming schemes in Eastern
Sudan do not have a full procedure for gazetting land registration. It
will be some time before all the legal steps are clarified and implemented,
but WSDC's staff are of the opinion that WSDC's obligations and the
settlers' rights have been defined and established. In the case of WSDC,
the settlement sites have been registered through the area council as
required by the Unregistered and Local Government Government Acts. This
gives WSDC the right of disposal,
2.17      In summary, significant physical progress has been made during
the past three years.  However, it is much too early to make judgements as
to the success of the settlement component, given the longer-term
objectives. Some potential problems (e.g. over-clearing and
over-population) were identified during project evaluation.



- 10 -
2.18      The alternative to organized settlement on the above WSDC model
is spontaneous settlement. Following the major deep bore water supply
program of the late 1960s and early 1970s, spontaneous settlements occurred
in proximity to wateryards. Progressive clearing of climax vegetation was
followed by at least four or five years of cropping. Although the cropping
was not continuous, surveys revealed that fields were in use for an average
of 13 years. This land was thep abandoned and new areas taken up. The
development of a suitable vegetative cover on the abandoned lands has not
generally occurred because of a number of reasons:
a)   poor rainfall in recent years;
b)   the radial nature of spontaneous settlements causes livestock to
pass through the abandoned areas on a daily basis in their search
for grazing or their return to water. People also travel to and
from cropping areas through the abandoned land;
c)   increased human populations, occurring from both natural increase
and inward migration, exacerbates the situation; and
d)   a succession of poor season to the north of the project area has
resulted in an increasing number of northern-based transhumants,
many with camels and sheep, seeking dry season grazing further
south than their traditional sources,
2.19      The foregoing introduces one of the crucial differences between
controlled and spontaneous settlements. Under spontaneous settlements
(with no land tenure), farmers are unable to reserve sufficient land to
establish a stable rotation with adequate natural fallow. As there are
significant costs in moving every few years, farmers in spontaneous
settlements elect to remain in one place and crop the land to exhaustion.
Farmers in the organized settlements do not nave to consider the costs of
moving because theoretically at least they have been allocated sufficient
land to enable long-term cropping on a rotational basis.
2.20      Thus organized settlements provide the best opportunity for the
promotion of a stabilized rotation of cropping and fallow, without the
pressures of population increase and Inward migration. As tallow-enhancing
techniques which shorten the aesirable rotation and/or increase crop yields
and livestock productivity become available, organized settlements would be
able to meet the demands of increased population through reduced farm
size. This would enable population pressures to be relieved in a planned
and specific mmnner. Settlements also provide an excellent focal point for
the provision of water supplies and numwn health, veterinary and education
serrices.
Remote Sensing
2.21      A three-month consultancy was undertaken by JTS during late 19U4
to evaluate the usefulness of hMS Landsat Imagery. The Jebel Marra Project
undertook a very similar study simultaneously using the more advanced TM
Landsat data source. Fcur Landsat scenes were acquired for the study, and
within these five sub-scenes were examined in detail, The primary
objective of the study was to map the change in land cover including



- 11 -
cultivation between 1972 and 1984.  The consultants report was received in
February 1985 and gives a clear indication of how the techniques can be
utilized (HTS, 1985, "Mapping Land Use Change from Landiat Satellite
Imagery). The main conclusions were:
a)   that imagery could be used to map the distribution of different
vegetation formations within land systems;
b)   changes in the area and distribution of savannah woodland,
abandoned fallow and cultivated land between 1972 and 1984 could
be mapped from the imagery with an acceptable degree of accuracy;
and
c)   the distribution of Naga'a soils could be mapped.
2.22      The consultant spent one month within the project area, and the
imagery was used to give a contemporary view of land use in the Qoz
Ma'aliya work. As this work was judged to be successful, a proposal was
prepared to extend the exercise to all of Southern Darfur.
Range and Livestock Management
2.23      The SAR identifies one of the main causes of the decline in per
unit animal production and the deterioration of the range in the project
area as being an increase in the cattle production beyond the unsuctainable
capacity of the range. The SAR considered that deferred grazing,
introduction of improved species and establishment of browse reserves, plus
improved cattle management would be ineffective without control of grazing
pressure.
2.24      The range demarcation schemes aimed to rectity the overgrazing
situation by granting exclusive tenure of dry season grazing areas to small
groups of pastoralists, while maintaining the transhumant movements of
cattle during the remainder of the year. This strategy was based on the
assumption that under such a scheme, there would be an Incentive to equate
cattle numbers with the long-term sustainable carrying capacity of the
range. Cooperation from the pastoralists was to be encouraged through
discussions with RPA and WSIC staff, the SAR infers that kPA would take
the lead in such discussions. Political support by the local authorities
was also requested, as the granting of exclusive grazing rights would be
contrary to customary laws. The range demarcation schemes were to be
tested with three groups of livestock owners:
a)   a small group of transhumant pastoralists who made up the total
population around a small well-field;
b)   a similar group of transhumant pastoraliscs that graze an area
within a larger community and well-field; and
c)   a group of sedentary livestock owners.
The SAR states that the definition and protection of areas for dry season
grazing was to be emphasized by encouraging de-stocking during the wet
season*



- 12 -
2.25      KPA was to define areas by constructing firebreaks or by cutting
trace lines after acceptance by the target group of the principle of
grazing area boundaries. Lessees were to be encouraged to plant trees and
to reinforce boundaries. After land allocation (the primary objective),
the secondary objective was to achieve recognition by the livestock owners
that the concept of optimum, rather than maximum, stocking rate was
appropriate.  WSDC, assisted by RPA, was to estimate and suggest stocKing
rates to the participants, as well as monitor sales, livestock movements
and the effect of optimizing stocking rate on the range condition and
livestock productivity. Deferred grazing and the introduction of legumes
and browse reserves were to be promoted after the schemes had been
established.
2.26      An effective animal health service, provided by VSA, was
considered to be essential for tee cooperation of livestock owners.
Specific support for RPA included vehicles and operating expenses tor three
field teams. Anticipated benefits were an increase in cattle production
due to stabilization of the range. Specifically, it was anticipated that
the area of bare ground would be reduced and that perennial, species would
return. Annual off-take per breeding unit was expected to increase by
about 50% from a total cattle population weighing about 85% of the
"without" project biomass. Productivity was expected to continue to
decline without the project.
2.27      Although the project area contains all classes of livestock
owners, from the sedentary mixed tarmer to the true nomad, for practical
purposes only two (and not three as originally anticipated) groups were
selected for involvement in the project. One group is sedentary: at Umm
Belut, a village on the basement land system 40 miles west of Nyala; and
the other group is transhumant (moving from southern Wadi Ibra - dry
season grazing    to Sania Doleiba -- wet season grazing).
Umm Belut -- Sedentary Livestock Community
2.28      A village grazing. area of about 7,140 feddans has been divided
into three grazing blocks and demarcated by thorn fences, a village
committee formed to organize and regulate activities, an overseer appointed
to prevent unauthorized access and a simple office/accommodation building
constructed. Conventional barbed wire fencing has been erected at
strategic points and huts constructed for the overseer and laborers.
2.29      There are about 190 households living in three villages in the
grazing area, and about 15% of the area is cropped mainly along the wadi.
Approximately 2,500 cattle graze the area, equivalent to about 1,500
livestock units of 250 kg live weight. The Veterinary Investigation
Laboratory at Nyala is monitoring animal health in two herds, and VSA has
assisted with vaccinations against rinderpest. Eight young Kenana bulls
have been ordered for the Livestock Research Unit at Umm Benin with the aim
of increasing per unit milk production.  The villagers have been given
assistance with community development projects, e.g. repair of a major
well, establishment of an elementary school, procurement of a license to
operate a village grain mill, and establishment of a cheese unit for wet
.season production. Adult education classes have commenced.



- 13-
2.30      At the end of the wet season, forage reserves (excluding browse)
are estimated by project staff (an &PA officer seconded to WSDC) and safe
dry season carrying capacities estimated for each of the three blocks.
Grazing is deferred until after harvest (food crops), and the three blocks
are then grazed in rotation, the sequence of which depends on feed
availability and vulnerability from 'outside' livestock owners.
Wadi Ibra/Sania Doleiba -- Transhumant Community
2.31      The SAR concentrated on t.he allocation of exclusive pasture
rights to groups (or individualei for late dry season grazing in their
traditional areas. This approath has not proved feasible because if there
is adequate water (e.g. at wadi  T',Sra, as suggested in the SAi), pressures
are so great that the allocationlof grazing to groups is unacceptable.
Conversely, if water supplies arb limlted, forage is usually adequate and
therefore owners have little interest in dry season grazing allocation.
However, it is now evident that the more serious over-grazing situation
exists in the wet season grazing area. As cattle produce calves, milK and
gain weight during the wet season, it is logical that improvement in the
supply of forage in the wet season grazing areas is more urgent and would
probably produce a higher return, Consequently, although the basic
objectives of the livestock development program have been maintained,
priority has changed to the wet season grazing areas, with an alternative
approach to be developed later for dry season grazing. This should provide
experience of a complete transhumant 'cycle".
2.32      To date, a nouse has been constructed (out of local materials)
for the Range Warden based at Sania Doleiba. Contact has been made with
the cattle owners who use Sania Doleiba for wet season grazing and
information gained on numbers distribution and season movement of
livestock. A reconnaissance survey of the rangeland in the area has been
completed. The program to date has included the provision of veterinary
and human health services and initial detailed observations have been made
on an area of 238 feddans of enclosed range. This part of the rangelands
program has proven more difficult than anticipated in the SAt (in part
because of the unusual movement - or lack of movement - of transhumant
during the 1983-84 drought), and progress has not been as rapid as the
progress made at Umm Belut.
2.33      Despite numerous problems, particularly the limited support from
VSA and RPA, progress as Umm Belut is commendable, Nevertheless, some
longer-term aspects of the program are of concern. These are discussed
below.
Rangeland Regeneration at Umm Belut
2.34      Although results for only two seasons prior to the recent drought
are available, indications are that the rangeland within the program has
begun to recover. Some evidence for this claim is circumstantial, but the
fact that only one family moved south during the 1983 dry season (after a
poor wet season in 1982) indicates that the participants are well aware of
the benefits of controlled dry season grazing. In addition, three families
that moved away from Umm Belut after commencement of the program
subsequently requested re-admission after observing the results obtained.



- 14 -
The district council has now received many applications from other villages
for schemes based on the Umm Belut model. This also indicates enthusiasm
for, and acceptance of, the approach used at Umm Belut, Other evidence
that the rangeland has begun to recover is more concrete. Table 4, which
details pasture productivity at Umm belut durlng 1983 and 1984, shows that
the amount of todder on hand at the beginning of the dry season has
increased by 95% (as a result of excluding livestocK during the preceding
wet season).
Table 4
Pasture Productivity at Umm Belut
Total Forage Production 1,
(tons DW/f)
Block           1982            1983            2 Increase
A             151              310               105
B            270              385                 43
C             161              442               175
Total          582             1,137                95
1/   Botanical composition also changed during the 1982-83 period, and the
blocks contained young perennials that had obviously established
during the 1963 wet season.
Livestock Production at Umm Belut
2.35      Again, results are only available for two years pre-4rought, and
livestock production parameters are not available for the "with" and
"without" situations. However, promising trends are evident, These are
detailed in Table 5.
Table 5
Livestock Production Parameters at Umm Belut
Parameter 1/              1981/82           1982/83
Calving                     41                46
Calf mortality              28                 12
Adult mortality              5                  1
1/   Based on a sample ot 1O herds.  There are 50 herds in the program.
2.36      The significant changes in livestock production parameters during
the first two years of the program indicate that productivity is increasing



- 15 -
the cattle owners will soon have to make decisions on the sale of surplus
livestock or their removal trom Umm Belut, given the constraint of carrying
capacity.
2.37      The transhumant program is only just commencing, and therefore it
is not possible to evaluate progress to date, otner than to say that tne
revised approach (based on wet season grazing areas) appears logical and
that the group responsible for #mplementation of this program has made good
progress with contacting and soliciting support from the potential
beneficiaries.
&dltivation of Alluvial Soils
2.,'38    The SAR states that "tee Development Center at Jumeiza would
attempt to identify and test agronomic and technical practices in order to
bring into cultivation the Naga'a soils which are fertile but difficult to
work, and which constitute a significant land reserve to support an
increasing animal and human population." In addition, the SAX indicates
that investigation into the design and practical application of
animal-drawn implements are important tor "the cultivation of Naga'a soils
which have a surface hard pan which is difficult to cultivate by hand."
The term 'Naga'a" strictly refers to a soil surface which has little or no
vegetative cover and appears as a hard, compact, dark-colored pan or cap.
Clay contents of the Baggara alluvium are not high, and therefore the soils
are "non-cracking". About 280,000 feddans of Naga'a dominant soils are
available for cultivation, and about 120,000 feddans are suitable for
cultivation within a radius of 20 miles cefitered at Buram, which lies in
the western area of the Baggara land system. The Naga'a soils of the
middle and upper slope positions rarely have textures heavier than sandy
clay loam. It is this group which are currently virtually unused, that is
the target for the WSDC program. The important features of these soils
are: a) high silt contents; b) high contents of excnangable sodium and a
high pH, 8.5; c) high CEC/100 gm clay and high base saturation; d) low
available phosphate levels; e) structure becomes massive and the soil is
very hard when the profile dries out; and f) low infiltration rates.
2.39      The project has two areas of activity witn respect to cultivation
of the Naga'a soils: trtal work at the Jumeiza Development Center, and
development work (cultivation) for interested farmers through a tractor
hire service. The latter activity was not included in the SAR, but was
initiated because the project,staff became aware of the demand for a
service, and cultivation of the Naga'a soils was a sound 'extension
message" which became clea. during the implementation of the project that
could be promoted outside the development centers.
2.40      Research on cultivation of she Naga'a soils has achieved the
objective of demonstrating that cultivation by 75 hp tractors and chisel
ploughs is technically feasible and crop yields, particularly of sorghum,
are substantial. Sorghum grain yields have varied widely from l to 4 tons
per ha but have invariably been profitable. However, further adaptive
research is required. The SAR indicated that the project would also
investigate the design and practical application of animal-drawn implements
fc. Naga'a cultivation. Inadequate operation and management of the Jumeiza
Development Center meant that animal traction work only commenced during



-16-
the 1985 wet season.  This delay was unfortunate because oxen of the size
of those used at Dimsu (for example) are probaoly capable of cultivating
Naga'a soils that have been initially broken up with tractor power, and are
certainly capable of weeding crops planted in rows. Oxen may also be able
to plough the 'friabT.e" Naga'a and thereby overcome the need to purchase
expensive tractors, cultivators, fuel and spare parts.
2.41      A tractor hire service for cultivation represents a good example
of extending results from the developmeuit centers to the farming
commK.nity. Progress may have been better if tractors had been available
earlier. WSDC was the first organization in the project area to commence
tractor hire for mechanized cultivation, and although there is no mandate
under the SAR to implement cooperative programs with the Agriculture
Department of the Regional Mlinistry in Nyala, progress has been
impressive. The area ploughed increased from 137 feddans (58 ha) in 1982
to 570 feddans in 1983, 570 feddans in 1984, and by the end of June 1985,
1689 feddans had been ploughed with the program continui,g, Farmers have
been charged full cost and have paid cash (90%), or credit (10%) all of
which was subsequently collected even in the drought years.
2.42      The PCR recommends that the project:
a)   continue to support the program through adaptive research on the
Jumeiza Development Center, and development and testing of animal
power for cultivation and weeding on Naga'a;
b)   continues (but does not expand) its tractor hire service.  This
service should be used to promote the technique in sub-centers
around Isuram and then withdrawn once a group of farmers have
experienced success and profitability. This will be an adequate
incentive for the p-oups to either create a demand for a private
tractor hire service or for the formation of tractor-owning
cooperatives, provided the project is able to overcome the
problem of foreign exchange availability for the purchase of
imported spare parts;
c)   assist groups of farmers to establish cooperatives and possibly
provide support through the provision (and sale at cost) of
spares and fuel. The industrial suq in Nyala is also capable of
providing this service, and it is liicely that a similar service
will develop in buram as the area eultivated increases;
d)   assist with the development of a land tenure system that protects
smallholders' interests and supports the objective ox developing
a sustainable productive system.
2.43      In summary, the project should not attempt to provide a service
that could be supplied through the private sector, after the project has
promoted the technique and supported longer-term viability with an
adequately equipped and well-managed development center at Jumeiza.



- 17 -
Flood Irrigation
2.44      Pre-project about 400 ha in different locations of tne project
area were used by farmers to produce grain sorghum and vegetables under
systems of uncontrolled flood irrigation. The crops are transplanted into
humid patches of cracking clay in depressions or along seasonal water
courses which have been filled naturally with water from flash floods. The
area suitable for flood irrigation in the project area is estimated at over
3,000 ha. The flood irrigation area near Tullus could be expanded by about
400 ha. About 150 ha of these could be developed for vegetable production
by directing high flow water through gated channels iinto bunded plots along
the river banks. A further 250 ha could be developed for the production of
winter sorghum. The project was to have provided the major construction
works against the understanding that the farmers would undertake all the
land clearing and internal bunding.
2.45      During the first project year, WSDC engaged a water management
engineer to study and design this component in detail. His findings were
that the wadi on which the development was to be based would need
observation over several years before the boundaries of its annually
varying path could be drawn, and structural adjustments made with
confidence. As it was not feasible to carry out that extent of study
within the life and financial provisions of the project, the project
management and donors agreed to proceed no further with that component. In
any case, that component was very small (US40.1 million).
is. Components Implemented by Cooperating Agencies
2.46      The SAR implied that the provision of management services,
notably annual worK plans and budgets plus vehicles and supplies procured
under the project, would enable the cooperating agencies, the NWC, the VSA
and the RPA, to effectively meet their respective responsibilities. That
underlying assumption was valid only in part. There were a number of
reasons for the changed circumstances: there has been a general decline in
Government financing; the operating capacity of the agencies has
deteriorated since the SAR w8s prepared; and there has been a succession of
poor seasons coupled with inward migration. While the reasons may be
conjectural, the clear position is that the cooperating agencies will need
continuing support if they are to develop an ongoing, long-term effective
capacity. Equally, continued support for the project will be required from
Regional Government, While many of the project's achievements have been
due, in part, to close cooperation (and direct and indirect support from
local authorities), there are instances (e.g. services from VSA for
livestock owners) where progress would have improved if the undertakings of
the Central and Regional Governments (as outlined in the SAR) had been
followed more closely. The section which follows provides an evaluation of
the involvement of NWC and VSA with the project, together with a discussion
of possible strategies and policies for the future.  It will be essential
for any future project to be formulated in accordance with Regional
Government's priorities, and to receive an undertaking of their ongoing
cooperation and support.
Wateryard Rehabilitation by NWC
2.47      Wateryards and surface reservoirs (hafirs) are the only manmade
sources of water for people and livestock in the project area and during



- 18 -
the dry season the entire population is dependent on this source for
survival. It was estimated that in 1981 about 70% of the wateryards in the
area were either out of operation or were yielding far below capacity, and
all of the hafirs had silted up and most had been abandoned. As a result,
people and livestock concentrated around fewer and fewer water sources
causing hardship, health hazards, production losses and environmental
degradation. The National Water Corporation has well-trained and
experienced staff and i8 responsible for construction, rehabilitation and
maintenance of wateryards in the Sudan, but the capacity of this
corporation to maintain wateryards was impaired by lack of sufficient funds
(both local and foreign). The project proposed to support the
rehabilitation and maintenance of wateryards in the project area by
providing foreign exchange to enable NWC to import all required spares.
WSDC was assigned to supervise the rehabilitation program and facilitate
procurement of imported items.
2.48      A survey was initially carried out in 1982 to identify wateryards
to be rehabilitated and to take stock of vehicles and equipment that would
be used in the operation.   NWC was found to lack an adequate fleet of
vehicles to move materials for rehabilitation and was unable to carry out
its normal maintenance program of wateryards. Additional spares were
therefore ordered to repair and service NWC vehicles. A rehabilitation
schedule was prepared and teams of technicians were created and assigned to
districts to implement the program.
0
2.49      Wateryard rehabilitation involved renovation of the pump houses
and ancillary buildings, replacement of old units with overhauled or new
engines and pumps, cleaning of wells, separating sale points within
wateryards for people and livestock, and fencing the entire wateryard areas
to ensure controlled access. WSDC provided all the support that was
needed, including fuel and lubricants for the rehabilitation teams. By
June 1985, all the 150 wateryards in the program had been rehabilitated.
To ensure that wateryards continued to operate, a maintenance program to be
financed by recovering full cost of water from the users was proposed to
the RG by WSDC, WSDC worked out the cost of producing water and
recommended to the KG an increase in the water charge of 500% from 0.5
piastres a tin (4 galls) to 3.0 piastres. The RG only agreed to recover
80% of the cost (2.5 piastres a tin) and opted to continue subsidizing
consumers from budgetary allocations.
2.50      For about five months after the introduction of new water
charges, (December 1983 to April 1984), more than LSd 750,U0U was collected
from water sales. It has been estimated that for appropriate maintenance
of wateryards, NWC requires LSd ,.5 million annually. According to
existing regulations, NWC has no access to funds raised from water sales
and is required to finance its operations from annual budgetary allocations
which are iasdequate to cover its operations. The revolving fund concept
was discussed with the KG and agreed upon, but has not yet been introduced.
2.51      There is a direct relationship between wateryards in operation
and agricultural production in the area. It is estimated about 43,500
households live in the Qoz land system and are almost entirely dependent on
water generated from 6oreholes. Without a reliable water supply, these
families would be forced to abandon their fields and move to the shrinking



- 19 -
number of operating wateryards as was the case before the project started.
In so doing the area of cultivated land would tall as families become
preoccupied searching tor water. No attempt was made to estimate
incremental production as a result of the wateryard rehabilitation program,
but it is certain that production would have fallen it boreholes had been
left to deteriorate further.
Veterinary Services
2.52      The Provincial Veterinary Services Department was facing an acute
shortage of drugs, vehicles and operating funds in its attempts to control
livestock diseases which presented an increasing risk to the 3.0 million
domestic animals in South Darfur, which provide a substantial number of the
livestock exported from Western Sudan.
2.53      WSP was designed to strengthen the operational capacity of the
Provincial Veterinary Services Department by providing it with buildings,
vehicles, facilities, equipment and drugs in addition to the budgetary
allocation.
2.54      The major diseases considered in the SAR were:
a)   Rinderpest - major outbreaks of which were substantially reduced
in the mid 1970s by the successful JP15 vaccination campaign.
Single vaccinations (post°calfhood) provide lifelong immunity;
b)   CBPk - tirst diagnosed in 1914 and now widespread.  Annual
vaccination is necessary;
c)   Trypanosomiasis - nerds leaving the tsetse areas (south of the
Banr El Arab) for wet season grazing in the project area are
reported to have intection rates of up to 50%.
2.55      The SAR envisaged that the strengthened VSA would be able to a)
carry out an effective campaign against rinderpest and CBPP; b) meet any
epidemic disease outbreak; c) service stock owners in the project area with
drugs and vaccines on a revolving fund basis; and d) operate the tsetse
control survey unit.
2.56      In the first year of the project, WSDC provided drugs and three
vehicles to support the provincial administration in its campaign against
rinderpest. Additional assistance was given to the central laboratory in
Khartoum to increase the production of vaccines. With the support given by
WSDC the provincial administration carried out a study to establish the
extent of trypanosomiasis and how best to control the disease. A small
veterinary laboratory was constructed under the project in Nyala to
diagnose livestock diseases in Darfur; furnished and supplied fuel to
operate refrigerators and sterilizing equipment. A revolving fund was
established and maintained by WSDC to ensure that revenue collected from
drug sales would be available to replenish depleted stocks.
2.57      The total impact of this component has not been assessed, but the
rinderpest outbreak has been brought under control. A drug cost recovery
scheme has also been established which is popular amongst livestock owners



- 20 -
and could be extended in a follow-on project. An effective diagnostic
laboratory has been built and put into efficient operation in Nyala.
Rage and Pasture Administration
2.58      The project was able to assist RPA with vehicles only during the
last year of project Implementation. These enabled the RPA to increase its
fire protection activity in the area, which had been severely curtailed by
reduction of its budget. RPA was able to assist WSDC with its range and
pasture programs primarily in providing technical advice.
C. Engineering Services
2.59      The Engineering Division of WSDC provided support services to all
activities in the project and to cooperating agencies in the region.  These
services included construction and maintenance of buildings, technitcal
support and supervision of wateryard rehabilitation by NWC, repair and
maintenance of vehicles and equipment, and provision of surveying support
for settlement demarcation, and to WSMC's land use planning unit. The
Engineering Division was also responsible for the improvement of tracks in
the project area to facilitate year round communication. Because it was
impossible to attract registered contractors in remote areas the
construction program was carried out by force account. Office buildings
and staff houses at Nyala (WSDC Headquarters) were completed in the second
year of the project.
2.60      The outstation building program at the Development Centers was
delayed until 1984 for lack of materials and poor commurnication. Bids for
installation of fuel tanks at Nyala were invited in November 1982 but
failed to attract bidders and it was then repeated in January 1983 at the
insistence of SFD, which was financing the construction. This procedure
caused delays and no bids were received for the construction. At the close
of the project some imported equipment for fuel storage was still waiting
to be cleared at Port Sudan, and some was being installed at Nyala.
2.61      The track improvement program also faced several problems.  Heavy
earth moving equipment needed by tne project belonged to RG and was not
readily available. Following suspension of disbursements by SFD, the
procurement of tr-ctors and tipper trucks was also delayed until 1983.
2.62      Despite this delay, construction of "Irish" bridges at six
locations on the Nyala-Ed Da'ein track together with several reinforced
concrete culvert crossings were completed by 1984.   Construction of raised
earth embankments over some of the clay areas on the track continued but
remained uncompleted at the close of the project.
2e63      Cost saving on fuel for vehicles was substantial with improved
tracks. A trial run between Nyala and Tullus saved seven gallons of fuel
for a round trip of approximately 200 miJes on improved track. Despite
these savings which had been demonstrated, WSDC could not expand the
program to include other tracks in the project area because of the
limited resources provided in the project for this component (US$ 0.1
million).



- 21 -
2.64      Due to frequent disruption to supply of both diesel fuel and
gasoline at Nyala and at Khartoum and to the unreliability of Sudan
Railways Corporation (SRC), WSDC began collecting fuel from Port Sudan
and/or Khartoum by truck in 200-liter drums. The percentage collected has
been progressively increased. However, this has resulted in a heavy
escalation of fuel cost landed Nyala. In order to overcome this problem,
an assurance has been obtained from GOS that during the follow-on project,
WSDC would transport its fuel in bulk by railway tanker to Nyala, and SRC
has undertaken in writing to fulfull its role in that solution,
2.65      WSDC has used SFD funds to purcnase most of its 4x4 landcruiser
fleet with gasoline engines. A very real economy can be achieved by buying
and operating diesel-powered vehicles because of lower costs for fuel and
maintenance. An assurance has been obtained from Government that all
vehicles to be procured from whatever source of funds under the follow-orn
project would be diesel powered unless otherwise agreed by IDA on an
exceptional basis.
D. Management and Administration
Staffing
2.66      In the process of strengthening WSDC, adequate staffing,
provision of housing, construction of offices, workshop and storage
facilities were given priority in the first year of the project. At that
time there was pressure trom the GOS on all government entities to reduce
local staff as an austerity measure to reduce GOS recurrent expenditure.
WSDC was then re-organized into three divisions (Administration and
Finance, Engineering Services and Agricultural Services) and a Project
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit was formed in accordance with the staff
appraisal report. By the end of 1981/82., five senior positions out of six
had been filled by expatriates, and some of the local staff at tne lower
level were removed to streamline the organization. Some micidle management
and technical staff positions remained vacant for more than two years due
to the failure to attract suitable Sudanese to jobs in Nyala.
2.67      Communication with Khartoum improved greatly with the
establishment of a weekly air charter service. In addition, Sudan Airways
introduced three flights a week to Nyala and reserved four seats or freight
equivalent each way for WSDC. This service was intermittent. An aircraft
purchased under Credit 834-SU has been operated by the Western Sudan
Agricultural Research Project (WSARP) to provide services to its two
stations in Kordofan. The WSARP stations at El Fasher and Ghazala Gowasat
in Darfur will be completed in 1985 so that GOS will then be able to
combine services to field stations of both WSARP and WSDC during the
follow-on project with considerable saving in cost of aircraft hire
services to WSDC.
2.68      Low salaries for local staff and other conditions of employment
contributed to WSDC's difficulties in recruiting Sudanese to work the
remote project location of South Darfur.  As a result, WSDC was overly
dependent on technical assistance provided by the credit and an ODA grant
for the implementation of WSP for the first two project years. In the
third year, WSLC increased local salaries by 20% and improved other



- 22 -
benefits and was able to attract more local staff. More than 65% of the
positions created were tilled by the end of 1984. Seven senior local staff
were on scholarships abroad financed by the British (Government to study
Engineering and Supervisory Management.
Monitoring and ivaluation
2.69      The Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (1MEU) which was
created to evaluate the impact of the project carried out baselines
studies, farm surveys, wateryard utilization study, and dry season nomad
surveys. The unit also assessed the impact of controlled settlements,
Naga'a cultivation and Umm Belut range improvement program which have been
discussed elsewhere. The Baseline Survey provided intormation on the
declining trend of shifting cultivation because of growing population
pressure on the land. The existing cropping pattern was defined with
millet dominating (54X of total cropped area in Qoz soil system) followed
by groundnut and then sorghum. Crop yields on the farmers fields and labor
demands for difterent farm operations were estimated. This type of
information was useful when designing improvements in the farming system
and in the development of a technical package for increased land
productivity. PMEU participated actively in the mid-term review and in the
preparation of the second phase of the project.
Project Relationship with Regional Government
2.70         The intimate relationship between WSUC and the kegional
authorities was instrumental to the success of the project, and although
cooperating agencies were ever willing to participate actively in
implementation, they were hindered by inadequate budgetary allocations
initially from the central government and later from RG following
regionalization. In a drought situation in Western Sudan, most of the
revenue collected in the region was directed towards famine relief
efforts. The folloteing table compares budgets witti actual expenditure of
cooperating agencies in South Darfur for two project years (1981/82 and
1982/83).
Cooperating Agencies                         NWC          JA          RPA
Budget proposals (LSd)                   1,852,190      475,000      66,800
budget approval (LSd)                      %83,000      245,000      66,800
Actual disbursement (LSd)                  410,000      112,889      39,000
Disbursed/proposed budget (2) 22                           22          58
Disbursed/approved budget (Z)                4b            42          58
2.71      Actual amounts received by cooperating agencies were inadequate
to cover their general operating expenses, and in some instances WSDC
provided fuel and allowances to statf in the region to enable them to
participate in the project.
Z.72       Political and legal aspects governing land tenure have a bearing
on the success of settlements, Naga'a cultivation and range-management
activities. WSUC has worked closely with local authorities in proposing
new land tenure arrangements wnicn woula ensure long-term leases to
individuals or groups as incentive for proper land use, and GOS has now
formed a task force to review existing traditional laws governing land
rights and will recommend a suitable land tenure system to be adopted in
the rainfed sector.



-23-
III. PROJECT BENEFITS
3.01      The project has provided experimental results which could be used
over much ot the project area to increase grain and livestock production,
to support the increasing human population and reduce further land
degradation.
A. Wateryard Rehabilitation-
3.02      The rehabilitation and maintenance of wateryards has relieved
families from hardships associated with unreliable water supply. It is
estimated a wateryara supports up to 500 households. Under the project,
more than 60,000 households or 300,000 people benefitced from rehabilitated
boreholes, and about 40% of current grain production is attributed to the
wateryard rehabilitation program which has enabled rainfed farming to
continue and expand in the project area,
B. Range Enclosure
3.03      With the introduction of the Range Improvement Program increased
livestock production was attained through grazing land enclosures and
rotational grazing at Umm Belut, Herd performance was monitored over the
project period. Results indicate that the density of plants on the grazing
land improved. Some improvement in the calving rate was achieved together
with a reduction in calf and adult mortality.
C. Phosphate Fertilizer use
3.04      Trials conducted at the development centers and on farmers'
fields have provided consistent evidence of increases on yield in Qoz soils
from phosphate fertilizer application on millet, sesame and cow pea crop.
It is conservatively estimated that phosphate fertilizer at low application
levels raised yields of millet by 40Z and in below average rainfall years
by double that percentage.
D. Animal Traction
3.05      The donkey-drawn weeder/seeder implement developed under the
project reduces labor requirement for sowing and weeding in millet by more
than 50%, and in groundnut sowing by 70%. Millet weeding coincides with
groundnut sowing when a critical labor shortage arises. This implement was
tried and found to be successful on Qoz soils and it was readily accepted
by farmers. Labor saved as a result of using this implement would be
available for expansion of cropped area and for other economic activities.
Almost every family owns one or more donkeys for water carrying.
E. Naga'a Cultivation
3.06      With the use of tractors and appropriate timing of cultivation,
the project has demonstrated the potential for sorghum cultivation in areas
of alluvial clay soils (Naga'a). Naga'a soils which cover about 30 percent
of South Darfur are fertile and can support crops for two to three seasons
without the need for fertilizer. They nave not previously been cultivated
because their rigid surtace pan has prevented cultivation by handhoes.



-24-
Table 6
Naga'a Crop Production Model
(per feddan)
Economic Cost/Price
Item/Activity                                    (LSd)
Gross Income
0.67 tons/feddan at Lsd 300                                     200
Costs
Seed, 12.5 kg/feddan at LSd 0.36/kg                               5
Ploughing, LSd 20.00/feddan  x 0.7                               14
Labor  -  Clearing/fencing:           2 md
Sowing:                   13 md
Thinning/transplanting:   5 md
Weeding:                  26 md
Harvesting:               10 md
Threshing/bagging:         4 md
60 mandays x 20            120
Total 63 mandays                 139
Net Benefit/feddan                                               61
F. Settlements
3.07      Benefits from establishing controlled settlements were not
measured. Nevertheless, these are suitable production units where
fertilizer and animal traction technologies could be introduced by simple
extension.
3.08      There would still be additional production from settlements as a
result of opening up new land even if fertilizer and animal-drawn
implements were not used. Incremental production from one settlement with
400 households would be about 310 tons of millet and 340 tons of groundnuts
(unshelled) after adjusting for production foregone from previously settled
but exhausted or weed infected areas. This estimate is based on average
farm cize of 6 hectares per household with a cropping pattern cf 75% millet
and 25Z groundnuts.
G. Economic Evaluation
3.09      Given the snort implementation period and pilot nature of the
project, no attempt was made to carry out an economic evaluation and
therefore no rate of return has been estimated,



. -25-
IV. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
A. Borrower
4.01      The GOS provided most of the political and institutional support
the project required. It issued import tax exemptions and gave priority to
WSDC in the allocation of fuel and disbursements against budgetary
allocation.  GoS toox a keen Interest in the affairs of WSDC and
participated fully in the mid-term review of the project and provided
policy guidance in the preparation and appraisal of the follow-on project.
However, the Government bureaucracy caused delays in the project
effectiveness and was responsible for some delays in the procurement of
imported items especially when decrees were passed temporarily suspending
importation of certain items such as vehicle tires and batteries. The
worsening economic situation in the Sudan forced the Government to reduce
its recurrent expenditure, hence slowing down the pace or restricting the
scope of activities of the cooperating agencies, in particular during the
last two years of project implementation.
B. Regional Government (KG) and Cooperating Agencies
4.02      During project implementation, the Darfur regional administration
gradually became more conversant with the benefits accruing from project
activities, cooperation between RG and WSDC improved over time, and a
fruitful environment for project implementation progressively emerged. RG
provided the legal support for the establishment of land enclosures for
range improvement. WSDC was enaoled to register land and issue leases to
individual households in the controlled settlements. Drought and an influx
of refugees into the region from neighboring countries and north Darfur
caused the administration to allocate considerable resources to famine
relief activities, and this effectively prevented the regional government
from providing the full financial support project cooperating agencies
required. RG has been reluctant to enable NWC to make adequate cost
recovery trom users for tull wateryard operation and maintenance; however,
it did agree to NWC raising water charges fourfold to cover about 60% of
those costs.
C. Project Management
4.03      The greatest strength of the project has lain with the able
leadership of management and the resultant hard work of a few senior
staff. Despite the project's remote location and sparse local
infrastructure, WSDC nowihas created an image of dependability in the
region. The corporation's capacity to plan and implement regional
development programs is well-recognized. Sudanese management has
demonstrated innovation and adaptability and so succeeded in solving
implementation problems in a location and environment where the project
appraisal team had doubts about those possibilities; hence the pilot nature
of the project.
4.04      Nonetheless, WSDC has some problems that will need attention in
the future. During project implementation, the corporation was unable to
attract sufficient Sudanese staff with the required training and experience
to this remote region to take over from expatriates in the technical



-26-
fields. The success of WSDC was a result of the dedication of its staft
and the ability of its management in creating team spirit in the
organization. More adequate financial rewards should augment those
qualities in the tuture. The private sector should be supported and
encouraged in the future to progressively take over responsibilities for
some services currently supported by WSDC, such as veterinary services and
maintenance of wateryards, and tractor hire services. RG needs to be
strengthened in areas of planning and coordination of projects, and the
capacity created in RG to supervise and evaluate development. Provision
for training of staff of local institutions and a mid-term review of
responsibilities is proposed in the follow-on project. Furthermore, the
ultimate role of W6DC has yet to become clear. It could remain in its
present form, or shrink to become a small core of technical specialists, or
expand to assume the mantle of responsibility for all Government
agricultural services within the region.
D. Azcountilng and Auditing
4.05      The accounting system that existed in WSDU prior to WSP was
basically cash accounting.  A commercial accounting system was introduced
in 1981/82 by re-organizing books of accounts to produce trial balances
leading to balance sheets and asset inventories. An expatriate Finance
Manager financed out of the credit, introduced these new accounting
procedures and internal auditing, and established proper management
procedures for stocks and stores. Local staff have been trained in the new
accounting procedures. With an improvement in the accounting system, WSDC
was able to prepare and submit applications for reimbursement from the
credit promptly and this helped to ease liquidity problems. WSDC accounts
for 1981/82, 1982/83, 1983/84 and 1984/85 were submitted to the Auditor
General's Office for auditing within six months after the end of each
fiscal year.   The audit certificate on the accounts for the final year of
the project (1984/85) was issued by the Auditor General in April 1986.
SOEs were audited quarterly by the Auditor General throughout the project
implementation period.
V.  BANK PERFORMANCE
A. Identification
5.01      The Bank recognized the adverse economic situation Sudan was
undergoing in the late 1970s and agreed with GOS that at that time,
rehabilitation of the irrigated sub-sector should take investment priority
because of its capacity to rapidly increase foreign exchange earnings.
Tnerefore it was necessary to redesign the Savannah Development Project
(Credit 718-SU) and the South Darfur Rural Development Project so as to
reduce the size of their total investment. That investment was then
consolidated into one project - WSP. The uncertainties of technological
interventions and WSDC's then unknown capacity to implement the proposed
developments indicated the need for that project to be a pilot operation.



-27-
B. Project Supervision
5.02      Seveti supervisions were carried out, some jointly with
cofinanciers for a total of 22-staff weeks in the field. Findings of these
supervision missions included the following:
a)   It was noted at the early stage of the project that cooperating
agencies in the region were facing problems of inadequate local
funding and that they needed technical assistance to strengthen
their worn planning capacity.
D)   Serious disagreements developed between WSDC and SFD concerning
procurement of vehicles. SFD insisted that vehicles provided in
the project for the cooperating agencies were no longer needed
after discovering that contributions made by these agencies were
falling short of expectations. SFD also wanted WSDC to procure
vehicles in three annual installments, whereas WSDC needed to
procure all or most of the vehicles in the first project year.
These disputes were eventually resolved but meantime had slowed
the pace of implementation.
c)   The construction of out station buildings was delayed following
the insistence of SFD to have a single contractor undertake that
construction. No single contractor was willing to undertake the
job due to the remoteness and scatter of the sites. After
prolonged discussion, SFD agreed to go along with the WSDC
proposal to import materials and use force account and for local
site-specific contractors to do the construction.
d)   SFD suspended loan disbursements to all projects in Sudan in 1984
following overdue payments. As a result, procurement of vehicles
surfered further delay.
e)   GUS temporarily suspended importation of some materials into the
country. This caused delay and forced WSDC to procure these
materials locally at high prices.
f)   During implementation there were delays in auditing WSDC accounts
by the Auditor General, However, all accounts up to June 30,
1985 have now been audited (Section 4.02 (v) of the Project
Agreement).
5.03      The Bank identified a number of these issues that were affecting
project implementation, but despite Bank intervention, these took time to
resolve.
5.04      Considering procurement delays faced by the project, the Bank
agreed to finance local transportation costs by road from Port Sudan to
Nyala to expedite delivery despite high costs. This decision paid off;
however, better alternatives should be explored under the second phase.



-28-
5.05      At appraisal the Bank spent little time evaluating technical
feasibility of implementing flood irrigation. If enough preparatory work
had been done, the flood irrigation component would not have been included               4
in the project. After-a study by a consulting engineer early in the
implementation period to determine whether it was feasible to Implement
this component, the Bank accepted recommendations to drop flood irrigation
from the project. However, It was a pilot project and flood Irrigation a
very small component (US$0.1 million).
C. Performance of Consultants
5.06      Consultants financed under the project to strengthen WSDC
management performed well. Thev were diligent and devoted to their work.
The Sudanese senior management had full control over the technical
assistance staff, and were in a position to cautiously monitor their
performance,
5.07       The consulting firm assigned to carry out a mid-term review of
the project produced high quality work; as a result it was assigned to
prepare the second phase of the project.
VI. CONCLUSIONS
6.01      Most project objectives agreed at appraisal were accomplished in
varying degrees but with overall satisfactory results. However, the flood
irrigation component was not implemented after it was found unfeasible.
Results achieved in all the main components will bring about subatantial
yield increases and enable WSDC to move from the pilot phase into the
development phase in a second project.
6.02      Lessons learnt from WSP are discussed below.
a)   The project showed that location specific technology to increase
agricultural production can be Identified quite quickly if an
applied research component Is central to project success and if
the farmers constraints to inereased production are accurately
assessed and addressed in well managed technology trials.
b)   WSDC has demonstrated that local management can be effective in
achieving successful project implementation even in so remote art
area as South Darf r if given adequate Government and Bank
supervision ard support.
c)   GOS over-estimated the capacity of RG to finance project
cooperating agencies. They therefore needed more support than
was provided in the project design.



-29-
d)   Because of the remoteness of the project area, more preparation
work to determine alternative ways to speed up procurement and
staffing for the project would have hastened early
implementation. However, these shortcomings were largely
overcome by imaginative management and did not have a serious
adverse effect.
e)   In their present form, district, rural and village councils datL
from 1951, though they were considerably extended in number and
powers after the 1971 Peoples Local Government Act. Since
regionalization in 1981, district councils relate directly to the
Regional Council, by-passing the Provincial tier, though a
Provincial Land Use Coumnittee does not exist in Nyala. WSDC has
been able to establish a good working relationship with the
district councils, especially those of Eastern, Southern and
South Western districts, where most project activities have taken
place.
f)   Circumstances have made it necessary so far for WSDC to work
primarily through the distr'.ct councils in establishing the
settlements, although tribal authorities have been closely
involved in development of grazing schemes, particularly in the
nomad community. The tribal authorities were not recognized
officially by GOS until very recently, and their current official
status is still unclear. It will be necessary, however, during
the follow-on project for increasing attention to be paid by WSDC
to the involvement of the beneficiaries through their traditional
authorities in the management of project programs. This will
require a range of aptitudes and skills not previously required
of tribal leaders, and a training component should be included in
the follow-on project to address these needs.



-30-
*LTI&SAMI ? I                CREDZT. 1181-S
la~ Indigators
Appraisal
Estimates        Actual     Actual/Estimated Z
Wateryard Rehabilitation        150             150              100
Raflirs                           7               2               28
Boreholes                         5               3               60
Settlents                         4               4              100
Dsvelopment Cdnters               3               3              100
Range Sites                       3               2               67
Animl Health Sites                4               1               25
Road Improvement                  4               2               50
Flood Irrigation                  2               0                0



-31-                                       ANNVX 2
SUDAN
WESTEEIN SAVANNAH PROJECT - CKEDIT 1181 - SU
Project Completion Report
Disbursement Schedule (US$ Millions)
Appraisal Estimates                     Actuals
Quarterly      Cumulative        Quarterly        Cumulative
Fiscal Year    Quarter               Disbursement   Disbursement        Disbursement   Disbursement
1980/81        June 1981                  1.0             10                -                 -
1961*'82       September 1981             1.0              2.0               -                 -
December 1981              1.0              3.0               -                 -
March 1982                 2.0              5.0               -                 -
June 1982                  1.0              6.0               -                 -
1982/83        September 1982             0.9              6.9              0.8               0.8
December 1982              0.7              7.6              2,6               3.4
March 1983                 U.7              8.3              0.8               4.2
June 1983                  0.7              Y.0              0.9               5.1
1983/84        September 1983             0.9              9.9              0.7               5.8
December 1983              U.7             10.6              0,6               6.4
March 1984                 0.7             11.3               1.1              7.5
June 1984                  0.1             12.0              0.7               8.2
1984/85        September 1984             o.4             12.4              1.0               9.2
December 1984              0.3             12.7              1.0              10.2
Marcn 1985                 0.2             12.9              0.2              10.4
June 1985                  0.1             13.0              0.5              10.9
1985/86        September 1985              -                                1.4              12.3
December 1985               -                                0.3              12.6
March 1986                                                   0.- u2           12.8
June 1986                                  0- .1                              12.9



SUDAN
WVSTERM SAVANNA PROJECT - CREDIT 1181-SU
Project Comapletion Report
VSDC Expenditure by Category
(LSD '000)
pre-                                              1984-85
Category                    Project       1981-82      1982-83      1983-84    Projected      Tot.Its
Development Centers           277            263         425           599         773         2337
Settlements                    60            216         326           581        654          1837
Naga'a Development             -              13          117          325         382          837
Range Services                 -              16          33           376        368           793
Veterinary Services            54            196          178          345         429         1202
Trypanasomiasis Control        -              -           37           147          80          264
Water Supply                   13            161         701          1190        1848         3913
Management & Admln           1918           1469        2634          2981        4867        13869
Engineering Services          287            571         1045          793        1045         3741
Planning Monitoring
& Evaluation                 -              68         176           219         335          798
Track Improvement              -              -           126          280          40          446
Total Cost                   2609           2973        5798          7836       10821        30037
Total Expenditure
US$ maillion (Equivalent)
Exc. Rate LSD to US$ 1/       0.5            0.8         0.9           1.3         1.9           1.1
US$ million         5.2           3.7          6.4           6.0        5.7           27.0
Aj
/ Average.



SUDAN
WESTERN SAVANNAH PROJECTs- CREDIT 1181-SO
Project Completion Report
WSDC Expenditure Susmary
(LSD '000)
PP@        1981-82       1982-83      1983-84      1984-85     Totals
Water Supply Equipment          -            89.0         561.0         884.5      1355.5      2890.0
Building Constructions        338.5         586.3         475.9         492.7       515.0      2408.4
Vehicles                      182.8         205.9         366.0         732.4       1558.8    3045.9
Machinery & Equipment          37.5          73.4         346.8         497.5       267.1      1222.3
Veterinary Drugs                -             -            37.0          86.0         8.8       131.8
latersational Staff
Consultancies & Fellowships    -            507.4         776.0         668.9      1735.6      3687.9                            a
WSDC Staff and Allowances    747.3          569.7         647.2         743.7       986.0      3693.9
Vehicle Operation             739.8         498.7        1703.7        2442.4      2739.6      8124.2
Air Craft Hire                342.7        244.6          424.8         450.5       687.5      2150.1
Rental of Buildings           113.8         112.1          88.8         164.3       193.5       672.5
Other Civil Works               -             -            41.0         280.0       150.0       471.0
Field Allowances                -             -            85.7         143.4       169.0       398.1
miscillaneous Costs           106.2          64.2         222.5         219.7       3'P8.2      920.8
Agricultural Inputs/supplies   -             22.2          21.3          30.0       146.7       220.2
Total Expenditure            2608.6        2973.5        5797.7        7836.0     10821.3    30037.1
I1



-34-
Annex 4
SUDAN
WESTERN SAVANNAH PROJECT - CREDIT 1181-SU
ProlectCmltineot
Cml1ance with Naor Covenants of the Credit ftojects Agremeint
I.  Accounts or Audit                                   Status
CA 3.02 (b)     Regular replenishing
of account                         Complled
PA 2.08         Establish sound accounting
practices                          Complied
PA 4.01         Maintaining of financial
records                            Complied
PA 4.02         Submit annually audited            Accounts complete
accounts and statements            to July 1984 but
of expenditures                    delay in auditing
CA 3.06          aintain staffing and               Not fully complied.
operational capacity of             Comlicated by de-
regional services at                centralization,
1980/81 level.                      rinderpest epidemlc,
and drought.Staffing
maintained but
funding was not
adequate as .cost
recoery programs
were not Implemented
1I,Reports an Wok Plans
PA 2.04 (a)     Preparation of annual               All work plas and
vork plan and annual budget.        budgets were
submitted.
PA 21ll  (C)'   Submission of reports sad           Periodic reporting
docuents to the Association         very satisfactory.
and preparation of a semiannal    Annual reports to
progress report.                    Jume '84 and
seMI-annual
report to Dec. '84
received.
Note:      CA Credit Agreement
PA Project Agreement



-35-
Chart 1
.~~~~~~I                              'eaR '
X i11i It
a ~~s i3 I.li. i



LEGEND
0-*  . - .pr4ca
I  S                                                                  -.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LI w WOi.
MEAL                                                                   Dipl    Copitl
b ° ~~~~~~~~~~* 11s  *u                                  0M  *M*a *e dq
! \ t o  ...                                        Qoj
I           0 .a                                                            '
I. v                                                                                           -**QIE' 
w  _  - --' 's, ' \-                                       i
" m  20  W40   -  0   ?0                                            D      C   p 
CA   a  a
j       wEI Als_ El  -            ..                                          ,= ,s, &EI\L.w
Goa  Al\in"ii,L_,,,,~
Aruvxoa; \R+, .,  
aX\  -                                                                                            /
&El Ah=o                                                1'. 41a              ,,.
/    ~WESTERN "VNM  PRJECT  t                     \9
SCA&I



,                                                     ~~~~~~DA RFUR
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rv
OTi.busku~                             \    F     <     ; hAuSho  
EthidolGhonttm  DltoO ve 3 >o\ A \ \| \ > \~Solon
,                      ~~~~~~~~~~~AbuAcilstl                                                                           -7  / J !\ 4 S t 
>i   oeb                             Awtd                       --\7          7        t        -5 0J
r        '       D           OGidod                            ESuntel Got  \           4    .     N       AABU  MAtA~Dito5
°UdGhnmmTbnt¢0°S~\d 
4  ,t   et  '     *+vQur,ida  ot.t 1-                                  o o        \      \1 
tXr   c   t+                       aikti                   &             \7        \ 
Ab S*  a       X    ^W  . <lru.                              ftel                           \>
s  ^ i8 uioK.tEel  !wt*§am     Abya X\X   X\X
0 2 ¢- g^ *' - 7 -''' , Ti. ai\
APPStR~~~~~~~~~~~~Oid.ld                                          E4tRs.k Sunta o.f Ga4 j
c   t   aA   lt  e  3 . i\ Sinun~~~~~~~~SU  AT
o n   e -   f          X               X            B~~~~~urniz  A H      GHA2A                                   .
,~~~~~~ 0, ,O                                ,            /       
00<~ ~ ~ Um  T i 6  . ina                      oem   g        *,  
O           5                             ;          v                                                             \~~I
VCCOOOSSa%rD //S - ; ° 6,~~0 ;OTwI,OKLOFFR
°° " / O tO 20 ... ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bei0rO . 
^0°°   °5   {~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



tURD 1S6
2i                                                         2;'APRIL ti
I                                                        SUDAN
/                                      WESTERN SAVANNAH PROJECT
Water Resources & Livestock
/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tjc area budr
Research center (Agricultural Research Corp.)
|                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Developmeent centers
Heodirtets(WS DC
Livestock development areas
*                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Existing main cultivotion
Land systems
\                              *      ~~~~~~~~~~~~Cottle markets ond railway yords(L M.M C 1
\                             e      ~~~~~~~~~~Market towns
ELo'eit                                            0       Other towns
-       Secondary stock routes (diagromatic, not all shown)
Fellata routes
1Angabo                                                                               *                      -Habboniyo routes
Wad Gi                                                          A      Trypanasomiosis treratment centers
545                                                        *4s'                                                            , , _ Existing haffirs
ama  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~Isohyots
~   ~  Rivers
GJmm Doi                                                                                                              -.,.,   , Railroads
Rural Council boundaries
.. .. _ - - + Abu Karinka 
uMWfjftvV D     -                                           Ma2rub                                             -            Regional bouvndcrces
*M.nwiwc                                                                           **     *   wateryard maintenance centers
ED DAEIN                                                                                                                     6scJrnh
, ,DOr Es olm    oHila Horror
AbuGabra station                                                  ,
AdQo                             -_
'JlrnmRklb.                             Shoti                                         Bbonusa
A~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~-~!' Itre c\ M\                      l  eic^i
- Goghan                               --..,____.
KOR?DOFAN
,Abu Gobra                                                                Mga
LA                                         a                                                                            glami    8**)d bw
,Mdkuk Hamad
ABU MATARIQ
p~~~~~~~~~ - i                                                                                         R8RtC,GP  >S
-'   ~~~~~~~~,                            0~~~~El Hoid         ~e
'Nio~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W                                            "  --t .; eb\f -A.-     J\
\%.\  .\-  .. Q_-                                                                                 ; \  lo SJ /t~\ \N
\\\\- =   -      R\e   >
.. __r~    M. i.v_A,o au 
0Nyamis                                                                                                                          VAi,.,v  iv.A  We.i i, 
*Sirwn                                 U                         ,  ,        *i~~~~       ~~       ~       ~~~~~~~~~~ram  2C    AlA
Umm Agag                                        *                         I8
-AYA                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~DASFUS
CHAD          ',
~~Nakato    ~~~~~~   **. ~~BAHR EL ARAB                                                      '., .'~c   e               ;     ( -



