Document of                  FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3107-SU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR A
WESTERN SAVANNAH PROJECT
August 6, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 1/
Currency Unit = Sudanese Pound (hSd) = 100 piasters = 1,000 milliemes
Official Market                                Parallel Market
US$1.00  = I-Sd 0.50                            US$1.00  =  bSd 0.80
bSd 1.00 = US$2.00                              bSd 1.00 =  US$1.25
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Units                English Units               Sudanese Units
1 Hectare (ha)      =       2.47 acres (ac)       =     2.38 feddans (fd)
Metric Units                English Units                     US Units
I liter             =  0.22 Imperial gallons    =  0.26 U.S. gallons
1 metric ton (ton) = 2,202.6 lbs
ABBREVIATIONS
ARC   -   Agricultural Research Corporation
LMMC  -   Livestock and Meat Marketing Corporation
ODA   -   Overseas Development Administration  of the
United Kingdom
SFD   -   Saudi Fund for Development
WSDC  -   Western Savannah Development Corporation
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
1/   On September 16, 1979, the Government established a dual exchange rate
system: An official rate of US$2.00 per Sudanese pound was adopted along
with a parallel market rate of US$1.25 per Sudanese pound. Valuation
of all imports for customs purposes has been changed to the new official
rate (LSd 1 = US$2.00) from the previous official rate (hSd 1 = US$2.50).
On September 21, 1980 the Government moved to the parallel market all
exports except cotton and all imports except wheat, sugar, petroleum
products, medicines and inputs for cotton production. With the exception
of petroleum products and import duties, all cost estimates are based on
the parallel market rate.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SUDAN
PROPOSED WESTERN SAVANNAH PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Democratic Republic of the Sudan
Beneficiary:        Western Savannah Development Corporation (WSDC)
Amount:             SDR 11.2 million (US$13.0 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard IDA terms.
Project             The proposed Project would be a smaller, pilot version of
Description:       an existing project--Savannah Development Project (Credit
718-SU), which could not be implemented as originally
planned because of Sudan's economic crisis. The proposed
pilot operation would retain the long term objective of the
earlier project, however, by helping lay the foundation
for long term development of Western Sudan. It would:
(a) test strategies for improving livestock and range
production; (b) identify and test agronomic packages
and extension methods for crop production, both for area
expansion and yield increase; and (c) test approaches to
settlement and soil conservation. The major risks now
foreseen include establishment of a relatively stable
system of animal husbandry and crop production in an
area where transhumant populations have traditionally
predominated. The pilot project is intended to provide
the incentives and support facilities to help carry out
this transformation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
-- (US$ Million) -----------
Estimated Cost:                       Local          Foreign           Total
Development Centers                    0.7             1.1              1.8
Settlements                            1.0             0.8              1.8
Flood Irrigation                       0.1               -              0.1
Range Services                         0.4             0.5              0.9
Veterinary Services                    0.9             0.9              1.8
Water Supply                           0.3             0.9              1.2
Management and Administration          2.0             3.6              5.6
Engineering and Logistics              1.3             1.9              3.2
Planning, Monitoring, Evaluation       0.1             0.7              0.8
Total Baseline Cost                  6.8            10.4             17.2
Physical Contingencies                 0.5             1.1              1.6
Price Contingencies                    1.4             1.3              2.7
Total Project Cost                   8.7            12.8             21.5
Financing Plan:
------------(US$ Million)-----------
Local         Foreign           Total
IDA                                    3.0             9.0              12.0 1/
Overseas Development Administration   -                1.2               1.2
Saudi Fund                             1.8             2.6               4.4
Government                             3.9              -                3.9 2/
Total                             8.7           12.8               21.5
---------(US$ Million)--------
Estimated Disbursements:         IDA    FY82      FY83     FY84    FY85
Annual                                   6.0       3.0     3.0       1.0
Cumulative                               6.0       9.0    12.0      13.0
Estimated Rate of Return:    Not applicable (pilot project).
Staff Appraisal Report:       Report No. 3426-SU of July 17, 1981.
Map:                          IBRD No. 15642.
1/   The IDA Credit proposed is actually US$13.0 million; however, US$1.0 mil-
lion of this would be used, upon effectiveness, to prepay funds disbursed
and outstanding, including charges, from Credit 718-SU.
2/   The Sudanese Government contribution includes taxes and duties estimated
at US$1.5 million equivalent.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR A WESTERN SAVANNAH PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Democratic Republic of the Sudan for SDR 11.2
million (US$13.0 million equivalent) to help finance the Western Savannah
Project. The Credit would be on standard terms; US$12 million would be onlent
to the Western Savannah Development Corporation on a grant basis and the
remaining US$1.0 million would be used, upon effectiveness, to prepay funds
disbursed and outstanding, including charges, from Credit 718-SU, which is
proposed to be cancelled. The Overseas Development Administration (U.K.)
is providing a grant of US$1.2 million equivalent and the Saudi Fund for
Development a Loan of US$4.4 million equivalent, repayable over 20 years
including five years grace at 2 percent interest per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic updating mission visited Sudan in November, 1978 and
in mid-1979; its report (No. 2652-SU) was circulated on October 24, 1979.
Major conclusions are reflected in this report along with the principal
findings of an economic mission which visited the country in January/February
1981. The report of the latter mission will be issued in the near future.
Summary tables of social, economic and financial data are presented in
Annex I.
Background
3.        Sudan, with an area of 2.5 million square kilometers, is the
largest country in Africa. It has a population of about 17 million and is
classified by the UN as a least developed country. Per capita GNP is
estimated at about US$470 (1980 Atlas methodology) 1/. Much of the country
is unoccupied or very sparsely populated and there is relatively little
population pressure on the land. Although much of the country is desert or
semi-desert, the Sudan has great untapped potential for agricultural develop-
ment. About two-thirds of the total land area is suitable for crop or
pastoral production, but only a small fraction of this land is under inten-
sive use. The economy is heavily dependent on exports of cotton, the major
commodity from irrigated land, and on groundnuts, sesame and gum arabic.
The manufacturing sector is relatively small and is limited to processing
agricultural commodities such as cotton, oil seeds and sugar and to the pro-
duction of consumer goods and building materials. A development of potential
significance to Sudan's prospects is the discovery of oil reserves in the
1/   Based on the official exchange rate, which now applies only to a limited
group of products (ref. para. 16). The 1980 per capita GNP at the
parallel exchange rate would be about US$265.



southwestern part of the country. Proven reserves are not large enough for
export production. However, they are large enough to help satisfy part of
the country's domestic requirements and a project to meet this objective is
now being considered. The public sector has long been important in the
Sudanese economy. It embraces all modern irrigation facilities, the railways,
virtually all power and water supply and a significant proportion of industry,
commerce and finance. Although some industrial enterprises are being returned
to the private sector, about half of industrial GDP is still generated
within the public sector.
Past Performance
4.        Following the Addis Ababa accord of 1972, which brought an end to
the civil war in Sudan, the Government began to focus on the country's develop-
ment needs. Government's development objectives were spelled out in 1973 in
an Interim Action Program, which aimed mainly at removing the severe infra-
structural bottlenecks, attaining self-sufficiency in a number of consumer
goods and expanding agricultural exports to increase foreign exchange earnings.
At the time, prospects for financing this program through external assistance
looked very hopeful, particularly from Arab oil-exporting countries which
regarded Sudan as the future "breadbasket" of the Arab world. Government
development expenditure did expand rapidly, from LSd 42 million in 1973/74
to around LSd 170 million per year on average during the last three years of
the seventies, and it was generally directed towards high priority sectors.
Substantial amounts of foreign capital were forthcoming -- over the five years
1974-78 total commitments amounted to almost US$3 billion -- but the amounts
fell short of what was required, while limited absorptive capacity slowed
disbursements and delayed seriously the completion of the projects. Today,
despite several years of accelerated development effort, GDP is now stagnating
and the country is financially much worse off than when the development thrust
began.
The Current Crisis
5.        The most immediate problem facing Sudan is the balance of payments
crisis. Between 1972/73 and 1975/76, the deficit on current account increased
from US$39 million to nearly US$520 million and averaged around US$450 until
1980/81 when the combination of a doubling of oil prices and a serious decline
in cotton p-oduction pushed the current account deficit to more than US$750
million. In spite of high levels of external aid commitments, disbursements
actually declined between 1976 and 1978. International reserves fell from a
level equivalent to two months' imports in 1973/74 to only a few days worth
of imports today. External payments arrears of about US$1.3 billion have
accumulated.
t.        The crisis is largely the consequence of inadequate economic manage-
ment compounded by external factors such as the sharply increased cost of
petroleum imports. Adverse developments in foreign trade were accompanied by
other adverse forces -- reduced flows of external capital after 1976, mounting
debt problems and absorptive capacity difficulties.



7.        The rapid increase in the value of imports came about partially
because of the sharp increase in oil prices and the steep rate of interna-
tional inflation, particularly in 1974 and 1975. Though there was a sharp
rise in real terms between 1973/74 and 1975/76, imports have increased at
the much more moderate pace since then of 2 to 3 percent a year on average.
Since 1977/78 imports have declined in real terms by about 10 percent per
year. Exports declined in real terms by some 20 percent between 1972/73 and
1979/80. The decline was concentrated in cotton and this occurred because of
a shift from cotton to other crops and also because of falling cotton yields.
The volume of cotton exports in 1979/80 was about 20 percent lower than in
1972/73. Transport difficulties and other infrastructural problems contri-
buted to this Cecline, as did declining maintenance in many public irrigation
schemes.
8.        The rise in development expenditures after 1973 wd5 finaaced in
large measure by external capital, but because of the absorptive problems,
disbursements of this capital declined unexpectedly after the first few
years, dropping from US$463 million in 1974 to US$183 million in 1977.
Because of the slow disbursements and accumulating arrears, external donors
became less willing to make new commitments. Sudan faced a difficult choice:
either to cut back on projects just started or to maintain the projects by
running down foreign exchange reserves and borrowing from banks or other
sources abroad. The Government decided to try to sustain the development
effort by using reserves and by borrowing heavily on relatively hard terms.
International reserves declined from US$124 million at the end of 1974 to
US$22 million at the end of 1977/78. As foreign reserves ran out, the accum-
ulation of arrears became unavoidable. Meanwhile, annual external public
debt service obligations increased from US$54 million in 1973 to over US$300
million at present. The debt service burden as a proportion of exports of
goods and services increased in those years from 12 percent to over 35 percent.
The reasons were (a) the huge amount of external borrowing in 1974-77 and
(b) the fact that a large proportion of the borrowing was on relatively hard
terms. This unfavorable debt profile has not only led to a very difficult
debt service burden but also has critical implications for future debt service
obligations (ref. para. 23).
9.        Sudan's balance of payments problems reflect a number of fundamental
deficiencies in absorptive capacity and in economic policies. For example,
the inadequacies and unreliability of the transport system, which in a country
the size of Sudan is absolutely crucial for effective development, remains a
serious constraint on implementation capacity. Because of the scarcity of
foreign exchange, maintenance of the capital stock has been insufficient.
These and other infrastructure bottlenecks have been exacerbated by an exodus
of qualified Sudanese managers and craftsmen to the oil producing Arab coun-
tries.
10.       A major reason behind Sudan-s current troubles has been the wide-
spread price distortions in the agricultural sector, which have hampered
expansion in output, particularly of cotton. This, in turn, has jeopardized
export performance and resulted in a net drain on the central government
reserves for the past five years. Although the exchange rate has been
adjusted several times in recent years, cotton has generally received an
unfavorable effective rate compared to other products.



- 4 -
11.       The system of explicit and implicit disincentives to growing cotton
also has helped make the situation worse. For example, under the historic
profit sharing formulae in the main irrigation schemes, the expenses of all
crops are generally deducted from the proceeds of cotton sales alone. Returns
from other crops accrue to the tenant, giving them a strong disincentive to
growing cotton, despite the fact that the country's international comparative
advantage would be greatest in that crop.
12.       The structural weakness in Sudan's public sector finances became
increasingly pronounced during the course of the 1970s. Sharp increases
in expenditures were not matched by increases in revenue. The consequent
sharp rise in public sector demands on the domestic banking system led to a
rapid acceleration in the growth of money supply, which peaked at 43 percent
in 1976/77. This in turn contributed to an acceleration in annual price
increases from about 10 percent in the early 1970s to over 20 percent in
more recent years. Most of the increases in current expenditures have been
for social and community services, transfers to local government and general
administration. The sharp increases in general administration expenditures
are due in large part to wages and salaries of civilians in the central
government, cost of living subsidies and extra-budgetary expenditures. On
the revenue side, tax revenues have increased over the past few years; since
the tax system is relatively inelastic, this increase has been made possible
only with frequent new tax measures.
13.       Another contributing factor to Sudan's current crisis is the poor
performance of the public enterprises, which dominate all non-traditional
activities in the country. These enterprises have not contributed to economic
development as expected. Instead of yielding surpluses, they have relied
on the central Government and domestic borrowing to cover their deficits.
A study of the public enterprises was carried out in 1977 by a team consisting
of Government, University of Khartoum, private sector and Bank Group represen-
tatives; the final report was issued in April 1978. The main shortcomings of
the public enterprises, as portrayed in the report, included poor management,
inadequate internal organization and control, contradictory and unclear
objectives and often changing relations with ministries and departments.
Policy Changes
14.       Against this background of serious payments imbalances and general
economic crisis stemming from structural maladjustments in production and
trade, the Government in the last three years has taken several significant
decisions aimed at re-establishing financial equilibrium and restoring the
economy's development momentum.
(a) Financial Stabilization and IMF Agreements
15.       In June 1978, a stabilization program was announced as part of a
standby agreement with the IMF that involved a drawdown of 51 million SDRs.
The agreement included a devaluation of the Sudanese pound, effectively by 25
percent, and declarations of intent by the Government to keep deficit financing
and short and medium term foreign borrowing within certain limits. Also, the



- 5 -
Government announced that the pricing system in the irrigated agriculture
sector would be reformed and that land and water charges would be imposed on
most crops. Implementation of these measures is still in progress. In May
1979, agreement was reached on a set of policy actions to be taken by Govern-
ment in order to obtain access to a three year Extended Fund Facility (EFF)
for SDR 200 million. The policy actions involve essentially an extension of
those agreed as part of the Fund standby in June 1978. Simultaneously with
these developments, the Government has taken steps -- abolition of the cotton
export tax, and revamping of agricultural production relationships -- which
should help considerably to recast the pattern of financial incentives in the
agriculture sector along lines that are consistent with Sudan's comparative
advantage in international trade.
16.       On September 16, 1979, the Government enacted additional signiticaut
measures with respect to the exchange rate system. These included: (i) estab-
lishment of an official rate of US$2 per Sudanese pound, with valuation of all
imports for customs purposes at the new official rate; (ii) abolishment of a
special incentive rate for remittances and establishment of a parallel exchange
market with an initial rate of LSd 1 = US$1.25; and (iii) agreement to allow
residents and nonresidents to have current accounts with Sudanese banks
denominated in foreign exchange. Under this system, some 90 percent of
exports, 70 percent of imports, and all official invisibles, cash loans and
debt service came under the official rate while all other transactions were
under the parallel market rate. It was believed that the availability of
interest-bearing domestic accounts denominated in foreign currency would
encourage the flow of private sector funds to the Sudan, especially from
expatriate Sudanese working abroad. On September 21, 1980, the Government
decided to apply the parallel market rate to all exports except cotton and all
imports except petroleum, wheat, sugar, medicines and inputs to cotton produc-
tion. As a result, the proportion of exports channeled through the parallel
market has increased, as a result, from about 6 percent to about 64 percent
and imports from 48 percent to about 56 percent.
17.       Subsequently, on November 12, 1980, the Fund Board approved a
second year program under the EFF. The program includes important measures
to improve the incentives for cotton production, to reform further the ex-
change system and to limit credit expansion in the economy to a level which
is consistent with a substantial reduction in the rate of inflation. The
exchange system reform involves basically a further widening of the scope
of operations under the parallel market (ref. para 16). The objective of the
second year financial program under the EFF is to achieve a further reduction
in the rate of inflation to about 12 percent by June, 1981. Approval of the
second year program means that Sudan now has access to a further 176 million
SDR's under the EFF, 76 million of which was disbursed immediately upon
approval by the Fund Board and the remainder to be made available in tranches,
depending on Government performance. Disbursements under the second year
program have been slowed, among other things, by difficulties encountered
in restricting net domestic asset creation; the tranche based on a review
as of the end of December 1980 was not released, but the IMF Board did on
April 9, 1981 approve release of 19.8 million SDR's under the first credit



-6-
tranche (which had been expanded by the general IMF quota increase) and of
45.7 million SDR's under the Compensatory Financing Facility. In June 1981
an IMF mission was unable to reach agreement with Government on a third-year
program for the EFF, which was to have begun on July 1, 1981. This was
largely because of problems associated with the impact on prices and subsi-
dies that a devaluation, originally scheduled for June 30, would have had.
Discussions between Government and the Fund on this and related matters
are continuing.
(b) Export Promotion and Public Investment Programs
18.       An essential ingredient in the Government's stabilization program
is a concerted drive to increase foreign exchange earnings through increased
exports. This is being carried out under the Export Action Program (EAP),
initiated in mid-1979. The EAP is designed to raise the volume of cotton
exports at an average rate of 7 percent per annum during the period 1979-91.
Investments and actions towards this goal would also contribute to larger
exports of groundnut and sorghum, since these crops would also capture some of
the benefits of the program. The EAP comprises (a) a series of urgently
needed investments aimed mainly at satisfying immediate requirements for spare
parts, replacement equipment and inputs of various types, principally in the
major irrigation schemes where the zhief export crops are grown (proceeds of
the recently approved Agricultural Rehabilitation Program (ARP) (Credit No.
1000-SU) would help fulfill this aspect of the EAP); (b) a series of rehabi-
litation projects to be carried out in the 1980's, also in the irrigated
subsector (the New Halfa Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, (Credit 1022-SU),
approved in May, 1980 was the first of these), and (c) policy and other
actions such as institutional reform and revision of cost recovery systems
intended to provide a conducive framework for accelerated production. Some
of these actions have already been taken; others are being implemented as
part of the ARP Credit, still others will be done in the context of planned
rehabilitation projects.
19.       Simultaneously with the EAP, the Government has reduced the overall
development program, as reflected in the six year plan, to a more realistic
framework consistent with expected external and domestic financial resources.
The Government in 1979 completed the Three Year Public Investment Program,
for the period 1978/79-1980/81. The program has recently been updated to
cover the years 1980/81-1982/83. A central objective of this program is a
significant redirection in Sudan's development effort to those activities
that hold greatest promise for increasing exports and revenue. To that end, a
new interim strategy has been adopted which sets essentially two criteria for
the selection of development projects: (i) concentration on the completion of
ongoing projects, particularly those in the most productive sectors, and
(ii) limiting new undertakings to those that rehabilitate existing produc-
tion schemes or that help alleviate the major infrastructural bottlenecks.
The revised three year program also provides for a substantial reduction in
the total investment that had been envisioned in the plan for the three years,
this has brought resource requirements into line with resource availabilities.
One result of this exercise is that two separate development projects origin-
ally planned to be implemented in Western Sudan have had to be consolidated
into a single, smaller pilot project proposed here.



-7-
(c) Public Corporations
20.       For some time, a special inter-ministerial committee has been dis-
cussing the recommendations of the study group on public enterprises (rEf.
para. 13); the Government has begun to take some action to help remedy the
situation. For example, in September, 1979, the Government announced the
abolition of a cumbersome and overly centralized corporate setup in agricul-
ture, and replaced it with more autonomous agricultural entities. Organiza-
tional change are expected shortly in the in'`_iqtrial and commercial sectors
as well. This is only a beginning, however, with more reforms expected
in the future.
(d)  Manigement of External Debt
21.       As indicated earlier (ref. para. 8), Sudan's external debt burden
has been quite heavy for a number of years. The total disbursed c^ tstanding
external debt at the end of 1978 amounted to more than US$2 billion and
scheduled debt service payments (principal and interest) for 1979 were almost
US$300 million (excluding payment of arrears). Until very recently, the
authority to engage in foreign borrowing and the administration of foreign
loans was scattered among many different ministries and agencies. The absence
of a central authority or unit which had a complete picture of the total debt
and which could render sound judgments on the appropriateness of various
foreign borrowing options further compounded the external debt problem.
This inefficiency has now been ameliorated through the decision to vest sole
authority for foreign borrowing with the Ministry of Finance. Also, a new
debt management unit in the Ministry of Finance became operational in 1979,
however its effectiveness is unsatisfactory and special assistance is being
provided under the recently approved Second Technical Assistance project.
22.       Equally significant, however, are the moves to deal with the severe
debt and arrears problems. In November 1979, a Paris Club meeting was held on
the rescheduling of Sudan's debt. Participating countries (Austria, Belgium,
Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Switzerland, the
United Kingdom, the United States) and the Government reached agreement on (a)
a rescheduling or a refinancing of amounts falling due before October 1, 1979
and not paid (arrears); and (b) a rescheduling or a refinancing of amounts
payable between October 1, 1979 and June 30, 1981 inclusive and not paid
(future debt service obligations). This will apply to loans from governments
or public agencies which had original maturities of more than one year and
which were concluded before January 1, 1979.
23.       The Paris Club accord involved rescheduling of about $300 million
worth of arrears (out of a total of about US$1.2 billion) and about $150
million of future debt service obligations. While the Paris Club agreements
were more generous in terms of period and percentage of debt service covered
than most other such Paris Club agreements and reduced the country's financing
gap to more manageable proportions in 1980 and 1981, they still fall short
of resolving Sudan's medium term external payments problems. Negotiations
are expected to be completed shortly on the rescheduling of debt to commercial



- 8 -
banks. This is now estimated to include about US$450 million of arrears. In
addition, about US$650 million of suppliers credits are in arrears and need to
be rescheduled. But even with these reschedulings completed, the country will
have debt service ratios above 50 percent by 1985 in the absence of further
relief. These reschedulings must therefore be seen as the first step in a
longer process of restructuring the nation's burden of external debt. As part
of the effort to help the Government obtain the foreign assistance required
to maintain the development effort, the Bank Group convened a meeting of the
Sudan Consultative Group in Paris from April 9-11, 1980.
24.       The Bank/IDA share of Sudan's medium and long-term debt service is
about 3 percent (based on scheduled liabilities for 1979) and of debt out-
standing and disbursed is almost 9 percent. We foresee relatively little
change in these ratios by 1985, though this will depend on the amounts and
forms of debt relief obtained.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE SUDAN
25.       World Bank Group gross commitments to Sudan to date total US$784.5
million. Of this, US$32.9 million are IFC commitments. There have been eight
loans (two on Third Window terms) and 28 credits for a total of 34 projects.
Twenty projects are under implementation as well as one planning assistance
project, funded by UNDP and executed by the Bank. About 50 percent of the
total Bank/IDA lending has gone into agricultural development: six irriga-
tion projects; three rainfed mechanized farming projects; three smallholder
development projects, two in the southern region and one in the west, a
livestock marketing project; an agricultural research project; an Agricultural
Rehabilitation Program. Projects in other sectors include: three power
projects, two education projects, two highway projects, a domestic aviation
project, four railway projects, a port project, two technical assistance
credits and two credits to the Industrial Bank of Sudan. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of May 31,
1981 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
26.       Physical progress in implementing development projects in Sudan has
been poor. Many projects have difficulty in getting key materials--cement,
fuel, timber, of which there are periodic shortages. Belated delivery of
equipment and supplies due to transportation difficulties also affects most
projects. The continuing drain of skilled manpower from Sudan to the Middle
East oil rich states, where job opportunities are better, takes its toll on
effective preparation and implementation of projects. Partly as a result
of these problems, as well as the current economic crisis in Sudan, the
Savannah Development Project (Credit 718 of June 24, 1977) has had to be
redesigned into the pilot project proposed here. Also, the Domestic Aviation
Project (Loan 1287-T; Credit 643 of July 7, 1976) has encountered a serious
cost overrun problem and may have to be terminated. The future of this
project is now being discussed with Government. Beyond these difficulties
there are other shortcomings traceable to inordinately cumbersome Government



- 9 -
procedures. For example, there have been protracted delays in getting par-
liamentary ratification of agreed development projects and, subsequently, in
obtaining legal opinions from Government. There have also been inordinate
delays in meeting effectiveness conditions, mainly because of problems in
establishing new institutions or project accounts, hiring key staff, completing
necessary legal documentation or concluding required cofinancing arrangements.
Effective project implementation has been adversely affected by slowness in
carrying out proper tendering and procurement requirements or in completing
project accounts and audits. These problems have been brought repeatedly to
the notice of Government authorities, and efforts are being intensified to
help resolve them. The recently approved Second Technical Assistance project
is designed to address the problems.
Strategy
27.       Bank Group lending continues to emphasize agricultural and infra-
structural investments. For the near term, and in accordance with the Govern-
ment's current economic and development objectives, more importance will be
placed on the rehabilitation and intensification of existing irrigation
schemes and on helping to alleviate key infrastructure bottlenecks. The
objective here will essentially be to help the country generate increased
export earnings to support the recovery effort. The emphasis in Bank Group
lending will be in support of those activities that contribute prominently
to the rehabilitation of the economy, in particular those that help increase
exports and expand government revenues. In the interim, less emphasis will be
placed on equity considerations or on regional balance in investment programs.
Recent experience has demonstrated that projects that were designed in large
part to help meet equity, as well as productive and regional balance goals,
will very likely take much longer to implement because of problems of inade-
quate infrastructure, lack of skilled manpower, absence of reliable institu-
tional support.
28.       This lending strategy is fully consistent with the Government's
policies, as reflected in the Export Action Program and the Three Year Public
Investment Program (ref. paras. 18, 19). An Agricultural Rehabilitation
Program Credit and the New Halfa Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, both
having the objective of helping the country generate increased export earnings
in order to help carry it through the stabilization period, were approved in
FY1980, along with a third power project. More recently, two projects were
approved to help rehabilitate pump schemes along the White and Blue Nile
rivers. A second Technical Assistance project was also recently approved.
Other projects under consideration include rehabilitation of the Gezira
irrigation scheme (Sudan's largest), an agricultural services project, a
second port project, a petroleum development project, a sugar rehabilitation
project and a river transport project.



- 10 -
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
29.       Sudan's agriculture contributes about 40% of GDP, over 90% of the
country's exports and provides a livelihood to about 80% of the population.
A key feature is the division between a modern sector comprising mainly the
irrigation and rainfed mechanized farming schemes and a traditional sector
based largely on shifting cultivation and transhumant animal husbandry.
Historically, investment has been heavily concentrated in the modern sector in
the east-central region. Past development efforts were largely geared towards
area expansion and have been accompanied by static or declining yields which
have contributed to Sudan's present economic and financial crisis. Under the
revised Three Year Investment Program and the Export Action Program, Government
aims at promoting export production from this sector through the rehabilita-
tion of existing production infrastructure, in particular in the irrigation
subsector.
30.       The traditional agriculture sector, by contrast, has received little
Government assistance although its contributions to employment, food produc-
tion and exports (livestock, millet, sesame, groundnuts, gum arabic) are
important. The combined value of these exports may amount to about one-fourth
of the total agriculture exports. Of major concern is the western savannah
area located in the Darfur and Kordofan regions, where growing population,
increasing settlement of former pastoralists and lack of land use planning
have led to environmental degradation and conflicts between farmers and
pastoralists. The main constraints to development in this area are poor
infrastructure (communication, transport, water supply, institutions), and
failure to adjust the social systems and production techniques to the changing
environment.
31.       A number of studies and limited research have been done in recent
years which indicate opportunities may exist to achieve sustained production
increases in the western savannah through support to existing smallholders and
pastoralists. The means to do this include land use planning and management,
allocation of areas for grazing, stock routes and cultivation, a strengthened
research base, improved animal husbandry and management as well as provision
of reliable water sources and transport infrastructure. This set of proposed
actions needs to be tested. If proven successful and implemented properly, it
should be possible to arrive at higher levels of economic activity which could
assist the country's development effort and help redress regional imbalances
as well.
The Project Area
32.       The project would be located in parts of the eastern and southern
districts of Southern Darfur province and its area would comprise some 92,000
km (see map). Project headquarters would be located at Nyala, which is
connected with Khartoum and Port Sudan by a railway line. There are no all
weather access roads into this area.



- 11 -
33.       The population of the project area is estimated at about 500,000
people, half being transhumant pastoralists and half sedentary cultivators.
In the wet season (July - October) movements of the pastoralists are directed
towards the desert fringe north of the project area and the sandy soils in
the east and west, which offer fresh grazing and surface water. In the dry
season (December - March) herders return to the floodlands in the south which
then offer grazing and water.
34.       During the migrations, pastoralists cross twice a year (June/July
and October/November) the patches cultivated by settled farmers in the central
part of the project area, in search for water, grazing and to plant and harvest
some crops of their own. Population density is highest then. Although
pastoralists normally use well established stockroutes and grazing areas,
population growth, development of water points, expanding settlement and
cultivation are causing an increasing strain on the environment. Conflicts
between farmers and pastoralists about land and water usage are becoming
increasingly frequent.
35.       Rainfall in the project area varies between 400 mm in the north
and 800 mm per year in the south with an average of 500 - 600 mm in the
central parts where cultivation takes place. Soils belong to three major
groups--qoz (sandy soils), alluvium (clay soils) and basement (quartzitic
sandy soils). The natural vegetation of the area is low rainfall woodland
Savannah with different composition on clays and sands.
36.       Principal sources of water in the rural areas are seasonal streams
and natural lakes and ponds supplemented by shallow wells. Since 1947 the
Rural Water Corporation, now renamed the National Water Authority, has con-
structed a network of deep boreholes in the sandy areas. Most of these
boreholes have been equipped with pumps, diesel engines, elevated water tanks
and a distribution system ("wateryards"). Due to lack of maintenance some
150 of about 222 wateryards in the area are no longer fully operational. The
breakdown of wateryards has led to an ever increasing concentration of the
population and animals around the few remaining boreholes with adverse effects
on the environment and health.
37.       Under the Unregistered Land Act of 1970, all land in the project
area except urban sites is Government owned. Customary rights of access and
use have evolved over time, and are associated with specific local communities.
Access to these rights are dependent on community membership, usually by
kinship or marriage, although outsiders may be assimilated provided they are
acceptable to the local community.
38.       Rainfed crop production is largely confined to the sandy soils, which
are easily worked and allow extensive areas to be cultivated by hand. Bulrush
millet is the staple, occupying around two-thirds of the annual cropped area;
the balance is planted mainly to groundnuts and also some sorghum and sesame.
The area is increasingly becoming deficient in staple foods but produces
substantial exports of groundnuts and a minor surplus of sesame. An average
family of six persons cultivates about 5 ha with hand tools.



- 12 -
39.       There are some 1.5 million cattle, 0.8 million sheep, 0.5 million
goats and about 50,000 camels in the project area. These are owned mainly by
the migratory pastoralists, but sedentary cultivators to a considerable extent
also rely on livestock production. Stocking density varies with season, the
highest concentrations occuring in the dry season at which time migratory herds
graze along the Bahr el Arab river and other areas with permanent water sources.
The traditional pastoral system has come under pressure from increasing human
and animal populations which are inducing settlement. These new settlements
have, in turn, put added stress on limited water resources and have often
blocked access to the stock routes so essential to the free migration of
the pastoralists.
40.       During the last 12 months, Sudan's Government has been reorganized
on a regional basis. The relationship between the different levels of Govern-
ment is still evolving, however, and not yet fully developed. Project insti-
tutions are not affected directly by these changes. The Western Savannah
Development Corporation (WSDC) was established by Presidential Decree in 1978
to plan and implement rural development projects in Western Sudan. The Corpo-
ration's capability to undertake these tasks has been gradually built up over
recent years, with technical and financial support from ODA of U.K. It is now
nearly fully operational. The National Water Authority is responsible for
operation and maintenance of all wateryards in the area. It operates three
workshops at Nyala, Ed Da'ein and Buram and is adequately staffed and equipped.
Its effectiveness suffers from insufficient operating funds which prevent the
proper operation and maintenance of the water facilities. The Livestock and
Meat Marketing Corporation (LMMC) is being assisted by the IDA supported
Livestock Marketing Project (Credit 782-SU). It is developing two primary
livestock markets and railway holding yards in the area of the proposed Savannah
Project. LMMC will also organize transport by rail of live animals from the
holding yards to the consumption centers in the Central Region and for export
through Port Sudan.
41.       The Agricultural Research Corporation (ARC), under the IDA/USAID
supported Agricultural Research Project (Credit 834-SU), is developing the
Ghazala Gawazat Livestock Research Station, located in the eastern part of the
project area, into one of its major research centers in western Sudan. The
research at this station will study the production systems of (a) semi-arid
livestock production and (b) integrated crop/livestock production on stabi-
lized sands. The proposed project would complement the larger ARC program.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.       The proposed project would replace the Savannah Development Project
(Credit 718-SU), approved in May, 1977. Because of implementation problems,
the latter project could not be carried out as originally planned. For
example, due to delays in establishing the Western Savannah Development
Corporation (WSDC) as project implementing agency, the credit did not become
effective until August, 1978, when the full force of Sudan's current economic



- 13 -
crisis was beginning to be felt (ref. paras. 5-13).  Remoteness of the project
area, staffing and logistical problems, exacerbated the situation. Severe
cost overruns developed and the extensive scope of the original project could
no longer be justified, given the country's economic problems and revised
development priorities. Government requested the Association, along with
other donor agencies financing a similar project in the area, to consolidate
all their activities into one smaller pilot effort costing about one-third of
the two original projects. The Government's revised objective is to maintain
experimental-type activities to help lay the foundation for future development
of the area. In addition to the earlier mentioned Savannah Development
project, financed by IDA and the Saudi Fund, the proposed project would
replace another project financed jointly by the ODA and the Abu Dhabi Fund.  A
total of US$16 million uncommitted out of the original Credit of US$17 million
would be cancelled upon signing of the proposed project. The remaining US$1.0
haillion, disbursed and outstanding, would be prepaid from the proceeds of the
proposed Credit upon effectiveness. Negotiations were held in Washington on
June 29 and 30, 1981, and the Sudanese delegation was headed by Sid Ahmed
Osman, Chairman and Managing Director, Agricultural Bank of Sudan. A Credit
and Project Summary is at the front of this report and further details on the
project are at Annex III.
Project Objectives and Scope
43.       The proposed project would retain the long term objectives of the
original Savannah Development Project: namely to provide measures designed
to improve the economic potential of the region and the standard of living of
the people by arresting the degradation of natural resources and by improving
farming systems and technologies. The project itself would be a pilot opera-
tion and the first phase of a long term program. It would lay the foundation
for a long term strategy for a more balanced agricultural development in
Sudan.
44.       The project would aim at:  (a) testing strategies for improving
livestock and range production; (b) identifying and testing agronomic
packages and extension methods for crop production, both for area expansion
and yield increase; and (c) testing approaches to settlement. The project
would also rehabilitate existing water facilities in order to decrease popula-
tion pressure and environmental degradation around operating wells. Addition-
ally, cost recovery systems for water supply and veterinary services would be
introduced and a start would be made to establish land titles in rural areas.
45.       The project would be implemented over three years and include the
following components:
(a) Further development and operation of three existing development
centers (trial farms) including adaptive agronomic research and
testing of ox-drawn equipment;
(b) Development of four settlement schemes around underutilized or
unused wateryards including rehabilitation of water facilities;
reorganization and establishment of individual holdings (about
30 ha each) under long term leases; strengthening of public



- 14 -
services (veterinary, crop protection, education, health);
introduction of agronomic improvements as they become available
(extension);
(c) Development of about 400 ha for flood irrigation;
(d) Initiation of a livestock and range development program including
demarcation of dry season grazing areas for (i) the herds of about
20 transhumant pastoralists using a small traditional well-field;
(ii) a similar number of pastoralists within a larger community;
and (iii) a group of sedentary graziers;
(e) Strengthening of the regional veterinary services to re-establish
a prophylactic disease program and monitor the control of
trypanasomiasis;
(f) Rehabilitation of existing water facilities (boreholes and
ponds) through the National Water Authority;
(g) Improvement of access tracks in critical locations; and
(h) Strengthening of WSDC and planning of a follow-up project.
Project Cost and Financing
46.       Project costs are estimated at US$21.5 million, of which US$12.8
million, or 60 percent, is the foreign exchange component. The total cost
includes taxes and duties estimated at US$1.5 million; however, it does not
include expenditures of about US$1.0 million under Credit 718-SU, which would
be prepaid upon effectiveness of the proposed project (ref. para. 42). The
total costs are based on February 1981 prices adjusted to June 1981 price
levels. A physical contingency of 15 percent was applied to all project items
except local and foreign staff costs and allowances. Price escalations for all
components have been estimated at the following inflation rates: (a) for the
foreign exchange component, 6 percent for the first year (calculated for 7
months only); 8.5 percent the second year and 7.5 percent the third year; (b)
for the local component, 20 percent for goods and civil works and 7.5 percent
for local staff costs in the first year (calculated for 7 months only); 15
percent for goods and civil works and 7 percent for local staff costs in year
two and 10 and 5 percent respectively in year three. An advance of US$1.0
million from the Project Preparation Facility was approved to help facilitate
project start-up and implementation:
47.       The proposed financing plan would be as follows:



- 15 -
Local           Foreign          Total
-------------(US$ million)--
IDA                       3.0              9.0            12.0 /1
Saudi Fund                1.8              2.6             4.4
ODA                         -              1.2             1.2
Government                3.9              _               3.9
Total               8.7              12.8            21.5 /1
/1   The proopsed IDA Credit is actually US$13.0 million;
however, US$1.0 million of this would be used, upon
effectiveness, to prepay funds disbursed and outstanding,
including charges, from Credit 718-SU.
The proposed Credit would be on standard terms to the Government and would
finance 60 percent of net project cost. Government would pass on US$12.0
million of the Credit to WSDC as a grant under a Subsidiary Agreement,
execution of which is proposed as a condition of effectiveness (ref. Section
5.01, Draft Development Credit Agreement). The remaining US$1.0 million
would be used, upon effectiveness, to prepay amounts disbursed and outstanding
from Credit 718-SU. Part of the Credit would be used to finance about 40
percent of local costs net of taxes; Government would finance 35 percent of
local costs in addition to taxes and duties estimated at US$1.5 million equi-
valent. The Saudi Fund would finance 25 percent of net local costs as well as
20 percent of the foreign costs. The ODA's contribution would be solely for
foreign costs. The Saudi loan and the ODA grant have already been approved.
Total external financing--US$17.6 million equivalent--represents 88 percent of
net project cost. The proportion of the Credit proposed to be used for
financing of local costs (about 40 percent on a net basis) is slightly higher
than the 36 percent financed in the first project (Credit 718-SU). In view of
the limited potential for cost recovery in this pilot project, the poverty of
the beneficiaries, the deteriorating economic situation in Sudan and the fact
that local costs account for more than one-third of total project costs on
a net basis, a significant contribution towards local costs is considered
justified. In order to facilitate implementation, Government has agreed to
deposit 200,000 Sudanese pounds into a project account in the Bank of Sudan.
Project Implementation
48.       The Western Savannah Development Corporation (WSDC), which was
established in March 1978 as a public corporation under the Ministry of Agri-
culture, would be responsible for planning, coordinating and monitoring all
project activities and for implementing a major part of them. Implementation
of the rest would be carried out by regional government units on the basis of
annual work plans agreed with WSDC as follows: National Water Authority for
wateryard improvements; regional Veterinary Services Department for carrying
out animal health programs; regional Range and Pasture Administration for
assisting with the livestock and range development program. (All project
activities would, however, be coordinated by the WSDC.) It is proposed that
Government be required to maintain staffing and operational capacities of the



- 16 -
three regional units at 1980/81 levels (ref. Section 3.06, Draft Development
Credit Agreement); this would mean providing annual operating funds as follows:
(a) NWA, not less than 500,000 Sudanese pounds; Veterinary Department, 200,000
and Range Administration, 100,000.
49.       WSDC is directed by a board of 13 directors including representa-
tives from the central Government ministries of Agricultural and Planning, the
Agricultural Research Corporation, the Agricultural Bank of Sudan, the regional
Darfur government, local councils, farmers  and pastoralists  associations.
WSDC headquarters are located at Nyala (see map) where an office building, six
senior staff houses and workshop and storage facilities are being built with
support from ODA and IDA funds (Credit 718-SU). WSDC has three operating
divisions which report directly to the Director General of the WSDC, who would
serve as project director. The director general is a qualified experienced
Sudanese; however, because of the importance of this position it is proposed
that the Government consult with the Association prior to appointing any
replacement (ref. Section 3.07, Draft Development Credit Agreement).
50.       Twelve senior staff of WSDC are in post.  The Corporation also
employs about 30 middle and junior level staff and about 110 laborers. Under
the project, provision would be made for technical assistance staff (about
14 man-years) as well as about 41 man-months of consultancies covering land
management, cartography, training, etc. Base costs for technical assistance
staff have been estimated at US$150,000 per man-year, which is consistent with
recent Sudan experience; consultancy costs have been budgeted at US$12,500
per man-month. Technical assistance staff would be financed on a parallel
basis between IDA and ODA. Technical assistance staff to be financed by ODA
(Senior Agriculturalist, Settlement Agriculturalist and Chief Engineer) would
be appointed in consultation with the Association (ref. Section 2.03, Draft
Project Agreement). The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment of technical assistance staff and consultants financed under the
Credit (Financial Manager, Agricultural Economist, Clerk of Works) would be
satisfactory to the Association (ref. Section 2.02, Draft Project Agreement).
Staff training would be carried out at all levels, basically in the form of
on-the-job training by senior and expatriate staff. Training would be coor-
dinated by a new Training Section to be established in WSDC. In addition,
the Project would provide funds for three overseas fellowships and also for a
consultancy to plan and monitor staff training as well as to identify, at a
later stage, future needs for training of staff, farmers and pastoralists.
Detailed Features
51.       The project would be executed through annual work programs prepared
by the WSDC. Annual work programs would be prepared at two levels (a) Programs
and budgets of the other agencies involved in project implementation (ref.
para. 48) would be prepared by January 31 for the following fiscal/project
year, for review by the WSDC, and (b) an annual work program for the entire
project (including (a) above) would be prepared by WSDC not later than March 1
of each year, for review by the Government. After review it would be submitted
to IDA no later than April 15 (ref. Section 2.04, Draft Project Agreement).



- 17 -
The first annual work program for the period ending June 30, 1982 was discussed
and agreed during negotiations. Work programs are intended to facilitate a
full annual review of the project implementation. They would also serve as
instruments against which project funds from the Government and foreign donors
would be released.
'2.       In specific terms, the project would involve the following:
(a) Development Centers. Three existing trial farms located at Dimsu,
Umm Rakuba and Jumeiza and covering the two major soil types of the
area would be further developed. This would include the provision
of buildings, water supply, vehicles, equipment, staff and other
operating costs. The Umm Rakuba Center would be incorporated into a
settlement scheme to enhance direct contacts between WSDC staff and
farmers. Adaptive agronomic research including testing of ox-drawn
equipment would be carried out under the responsibility of the head
of WSDC's Agricultural Services Division. The agronomic trials
would concentrate on selection of improved varieties of currently
grown crops, identification of possible new crops suited to local
conditions, and the testing and adaptation of improved crop husbandry
practices.
(b) Settlement. A settlement program would be initiated under the
project to help relieve population pressure in already settled areas
and to safeguard migratory stock-routes against encroaching cultiva-
tion. Two of the settlements would be located in the eastern
district and two settlements in the southern district. Settlers
would be selected by WSDC in cooperation with the local councils
from applications, and according to certain eligibility criteria
including age, origin, farming experience and ability. The main
attraction to the settler would be the provision of exclusive land
use rights, water and services (agricultural services, school,
health room). Each settlement scheme would be designed for about
350 farms of 30 ha each or a total area for cultivation of about
10,500 ha. Settlers would follow the traditional land use pattern,
i.e. use a 20 year rotation with four crop years of millets and
groundnuts and 16 years fallow. Gum arabic trees would be gradually
planted on the border lines and serve as windbreaks. To cultivate
6 ha effectively at full development, a settler would need to use
ox-drawn cultivating equipment and Project Staff would foster use of
this equipment. The WSDC has already identified land suitable for
settlement. The Government would assign this land to the WSDC which
would survey and demarcate the farms and issue individual leases to
settlers. These leases would be valid for 20 years and be renewable.
The land lease titles would be deposited and recorded at the existing
land registry office at Nyala. The leases would be subject to an
annual land rent payable after harvest to the regional Government.
The lease contract would also provide for dispossession of settlers
who do not abide by its conditions and in particular those who did
not follow proper husbandry practices.



- 18 -
(c) Flood Irrigation. Currently about 400 ha in different locations of
the Project area are used by farmers to produce grain sorghum and
vegetables under systems of uncontrolled flood irrigation. The
crops are transplanted into humid patches of cracking clay in
depressions or along seasonal water courses which have been filled
naturally with water from flash floods. The area suitable for flood
irrigation in the Project area is estimated at over 3,000 ha. The
present flood irrigation area near Tullus would be expanded by
about 400 ha. About 150 ha of these would be developed for vege-
table production by directing high flow water through gated channels
into bunded plots along the river banks. A further 250 ha would be
developed for the production of winter sorghum. The Project would
provide the major construction works against the understanding that
the farmers would undertake all the land clearing and internal
bunding.
(d) Livestock and Range Development Program. The principal cause for
the decline in animal production and the deterioration of the range
in the Project area is increase of the cattle beyond the sustaining
capacity of the range. The Project would attempt to rectify this
situation on a pilot basis, granting exclusive tenure of dry season
grazing areas to selected individuals or small groups of pastoralists,
while maintaining the transhumant movements of the cattle during the
remainder of the year. Under such a scheme, there would be an
incentive to optimize cattle numbers to the sustaining capacity of
the land during the critical dry season. Pastoralists' cooperation
would be engendered through discussions with WSDC and the regional
Range and Pasture Administration staff. The range demarcation
scheme would be tested with three different groups of livestock
owners: (i) a small group of about 20 to 30 transhumant pastora-
lists who make up the total population around a small well field;
(ii) a similar number of transhumant pastoralists grazing an area
within a larger community and well field; and (iii) a group of
sedentary livestock owners. The regional Range and Pasture Adminis-
tration would define the areas by constructing firebreaks or by
cutting trace lines. Where possible, lessees would be encouraged to
plant trees (gum arabic or edible legumes) or make thorn fences to
reinforce boundaries. This will be particularly important in the
sedentary area where considerable pressure from migrating stock may
be expected. An efficient Animal Health Service is essential to the
success of all components of the Project as most of the benefici-
aries keep some livestock. Under the Project, the operational
capability of the regional Veterinary Services Department would be
strengthened through the provision of buildings, vehicles, facili-
ties, equipment and drugs incremental to the Department's current
budget. This would enable the Department to: (i) carry out an
effective vaccination campaign against prevelent diseases such
as Rinderpest; (ii) meet any epidemic disease outbreak; (iii)
stock and supply owners with drugs and vaccines against endemic
diseases, and (iv) facilitate the monitoring of total herd treat-
ment against trypanasomiasis. Drugs and vaccines against endemic



- 19 -
diseases would be paid for by the beneficiaries. These revenues
would be collected by the Veterinary Department and deposited into
a revolving fund administered initially by the WSDC (ref. Section
3.03, Draft Development Credit Agreement).
(e) Rehabilitation of Water Supply Facilities. Under the Project,
wateryard spares and construction materials would be procured by
WSDC to bring about 150 wateryards back to a serviceable status.
Spares and construction materials would be issued to the National
Water Authority (NWA) in South Darfur which would carry out specific
repair programs in agreement with WSDC using NWA labor and equipment.
WSDC would supervise the implementation of this program. In addi-
tion, the project would introduce a new system of water charges.
Currently water charges are levied but rates, collections and
accounting are inadequate. Under the project, responsibility for
collecting water charges would be assumed by the NWA as soon as
each wateryard has been rehabilitated. Water rates would be
reviewed by WSDC and increased to levels adequate enough to cover
operation and maintenance costs (ref. Section 2.05, Draft Project
Agreement). The regional Government has already agreed to increase
water charges in rehabilitated wateryards to reflect the full cost
of operation and maintenance. Approval by local communities of
the new water rates would be obtained by WSDC prior to the start
of the rehabiltation works. Revenues from the rehabilitated
wateryards, collected by NWA, would be deposited into a revolving
fund administered by WSDC and NWA. This fund will be used to
finance the operation and maintenance of rehabilitated wateryards
carried out by the NWA (ref. Sections 2.05 and 3.02, Draft Project
Agreement). These arrangements would be in effect during project
implementation, after which it is envisaged that the administrative
facilities would be transferred to the NWA which would then become
a self sustaining public service. As an additional experiment to
test the feasibility of self-administered water points, some five
rehabilitated wateryards with easy access and previous self-help
experience, would be administered by their users under arrangements
satisfactory to the WSDC and the NWA. All arrangements pertaining
to wateryard rehabilitation were discussed and agreed at negotiations.
(f) Track Improvement. The Project would provide funds to improve
tracks in critical places, in particular wadi crossings. The works
would be carried out by WSDC hand labor under force account and
different designs, structures and materials would be tested for
their applicability. Where feasible the local population would be
involved in these works.                                           -
(g) Strengthening of WSDC. The project would help strengtheri WSDC's
operational capabilities further through the provision of vehicles,
equipment, aircraft hire, vehicle operating costs, local staff,
technical assistance staff and consultancies. As indicated earlier
(ref. para. 50) a new training section would be established in WSDC



- 20 -
headed by a qualified Sudanese training officer. In addition, a
planning, monitoring and evaluation unit would be established at
WSDC headquarters, headed by an internationally recruited agricul-
tural economist reporting directly to the Director General of WSDC.
The unit would be responsible for monitoring project and implementa-
tion, evaluating its results, preparing current work programs, among
other duties. Details were discussed and agreed during negotiations.
Procurement and Disbursement
53.       Contracts for the supply of equipment, supplies and general spare
parts, estimated to cost more than US$100,000 per contract, would be procured
on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with
World Bank Guidelines. The items would be aggregated to the extent practi-
cable to attract major suppliers. ICB would thus amount to about US$0.9 mil-
lion. Under this procedure, local suppliers would qualify for a 15% preference
during bid evaluation. Contracts for the supply of equipment, supplies and
general spare parts, estimated to cost less than US$100,000 per contract, and
in aggregate totalling no more than US$1.7 million, would be procured on the
basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with standard GOS procedures
which were reviewed during appraisal and found acceptable to IDA. For con-
tracts under US$10,000 up to an aggregate of US$100,000 comparative shopping
or purchasing off-the-shelf would be used.
54.       Proprietary spare parts for vehicles, equipment and water facilities
and replacement equipment amounting to a total of about US$2.0 in the aggre-
gate, would be procured directly by negotiated contract with the principal
maniufacturers or by limited international tendering as appropriate. Services
for aircraft hire would be tendered under international bidding limited to
neighboring countries and Europe to allow for effective back-up services and
maintenance, or by negotiated contract with other Government agencies providing
aircraft services. The programs for rehabilitation of water facilities, vete-
rinary services and range demarcation would be implemented by the Government
agencies concerned under agreements with the WSDC. WSDC would handle all
foreign procurement related to these programs and would pay the agencies for
their incremental outlays for these programs. Supply of construction materials
and construction of buildings (US$2.4 million), construction equipment, office
furniture (US$0.5 million) and vehicles (US$1.5 million) to be parallel
financed by the Saudi Fund would be procured in accordance with that agency's
procedures.
55.       The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed over four years.



- 21 -
Disbursement of IDA Funds
Amount of Credit
Category                             Allocated             % of Expenditures
(US$ Million)           to be Financed
(1)  Equipment and supplies, including        1.7         100% of foreign expenditures
veterinary drugs                                    and 90% of local expenditures
(2)  Consultancy Services,                    2.3         100% of foreign expenditures
Fellowships, WSDC Staff Salaries                    30% of local expenditures
(3)  Aircraft Hire and Vehicle Operation   4.0            100% of foreign expenditures
Costs Including Spares, Lubricants,                 and 90% of of expenditures
and Fuel
(4)  Additional Operating Costs,              1.2        100% of foreign expenditures
(including force account wages,                     and 80% of local expenditures
supplies, field allowances and
rentals for houses, offices,
stores)
(5)  Refund of Project Preparation            1.0         100% of principal amount and
Facility                                            charges outstanding at
effectiveness date
(6)  Repayment of principal and charges    1.0            100% of principal amount and
under Credit 718-SU                                 charges outstanding at effec-
tiveness date.
(7)  Unallocated                              1.8
Total               13.0
56.       Disbursements for expenditures under Category 1 and for foreign
expenditures under Categories 2, 3 and 4 would be fully documented. Disburse-
ments for local expenditure under categories 2, 3 and 4 would be made against
statements of expenditure (SOE) certified by the Director General of WSDC, the
supporting documents of which would not be submitted for review, but retained
by the WSDC for inspection by IDA missions.
Accounts, Audit and Government Funding
57.       The WSDC would, under the direction of the internationally recruited
Financial Manager, strengthen its accounting system in a way which would allow
identification of the investments and revenues included under the Project
and the sources of funding. The Statements of Expenditure (SOE's) would be
accounted for separately. The existing institutional arrangements within the
WSDC are adequate to prepare such statements. SOE's covering periods of six
months would be verified by the Auditor General within three months of the end
of each period.



- 22 -
58.       Separate accounts would also be kept for the two revolving funds for
veterinary drugs and wateryard operation. Unaudited financial statements of
the WSDC including the accounts for the two revolving funds, would be prepared
by the WSDC and submitted to the Association in English, no later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year. All accounts would be audited by
the Auditor General of Sudan. The audited accounts, together with the auditor's
report, would be submitted in English to the Association annually, not later
than nine months after the end of each fiscal year. The above accounting and
auditing procedures have been agreed by Government (ref. Sections 4.01 and
4.02 Draft Project Agreement).
59.       Government has opened a project account on behalf of WSDC through
which all local and foreign project funds would be channelled except for
revenues from wateryard operations and sale of veterinary drugs (ref. para.
51(d) and (e)). The project account would be replenished every three months
to a level consistent with the planned expenditures of each three month period
as contained in the approved Annual Work Program (ref. Section 3.02(a) and
(b), Draft Development Credit Agreement). In order to ensure the operation of
the revolving funds for the purchase of wateryard spareparts and of veterinary
drugs, assurances were obtained from the Government that it would make avail-
able adequate foreign funds to WSDC (ref. Supplemental Letter to Draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).
Environmental Impact
60.       A major objective of the project would be to develop effective
methods to reduce ecological degradation by overgrazing and overcultivation.
Rehabilitation of broken-down water facilities and resettlement would relieve
pressure from animal and human population around existing settlements and
operational boreholes and would give them a chance to recover. Range manage-
ment techniques would be tested which would improve the use of existing
resources. Overall, the project interventions are designed to reverse the
ongoing environmental degration.
Benefits, Justification and Risks
61.       The fundamental justification of the project is to obtain further
experience with smallholder agriculture in marginal rainfall areas. This
would include identification and subsequent testing of improved technology
aimed at sustained productivity, which would form the basis for progressive
development. Growing human and animal populations, lack of technoloRical
advances, poor maintenance of existing infrastructure, and unorganized settle-
ment are producing environmental degradation in the western savannah areas.
The already low incomes and living standards of the people are bound to
further decline and conflicts over land and water use would intensify. Unless
a solution is evolved, the situation will continue to deteriorate, probably at
an ever-increasing rate. The longer the delay in tackling this problem, the
greater it will become and the greater the costs and difficulty to find and
implement a solution to it. If viable solutions emerge from this Project,
then it would have made a major contribution by opening up prospects for the



- 23 -
development of the Savannah areas. Regardless of this, the experiences would
still provide some lessons, technical knowledge and show reactions of the
people and the local administration to efforts at integrated rural development.
The project would not lead to significant incremental production, with the
exception of the production from the expanded area under flood irrigation.
The project would test a number of approaches for technological improvements
but would not be expected to provide for their introduction at a significant
level. Production benefits would be long-term and would consist of stabiliz-
ing production in a degrading environment rather than in incremental produc-
tion. In addition, most of the investments under the project are experimental
and the objective is to gather more information on the technical and social
parameters. No attempt has therefore been made to calculate an overall
economic rate of return for the Project.
62.       The project would rehabilitate about 150 existing water facilities
which are not operational at present. This would allow the existing concentra-
tion of human and livestock population to disperse over a wider area. This in
turn would (i) improve the overall use of natural resources by reopening up
areas for crop and livestock production which were not accessible due to lack
of water; (ii) provide the opportunity for the degraded surroundings of the
water points in use to recover; (iii) reduce haulage distances to water
sources thereby saving time and energy for more productive activities; and
(iv) reduce the risk of breakdown of the water supply and thereby the risk of
production losses caused by these breakdowns. Based on a model calculation
of the incremental livestock production which would be obtained through the
rehabilitation and seasonal operation of a wateryard for the provision of
stockwater only, the economic rate of return of wateryard rehabilitation is
estimated at 11 percent.
63.       The Project would deal with about 1,700 families of cultivators and
pastoralists, or about 10,000 people, who would be affected by the introduc-
tion in the area of land use rights on the limited scale proposed. The
average cost per beneficiary in the land allocation programs would amount to
about US$2,000 per family or about US$333 per capita. In addition, a large
majority of the total population of about 500,000 people would benefit from
improved water supply through the rehabilitation of wateryards and ponds.
The strengthening of veterinary services, tsetse control and the supply of
veterinary drugs would be to the benefit of a significant proportion of the
pastoralists.
64.       Government and WSDC staff involved with the Project would gain
valuable experience and training in project planning, implementation and
evaluation by working together with expatriate advisers. Of particular
importance is the direct interaction between Government planners and the local
people to ensure that their concerns and suggestions are fully considered in
future plans. These training experiences would be most valuable for the
implementation of a possible follow-up project. The Project would also
promote and introduce to the area new concepts such as cost recovery from
direct beneficiaries.



- 24 -
65.       The technical economic, social and environmental problems facing
the Savannah areas are considerable and have no obvious simple solution which
could guarantee long-term effectiveness. The three-year time frame for the
Project is short to test proposals for an economically viable follow-up project.
However, the WSDC is already established and equipped and it is expected that
for this reason, no time would be lost for start-up operations. The success or
failure of the Project would depend on whether it will be possible to develop
a system of controlled land use and create a social and economic environment
where the system was acceptable to the land users. The system would not work
if it had to be imposed on the people by coercion. The system must be one
that is understood and adopted by the people because of a realization that it
offers a solution to their problems. There is, however, no guarantee that a
system will be developed that would be both effective in the long run and
acceptable to the people. Much will depend on the goodwill and ability of
the traditional, elected and appointed leaders. It is expected that Government
officials will give active support and be influential in pursuading the
traditional leaders to support the project and cooperate in its activities.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic Republic
of the Sudan and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
67.       Special features of the draft Development Credit Agreement are
mentioned in the text and are listed in Section III of Annex III.
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
August 6, 1981



- 25-                                        AN=- I
Pafo I
TAULS 3A
SUDAUNESClL INDICATOR DATA SUETI
SUDAN                           REFERENCE CROUPS (WVICITED AVWGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAlD SQ. EM.)                                                      - MST RECEIT ESTIMATEa-
TOTAL          2505. 8                                   oS t RNCETr         LOWI INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL    315.2                1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b  AFRICA SOUITH vF SAHARA AFRICA BOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)         -        140.0       170.0    370.0                238.3                  794.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PEIR CAPITA
(ItLOGRMS OP COAL EQUIVAEWNT)        54.2       151.6    141.4                 70.5                 707.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, NIDYEA  (THOUSAND6)   11256.0    14090.0  17862.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)   10.3       16.4      23.9                17.5                   27.7
POPULATION PROJXCTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILUIONS)                       31.4
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILUONS)                          86.0
YEAR STATIONAkY POPULATION IS RACHED                   2105
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         4.5         5.6       7.1                27.7                  55.0
PEh SQ. KR. AGRICULTURAL LAND      37.0        46.0      55.1                73.7                 130.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PURCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          43.7        43.7      44.1                44.8                  46.0
15-64 YKS.                          53.2        51.6     53.1                 52.4                  51.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.1         2.9       2.8                 2.9                   2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.9         2.2       2.6                 2.6                   2.8
UR8AN                               6.8         6.9       6.8                 6.5                   5.1
CRUDE BIRTH LATE (PER THOUSAND)      45.3        45.7     45.7                 46.9                 '46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      25.0        21.0     18.0                 19.3                  15.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.3         3.2      3.2                  3.1                   3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MAlRIED WOMEN)     ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
1NDEX OF POOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           92.0       100.0    100.0                 89.5                  89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIR131ENTS)                   71.0        86.0     93.0                 90.2                  92.3
PROTEINS (GRMS PER DAY)            53.0        61.0     65.0                 52.7                  52.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        23.0        19.0      19.0                17.8                  16.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      46.5        37.5     28.5                 27.3                  20.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)     39.2        43.2     47,3                 45.8                  50.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..       132.0/c
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          ..     46.0                 23.9                  27.4
URBAN                                ..          ..     49.0                 55.0                  74.3
RURAL                                ..          ..     45.0                 18.5                  12.6
ACCESS TO EXCYETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        16.0     22.0                 26.2
URBAN                                ..          ..       ..                 63.5
RURAL                                ..          ..       ..                 20.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          33500.0    14304.6   8694.4               31911.8               13844.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      3041.0/d   1740.3   1282.6                3674.9                2898.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             951.0/d,c  936.7/e  998.3                1238.8                1028.4
URBAN                             118.Od e  188.77l   444.9                 272.8                 423.0
kURAL                            4479.07;;   5213.37T  1742.0              1745.2                3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..     16.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..         5.1
URBAN                                ..         5.7/f
RURAL                                ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          ..
URBAN                                ..         2.5/f
RURAL                                ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..        26.4/f
URBAN                                ..          ..
RURAL                                ..          ..
* Most recent estimate on economic mission report is US$470 (1980).



- 26-                                        MNEX I
Pagte 2
TABLE 3A
SUDAN - STAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SUDAN                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTFED AVE AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE>-
MDST RECENT           LOW INCOHE             MIDDLE INCONE
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 25.0        38.0      50.0                 56.4                   73.7
MALE                 35.0        46.0      58.0                 70.7                   96.8
FEMALE               14.0        29.0      42.0                 50.1                   79.0
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  3.0         7.0      16.0                 10.0                   16.2
MALE                  5.0        10.0      20.0                 13.6                   25.3
FEMALE                1.0         4.0      11.0                  6.6                   14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (5 OF SECONDARY)  3.0          1.4/g     3.O/g,h              8.0                    5.3
PUPIL-TEACIhER RATIO
PRIMARY                           41.0        47.0      35.0                 46.5                   36.2
SECONDARY                         20.0        17.0      19.0                 25.5                   23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       13.1        14.7/1   20.0                  25.5
CONSUMPTION
FASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         1.4         1.9        ..                  2.9                   32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPUIATION                        17.0        79.0      82.8                 32.8                   69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.8         3.2       5.9                  1.9                    8.0
NEWSPAPER CDAILY GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  4.0          ..       1.6                  2.8                   20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.8          ..       0.7                  1.2                    0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    3731.6       4623.1   5702.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  9.6         10.2      10.7                 34.1                   36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             85.7        82.0      78.4                 80.0                   56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 6.2         7.8       9.8                  8.6                   17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               33.2        32.8      31.9                 41.7                   37.2
MiALE                               59.3        58.2      56.2                 54.3                   47.1
FEMALE                               6.4         6.8       7.0                 29.2                   27.5
ECONOMIRC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.4         1.4       1.5                  1.2                    1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   20.97a       ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  50.11      49.2/k
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.O01       5.17       *-
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.9ft      14.57kr
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..         ..    137.0                 136.0                   381.2
RURAL                               ..         ..      80.0                  84.5                  156.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOWE
LEVEL (USs PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..         ..    115.0                  99.1                   334.3
RURAL                              ..          ..    100.0                   61.2                  137.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION HELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..         ..        ..                  39.7
RURAL                               ..         ..       85.0                68.8
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
ia  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted. data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimte, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1970-73 average;  /d 1962; /I Government hospital establishments;  /f 1965;  A Beginning 1970, the
duration of general secondary education was reduced from 8 to 6 years;  /h Includes programs of 5
training centers operated by Dept. of Labor and 17 short-term centers operated by Min. of Youth and
Sport; /i 1966; LI 1963, Omdurman -urban;- /k 1967-68.
May. 1981



- 27 -                                                                          ANNEX  I
Page 3
OZPIAIIOOUS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Sete:dlhaa.rh  data ore deanfrom  catre  issoaelly jodged the seer eothorjttaI,  ad relible, it should sleo be aotd that they sp eot be la.te-
saclooell  reeparblth   bscaos  of the  oko  etaa"dndtad deLiltio- aad roorapte and bY differeet reteerica in rllertiog  the data.   k  data Ate,noe
thelese.. ...sfo  to decrien order, of  agatoda, inIcate treads,  ad oh-ateriee renters -.ao  differesoc  berwe  tnatnie-
Nba refernc  stoops are (1) the eas  coutry  rror of tho tobjere cootry red <2) a oetty groop-nith  -oseha  btghe  a-rge Ieres  thor the  onryro
of th  sbjert_ootry (esopt for 'Ospital Sorpit o il lap .etoa  stoop aton  "Middle Iso-m  North Aftia sad Middle Ltact Is chees  her-   of stronger
aoni-oaletta.  aff=ie IoVe.  Ia tha tafeesre stoop dtr  the aveags. ars ppe.ltla  weighted atitheetio esn  far sor  indictotr end ohot oely et
majority tof th   r_otaie. i  asroof he. dta for that iodicator.  Sinr. the novrag  of r t.onrr.  .-Se  rho Itdroatore dapnda or the  -nelehiliry of data
edI.  ar e-iform. reotis most he esr.i.ed Sn celortog avrgs.  of ea  Wsia.tvr tr rether.  The.e ovorge  ar  on...ly ..sofo1 In  -ptirin  the value Of
oeLodi--tr  at r time amon  the r..ootr  and rfeer   r
iAND ARIA, (thenead eq.ko.)                                                                      Pooero   e  gsia  Sod - torel. robot, red total - popolatirn  (total.
Total -  nasrfaeaeropi la  ea  area cad lalacd waters.                                          o:the. red meal)ivided by thiat respective   bho  of hooltite1 bade
qentealrtl -stimats at eriroltora.  are  oaed temporarily or permnetly                         aalhsi   olradpiaegttlrdeoilrdheia   e   o
tof ee  poore  market and kitthen erdas or to  its tallow: 1975 date.                          heblliteri.a ronrt.-   HoSpitolsot.-stblehnoots porasretly staffed
by an leas  oec phyotriet.  nstoIh-iheet  providiro  P pitriPlly ..rst-
GNP PU tAPIA  (Uc$) - SO  pat -pite estieatae At r--ea  macht prinee. ra1-                          di.  tare see sot iolrdsd.  total hospital.. h-ont,  n-lad. health
ealeted by esaor ter  machod as World Sak Atlee (1977-79 basia); 1960,                           sad eadoa  rteae. eat peosaretly etaffad by a physlirie  (hot bya
1970. end 1919 date.                                                                              media  ...terast,  rea, midwife, act.) which otter is-patiat ers
dattos acd pnovide a limited cono of medi.l t                   Foit r.    a  steno-
lOUSY CfNf5ffTISNPSI CAPFITa - A--oa  -oaeptiar of romrim1 crery (oral                              tiral ptopoeeare  hosl.pitals laloa  as  ptnrpa/gaealhopotale.
Aed ligaite. pettolet, a,ttura  eae and loydro-. * tr1r en  14aothema  olr-                      and rurl  oe PItal4  - Is or coral hospital .sd   edita1 and macaitY
triodr.  In kllogrsm   r oal..   eqoilve-t pen tapit.; 1960, 1970, en  1979                      aent-a.  Sp.eriallrd hespitale ar  landed only eadec total.
data.                                                                                          ddioa   a  "Msita1 Sod - Tocal nosha  of admissions to or disohergee
fton hoepitele dtividd hy the aebhr of bade.
POPULATION AND, VITA. STATISTICS
Tota Porulat.           Mi-er(b ad)-A. of July 1; 1960, 1970,. ad 1919                       ffOSflh
dAt.                                                                                       Av-r..e Sloe of Hoo...l   rcetsathhold           ol)-ntatl. orba. red ror-I
mtba Pno,lata  (reoet at total)   Ratio of orha  to  ototl pnpelrtio;                            A hoead   rsss  fasoo   fidihl  rho chore living j-t-tt
different df tiorro     of ocher acee say effeoc roepahilily of data                           and their -it  md.Ahadro  ogrsa   csyath   elddt
am otoeries.; 1960,10970, and 1979 data.                                                    the htoehold fo. tritclpapeo
or.pa.tjia  Projeotona                                                                          .vrr cme  of  .e.. IOtrom-tre.ohr, and  -1e  -Aeac   n
Pee Ioni  ya 2.! 010 - Cotret popolattor porJnctiras Ott hose.d on 1980                  her of peooe  e  roam  10 all orhant,. od tore.  otoa..pied teeta
totni pop. oia  byorsden d tlactr orttlity sad fertility rarsa.                              dwellings, c-p-otiv-ly.  D-cliogs enclde to-.potmeet erotor                  d h
ytoeoic   pretors P. or erraity rates  . ptepi.e attreeloel  ses_nrtpind parce.
lee, and f-1al  Ife sapecotry eabliieios at 77.5 yas   Th. pear-                          Cearetinea  dwellings with  eeti Ityi  ltioae q--tt  as pe-ttetga
eter  for fertilityf rtct also hav  three Itol. asola  derIlne Ir                          of total, orbon, end r-ra  dvllitge rsepe-tiosly.
feotilicy o....rdi.g to Inoer 1rat end post f saly plerroA petfnta-a
Saab cottry Ia chat aesigoed  .e of theec aloe toebietires of aortsiity                EflUCATISON
ond fertility  t-eds for prniontio_ ynree.                                                                    I dutdtrlnn  Ratios
Seinsaryu oroeor-i     tatir...ty prpolottro thert o or groth, since                           Primr=     ool    oa,soerdfman-ioa  oa,mleadf
the hirth rtot  It rqool to rho doath ntot, ord sler oh. e eg  st--.oar-                       -troilmet of all agr  at the primary leve  aep-tn_tgee of trp-tir-
solos to...toot.  Thie In uchievod orly adtot fertility retee derlina er                       prisay ehrleeptpjoltirae; ttmaly i-oldes children egd 6-11
th. teplocamnt I..rl or   itno  teptod-Ucio  atot, whe  -.rh eaa-tion                          years bar  djoetad fro differet longhb  of primary adarerine; for
owoetslceitelI, onrttly.The etotirer.       ppolto  sloe                               -toi.trie  with reivorsa  eurto  entoliot may eac   1ff portost
:P.sra   or ho   et  of the projected  hr-otacistios of ths pnaaiedr   reppl   r   eo    r abets the afitie1 enhool age.
in the Y-a  20100  eed the rute rf dolite or f-rtility rattoroelasteoaavso                                  tl-  oe.1 malsd emae    oepated  e above; setdreay
sea  loya.                                                                                     ederttoa reqaitest leat foeyaers rt apprevd primary inrti
Neat ettiosary  oruatorI  rearhrd - The year ehon etatite y ppopatine                            prerie   g          --al  vreiotal, tr teacher training iett...tit-      tpli
oi.. hoe hea  macbed.                                                                          ostsil  of 12 re II Yso   of age; ronrspoadono   anros -               -Aecuy
Potola.tto  Sceeto                                                                                 seOded.
Per so,..   -Mid-year popolotirt pat oqoaro kilomter (155 hctrtae) of                           V ...rioleaoent(roartsoday-Vraie    saeteo
Pe   r.6. earicol1tu_l load - Compard as above for eg.IoultoraI land                         early or -a deprctmatt  of e_.odacy institotos.
only; 1990. 1970 ard 1978 drta.                                                              Poi-ere   aIo - eri_mry  ad seneo   TatsI etdonts ence11d Ie
PPorleio  Age Stru_tjce   rr c  - hIldtr-  i0-lu years). corkine-ego (15-                          pIseI    edsceeylvesdvddb   ebc tFtrahc.. in rho
6i yaac), ta  rented (h5 y.rer  end over) a  pa ta E oaid-year poor-                             "ocr-p-eding levl..
lsio    90, 1970, ea 979 data.                                                           Molt liten.scy rate  rrte)-Litractardolts  (able to td end -rits)
Poroltira iroth Mt.t  (rct)- toc-I - dA-ra  groth ratee rf  tota  sid-                             aa a     .. pcetage tf creel edrlt ptre       aS.d 15 years and -v-r
yerrplatirt. for 1950-60. 1960-70,. ad 1970-79.
Po.uato   cat Rata (r-tn   - othet -  _a_Ia $__h rtes. of othar row-                  CONSUSPTIOe
lotioe. dot 1950-iS,1960-.70, and 1971-79.                                                   P---ease   are leer thb...aAdrolain - Peesagr  art-ts   eter
Crude Sooth tar  (tar chr.snd  - MA_al lIre birth. p.r th-ot..ad tf mid-year                    osre estieg lea  thor sight parsoes; onlads   mbnlaeoe. heaceas aed
pnyalacirn; 1960, 1970, aad 1979 data.                                                         military  -hbIe.I
Crude Dteah Rat  (Preth .h...ad) - MoAl Ideath. per thr....de tf mid-year                      Redia.      Reanr  lee  thonednorltio    - All typee of roretneIe for eaL
nrlto;1960, 1970, end 1970 deta.bodet.                                                              t   saa  poblirpr hase                 P.f poolle  eacldea-
ir... Fmprduo LR_o    t    ".--A Stas    -bsh   of daughtots aw nwill hea  to                    lirensed ts..eivers Sn rountnies a Id Ye yeac   e  regiarratio  of tedie
her otta  reprodrv t     periodtif :h. anperi..oce preeret  gs-apeticl  f_ en                  sta ec Ie effect; data ftr ratr year. may sat be -opa-ble sieo
tduty races; ro..ally ti-poet -veragee odim  to 1960, 1970, and 1979.                          east rotries abolished iioenc..
Pails Plauita - M-ctoo... IAn.-1 (th ...arda          A - ..ote  robee of arcptte                  eoivete(netth-taa  rolacior  - 9- teeiot  tar brosdr...t ta
ofbirtb-r-rl d-rite ocdsr ..oepi.n. of reieto  fadly plenire pnogas                          gaaa-oltptoosndpplto;eroe   eirsned TV  -ecever
Panly  iorit-tarairrc-     r  f ere   rm)-ilPa,toe 4  of matisd                             In  -too iole  aad Io year   h-r raeitratite of 15 sacs see In effeor.
-me  ofiohi1d-herig  ge(1-6  ea b)ro  oehit -tt                   1r devires to              Soenta  CIrcal'tio  lee  rhnrse~td   eistill,  1-Obe  the  -vre  ot- -
all marrid woe  it sea  age groop.                                             .               oltn   r   diy  eee  ieteatWappr dtted a.a pacIiodlue
pablicatira devted primarily to cec..tdleg 5eara1 tow.  It Is reidered
FOOr AoND NUTRITISS                                                                                to ha 'daily" if it  pp.r-s at leant foo  tines   week.
Inan of Prod Prodo-ciro ret Capite (        -1-150   - ltdea of pet .ePita anel                Cleam  nasl Aotsadaeo  ro  Cpotre pre  seo-m-aad tr the ea r of
prodootiot ofeI  foo  craritd      e   Prdctr  scode en ed fend Ma                             tiokte  -Ild doting the peer. ioloding adeiastee ot drin-In  J.-s
Ia ot caletdur year leaie.  Comeditinecrvt  primay good. (e.g. eracaead mobilc  -nite.,
instead of  ager  tythochtore tdiblo  .  ... otoit -ocierte  c    codg -ffas and
tee ace enolode)   Aggreat  prod_ot io  of -.h country Ie hosed  InlABOR POtiE
-o .-Ira vrg  pr dtr  cceeshie; 1981-S  190,ad 1979 deca.,                                   Toa  Labor Pr-o  (thorte      namrlyatiepeas   aldn
Per terit  etrl  or c_orte_       rro    of rs'lirmcce  -   Upatd foarmed farrssae.d oneplope  hot  -nirding hoeelive., atadeata, etc.,
anrg  aqoivlti of ret food euppliee available In oratory per caPita                          _teing ~pplotin  of all agee.  Dafiititn in vottora .. ototinecr
:ratday.  AooilhlbI oplio  opries doaasit prodootior, isprte. loeet compa-bl.; 1960,11970 end 19PS date.
ePoce,ad          Nhiei   to .tSe  epylice etolodo aaine  fend, eed,-ael   aret)    P-l  lebot forte a- p--otag   of total Iebr fort..
jun00titie use  it food proceia        -rd loeoS   itioio.Rqie                              eioloa(oon)-Le                  ot  nrrcg.frsty  huetieg red
eai  eetimatedby PMO booed orpylologicol neds for  .-Ima  ottI-                       fiehiag .. poroerees of ctct1 labor forte; 1960, 1970 end 1i979 date.
city oed hoolth t..eidetti evrrece  topror body nights, ego                                Industry_(tor-et) - Lahot forte Ir eting., taitotit    afeotorLeg
and ser distr ibotio of popetirt, rod ol11eig 10 percet tor twet  atad  1tatnicny , roter and gases. pa-otege of total labor ferct; 19d0,
hue:=l  1rveL; 1961-65. 1970,  r  1977 dote                                                 1970 end 1979 date.
Pe -att   rolr or oroocir fe-n  oar dev7 - Pro talc trott of psr .vtarr                 snoetorRt   tret    total. cab, and ta-is - Pattioipetioe or
unt eapply of tuod per day.  Set -pply of f nod ie defimed asoa.   Ra-.                       rniyraeaeroptd os total, sae1                  ndfemal  Ibr fPrre 
qtlr teoo  for oil  --onole  retobliehed by USDA p-oide f. orelisa                           p-etencgee    total  balad fa-1e  poptiata  of oi agon te -pcivly;
elvoeof 60 grao of torel protiri  p.r day aed 20 Vos  of onimel and                    1960. 1970, end 1979 data..  Th...esro bae  on. d   iX      ..paeiiprle   ree
polce Pr-tao, of  biob10  -ca   hbrod hebttail.p prteit.  Theee earod-                       refLeon g age-oar .trocare of theP.po-otlo."ad long tine trend.  A:
eds  roerooI         hose oP75 grom       f o    onI protoit ood 23 Srea  ofdnfe-                     ee  at=rm   ai l              -ote.1
eniso  proena   or -veao  f-th ib  -rld,pr-pr..ed by PAO In teTird                        troi   endryRtio - Ratio of poultonader 15 and 65 Md ovr
Warl  Prd  Survy; 1961-65, 1970 end 177 tua                                                  to  the total lbhor forto
Po ttrarott   etryfo   o               lsdple-ProteIn aopplp of fond de-
rived cram  acloals rod pubes ir green yet day;  19165, 1970 and 1977 dora.  INOMtEt olaTRBTeIpru
ibtid(ear  1-0)Ourtlort  ate  car toosrd) -  rton  dnathn per tho-ac  t.         -P.rrontaa  r  Privat  Iorcr   (both Ic .eoh aed kind) -Rceived by rtohest
ago grop 1-4 yearn, to chOldoo-i ibi tar. grSoup; tot mnt developing tor-                      S peront. rioheat 20 porcet. poorest 00 portent  ead poot_ t us  arrea
tire  doto d-ircd 0 roe lift tobles; 1960, 1970 erd 1979 deco,                                of bo---eholde.
StAllSU                                                                                        POVERiTY ITAREl GOUPS
LIf a tatett..cy at  rb   (cat) -irerge rober of year. of lift -eoting.                        The fll1wing soimre   ar   eycp             t.st meereof prvcrcy levels,
or brth;196, 100 od 195 rte.                                                           and ehorid be Inttproted etch -..oidcn...    oso tito
Infan   rtaiySae(et   ra-ed7-ano    n-tha of ifotre andor ru  year                             rEtioatd Oelt Poat  noehvL-  (uis$ rot -erit.  -  rten anroral1
of ego.per oheao...d loe hitch..                                                               Abanlote p-voty Snr         _ vo  Ia thor -tao    leve  h1m obich . mlieL1
Moms t  Oaf  acto  (rnrect o  roroltior;  tocu. ochr, sa  rura  - N-r           aorritio...lly adequnte diet ploeeeta  atrod teqoirem te Is not
her of pnple (total, orhan, rod tota) with voosotble ocoeo  to arfe                             ffordeble.
netereopply(itde tinted  ocf roe vatrre or at'tctd but orrotsebnatd                          tEti-rtd Ralocive P-octr Onto- Level (US ororrie   -arhen ed cral -
rater erob .. that from protected brhblee, eprirga, tad snattasy wells) a.-ieal r tiscv   povery fIrame leve  I. ro-third of -v-ee  Poe eaice
prstoe   of  heir  -rptotire pryoletione0. -oocrhe   ursa t pobtlr                        oenliom   fto  tnr.Ohrlvl    derived from  the total
fountalo or accodyrac lorrtcd not arm  thea 250 meter, fine a bo Y mob-lve  with  djunt--o for hihr t..st of living In otheratm
ctoadrrd tohoa  cioblo ree     -obc  ca  of that hat...  On rura  at                       E.timated Pn..latine Solon Aberlto PovryIoseLvl(eret-                       re
reeotalootteooidimpy tatthe horevifo or aembor  of the he...shold                    en   ae      nreto   oooto   obra   coal)wo-r eelrba
dr rot hav  to-se-drdi"pP1yportirute  Part of ch. day in fotohiog tha                            _.
nbeofpele(to-1, orbe, rod o.rr1) eavdby  rorto disposal as
pst -ae  of ther Ic  rptttvn popoleoiore.  loconce diepr...l ery ittlde
th  cinotio  red Ioepa,  th on  itiro-tr croteet, of h-.o enotet                                                                  to-eoi  end irolal Dato Drislon
and w-ete-wtr by nere-boro.. .ysa-  o0 the roe of pit prlire  end  id.i                                                     tE-oaic Adlycto aci Projeoti... Dlprt-tet
ler itata1ltiree.                                                                                                                                  Nay 1991
Pe    .Peionta  Physioiet - Popolatiro divided by tam,ba  of prectiring phy.i-
Prettocprnosn   ero       oplto  dtvtdad by tochar of pra..tiring
solo oc  dEma1o grad .tat  Iorare  prootitel orr.... an d ...siotort e-n.



- 28 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4
SUDAN - COUNTRY DATA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1977/78 1/                                       ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.            %                                      1972/73-1977/78
GDP at Market Prices            8,279.1            100                                            8.0
Gross Domestic Investment    1,188.1             14.4                                            11.4
Gross National Saving             645.1            7.8                                           -2.6
Current Account Balance           542.0            6.5                                          -30.6
Exports of Goods, NFS             701.0            8.5                                           -2.7
Imports of Goods, NFS           1,437.0          17.4                                             9.8
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1974/75
Value Added 2/                   Labor Force 2                    V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.         %               Mln.             %                US $               %
Agriculture                      1,681         41.2              3.25            68.7                517             59.9
Industry                           657         16.1              0.30             6.3             2,190             253.8
Services                         1,745         42.7              1.18            24.9             1,479             171.4
Total/Average              4,083         100.0              4.73          100.0                863             100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government - 1979/80
(LSd. Mln.)                       % of GDP -
Current Receipts                                  643                               15.4
Current Expenditure                                672                              16.1
Current Surplus                                    -29                              -0.7
Capital Expenditures 4/                            164                               4.4
External Assistance (net)                          238                               5.7
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                      1974/75        1975/76       1976/77       1977/78        1978/79       1979/80
(million LSd outstanding end period)
Money Supply                                   292.5          369.6         530.0         669.1          877.0        1,047.5
Bank Credit to Central Government              212.8          300.8         466.0         593.5          913.7        1,130.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector and              296.7          393.3         432.5         490.8          652.9          814.3
Parastatals
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index (estimates)                 21.1            1.6          17.9           16.7          37.4
Bank Credit to Public Sector                    37.6           41.4          54.9           27.4          54.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector                   48.4           32.6          10.0           13.5          33.0
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/ This is the last year for which reasonably reliable GDP data by expenditure are available.
2/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated" consists mainly
of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
3/ At market prices.
4/ Expenditures from Development Budget (includes some capital expenditures by other public entities).
Not available.
Not applicable.
EA2DB
April, 1981



-29.-                                          ANNEX 1
Page 5
SUDAN - COUNTRY DATA
TRADE BALANCE AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS ESTIMATES                                                      MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1977/78-79/80)
1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80                                           US $ Mln.      x
allions US $)
Exports Goods, NFS                 708        701       699         833            Cotton                         315.7       56.7
Imports Goods, NFS              1,192      1,437      1,345      1,611             Gum Arabic                      38.3        6.9
Resource GAP                      -486      -736       -646       -779             Groundnuts                      39.6        7.2
Sesame                         41.3        7.5
Interest MLT Debt (net)           -51        -51        -69        -49             Other                         122.5       21.7
Other Factor Payments (net)         --        --         --         --                Total                      557.4      100.0
Transfers                          173        221       240        209
Current Balance                  -362       -566       -475       -619*
Public Grants                       11         24         17        84             EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1978
Public MLT Loans, disb.            324        210       405        532
Public MLT Loans, amort.           -57       -66        -55        -90                                                  US $ Mln.
Total Public, net                  267       144        350        442             Public Debt, incl. guaranteed         2,100.2
Inras    n  reas34  25 39  3Non-Guaranteed Private Debt    ..
Increase in Arrears               345        325        309         93             Total Outstanding and Disbursed
Change Net Foreign Assets          -2         76         -6         48 /a          DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1978
(-   increase)                                                                                                 %
Errors and Omissions b/          -259         -3       -195        -48             Public Debt, incl. guaranteed         35.0 d/
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt             ..
Gross Reserves (end year) c/        23        22         27         33             Total Outstanding and Disbursed
RATE OF EXCHANGE e/                                          IBRD/IDA LENDING, (Jan. 31, 1981) (Million US $):
Annual Averages    End Period                                                          IBRD           IDA
1977     1978   Aug 79  Sep 79        Outstanding and Disbursed                      128.5         196.7
Undisbursed                                     30.7         326.3
Official:                                                    Outstanding incl  Undisbursed                  15_9.2        232.
LSd 1 = US$         2.872    2.662   2.500   2.000
Effective:
LSd 1 = US$         2.500    2.225   2.000         --
Parallel Market:
LSd 1 = US$             --       --       --   1.250
a/ Includes use of IMF resources.
b/ Includes short-term and private capital movements.
c/ Based on IMF statistics (line 1. d of IFS)  which accounts for the variations between this line and the reserves
implicit from the proceeding line.
d/ Based on amounts owed, not what was actually paid.
e/ Prior to September 1979, the official rate differed from the effective rate by the amount of export tax/subsidy
charges. After September 1979, these were abolished and a parallel market rate was established for transactions
other than a limited category including government purchase and a few "essential" items.
Not available.
EA2DB
April, 1981
*Current account deficit for 1980/81 is estimated at US$750 million.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS - SUDAN
(as of May 31, 1981)
Amount (US$ Million)
(Net of cancellations)
Credit No.       Year    Borrower   Purpose                  Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
Six Loans and eight Credits fully disbursed:                  127.2 117.4
Credit 364-2    1975    Sudan         Rahad (Supplement)             20.0       5.3
Credit 547       1975    Sudan        Education II                   10.0       4.9
Credit 564       1975    Sudan       Power II                        23.0       1.1
Credit 589       1975    Sudan        Industrial Bank of Sudan II   7.0         0.3
Credit 614       1976    Sudan        Technical Assistance            4.0       0.9
Credit 643       1976    Sudan )                                      9.0       8.4
Loan 1287T       1976    Sudan )    Domestic Aviation          20.0    -       20.0
Credit 718       1977    Sudan        Savannah Development           17.0      16.6
Credit 727       1977    Sudan )                                      8.0       4.2
Loan 1467T       1977    Sudan )    Railway IV                 12.0    -        9.2
Credit 781       1978    Sudan       Port                            22.0       6.0
Credit 782       1978    Sudan       Livestock Marketing             25.0      24.1
Credit 804       1978    Sudan       Mechanized Farming III          16.0      14.5
Credit 834       1978    Sudan       Agricultural Research           15.0      14.3
Credit 882       1979    Sudan       Highway II                      41.0      33.1
Credit 904       1979    Sudan        Southern Region
Agriculture Project          15.0      11.8
Credit 1000      1980    Sudan       Agricultural Rehabilitation
Program                      65.0      53.9
Credit 1006      1980    Sudan       Third Power Project             65.0      59.1
Credit 1022      1980    Sudan       New Halfa Rehab. Project        40.0      39.8
Credit 1118      1981    Sudan 1/   Blue Nile Pump
Rehabilitation Project       32.0      32.0
Credit 1119      1981    Sudan 1/   White Nile Pump
Rehabilitation Project       35.0      35.0
Credit 1153      1981    Sudan 1/   Second Technical Assistance
Project                       6.0       6.0
Total                                                 159.2   592.4
of which repaid                                      84.2     7.1
Total now outstanding                                  75.0   585.3
Amount sold                                   5.8
of which repaid                             5.8        -       -
Total held by Bank & IDA 2/                            75.0   585.3
Total Undisbursed                                      29.2   371.3    400.5
1/   Not yet effective.
2/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of May 31, 1981)
Fiscal                                                    (Amount in US$ Million)
Year                  Obligor                            Loan   Equity   Total
1964 and     Khartoum Spinning & Weaving Co.
1972         Textiles                                    1.9    0.3       2.2
1976        Cotton Textile Mills                         8.7    1.3       10.0
1978        Seleit Food Production Ltd.                  11.2    1.2      12.4
19/)        Gezira/Managil Textile Co. Ltd.              6.7    1.4        8.1
1980        Promotional Cement Company                    -      0.2      0.2
Total gross commitments                     28.5    4.4      32.9
Less cancellations, terminations
repayments and sales:                    6.9    0.3       7.2
Total commitments now held by IFC           21.6    4.1      25.7
Total undisbursed by IFC                     1.2    0.5       1.7
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
The Bank and IDA have so far made eight loans and twenty-four credits
to the Sudan. Disbursements are either in progress or about to commence for
the following projects.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit No. 364   Rahad Irrigation Project; US$62.0 million Credit of March 30,
and            1973 and July 11, 1975; Effective Dates:  August 29, 1973
364-2          and November 17, 1975; Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
The Rahad Irrigation Project commenced agricultural production
in 1977 with cotton grown over 50,000 feddans (15 percent of the total
project). Major project civil works have now been substantially completed on
some 206,000 feddans, with 154,000 feddans under cultivation; both are short
of the planned target of 300,000 feddans. Project implementation has been
delayed because of continuing managerial, financial and logistical problems,
cotton yields also have been disappointing and there is a service shortage of
labor for harvesting crops. The project is undergoing careful review in an
effort to identify mechanisms to minimize the risks to this and other projects
in the agricultural sector in the future.
Credit No. 547   Second Education Project:  US$10.0 million Credit of
May 16, 1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The second project is some 18 months behind the original 1975
appraisal schedule. The delay is due to the lack of construction material,
transportation difficulties and weakness in project management. Some change
in project scope has been necessary in surmounting these difficulties.
Physical execution of the project is improving, with the award of the bulk
of the construction contracts, although transportation remains a constraint.
Close monitoring of the project is to continue.
Credit No. 564   Second Power Project; US$23.0 million Credit of June 25,
1975; Effective Date: October 29, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Contracts for supply, erection and commissioning of generating
plant, transmission lines and ancillary equipment were placed mostly accord-
ing to the program. However, delays in award of contracts for civil works at
the Burri diesel station, Roseires hydroelectric station and the Juba diesel
station are likely to delay commissioning of various components of the Project
by about two years. The project cost estimate is now 53% higher than at
appraisal and the Government has received a loan of US$9.5 million from the
OPEC Special Fund to help meet the foreign exchange cost overrun. PEWC has
increased its electricity tariffs by 100 percent and its water supply tariffs
by 200 percent. The Government changed the composition of PEWC's board of
directors, removed PEWC's departmental managers from the board and replaced
them with ministerial under-secretaries.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit No. 589   Second Industrial Bank of Sudan Project: US$7.0 million
Credit of November 11, 1975; Effective Date: April 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Funds under the first Industrial Bank of Sudan project (Credit 447)
have been fully disbursed, and the credit was closed on June 30, 1979. Under
the second project (Credit 589), US$5.3 million has been committed and US$4.4
million disbursed. There have been problems with overall management respon-
sibility and effectiveness within IBS and doubts about IBS' future role in the
industrial sector. These issues have been brought repeatedly to Government's
notice but no appropriate action has been taken. Consequently, consideration
of a proposed third line of credit for IBS has been postponed.
Credit No.. 614   Technical Assistance Project;  US$4.0 million Credit of
April 7, 1976; Effective Date: Octoter 5, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project, supported by IDA and the Kuwait Fund, is helping to
finance preparation studies of high priority projects to facilitate Sudan's
public investment. The Project Preparation Unit has been established, but is
only moderately effective. Overall project progress has been good, however.
All funds are fully committed.
Credit No. 643   Domestic Aviation Project; US$20.0 million Loan of
July 7, 1976 and US$9.0 million Credit of July 7, 1976;
Loan No. 1287T   Effective Date:  January 11, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
Management problems have resulted in delays in project implementa-
tion; in addition, the project has encountered serious financial problems.
Tenders for construction of the Wau and Malakal airports came in at levels
far above the appraisal estimate and retendering was initiated, based on
revised design and bills of quantities. However, the new tenders also came in
at levels greater than available financing. The future of this project is now
under discussion with the Government, including the possibility of cancellation.
Credit No. 718   Savannah Development Project; US$17.0 million Credit
of June 24, 1977; Effective Date: August 31, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Due to organizational delays and logistical and financial con-
straints, this project as well as the parallel ODA/Abu Dhabi Fund-supported
Southern Darfur project, cannot be implemented as envisaged at appraisal.
The Government proposed that both projects be rephased, reduced in scope
and consolidated into a single pilot operation.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit No. 727   Fourth Railway Project; US$12.0 million Loan of July 8, 1977
and           and US$8.0 million Credit of July 8, 1977; Effective Date:
Loan No. 1467T   January 12, 1979.  Closing Date:  December 31, 1982.
Procurement under the project is progressing well, with nearly
two-thirds of the credit/loan already committed. Rapidly rising prices, along
with a protracted delay between signing and effectiveness of the project, may
necessitate some reduction in project scope. Co-financing is being provided
by the Kuwait Fund, Arab Fund, Abu Dhabi Fund, and European Development Fund.
Credit No. 781   Port Project:  US$22.0 million Credit of June 9, 1978;
Effective Date: February 2, 1979. Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project provides for expansion of the capacity of the existing
berths in Port Sudan and mechanization of cargo handling and movement, improve-
ment of layout and working surfaces, and improvement of bulk, container and
roll on/roll off facilities, as well as management assistance and training.
Project works are well underway.
Credit No. 782   Livestock Marketing Project:  US$25 million Credit of
June 16, 1978; Effective Date: July 9, 1979
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The Project provides market and transport infrastructure, technical
assistance, a headquarters building and additional staff for the Livestock
and Meat Marketing Corporation (LMMC), which is implementing the project.
Construction of the LMMC headquarters is 50 percent complete, and selection
of sites for 13 markets and 10 holding yards has been finalized. The Sudan
Railways Corporation has contracted to purchase livestock wagons, vans and
underframes, as well as light locomotives.
Credit No. 804   The Third Mechanized Farming Project:  US$16 million
Credit of July 13, 1978; Effective Date; August 13, 1979
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The second Mechanized Farming project (Credit 311) was closed on
December 30, 1980 and an undisbursed balance of US$3.6 million cancelled on
March 5, 1981. The objectives of the third project are to (a) develop and
introduce improved mechanical farming methods, and (b) support programs
designed to develop mechanized farming methods for smallholders. These
objectives will be pursued through improvement and expansion of the extension
activities of the Mechanized Farming Corporation (MFC), programs of adaptive
trials and related research, access road building, importation of spare parts
for the mechanized dryland farmers and reorganization and strengthening of
the MFC. The project became effective eight months later than expected. Late
appointment of staff and delayed procurement prevented full implementation of
agronomy and farm machinery trials during the 1980/81 season. MFC's future
functions have been discussed with Government and agreement in principle has
been reached to reorganize MFC as a service organization.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit No. 834   Agricultural Research Project; US$15.0 million Credit
of July 27, 1978; Effective Date: March 21, 1980;
Closing Date: Jure 30, 1985
Over a six year period, the project would develop the research
capability of the Agricultural Research Corporation (ARC) in Western Sudan,
implement research programs in this region and strengthen ARC's new Khartoum
headquarters. The research program would be concerned with integrated live-
stock and crop production systems, pure livestock production systems and water
and land use management. USAID is co-financing the project. In order to
limit projected cost escalation, reductions in staffing and housing have been
agreed. Contracts for the building program and for aircraft rental have been
let. USAID is providing additional funding to permit inclusion of one addi-
tional research station.
Credit No. 882   Second Highway Project; US$41.0 million Credit of
March 16, 1979; Effective Date: January 23, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The first highway project (Credit 331) was closed on June 30, 1980.
The second project will facilitate the transport and export of agricultural
production through construction of the Jebel Aulia to Ed Dueim road along the
White Nile; improve accessibility of currently settled but isolated areas;
provide access to new areas of agricultural development; develop appropriate
organizational, planning and technical skills in the Roads Department of the
Southern Regional Ministry of Communications, Transport and Roads, particularly
with respect to highway maintenance; and provide detailed engineering for
future priority roads. The contracts for road construction and supervision
have been let, and construction work has recently started. Selection of the
consultants for technical assistance to the Southern Region has been completed.
Credit No. 904   Southern Region Agriculture Project:  US$15.0 million
Credit of May 11, 1979; Effective Date: February 14, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The present project, a follow-up to the earlier rehabilitation project
(Credit 476), will assist the Southern Regional Government to implement part
of its regional agricultural development program by strengthening agricultural
services, planning capacity and management and improving physical infrastructure.
Credit No. 1000 Agricultural Rehabilitation Program: US$65.0 million
Credit of March 25, 1980; Effective Date: May 12, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The objective of the project is to provide foreign exchange financing
for high priority imports (spare parts, fertilizers, etc.) to help increase
utilization of productive capacity in the irrigated agriculture subsector from
which Sudan derives the bulk of its foreign exchange earnings. The project



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
will also encourage macro economic and agriculture sector policy and institu-
tional reforms and provide financing for technical assistance to help implement
the program. An EEC Special Action Fund Credit of about US$11 million will
supplement the program. This program is progressing well and the second
tranche has been approved for release by senior management.
Credit No. 1006 Third Power Project: US$65.0 Million Credit of April 17,
1980; Effective Date: August 14, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
This project will help expand power supply and distribution in
Sudan's Blue Nile grid through the provision of hydro, thermal and diesel
generation. The project will help meet the expected increased demand through
1986. The Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom) and the
Ministry of Economic Cooperation (Federal Republic of Germany) are cofinancing.
Credit No. 1022  New Halfa Irrigation Rehabilitation Project:  US$40 million
Credit of May 15, 1980; Effective Date: February 18, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
This is the first of a series of rehabilitation projects in the
irrigated subsector designed to support Sudan's Export Action Program. It
will revitalize the second largest irrigation scheme in the country, where
cotton and groundnuts are grown. The International Fund for Agricultural
Development and the African Development Fund are cofinancing.
Technical        Planning Assistance and Training:  US$1.8 million Credit;
Assistance       Effective Date:  July 1, 1977;  Termination Date:
June 30, 1983
This technical assistance project, funded by the UNDP and executed
by the Bank, provides the services of seven advisers to the Ministry of
National Planning to assist in national, sectoral and annual planning and
improved project identification and preparation. The advisers have encoun-
tered some difficulties in trying to introduce appropriate systems for annual
planning and monitoring, as required by their terms of reference, but other-
wise the project is making satisfactory progress.
Credit No. 1118 Blue Nile Pump Schemes Rehabilitation Project:
US$32.0 million Credit of March 26, 1981; Effective Date:
Not yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project is one of a series of rehabilitation/modernizaton
efforts under the Export Action Program, which is designed to increase cotton
export earnings by means of stepped-up production in existing irrigation
schemes. The project would, over a five-year period, rehabilitate the
Shasheina Region of the Blue Nile Agricultural Corporation (BNAC) and provide
agricultural machinery and workshops for cotton cultivation in the rest of
the BNAC area. The African Development Fund is confinancing.



- 37 -
AIINEX II
Page 8
Credit No. 1119 White Nile Pump Schemes Rehabilitation Project:
US$35.0 million Credit of March 26, 1981; Effective Date:
Not yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This project is one of a series of rehabilitation/modernization
efforts in the irrigated subsector. It is designed to support the Govern-
ment's Export Action Program. This program has the objective of increasing
the volume of cotton exports at an average rate of 7 percent per annum during
the 1979-91 period. The White Nile project would help achieve this objective
by rehabilitating, over five-years, some 174 ongoing pump schemes along the
White Nile south of Khartoum.
Credit No. 1153 Second Technical Assistance Project: US$6.0 million Credit
of July 2, 1981; Effective Date: Not yet effective;
Closing Date: March 3, 1985
This project is designed to help Sudan implement its economic
recovery program by providing assistance in project preparation, project
implementation (accountancy training, tendering and procurement, financial
management) and macro-economic management (debt management, national accounts).
Main beneficiaries are the Ministries of Finance and Planning.



- 38 -
ANNEX III
SUDAN
WESTERN SAVANNAH PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Identification mission: November 1980
(b) Appraisal: February 1981
(c) Negotiations Completed: June 30, 1981
(d) Planned date of credit effectiveness: October 30, 1981
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
PPF advance of US$1.0 million approval to facilitate project implementa-
tion (ref. para. 46).
III. Special Conditions
(a) As additional condition of Credit effectiveness:
ratification and execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between Government and WSDC (ref. para. 47);
(b) Government to consult with Association prior to appointing
replacement for director general of WSDC (ref. para. 49).
(c)  Government to submit annual work programs for the project to the
Association for review by April 15 each year (ref. para. 51).
(d) Cost recovery system for wateryards to be established and imple-
mented on terms acceptable to Association (ref. para. 52(e)).



IBRD 15642
|  }                   WESTERN SAVANNAH PROJECT
4                                                                                             /                    Communications & Land Systems
RnDsA R F U R  nC2 r--h C,,n
DA RFUR                                                                                                -,otrtt4,t
NYALE                                                                                                                                  RI h  2eYO
0                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~MAlng,,Ko                                           RLo...
12^ ~ - /4 \ - -~Rrg nOl boundeleo-
Senrogh  1,nnbcaka                                                 n.,, Wod                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L.nd sy.te-
BASEMENT          j.hA  A              b |                                                                                                                        Bosott
E         \     r      2      Y         S                                                    e______e________                                                     ,02 42.
gH~~~~~~~O                                                                                                    Adf/                    O     HRF GHA N      wlt   
I V   .                          I}                      1                            X          I          ,   ;       ,        t                              \         C      ,N,            ! .Q
R   E G   E   B A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  4'2B                                    4~t 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L                                           I           



