Document of
The World Bank                      *
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3426-S'LJ
SUDAN
WESTERN SAVANNAH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
July 17, 1981
Eastern Africa Projects Department
Northern Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:
Sudanese Pound (hSd)    =   100 piasters        1,000 milliemes
US$1.00 = hSd 0.80
hSd 1.00 = US$1.25
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Units                 English Units                         Sudanese Units
1 Hectare (ha)        =      2.47 acres (ac)                   =  2.38 feddans (fd)
Metric Units                 English Units                            US Units
1 liter               =      0.22 Imperial gallons             =  0.26 U.S. gallons
1 metric ton (ton)   =       2,202.6 lbs
ABBREVIATIONS
ARC           -   Agricultural Research Corporation
CBPP          -   Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia
DG            -   Director General
GOS           -   Government of Sudan
JMRDP         -   Jebel Marra Rural Development Project
LMMC          -   Livestock and Meat Marketing Corporation
NWA           -   National Water Authority
ODA           -   Overseas Development Administration of the
United Kingdom
SFD           -   Saudi Fund for Development
USAID         -   United States Agency for International Development
WSDC           -   Western Savannah Development Corporation
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SUDAN
WESTERN SAVANNAH PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  BACKGROUND ..............................................          1
A. The Agricultural Sector    .               .
B. Bank Group Lending           ..                                2
C. Project Formulation           ..                               3
D.   Performance under the Existing Project           .           4
II. THE PROJECT AREA.                                                   4
A. Location and Population.                                       4
B.   Climate, Soils and Vegetation       ..                       5
C. Water Resources.                                               5
D.   Land Rights, Land Use and Production           .     .6
E.   Institutions ....................................            7
F.   Credit, Input and Output Marketing      .      .             8
III.   THE PROJECT.9
III    TH  PRJECT ...............................................     9
A. Objectives and Strategy. . .                                   9
B. General Description. . .                                       9
C.   Detailed Features        ....................................   11
D.   Project Costs ... .......................................   18
E.  Financing       ............................................   20
F.   Procurement      ..........................................   22
G.  Disbursement ...      ......................................   22
H.  Accounts, Audit and Government Funding ...............  24
I.   Environmental Impact        .................................   24
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .........      ...........................  25
A.   Organization and Management ......       ....................  25
B.   Regional Government ........      ..........................  28
C.   Annual Work Program ........      ..........................  29
D.   Monitoring, Evaluation, and Reporting ....      ............  29
V.   AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES ....       ...........  30
A.   Crops  ...............................................   30
B.   Livestock . ............................................   31
C.   Markets and Prices ........      ...........................  32
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Sudan in February 1981, in which Messrs. E. Goetz, S. Marples, J. Veen and
J. Wambia (IDA) and Mr. G. Harrington (Consultant) participated.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
VI.   COST RECOVERY AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ......................   32
A.   Cost Recovery ........    ................................   32
B.  Producer Income ..................    34
C.  Government Cash Flow .............   35
VII.   BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS .........................   35
A.   Production  Benefits   .....................................  35
B.  Project Justification ......................   36
C.  Risks       ................................................    37
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .............. ......   38
APPENDIX
Chart  1:  Implementation Schedule                                     39
Chart  2:  Regional Government of Darfur                               40
Chart  3:  Provincial Agricultural Administration South Darfur         41
Chart  4:  Organization of the Western Savannah Development
Corporation                                                 42
Chart  5:  Flow of Funds for Wateryard Operation                       43
Table  8:  Summary Cost Table by Components                            44
Table  9:  Summary Cost Table by Categories                            45
Table 10:  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements                         46
Table 11:  Government Cash Flow                                        47
Table 12:  Illustrative Commodity and Farm Budgets
--Flood Irrigation and Settlement Farmer                    48
Table 13:   Illustrative Commodity and Farm Budget
--Pastoralist                                               49
(
Table of Contents of the Implementation Volume                         50
Map 1:     Communications and Land Systems
(IBRD No. 15642)
Map 2.     Water Resources and Livestock
(IBRD No. 15643)



WESTERN SAVANNAH PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A.   The Agricultural Sector
1.01      Sudan's agriculture contributes nearly 40% of the gross domestic
product, over 90% of the country's exports and provides a livelihood to about
two-thirds of the labor force.  A key feature is the division between a modern
sector comprising mainly the irrigation and rainfed mechanized farming schemes
and a traditional sector based largely on shifting cultivation and transhumant
animal husbandry. Historically, investment has been heavily concentrated in
the modern sector in the east-central region.  Development efforts were
largely geared towards expansion of cultivated area and were accompanied by
static or declining yields which have contributed to Sudan's present economic
and financial crisis. Nonetheless, economic necessity requires that the past
emphasis on the modern sector, and in particular the irrigation subsector,
continue, because it offers the opportunity for quick increases of production
and exports through the rehabilitation of the existing capital infrastructure.
1.02      The traditional agriculture sector, by contrast, has received little
Government assistance, although its contributions to employment, food produc-
tion and exports are not unimportant. All of the gum arabic and millet, most
of the livestock, over 70% of the sesame, two thirds of the groundnuts and
about one third of the sorghum produced in Sudan originate from traditional
rainfed farming. The combined value of exports of these products may amount
to about one fourth of the total of agricultural exports. The main constraints
to development in this traditional sector are poor infrastructure (communica-
tion, transport, water supply, institutions), and difficulties involved in
adjusting the social systems and the production techniques to the changing
environment.
1.03      Of major concern among the rainfed areas is the western savannah,
extending over the Darfur and Kordofan regions, where growing population,
increasing sedentarization of former pastoralists and lack of land use plan-
ning have led to environmental degradation and conflicts between farmers and
pastoralists. A number of studies and limited research have in recent years
been carried out which indicate opportunities whereby it should be possible
to achieve sustained production increases through support to existing small-
holder farmers and pastoralists, in contrast to the development of large-scale,
capital intensive schemes. The means to do this include land use planning and
land management, allocation of areas for grazing, stock routes and cultivation,
a strengthened research base, improved animal husbandry and range management,
water provision and transport infrastructure. This set of proposed actions
needs to be tested. If proven successful and implemented on a larger scale,
it should be possible to arrive at a higher level of economic activity which
could also redress the current regional imbalances in the development of the
country.



- 2 -
B.   Bank Group Lending
1.04      World Bank Group commitments to Sudan to date total US$784.5 mil-
lion. About 50% of the total Bank/IDA lending has been devoted to agricul-
tural development: six irrigation projects; three rainfed mechanized farming
projects; two smallholder development projects in the southern region; a
livestock marketing project; and an agricultural research project. As a
first attempt to address development of smallholder agriculture and pastoralism
in remote Western Sudan, a US$17 million - Credit (718-SU) was approved in
1977 for the Savannah Development Project, which because of organizational,
logistical and financial constraints could not be implemented as planned. In
aLddition to the above projects, the Bank has approved an Agricultural Rehabi-
litation Program Credit for rapid rehabilitation of the irrigation subsector.
Ain Agricultural Services Project in support of private farms is also under
consideration.
1.05      Physical progress in implementing agricultural projects in Sudan
hias been poor. Many projects have difficulty in getting materials -- steel,
cement, fuel and timber of which there are periodic shortages. Late delivery
of equipment and supplies due to transportation difficulties also affects
most projects. The continuing drain of skilled manpower from Sudan to neigh-
boring countries, where job opportunities are better, takes its toll on
effective preparation and implementation of projects. Beyond these diffi-
culties, there are other shortcomings traceable to cumbersome Government
procedures. For example, there have been delays in getting parliamentary
ratification of agreed development projects and, subsequently, in obtaining
:Legal opinions from Government. There have also been delays in meeting
effectiveness conditions, mainly because of problems in establishing new
institutions or project accounts, hiring key staff, completing necessary
legal documentation or concluding required cofinancing arrangements. Efforts
are underway to correct these problems. Experience with ongoing projects
emphasizes the need to establish systems and procedures which ensure timely
and adequate release of foreign exchange and local currency, strengthen
management and administration and provide housing and financial incentives to
attract technical personnel to work on the projects.
1.06      The economic and financial crisis of Sudan which became evident
in the late seventies, has led to a reorientation of Government's development
policies and a change in the Bank-s lending strategy. While Bank Group
lending continues to concentrate on agriculture and infrastructure investment,
in response to Sudan's current development objectives, major emphasis is now
being given to rehabilitation and intensification of existing irrigation
schemes and to reducing infrastructure constraints. This will help the
country generate increased export earnings, which is the principal objective
of the recovery effort. As a consequence of the above, less emphasis will be
given to equity considerations or to regional balance in investment programs.
Recent experience has demonstrated that projects such as the 1977 Savannah
Development Project that were designed in large part to help meet equity,
productive and regional balance goals, will very likely take much longer to
implement because of problems of inadequate infrastructure, lack of skilled
manpower, and the absence of reliable institutional support.



- 3 -
1.07      The proposed Project has close linkages with a number of ongoing
IDA-financed agricultural projects. Marketing of livestock from the savannah
area is being improved under the Livestock Marketing Project (Credit 782-SU)
signed in 1978 and cofinanced with the U.K. Overseas Development Administration
(ODA). This project provides for development of market infrastructure and for
livestock transport by train. Research on farming systems and land and water
use in Western Sudan is being addressed under the Agricultural Research Project
(Credit 834-SU) signed in 1978 and cofinanced by USAID. It is focussed less
towards adaptive research than the proposed Project and does not include
extension activities. Mechanization aspects of smaltholder production in
rainfed savannah areas are being addressed, among other things, under the Third
Mechanized Farming Project (Credit 804-SU) on a pilot basis. Implementation
of each of these three projects is delayed by about one year against appraisal
expectations. With regard to the Livestock Marketing Project, technical
assistance staff are now in post and most of the procurement items are under
order or delivery. Market infrastructure and livestock trains are expected
to be fully operational by mid-1983. As to the Agricultural Research Project,
about half of the technical assistance staff is in post, the construction
contracts have been awarded, and the research programs are being developed.
The progress of the Third Mechanized Farming Project is so far disappointing,
mainly because of management difficulties. However, a new managing director
has recently been appointed, and there is the expectation that under the new
leadership the project agency will be able to fulfill its role and implement
the Project, possibly on a revised basis. In addition to the above IDA-
supported projects, there are a number of pilot projects financed by other
donors which complement the search for development opportunities in the
savannah areas.
C. Project Formulation
1.08      The concept of the proposed Project is based on the original IDA/
Saudi Fund-supported Savannah Development Project (Credit 718-SU). This
project was slow to move and the delays led to an estimated doubling of its
original costs (US$38.2 million). It is also based on the ODA/Abu Dhabi
Fund-supported South Darfur Rural Development Project which was approved
earlier and which faced similar implementation problems. Because of these
difficulties and the interdependence of both projects, Government initially
suggested to combine the projects and adjust its scope to the total resources
available. However, in view of the worsening of the economic situation in
Sudan, necessitating a reordering of the resource allocation, and the logis-
tical difficulties of implementing larger projects in the West, it was
decided in October 1980 to pursue a smaller project which would consolidate
the efforts made under the two existing projects. Agreements in principle
on the scope, content and funding of the proposed Project were reached in
November 1980 between the Government and the cofinancing agencies IDA, ODA
and Saudi Fund for Development (SFD). The Abu Dhabi Fund has directed its
resources to other projects. The proposed Western Savannah Project would
replace the two ongoing projects. It is proposed that (a) US$16 million
of the original US$17 million credit (718-SU) be cancelled upon signing of
the proposed new credit, and (b) the balance of US$1 million of disbursed and
committed funds be prepaid from the new credit upon its effectiveness.



D.   Performance under the Existing Project
1.09      The existing Savannah Development Project (Credit 718-SU) was
approved in May 1977, but due to delays in setting up the Western Savannah
Development Corporation (WSDC) as project implementing agency, the credit did
not become effective until August 1978. The remoteness of the project area
and the worsening of Sudan's economic situation 4ave also affected staffing,
logistics and the establishment of physical facilities. Altogether, this has
resulted in cost overruns which could no longer be justified in the context
of the prevailing economic difficulties of the country (para. 1.08).
1.10      In view of the uncertainties surrounding the implementation and
funding of the previous project, disbursements from the IDA Credit did not
start until the beginning of 1980. The activities of the WSDC were funded
by the Government with support from ODA. Since the beginning of 1981 the
activities have intensified and as of mid-1981 from the existing IDA Credit
about US$0.5 million have been disbursed for aircraft services and construc-
tion, and from the existing Saudi Fund Loan about US$1.0 million for vehicles
and wateryard spare parts. Under the South Darfur Project ODA have spent
about US$3.7 million, mainly for technical assistance, consultancies, vehicles
and construction materials.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Location and Population
2.01      The Project would be located in parts of the eastern and southern
districts of the South Darfur Province which has recently been combined
with Northern Darfur to form the Darfur Regio~. Project activities would be
carried out within an area of about 92,000 km , in which activities were
planned under the existing two projects (Maps 1 and 2). The Northeastern part
of the area overlaps with an area allocated by the Government for oil explora-
tion, but the chance that such operation would interfere with Project activi-
ties is considered minimal. Project Headquarters would be in Nyala, the
capital of South Darfur Province. Nyala is connected with Khartoum and Port
Sudan by a railway line. There are no all-weather access roads into or within
the Project area.
2.02      The population of the Project area is estimated at about 500,000
people, half being transhumant pastoralists and half sedentary cultivators.
Between 10 and 20% of the pastoralists have their homeland elsewhere and
reside only temporarily in the area. In the rainy season (July - October)
movements of the pastoralists are directed towards the desert fringe north of
the Project area and the sandy qoz soils in the east and west, which offer
fresh grazing and surface water. The alluvial lands in the southern parts
near the Bahr el Arab River are inaccessible at this time due to flooding



and the presence of biting flies. In the dry season (December - March)
pastoralists return to the floodlands in the south which then offer grazing
and water (Map 2).
2.03      The pastoralists cross twice a year on their migrations (June/July
and October/November) the patches cultivated by settled farmers in the
central part of the Project area, in search of water, grazing and to plant
and harvest some crops of their own. Population density is highest then and
coincides with the planting and harvesting seasons.
2.04      Although the pastoralists normally use well established stock-
routes and grazing areas, population growth, development of water points, and
the expansion of settlements and cultivated areas are causing an increasing
strain on the natural resources. Conflicts between farmers and pastoralists
over land and water use are becoming increasingly frequent.
B. Climate, Soils and Vegetation
2.05      Rainfall in the Project area varies between 400 mm in the north and
800 mm per year in the south with an average of 500 - 600 mm in the central
parts where cultivation takes place. Monthly average temperatures oscillate
between 31.7 and 23.2 0C with an annual average of 31.2 0C 1/.  Soils belong
to three major groups--qoz (sandy soils), alluvium (clay soils) and basement
(quartzitic sandy soils). The natural vegetation of the area is low rainfall
woodland savannah with different composition on clays and sands. The majority
of trees are thorny with species of Acacia dominating. Perennial grasses
predominate in the south on the Bahr el Arab and annual grasses are character-
istic for the drier central and northern parts.
C. Water Resources
2.06      Principal sources of water in the rural areas are seasonal streams
and natural lakes and ponds supplemented by shallow wells. Since 1947 the
Rural Water Corporation, now renamed the National Water Authority has con-
structed a network of deep boreholes in the qoz areas. Most of these boreholes
have been equipped with pumps, diesel engines, elevated water tanks and a
distribution system ("wateryards"); other boreholes have not been fully
equipped and were kept closed for some years. They were later opened because
of increasing population pressure.
2.07      Due to lack of maintenance some 150 of 222 wateryards in the area
are no longer fully operational. The breakdown of wateryards has led to an
1/   Temperatures recorded at Ghazala Gawazat.



- 6 -
ever increasing concentration of the population and animals around the few
remaining sources of water with adverse effects on the environment and
on health. In the clay areas of the south (alluvium) the National Water
Authority has also constructed some 49 reservoirs (called "hafirs") into which
surface run-off is diverted for seasonal storage. Most of these hafirs need
some form of rehabilitation, because they are silted up or the fencing or
distribution system is in disrepair from lack of maintenance.
D. Land Rights, Land Use and Production
2.08      Under the Unregistered Land Act of 1970, all land in the Project
area except urban sites is Government owned. Customary rights of access and
use have evolved over time and are associated with specific local communities.
Access to these rights is dependent on community membership, usually through
kinship or marriage, although outsiders may be assimilated provided they are
acceptable to the local community. The customary laws governing land tenure
vary and distinctions are made between the rights to cultivate, to graze
and the right of passage. Cultivation and tree planting establish ownership
as long as it is effectively used. Under customary law there is free access
to the open range. Livestock owners are liable for damage to crops, but
free access to water and grazing is assured. A land registry exists which
presently serves the urban areas.
2.09      Rainfed crop production is largely confined to the sandy soils
which are easily worked and allow extensive areas to be cultivated by hand.
Bulrush millet is the staple, occupying around two-thirds of the area planted
with annual crops; the balance is planted mainly to groundnuts and also some
sorghum and sesame. The area is becoming increasingly deficient in staple
foods but produces substantial exports of groundnuts and a minor surplus of
sesame (para. 1.02). Soils are usually cultivated for four or five years and
after depletion of the soil fertility, allowed to revert to natural fallow
for 15 years or more, but in areas characterized by land pressure the fallow
period may only be four years. An average family of six persons cultivates
about 5 ha with hand tools. Millet yields are low, being significantly
affected by weed competition; groundnut yields are generally good. The gum
arabic tree is part of the natural vegetation and yields an important cash
crop.
2.10      There are some 1.5 million cattle, 0.8 million sheep, 0.5 million
goats and about 50,000 camels in the Project area. These animals are owned
mainly by the migratory pastoralists, but sedentary cultivators also rely on
livestock production to a considerable extent. Stocking density varies with
season, the highest concentrations occuring in the dry season at which time
migratory herds are grazing along the Bahr el Arab and other areas with
permanent water sources. Pastoralism as a way of life was well adapted to the
savannah when the area of land available was more than adequate to accommodate
the numbers of people and livestock using it. It still forms the basis for
organizing production, consumption and capital accumulation within the family.



However, the traditional pastoral system has come under pressure from increas-
ing human and animal populations which are inducing settlement. These new
settlements have in turn put added stress on limited water resources and have
often blocked access to the stock routes so essential to the free migration of
the pastoralists.
E.   Institutions
2.11      During the last 12 months, Sudan's Government administration has
been reorganized on a regional pattern. The relationship between the different
levels of Government are, however, still evolving and not yet fully developed.
The provinces of North and South Darfur were re-united as Darfur Region with
the capital at El Fasher. The regional Government is headed by a Governor,
who has vice-presidential status and is appointed by the President of the
Republic. Five regional Ministries cover the fields of Agriculture, Finance,
Administration; Education and Health; and Housing and Social Services, which
extend to the provincial level through Directors (Chart 2). The provincial
Administration is headed by a Commissioner who represents the regional Governor
in the Province. The five Ministries are represented at the provincial level
by Assistant Commissioners who report to the Commissioner and through him
to the regional Ministries.
2.12      The agricultural sector in the Project area is served from Nyala
by the following provincial Goverment departments (Chart 3):
(a) Agricultural Services, comprising crop protection,
horticulture and agricultural extension,
(b)  Livestock Services, including animal production and
animal health (Veterinary Services); and
(c) Natural Resources, including soil conservation, range
management, forestry, and game and wildlife.
2.13      Public water services in the Project area are provided through
the Assistant Commissioner for Water Services who reports through the Provin-
cial Commissioner to the regional Minister for Housing and Social Services.
The National Water Authority (NWA) is technically responsible for operation
and maintenance of all wateryards in the Project area. It operates three
workshops at Nyala, Ed Da'ein and Buram and is adequately staffed and equipped.
Like other Government agencies, its effectiveness suffers from insufficient
operating funds which prevent the proper operation and maintenance of the
water facilities.
2.14      Revenues accruing to the regional Government are small and have to
be supplemented by budgetary allocations from Central Government. The main
asset of the regional Government departments is their staff in post. However,
operations and effectiveness of most of them suffer from the lack of well
defined work programs.



2.15      Several branches of Central Government agencies (paras. 2.16-2.19)
operate in Darfur parallel to the regional administration. These agencies
fulfill specific functions and receive funds from, and report to, the Central
Government. Coordination of the work with the regional administration requires
improvement to permit better use of the resources available.
2.16      The most relevant of these Central Government agencies is the
Western Savannah Development Corporation (WSDC), which was established by
Presidential Decree in 1978 to plan and implement rural development projects
in Western Sudan. The Corporation's capability to undertake these tasks has
been gradually built up over the last years, with technical and financial
support from ODA, and more recently, from IDA. It is now nearly fully opera-
tional. Although the existing projects did not make progress as planned
(para. 1.08 ff.), WSDC has nonetheless been able to establish infrastructure
in the form of staffing, housing, offices and vehicles, which now facilitates
the implementation of the proposed Project.
2.17      The Veterinary Research Administration under the Central Government
Ministry of Agriculture operates a diagnostic veterinary laboratory in Nyala
and carries out research on trypanasomiasis control in South Darfur. WSDC is
upgrading the laboratory buildings in Nyala with funding from the previous ODA-
supported South Darfur Project.
2.18      The Livestock and Meat Marketing Corporation (LMMC) is, under the
IDA/ODA-supported Livestock Marketing Project (Credit 782-SU), developing two
primary livestock markets and railway holding yards in the area of the proposed
Project. The LMMC will also organize transport by rail of live animals from
the holding yards to the consumption centers in the Central Region and for
export through Port Sudan. It will regulate the market and offer its facil-
ities as a service to private livestock producers and traders on a commission
basis. It is not intended that LMMC will undertake livestock trading.
2.19      The Agricujltural Research Corporation (ARC) is, under the IDA/USAID
supported Agricultural Research Project (Credit 834-SU), developing the Ghazala
Gawazat Livestock Research Station, located in the eastern part of the Project
area, into one of its major research centers in Western Sudan. Research at
this station will study the production systems of (i) semi-arid livestock
production and (ii) integrated crop/livestock production on stabilized sands.
ARC research is directed towards the development of farming systems as a whole
(para. 1.07). The proposed Project would complement that larger ARC program
and aim at providing limited answers to specified practical issues. In the
long term, both research activities would be mutually beneficial.
F. Credit, Input and Output Marketing
2.20      Credit to smallholder farmers and pastoralists is provided mainly
through traditional channels. The agricultural production systems are gener-
ally of a low input/low output nature and commercial inputs are not required.
Some chemicals are provided free of charge through Government departments.



- 9 -
The marketing of livestock and of the few agricultural cash crops (groundnuts,
sesame, sorghum, gum arabic) is now mainly in private hands. Transport to
and from the area is a major problem in view of the limited capacity and reli-
ability of the railway, the lack of all-weather roads and the vast distances
involved. Nyala also accommodates several agroindustries including a number
of oil mills and soap factories which produce mainly for the local market.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Strategy
3.01      The proposed Project would retain the long term objectives of the
original Savannah Development Project which is to improve the economic
potential of the region by arresting the degradation of natural resources and
improving farming systems and technologies which would in turn enable a higher
level of production and thereby increase the standard of living. The Project
itself would be a pilot operation and is expected to help lay the foundation
for a long term strategy for the development of Western Sudan.
3.02      Specifically, the Project would aim to:  (i) test strategies for
improving livestock and range production, (ii) identify and test agronomic
packages and extension methods for crop production, both for area expansion
and yield increase; and (iii) test approaches to settlement and soil con-
servation. The Project would also include rehabilitation of existing
water facilities in order to decrease population pressure and environmental
degradation around the wells in operation. Additionally, cost recovery
systems for water supply and veterinary services would be introduced and
a start would be made to establish land titles in rural areas.
B. General Description
3.03      The proposed Project would be implemented over three years and would
build upon the infrastructure, staffing and ongoing activities established by
the WSDC during the last three years. As of February 1981, WSDC employed
twelve senior staff including four expatriates and about 30 middle and
junior level staff. Houses, stores and a workshop have been rented, and a new
office block and six new senior staff houses are under construction. Vehicles
and some equipment have been taken over from earlier projects. Additional
vehicles, some wateryard spare parts and working equipment are being ordered
under the existing Project. A US$1.0 million advance under the Project Pre-
paration Facility was approved in February 1981 to further enhance preparation
and start-up operations of the proposed Project. The experiments at the three
trial farms are ongoing activities, and plans to start settlement and range
activities are being finalized. The WSDC is therefore in a position to give
the proposed Project a relatively quick start, as the basic staff and infra-
structure are in place.



- 10 -
3.04      The proposed Project would have the following components:
(a)  Further development and operation of the three existing
Development Centers (trial farms) including adaptive
agronomic research and testing of ox-drawn equipment,
(b)  Development of four settlement schemes around under-
utilized or unused wateryards, including rehabilitation
of water facilities, reorganization and establishment
of individual holdings (30 ha each) under long term
leases, strengthening of Public Services (Veterinary,
Crop Protection, Education, Health), and introduction
of agronomic improvements as they become available
(extension);
(c)  Development of about 400 ha for flood irrigation;
(d)  Initiation of a Livestock and Range Development Program
including demarcation of dry season grazing areas for:
(i)  the herds of about 20 transhumant pastoralists
using a small traditional well-field;
(ii)  a similar number of pastoralists within a larger
community; and
(iii)  a group of sedentary graziers;
(e)  Strengthening of the provincial Veterinary Services Department
to re-establish the prophylactic disease program and monitor
the control of Trypanasomiasis;
(f)  Rehabilitation of existing water facilities (boreholes
and reservoirs) through the National Water Authority;
(g)  Improvement of access tracks in critical locations; and
(h)  Strengthening of WSDC and planning of a follow-up project.
Project Implementation
3.05      The WSDC would have overall responsibility for the implementation
of all components of the proposed Project. Some of the components such as
Development Centers and Settlement have already been started by the WSDC.
Others would be best carried out by existing specialized Government agencies
(National Water Authority, Provincial Range and Pasture Administration, Provin-
cial Veterinary Services Department). Although these agencies generally suffer
from insufficient operating funds and lack of well defined work programs (para.
2.14), they do have staff and a certain limited capacity to participate
in Project implementation by redirecting their underutilized staff to specific



- 11 -
Project tasks. The work would be carried out on the basis of annual work plans
detailing the scope of activities, organization and budgets which have been
agreed between regional Government, WSDC, Central Government and IDA (para.
4.12) . The WSDC would provide the cooperating agencies with incremental
equipment, supplies and field allowances, but would not pay staff salaries.
WSDC's management would be strengthened by a team of expatriate specialists
to ensure effectiveness of its own operations as well as of its coordinating
role.
C. Detailed Features
Crop Production and Settlement (US$3.7 million) 1/
3.06      Development Centers.  Three existing trial farms located at Dimsu,
Umm Rakuba and Jumeiza and covering the two major soil types of the area (qoz
and naga'a) would be further developed. This would include the provision of
buildings, water supply, vehicles, equipment, staff and other operating costs.
The Umm Rakuba Center would be incorporated into a settlement scheme to
enhance direct contacts between WSDC staff and farmers. Adaptive agronomic
research including testing of ox-drawn equipment would be carried out under
the responsibility of the head of WSDC's Agricultural Services Division. The
agronomic trials would concentrate on selection of improved varieties of
currently grown crops, identification of possible new crops suited to local
conditions, and the testing and adaptation of improved crop husbandry prac-
tices. They would aim at making a proven package of locally adapted technology
available for dissemination to the farmers by extension. This would be of
particular importance for areas with qoz soils and on the settlement schemes.
The Jumeiza Center would address the problem of cultivation of the naga'a
soils (non-cracking clays) which so far cannot be worked with the customary
farm equipment, but which are fertile and cover a land reserve of about 30% of
the Project area. All research programs would be implemented by WSDC but
would be closely coordinated with the national programs of the Agricultural
Research Corporation.
3.07      At a later stage, the development centers would serve a variety of
functions such as: field stations for extension; ox-training; production of
seeds; supply of farm inputs; in-service training of WSDC staff; and non-formal
training and demonstrations for farmers.
3.08      Settlement.  A settlement program would be initiated under the
Project to help relieve population pressure in already settled areas and to
safeguard migratory stock routes against encroaching cultivation. Two of the
settlements would be located in the Ma'aliya/Rizeiqat Qoz of the eastern
district and two settlements in the Qoz Dango of the southern district,
covering different locations and populations. Settlers would be selected by
1/   The amounts exclude contingencies and overhead costs.



- 12 -
WSDC in cooperation with the local councils from applications, and according
to certain eligibility criteria including age, origin, farming experience and
ability. Priority would be given to farmers who presently cultivate land
which is blocking the traditional stock routes of the pastoralists. Their
resettlement would be of direct and immediate benefit to the pastoralists and
would be a form of compensation for the grazing areas they forego in the new
settlement areas. The main attraction to the settler would be the provision
of exclusive land use rights, water and services (agricultural services,
school, health room). Each settlement scheme would be designed for about 350
farms of 30 ha or a total area for cultivation of about 10,500 ha. Settlers
would follow the traditional land use pattern, i.e. use a 20 year rotation
with four crop years of millets and groundnuts and 16 years fallow. Each year
a settler would clear 1.5 ha from bush, plant a total of 6 ha, and release
1.5 ha to bush fallow after 4 years of cultivation. Gum arabic trees would be
gradually planted on the border lines and serve as windbreaks. To cultivate
6 ha effectively at full development, a settler would need to use ox-drawn
cultivating equipment. Suitable designs of such equipment would be developed
and tested by the WSDC at the Development Centers (para. 3.06). The designs
would be made available to local blacksmiths who would be expected to start
production of the equipment. Project staff would foster the production
and introduction into settlement farms of such equipment and also start with
training programs for draft oxen. It is, however, not expected that the
equipment and ox-training needs of the settlers (about 1,400 sets) will be
fully met during the Project implementation period.
3.09      Each settler would be able to bring and maintain not more than six
adult cattle or equivalent in other livestock, on the settlement scheme. In
addition to some 24 ha of fallow on each individual holding, an area of about
11,500 ha on the periphery of each settlement scheme would be reserved for
grazing of settlers- livestock. WSDC would also examine the possibility of
undersowing the fourth year's grain crop with grasses and legumes (and sowing
tree legumes on plot boundaries for dry season livestock feed) and other ways
to use livestock to enhance the restorative effect of the fallow on settlers
holdings.
3.10      The WSDC has already identified land suitable for settlement.  The
Government would assign this land to the WSDC which would survey and demarcate
the farms and issue individual leases to settlers. These leases would be
valid for 20 years and be renewable. The land lease titles would be deposited
and recorded at the existing land registry office at Nyala. The leases would
be subject to an annual land rent payable after harvest through WSDC to the
regional Government. The lease contract would also provide for dispossession
of settlers who do not abide by its conditions and in particular those who did
not follow proper husbandry practices. WSDC would survey and demarcate the
farms and clear the first 1.5 ha of the six ha envisaged for cultivation on
each farm. As the food production of the new settlers would be insufficient
to feed their families during the first and part of the second year, their
subsistence would be supported by the World Food Program under food for work
arrangements, which has been agreed in principle. WSDC would provide transport
for the relocation of the settler families, and build the water supply, an



- 13 -
elementary school and a health room. The regional Government departments
concerned have already agreed to operate these new facilities in conformity
with local standards. The village lay-out would be designed by the WSDC, and
housing would be the responsibility of the settler.
3.11      Flood Irrigation.  Currently about 400 ha in different locations of
the Project area are used by farmers to produce grain sorghum and vegetables
under systems of uncontrolled flood irrigation. The crops are transplanted
into humid patches of cracking clay in depressions or along seasonal water
courses which have been filled naturally with water from flash floods. The
area suitable for flood irrigation in the Project area is estimated at over
3,000 ha. The present flood irrigation area near Tullus would be expanded by
about 400 ha. About 150 ha of these would be developed for vegetable produc-
tion by directing high flow water through gated channels into bunded plots
along the river banks. A further 250 ha would be developed for the production
of winter sorghum. The Project would provide the major construction works
against the understanding that the farmers would undertake all the land
clearing and internal bunding.
3.12       For the new areas under development, land titles and long term
leases would be issued to individual farmers similar to the procedure in
the settlement schemes. Customary rights of the farmers to the areas and
their willingness to undertake land clearing and bunding would be considered
in the allocation. Farmers would be expected to pay an annual land rent of
hSd 5 per ha and would, under the guidance of WSDC, organize themselves
to ensure maintenance and operation of the improved flood irrigation system.
These farmers, who have already achieved an advanced stage of technology by
using animal traction, transplanting and row cultivation, would also be
primary targets for agricultural extension efforts from the nearby Dimsu
Development Center to further improve crop husbandry. Crops in excess of
local demand would be marketed by private traders through the Nyala market.
Livestock and Range Development Program (US$2.7 million)
3.13      The principal cause for the decline in animal production and the
deterioration of the range in the Project area is increase of the cattle
population beyond the sustaining capacity of the range. The various options
for improving rangeland such as deferred grazing, plant introduction and
establishment of browse reserves would be ineffective without grazing pressure
control. Land is abused because in a system where the grazing is communally
shared and the cattle are individually owned, the sensible and rational
policy for each cattle owner is to maximize his cattle herd as a hedge
against disease and drought.  This does not imply that the pastoralists
cannot perceive overgrazing and its effects on their livelihood but rather
that they do not have the necessary social and legal infrastructure to solve
the problem.
3.14      The Project would attempt to rectify this situation on a pilot basis,
granting exclusive tenure of dry season grazing areas to selected individuals



- 14 -
or small groups of pastoralists, while maintaining the transhumant movements
of the cattle during the remainder of the year. Under such a scheme, there
would be an incentive to optimize cattle numbers to the sustaining capacity
of the land during the critical dry season, because improvements in livestock
and range husbandry would then result in increased animal productivity, the
benefits of which would accrue to the participant.
3.15      Pastoralists' cooperation would be engendered through discussions
with WSDC and the Range and Pasture Administration staff. Strong political
support by the local authorities is required as the introduction of exclusive
grazing rights runs counter to customary laws. However, the new systems would
aim at securing for individual benefit a currently loose form of land use
which the pastoralists already recognize for the late dry season when grazing
is most scarce. Transhumant pastoralists then fall back on permanent wells
which may be considered their "home" areas. There is a strong tendency
for individuals and groups to return to the same well field and graze the same
area each year.
3.16      The range demarcation scheme would be tested with three different
groups of livestock owners: (i) a small group of about 20 to 30 transhumant
pastoralists who make up the total population around a small well-field;
(ii) a similar number of transhumant pastoralists grazing an area within a
larger community and well-field; and (iii) a group of sedentary livestock
owners. Project staff would first test whether the pastoralists will accept
the proposal of allocation of delineated pieces of land, either to individuals
or groups and will agree to preserving these for the exclusive use of the
cattle owned by those individuals or groups. Initially, cattle owners would
not be called upon to stock at any particular rate or reduce their cattle
numbers. The land allocation would be worked out by the people themselves,
this first step being merely a test of the willingness of the community to
accept and respect rigid boundaries to grazing areas under defined ownership.
3.17      Once the principle of boundaries to grazing areas is accepted, the
Range and Pasture Administration would define the areas by constructing
firebreaks or by cutting trace lines. Where possible, lessees would be
encouraged to plant trees (gum arabic or edible legumes) or make thorn fences
to reinforce boundaries. This will be particularly important in the sedentary
area where considerable pressure from migrating stock may be expected.
Following land allocation, the next objective would be to achieve recognition
by the pastoralists that there is such a phenomenon as optimal stocking rate.
WSDC would estimate and suggest stocking rates to participants. When a
pastoralist agreed to reduce livestock numbers, no attempt should be made to
insist he sell stock. If he can find alternative pastures for his excess
animals, that would be acceptable. WSDC would monitor the pattern of sales,
transfers and migration and the effects of optimizing the stocking rate upon
the condition of the range and the productivity of the cattle.
3.18      In a sample of herds where owners agree, WSDC, together with the
Range and Pasture Administration would record herd structure and productivity.
Animals would be ear-tagged and sample weighed to increase accuracy and
usefulness of the data. These measurements would not be essential to the
success of the Project but they would be valuable by-products.



- 15 -
3.19      As Project staff see that cooperating pastoralists have understood
the technique of and benefits from optimum stocking rates, they would suggest
the use of deferred grazing and the introduction of legumes or browse reserves.
The physical implementation of this livestock program would be neither com-
plicated nor onerous for the WSDC or the graziers. However, the uncertainty
attached to its accomplishment lies with the Project staff's ability to get
the full appreciation and cooperation of the pastoralists. As incentive,
participating pastoralists' herds would be given priority in the provision of
prophylactic veterinary services.
3.20      An efficient Animal Health Service is essential to the success of
all components of the Project as most of the beneficiaries keep some live-
stock, but is particularly important for the above range demarcation schemes.
The livestock producers must be assured that all diseases are under a reason-
able measure of control so that investments will not be lost. The three
diseases which are of greatest concern in the Project area are Rinderpest,
Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia (CBPP) and Trypanasomiasis, all of which
present increasing risks as the Veterinary Services Department's capacity to
undertake mass vaccination programs and supply veterinary drugs has declined
in recent years due to insufficient vehicles and operating funds. Under the
Project, the operational capability of the provincial Veterinary Services
Department would be strengthened through the provision of buildings, vehicles,
facilities, equipment and drugs incremental to the Department's current
budget. This would enable the Department to: (i) carry out an effective
vaccination campaign against Rinderpest and CBPP; (ii) meet any epidemic
disease outbreak; (iii) stock and supply owners with drugs and vaccines
against endemic diseases; and (iv) facilitate the monitoring of total herd
treatment against trypanasomiasis of cattle herds taking part in the range
allocation program. Trypanasomes resistant to drugs in current use have
recently appeared. Drugs and vaccines against endemic diseases would be paid
for by the beneficiaries. These revenues would be collected by the Veterinary
Department and deposited into a revolving fund administered initially by the
WSDC and to be transferred to the regional Veterinary Department at a later
stage (paras. 4.09, 6.01 and 6.04).
Rehabilitation of Water Supply Facilities (US$1.2 million)
3.21      The present water supply facilities in the Project area are about to
collapse. About two thirds of the wateryards are out of operation and many of
the artificial surface water reservoirs (hafirs) are silted up. People and
livestock concentrate around fewer and fewer water sources, causing hardship,
health hazard, production losses and environmental destruction. Although well
staffed and equipped, the National Water Authority is not in a position to
rehabilitate the facilities and guarantee operation and maintenance, due to
insufficient revenues and allocation of local and foreign funds. Self-help
schemes have evolved whereby users organize separate and additional collection
of funds to purchase spare parts, fuel and services.
3.22      Under the Project, wateryard spares and construction materials would
be procured by WSDC to bring about 150 wateryards back to a serviceable status;
spares procured under the existing project would also be used. Spares and



- 16 -
constru(t iorl materials wouLd be issued to the NWA who would carry out specific
repair programs in agreement with WSDC using their own labor and equipment.
WSDC would supervise the implementaLion of this program. Priority would be
given to the settlement schemes planned under the Project, the Development
Centers and the existing villages.  The rehabilitation of wells for the
exclusive use by pastoralists to water migrating livestock would have lower
priority and would only be carried out in accordance with WSDC's land use
plans and for seasonal operation to avoid further unorganized settlement and
land degradation.  This would be achieved throughl rotational grazing by
opening and closing of access to grazing areas at certain dates. Agreements
on the locations and timing would be reached between WSDC, the pastoralists
and the local authorities, and the arrangements would be enforced by local
orders.
3.23       In addition to the above environmental safeguards, the rehabilita-
tion of wateryards would be carried out under the following arrangements:
(a)  The regional Government has already agreed to increase
the water chtarges in rehabilitated wateryards to reflect
the full cost of their operation and maintenance (para. 6.02).
Approval by local communities of the new water rates
would be obtained by WSDC prior to the start of the
rehabilitation works and would be a condition of
rehabilitation of each wateryard.
(b)  As a first step towards preparing the NWA for the financial
administration of the water supply service, the responsibility
for collecting water charges from rehabilitated wateryards
has been transferred from the local councils to the NWA.
The arrangements are already agreed upon, and the new
procedure would simplify the current multiple collection
system and improve its efficiency.
(c)  The revenues from the rehabilitated wateryards, collected
by the NWA, would be deposited into a revolving fund
which would be administered jointly by WSDC and NWA. This
fund will be used to finance the operation and maintenance
of rehabilitated wateryards which would be carried out by
the NWA. Any surplus at tthe end of each financial year
would be transferred to the regional Government.
(d)  The above arrangements would be in effect during the
Project implementation period, after which it is envisaged
that the administrative facilities concerned and the
revolving funld would be transferred to the NWA, which would
theni become a self-sustaining service organization in South
Darfur (para. 6.02).
3.24      As an additional experiment to test the feasibility of self-admin-
istration of the water supply, somne five rehabilitated wateryards with easy
access and previous experience in self-hell) schemes would, at the request of



- 17 -
their users, be rented out by the regional Government to groups of benefi-
ciaries. A fixed annual fee would be charged, starting at 10% of their annual
gross revenues estimated on the basis of the water charges prior to rehabilita-
tion. The NWA would have the right for inspection to ensure that the rented
wateryards are operated and maintained in a satisfactory manner. Operation and
maintenance would be organized by the user groups, who would be expected to
establish their own charge and accounting system, with guidance from WSDC. They
would purchase services, fuel and materials needed from the NWA, or WSDC or any
other alternative source as needed and deemed appropriate. WSDC would monitor
this experiment, which is based upon the current self-help schemes. If the
experiment concluded that a better service could be provided at lower cost to
the users, the general application of this principle may be considered at a
later stage, thus relieving Government of the responsibility of providing
water.
3.25      The Project would also provide funds to WSDC to rehabilitate some
seven hafirs with the greatest need for repair, in the dry season grazing
areas in the southern part of the Project through the NWA. Water supply is
the critical constraint to a full use of the grazing in that area.
Track Improvement (US$ 0.1 million)
3.26      The Project area does not have a regularly maintained road network.
Surface communication is by tracks which are formed by the passage of vehicles.
Seasonal streams (wadis) are crossed by drifts which are sometimes improved
by stone layers. During the rainy season these passages and other soft spots
become impassable, often completely interrupting communications for weeks.
The Project would provide funds to improve critical places, in particular
wadi crossings on the Nyala-Buram and the Nyala - Ed Da'ein routes. The
works would be carried out by WSDC hand labor under force account and dif-
ferent designs, structures and materials would be tested for their applica-
bility. Where feasible the local population would be involved in these
works.
Strengthening of WSDC (US$9.6 million)
3.27      The WSDC is a relatively new development agency and the proposed
Project would be its first major program 1/. During the three years of its
existence, houses, offices, transport and staff have been built up. WSDC's
operational capabilities would be further strengthened by the provision of
vehicles, equipment, aircraft hire, vehicle operating costs, local staff,
technical assistance staff and consultancies. Technical assistance staff
would hold line positions and would amount to a total of 13.75 man-years
(Table 6 and para. 4.07). The Project would also provide for a total of 41
man-months of consultancies covering the fields of construction design,
agronomy, land management, cartography, agricultural engineering, training
1/   The Jebel Marra Rural Development Project is managed by a separate
administrative unit (para. 4.03).



- 18 -
and sociology. Base costs for internationally recruited staff have been
estimated at US$150,000 per man-year which is consistent with expenditures for
technical assistance under the existing ODA-supported South Darfur Project.
Consultancy costs have been budgeted at US$12,500 per man-month.
3.28      A Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would be established at
the WSDC headquarters which would be headed by an internationally recruited
agricultural economist reporting directly to the Director General of WSDC.
The unit would be responsible for monitoring project implementation, evaluating
its results, reporting and preparation of current Work Programs as well as of
a follow-up project. It would closely liaise with the Monitoring and Evalua-
tion Unit for the Jebel Marra Project funded by the European Development Fund
(para. 4.03) as well as with the strengthened Planning Unit in the Central
Ministry of Agriculture, with funding provided under the Blue Nile Pump
Schemes Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1118-SU).
3.29      Under the Project, a Training Section would be established within
WSDC's Administration and Finance Division (Chart 4), headed by a qualified
Sudanese training officer and supported by about six man-months of inter-
national consultancies. The section would plan and assist with the implemen-
tation of on-the-job staff training by supervisors, within WSDC and cooperating
other Government agencies. It would also assist with the development of an
extension methodology for farmers and pastoralists. The Project would also
provide for three fellowships (para. 4.08).
D. Project Costs
3.30      Project costs are estimated at ESd 17.2 million (US$ 21.5 million)
with a foreign exchange content of US$ 12.8 million or 60%. Project costs do
not cover expenditures under the existing credit 718-SU, of which US$ 1.0
million would be prepaid from the proceeds of the new credit at its effective-
ness date. Project costs are summarized in Table 1 below:



- 19 -
Table 1: Project Costs by Component
Foreign
Project Component       Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange
----bSd million------           US$ million ----%
Development Centers       0.6      0.9    1.5       0.7      1.1      1.8        61
Settlements              0.8       0.7    1.5       1.0      0.8      1.8       45
Flood Irrigation         0.1       ...    0.1       0.1      ...      0.1        32
Range Services           0.3       0.4    0.7       0.4      0.5      0.9       55
Veterinary Services      0.7       0.7    1.4       0.9      0.9      1.8        51
Water Supply             0.2       0.8    1.0       0.3      0.9      1.2        77
Management and
Administration 1/       1.5       2.9    4.4       2.0      3.6      5.6       65
Engineering and
Logistics 2/            1.0       1.5    2.5       1.3      1.9      3.2       60
PI anatr-, Monitoring
and Evaluation         0.1       0.5    0.6       0.1      0.7     0.8        87
Total Baseline Cost  5.3        8.4   13.7       6.8    10.4    17.2         61
Physical Contingencies  0.5        0.9    1.4       0.5      1.1      1.6       66
Price Contingencies      1.1       1.0    2.1       1.4      1.3     2.7        49
Total Project Cost   6.9       10.3   17.2       8.7    12.8    21.5         60
1/   Includes the cost of the Director General's Office and of WSDC-s
Administration and Finance Division.
2/   Includes the cost of WSDC's Engineering Services Division (construction
design and supervision, utilities, workshops, surveying and general
transport).
3.31      Because of the remoteness of the Project area overhead costs
(engineering, logistics, management) are relatively high and amount to about
half of total cost. Many of the "productive" components use common resources
included in these management and overhead costs, which cannot meaningfully be
allocated to them. In addition, the real cost of the components is disguised
by parts of their full capital costs having already been provided under the
existing projects (paras. 1.10 and 3.03).
3.32      The baseline costs of Table 1 are those expected to prevail in June
1981. A physical contingency of 15% was applied to all Project items except
local and foreign staff costs and allowances, to reflect the uncertainty in
the quantities of Project investments. Price escalation for all components
were estimated at the rates detailed in Table 2 below. Project expenditures
are assumed to occur in the middle of each Project year. Thus, the provisions
made for year 1 cover only an average period of seven months between June 1981
and January 1982.



- 20 -
Table 2: Price Contingencies
Manufactured Goods,             1981/82      1982/83       1983/84
Civil Works, Services         (Year 1)    (Year 2)       (Year 3)
1. Local currency
(a) goods, civil
works               20.0         15.0          10.0
(b)  local staff
costs                7.5          7.0           5.0
2.  Foreign currency           6.0          8.5           7.5
3.33      Import duties and other taxes estimated at US$1.5 million have been
included. Also included in the total Project costs is an advance of US$1.0
million, approved under the project preparation facility to finance part of
the capital and operating costs from January 1981 until effectiveness of the
proposed Credit. Expenditures under the existing Savannah Development Project,
and funds provided by the Government and other donors prior to the start of
the proposed Project are not included in the above Project costs.
E.   Financing
3.34      Financing of Project costs would be shared in the following amounts
and proportions (Table 3):
Table 3: Financing of Project Costs
% of     % of  Net
Local  Foreign  Total    Total   Project Cost
----US$ million-----
IDA                                  3.0       9.0      12.0 1/  56          60
SFD                                  1.8       2.6       4.4     21          22
ODA                                  --        1.2       1.2       6          6
GOS                                  2.4       --        2.4     11          12
Net Project Cost                7.2      12.8     20.0      93         100
Taxes and Duties                1.5       --       1.5       7
Total Project Cost         8.7     12.8      21.5 1/ 100
I/   Does not include US$1.0 million disbursements and commitments under the
existing Credit 718-SU, which would be prepaid from the proceeds of the
proposed new US$13.0 million credit.



- 21 -
3.35      Project financing by category of goods and services is set out
in Table 4 below:
Table 4: Project Financing by Category of Goods and Services
Category                          GOS      IDA     SFD      ODA            Total
---US$ million  including contingencies ---
Equipment for Water
Facilities, Offices, Work-    0.2       2.1       --       --              2.3
shops and Machinery 1/
Other Equipment                   0.1       --     0.5       --              0.6
Supply of Construction
Materials and Building
Construction                    0.3      --      2.4       --              2.7
Flood Irrigation, Track
Improvement, Trace
Cutting, Bush Clearing          0.1     0.7       --       --              0.8
Vehicles                          0.5       --     1.5       --              2.0
Veterinary drugs                   --     0.2       --       --              0.2
International Staff, Con-
sultancies and Fellowships 2/  --       1.8       --     1.2 2/            3.0
WSDC Staff Salaries and
Allowances                      2.1     0.9       --       --              3.0
Field Allowances                  ...     0.1       --       --              0.1
Vehicle Operation                 0.4      3.8      --       --              4.2
Aircraft Hire                      --      1.6      --       --              1.6
Rental of Buildings               0.1      0.5      --       --              0.6
Office Expenses and Miscella-
neous                           0.1     0.3                                0.4
Total           3.9    12.0      4.4      1.2             21.5
1/   See footnote 1/ of Table 5 (para 3.40).
2/   ODA will finance only international staff and on a parallel basis
(para. 4.07).
3.36      An IDA credit of US$13.0 million is proposed which would finance (a)
the Project costs of US$12.0 million, and (b) prepay the US$1.0 million being
disbursed and committed under the existing credit 718-SU, of which US$16.0
million would be cancelled at the signing of the new credit. The proposed IDA
credit of US$13.0 million would be on standard terms to Government who would
pass US$12.0 million to the WSDC as a grant under a Subsidiary Agreement. It
has been agreed with the Government that the execution of this Subsidiary
Agreement between the Central Government and WSDC would be an additional
condition of effectiveness of the Credit.



- 22 -
F. Procurement
3.37      Contracts for the supply of equipment, supplies and general spare
parts, estimated to cost more than US$100,000 per contract, would be procured
on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with
World Bank Guidelines. The items would be aggregated to the extent practicable
to attract major suppliers. ICB would thus amount to about US0.9 million.
Under this procedure, local suppliers would qualify for a 15% preference
during bid evaluation. Contracts for the supply of equipment, supplies and
general spare parts, estimated to cost less than US$100,000 per contract, and
in aggregate totalling no more than US$1.7 million, would be procured on the
basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with standard GOS procedures
which were reviewed during appraisal and found acceptable to IDA. For contracts
under US$10,000 up to an aggregate of US$100,000 comparative shopping or
purchasing off-the-shelf would be used.
3.38      Proprietary spare parts for vehicles, equipment and water facilities
and replacement equipment (amounting to about US$2.0 million in the aggregate)
would be procured directly by negotiated contract with the principal manufac-
turers or by limited international tendering as appropriate. Services
for aircraft hire would be tendered under the procedures for international
bidding limited to neighboring countries and Europe to allow for effective
back-up services and maintenance, or by negotiated contract with other Govern-
ment agencies providing aircraft services. The programs for rehabilitation of
water facilities, veterinary services and range demarcation would be imple-
mented by the regional Government agencies concerned under agreements with
the WSDC. WSDC would handle all foreign procurement related to these programs
and would pay the agencies in kind (fuel, spare parts, hire of vehicles,
construction supplies) and cash (payment of field allowances) for their incre-
mental outlays for these programs.
3.39      Supply of construction materials and construction of buildings
(US$2.4 million), supply of construction equipment, camping equipment and
office furniture (US$0.5 million); and supply of vehicles (US$1.5 million) to
be parallel financed by SFD would be procured in accordance with that agency's
procedures.
G. Disbursement
3.40      The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed over four years.
Table 5 below presents the proposed disbursement categories and amounts.



- 23 -
Table 5: Disbursement of IDA Funds
Amount of Credit
Allocated               % of Expenditures
Category                                (US$ million)                to be Financed
1.  Equipment and Supplies                                   100% of foreign expenditure
including Veterinary                                    and 90% of local expenditure
Drugs 1/                                 1.7
2.  Consultancy services, Fellowships,                       100% of foreign expenditure
WSDC Staff Salaries and Allowances       2.3            and 30% of local expenditure
3.  Aircraft Hire,                                           100% of foreign expenditure
Vehicle Operation Costs                                 and 90% of local expenditure
Including Spares, Lubricants
and Fuel 2/                              4.0
4.  Additional Operating Costs 3/            1.2            100% of foreign expenditure
and 80% of local expenditure
5. Refund of Project Preparation                            100% of principal amount and
Facility                                 1.0            charges outstanding at
Effectiveness Date
6.  Repayment of principal and                              100% of principal amount and
charges under Credit 718-SU              1.0            charges outstanding at
Effectiveness Date
7.  Unallocated                              1.8
Total             13.0
1/   Includes spare parts, replacement engines and pumps for the rehabilitation
of water facilites (US$1.2 million), equipment for offices, communication,
workshops and agricultural machinery (US$0.3 million) and veterinary drugs
(US$0.2 million).
2/   Excluding drivers  salaries.
3/   Including wages and supplies for various force account works executed
by the WSDC (flood irrigation, track improvement, trace cutting, bush
clearing) (US$0.5 million); field allowances for staff of cooperating
regional Government agencies (US$0.1 million); rental of houses, offices
and storage space (US$0.4 million); and office expenses, building
maintenance and other miscellaneous operating costs (US$0.2 million).



- 24 -
3.41      Disbursements for expenditures under category 1 and for foreign
expenditures under categories 2,3 and 4 would be fully documented. Disburse-
ments for local expenditure under categories 2, 3 and 4 would be made against
Statements of Expenditure (SOE) certified by the DG of the WSDC, the support-
ing documents of which would not be submitted for review, but retained
by the WSDC for inspection by IDA supervision missions. A schedule of
clisbursement is shown in Table 10 in the Appendix to this report.
H. Accounts, Audit and Government Funding
3.42      The WSDC would, under the direction of an internationally recruited
Financial Manager, strengthen its accounting system in a way which would allow
:Ldentification of the investments and revenues included under the Project and
the sources of funding. The SOE's would be accounted for separately. The
existing institutional arrangements within the WSDC are adequate to prepare
such statements. SOE's covering periods of six months would be verified by
the Auditor General within three months of the end of each period.
3.43      Separate accounts would also be kept for the two revolving funds for
veterinary drugs and wateryard operation. Unaudited financial statements of
the WSDC including the accounts for the two revolving funds, would be prepared
by the WSDC and submitted to the Association in English, no later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year. All accounts would be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association. The audited accounts,
together with the auditor's report, would be submitted in English to the
Association annually, not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal
year. Assurances have been obtained from the Government that the above
accounting and auditing procedures are acceptable.
3.44      The WSDC has opened a Project account in the Bank of Sudan through
which all local and foreign Project funds would be channelled except for the
revenues from wateryard operation and sale of veterinary drugs. Government
'has agreed to pay an advance of LSd 200,000 into this account as working
capital for WSDC, in addition to providing for salaries and taxes and duties.
Thereafter the Project account would be replenished quarterly to a level
consistent with the planned expenditures of each three-month period as contained
in the approved Annual Work Program (para 4.13). In order to ensure the
operation of the revolving funds for the purchase of wateryard spare parts and
of veterinary drugs, assurances have also been obtained from the Government in
a supplemental letter that it would make adequate foreign funds available to
WSDC.
I. Environmental Impact
3.45      A major objective of the Project would be to develop effective
methods to reduce ecological degradation by overgrazing and overcultivation.
Rehabilitation of broken-down water facilities and the resettlement program



- 25 -
would relieve animal and human population pressure around existing settlements
and operational boreholes and would give them a chance to recover. Range
managemenL techniques would be tested to improve the use of existing resources.
Overall, Project interventions are designed to reverse the ongoing environ-
mental degradation. The Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit with
assistance from consultants would develop a system of monitoring the status
and trend of environmental degradation around rehabilitated wateryards
and establish baseline data (para. 4.14(d)).
IV. PROJECT _MPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
Western Savannah Development Corporation (WSDC)
4.01      The WSDC would be the executing agency which would be responsible
for planning, coordinating, and monitoring all Project activities and imple-
menting a major part of them. An implementation schedule is attached in the
Appendix (Chart 1). The WSDC was legally established by a Temporary Ordinance
issued by the President of the Republic on March 25, 1978. It is a Public
Corporation under the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources of
the Central Government. WSDC has the following general objectives:
(i) it serves as an organization to plan and implement
integrated rural development in the Savannah area;
(ii)  it gives technical and managerial support to regional
Government departments; and
(iii) it provides a channel for investments in the region.
4.02      Of,relevance to the proposed Project are WSDC's powers to:
(i) prepare and implement programs for the improvement of
seasonal grazing and offering veterinary services;
(ii)  establish the basis and the procedure for assigning
land to individuals and groups;
(iii) establish training and research centers;
(iv)  improve roads;
(v) undertake any work and establish any institutions
that will help in implementing WSDC's objectives,
including cooperation with other Government departments;
(vi)  transfer sections of WSDC to the local government or
councils upon completion of the project;



-26 -
(vii) expropriate land;
(viii) enter any public or private land in the Project areas and
(ix) perform scientific research on land.
Assurances have been obtained from the Government that the Western Savannah
Development Corporation Act of 1978 would not be changed without consultation
with the Association.
4.03      The above powers enable the WSDC to implement the proposed Project as
well as the Jebel Marra Rural Development Project (JMRDP), which is located in
the western parts of South Darfur with Headquarters at Zalingei. The JMRDP
started in July, 1980, and is to be implemented over four years. It is
estimated to cost about US$15.4 million, of which about US$8.6 million would
be funded by the European Development Fund. In order to avoid overtaxing
management of the proposed Western Savannah Project, the JMRDP is being
administered as an autonomous unit with its own staff, facilities and budget.
There would be some linkages between the two WSDC projects with regard to
communications (aircraft rental, land transport, radio network), adaptive
research, extension methods, monitoring and evaluation and procurement
of locally produced goods and services.
4.04      The WSDC is directed by a Board of 13 directors including represent-
atives from the central Government Ministries of Agriculture and National
Planning, the Agricultural Research Corporation, the Agricultural Bank, the
regional Government, local councils and from farmers' and pastoralists' asso-
ciations. The WSDC Board is chaired by the provincial Commissioner of South
Darfur. However, the Minister of Agriculture of the central Government is
authorized to issue directives to the WSDC Board concerning its operations and
the Board must implement these directives. Responsibility for the day-to-day
operation of WSDC is vested in a Director General (DG) who is appointed by the
President of the Republic and who reports directly to the central Government
Minister of Agriculture.
4.05      The headquarters of WSDC and of the proposed Project is located at
Nyala, where an office building, six senior staff houses and workshop and
storage facilities are being built with support from ODA and IDA funds
(Credit 718-SU). In addition, staff houses have been rented under long-term
lease arrangements and modified and furnished with ODA support. WSDC also
occupies an office building in Khartoum, for liaison with Central Government
and to facilitate procurement. All these facilities and staffing would be
included under the Project.
4.06      WSDC has three operating divisions (Chart 4 in the Appendix), which
report directly to the DG of WSDC who at the same time would be Project
Manager. Two of the divisions, for Agricultural and Engineering Services,
would be headed initially by internationally recruited staff, financed by
ODA. The head of the Administration and Finance Division would be deputy
Project director and initially supported by an internationally recruited
Financial Manager who would head the Finance Section. A Planning, Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit would be established within WSDC, headed by an interna-
tionally recruited agricultural economist who would report directly to the DG.



- 27 -
4.07      Twelve senior staff, including four expatriates, are in post.  WSDC
also employs about 30 middle and junior level staff and about 110 laborers.
At full development of the Project, an additional ten senior staff and about 40
middle and junior level staff would be required. As an incentive, all WSDC
staff would receive a 25% salary allowance, over and above the normal salary
levels of the central Government. Payment of this allowance is already
current practice. Provision would be made for the international recruitment
of six experts for a total of about 13.75 man-years (Table 6). Technical
assistance staff would be parallel financed between IDA and ODA. Technical
assistance staff to be financed by ODA (Senior Agriculturalist, Settlement
Agriculturalist and Chief Engineer) would be appointed in consultation with the
Association. The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment of technical assistance staff and consultants financed under the
Credit (Financial Manager, Agricultural Economist, Clerk of Works) would be
acceptable to the Association. Assurances have been obtained from the Govern-
ment that the above provisions are acceptable. Government has also agreed
that any new appointment for a DG of WSDC would be made with prior consultation
with the Association.
Table 6: Internationally Recruited Staff
Man-years   Financed by
(a)  Senior Agriculturalist                           2.75       ODA
(b)  Settlement Agriculturalist                       2.00       ODA
(c)  Agricultural Economist                           2.75        IDA
(d)  Financial Manager                                3.00       IDA
(e)  Chief Engineer                                   2.25       ODA
(f)  Clerk of Works                                   1.00       IDA
Total           13.75
4.08      Staff training would be coordinated by a new Training Section to be
established within WSDC's Administration and Finance Division (para. 3.29 and
Chart 4 in the Appendix). The section would be headed by a qualified Sudanese
training officer who would be supported by about six man-months of international
consultancies which would be scheduled for the Project start-up and subsequent
visits twice a year during the Project duration. The training section would
define the training needs, make an inventory of the training resources and
develop training objectives, a training strategy and training programs by the
end of year one of the Project. The principal training resource persons
would be the line managers and supervisors of WSDC. They would carry out
individual on-the-job training of their staffs in consultation with the
training officer. This would include training of counterparts by the inter-
nationally recruited staff. The training section would also assist with the
development of an extension methodology for pastoralists and cultivators,
and with the training of staff of cooperating other Government agencies.



- 28 -
4.09      The WSDC's main functions would be to implement the Project and --
under a separate administrative arrangement -- the JMRDP, and it could also
be given responsibility for future development projects. It would not,
however, attempt to control all aspects of development in the relevant project
areas but would limit its direct involvement to components and activities
which cannot satisfactorily be implemented by existing Government agencies.
It would aim at using these existing administrative resources to the extent
practicable, thereby strengthening their effectiveness (Chart 3 in the Appen-
dix). Sections of the WSDC would, after fulfillment of their developmental
role for the agricultural sector in South Darfur, be transferred to the insti-
tution with authority in that field. In the context of the proposed Project,
this would be envisaged for wateryard operation, veterinary services and range
management.
B. Regional Government
4.10      The functions of central Government and its agencies in relation to
the new regional governments in Sudan are still evolving. Nonetheless, a
regional Government has been established in Darfur, and the Project would aim
at using available regional resources rather than duplicating or replacing
the regional development efforts by the sole use of WSDC as implementing
agency of central Government. In order to ensure the continuing operation of,
and participation in the Project of regional Government agencies in South
Darfur, the Government of Sudan has agreed to maintain their staffing and
operational capabilities at the budgetary levels of 1980/81. During the
Project implementation period, the Government would ensure that the existing
Government agencies involved in Project implementation would, in addition to
staff salaries, be provided with annual operating funds in amounts not less
than:
(a)  ESd 200,000 for the Veterinary Services Department
in South Darfur;
(b)  ESd 100,000 for the Range and Pasture Administration
in South Darfur, and
(c)  bSd 500,000 for the National Water Authority in South Darfur.
These amounts are stipulated in a Supplemental Letter to the Development
Credit Agreement.
4.11      The above regional and central Government agencies involved in
Project implementation would be required to prepare detailed annual programs
and budgets for the activities they would perform under the Project. These
programs would be reviewed by WSDC. Programs agreed upon between the WSDC
and the agencies would be included in WSDC's annual work program and budget
(para. 4.12). An agreement would be concluded between the WSDC and the
agency concerned which would define the responsibilities of the parties. The
agencies would carry out works to WSDC specifications using their own labor



- 29 -
force and equipment. WSDC would provide the agencies with the additional
equipment, materials and supplies needed for the implementation of She programs
and pay field allowances but not salaries. Revenues generated from these
activities would accrue to the revolving funds administered by WSDC (para.
6.02 ff.).
C. Annual Work Program
4.12      Annual Work Programs and budgets would be prepared at two levels.
(a) Programs and budgets of the national and regional
agencies involved in Project implementation would be
prepared by January 31 for the following fiscal/project
year, for review by the WSDC (para. 4.1l).
(b) The Annual Work Program and budget for the whole project
(including (a) above) would be prepared by the WSDC not
later than March 1 of each year, for review by the
Government. The proposal would include details of the
research programs to be carried out at the Development
Centers, and this would also be reviewed by the ARC.
The preparation of the Annual Work Program would also be
used to review the costs of and expected revenues from
the operation of the water supply facilities. After
review by the Government of the Work Program and budget
it would be submitted to IDA no later than April 15
annually, and IDA would inform the Government of its
acceptance or comments. The first Annual Work Program
for the period ending June 30, 1982, was prepared by
WSDC staff already on site and was discussed and
agreed at negotiations.
4.13      Work programs are intended to facilitate a full annual review of
Project implementation by Government and IDA and apply technical, financial
and institutional modifications or adjustments to the Project as implementa-
tion proceeds and experience is gained. They would also serve as an instrument
against which Project funds from the Government and the foreign financing
agencies would be released. The Annual Work Programs would also be used to
review the adequacy of the water charges (para. 6.02). Assurances have been
obtained from Government that the arrangements above (para 4.12) are accepted.
D. Monitoring, Evaluation, and Reporting
4.14      Under the Project, a Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would
be established which would be headed by an internationally recruited Agri-
cultural Economist and report directly to the DG of the WSDC. Staff of the
Unit would:



- 30 -
(a) design and implement a monitoring and evaluation system and
provide Project management with analyses and recommendations
for improving Project implementation by WSDC and the regional
Government agencies,
(b) prepare Annual Work Programs, budget proposals, semi-annual
Project progress reports and a Project Completion Report,
(c) provide the WSDC operational divisions and the regional
government agencies with guidelines for undertaking surveys
and trials, coordinate data collection and compile and
evaluate the results of surveys and adaptive research;
(d) in particular, establish procedures and the baseline data for
monitoring the status and trend of the environment around the
rehabilited wateryards,
(e) liaise with the Agricultural Research Corporation and other
institutions involved in development of smallholder agriculture
and livestock in the Savannah areas to avoid duplication of
efforts and enhance exchange of experiences,
(f) liaise with the JMRDP, in particular its monitoring and
evaluation unit, to enhance consistency of the procedures
within WSDC, and
(g) prepare proposals for a follow-up project.
4.15      Semi-annual progress reports would be submitted to the Association
not later than two months after the completion of each reporting period. The
proposals for a follow-up Project would be prepared not later than December 31,
1983. A Project Completion Report would be prepared no later than six months
after the completion date of the Project. Assurances have been obtained from
the Government that the above procedures will be followed.
V. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES
A. Crops
5.01      Only the flood irrigation component is likely to have a significant
impact on crop production. Production in the flood irrigation schemes is
profitable and has therefore the potential for a rapid increase of the cropped
areas as the infrastructure is being built. From year four, an additional
180 t of sorghum and about 1,100 t of fresh vegetables (tomatoes, chillies,
pepper, okra, onions and others) would be produced annually (Table 7).



- 31 -
5.02      By contrast, the rainfed settlements would be developed more slowly.
The six ha cropping area of each settlement farm would be bushcleared over
four years (para. 3.08). As the process of installation of settlers would be
spread over the three Project years, full production of annual crops would
not be reached before year 7. The crop production would then include about
2,300 t of millet and about 2,600 t of unshelled groundnuts (table 7).
However, this production would be partly offset by production foregone where
the settlers came from. Some gum arabic production would be built up over 10
years. The settlers food production in the first two years would not be
enough for their subsistence. It has therefore been agreed in principle with
the World Food Program that it would provide supplementary food assistance
for the settlers.
Table 7: Crop Yields and Annual Production
at full development (Year 7)
Production per      Total
Yield /1  average farm         Production
t/ha            t                  t
Sattlements:
Millet                      0.4           1.6               2,300
Groundnuts (unshelled)    0.9             1.8               2,600
Flood Irrigation
Sorghum                    0.75           1.5                 187
Vegetables (green)          7.5           7.5               1,125
/1   Yields are the same in the with and without Project situation.
B. Livestock
5.03      The production effect of the livestock in the settlement areas would
be insignificant during the Project implementation period.  Two oxen, one or
two dairy cows, calves and small stock totalling six livestock units per
settler family would be transferred from the places of origin of the settler
and no significant technological improvements in the production system would
be applied. Similarly, the effects of range demarcation on animal production
would become apparent only over a longer period. Over about 15 to 20 years
an increase in annual offtake per land unit of the order of about 50% can
be expected. Additionally, by that time the total number of livestock units
using a piece of land in the range demarcation program would have been
reduced by about 15%.



- 32 -
5.04      The veterinary services program, in particular the application of
vaccines and drugs against endemic and debilitating diseases would have a more
immediate production effect. It is estimated that milk production would
increase by 50 liters per lactation from 25% of the cows, which is valued at
about ESd 0.75 million. Reductions of mortality by two percentage points in
25% of all herds and flocks in the Project area would make additional animals
available for consumption or marketing at a value of about ESd 1.25 million
per year.
C.   Markets and Prices
5.05      Except for production of vegetables, the Project would not have any
significant effect on the market supply. Most of the incremental production
would be for subsistence and the small marketable surplus would be easily
absorbed by the traditional marketing system and Project interventions are not
warranted. Vegetables which would not be consumed locally would be sun-dried
and transported to the larger Nyala market, in conformity with traditional
practices.
5.06      Sorghum and millet are substitutable food grains in the project area
and their prices relate to each other. Sorghum is an export crop in Sudan
and its price relates to the world market. However, South Darfur is a food
deficit area and its has been assumed for the purpose of setting a price
for the incremental production of food grains that sorghum would be imported
from grain surplus areas of Sudan. The price would thus be composed of the
export parity price at mechanized farming areas in Kordofan, to which the
transport and handling costs to Nyala have been added. Millet is a non-traded
commodity. The people in the Project area prefer millet to sorghum and pay a
premium for it. At present, cereal grain world prices are depressed. Accord-
ing to the Bank's price projections, cereal prices are expected to start an
upward trend in 1981 which would increase the sorghum prices in constant
currency value by more than 40% by 1985. Similarly, world prices for ground-
nuts, the major export crop of the Project area, are projected to increase by
about 30% in real terms over the same period. World prices for beef are
projected to show a strong upward movement over the next two or three years,
but would then decrease substantially by 1985 as the world beef production
cycle would be at its peak. The above forecasts are based on the Bank's
long-term price projections and omit short-term price movements, which have
occurred in Sudan, in particular for groundnuts.
VI. COST RECOVERY AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Cost Recovery
6.01      So far, agricultural services provided by regional Government
agencies have been largely funded by budgetary allocation from Central Govern-
ment. Likewise, water supply costs have been only partially financed by user



- 33 -
charges, with the bulk of the investment and operating funds coming from
Central Government. Deterioration of the facilities and services as a result
of the lack of maintenance and operating funds, caused by the economic and
financial crisis in Sudan, has in the case of the water supply reached a
degree where the population affected has started to revert to self-help
actions by collecting funds and purchasing spare parts and fuel. Similarly,
the regional Veterinary Services Department has not been able to provide
sufficient drugs to livestock owners who therefore purchase these on an
illegal market. These drugs are often not licensed, sold at exorbitant prices
and applied in lower than the recommended doses, which has brought about drug
resistance in disease organisms.
6.02      The Project would introduce the principle of cost recovery into the
supply of water. It is estimated that at present the full financing of the
operation and maintenance of one rehabilitated wateryard in the Project area
would require an annual income from water charges of about ESd 6,000 (in 1981
prices), which transfer into a water rate of 1.5 milliemes per Imperial gallon.
This assumes an average operation for 240 days per year and an 80% efficiency
in the technical operation and/or revenue collection. Each well would produce
about 20,000 Imperial gallons of water per day and serve on average about
1,500 people and 2,000 livestock units. Government has agreed that water
rates covering the full operation and maintenance costs are acceptable and
that their levels would be reviewed annually in the Annual Work Program with a
view to adjusting them to the actual costs. The above new water rate for
1981/82 reflects this and has already been accepted by the regional Government.
Government also has agreed that during the Project implementation period the
total amount of water charges from rehabilitated wateryards would accrue to a
revolving fund which would be jointly administered by WSDC and NWA. Any
surplus at the end of each financial year would be transferred to the regional
Government (para. 3.23 (c)).
6.03      The new, increased water rates would be introduced gradually with
the operation of the rehabilitated wateryards. It is envisaged that, after
all wateryards have been rehabilitated and are fully operational, the NWA be
made fully responsible for their operation and maintenance. By that time, it
should have built up its accounting system and financial procedures to enable
it to manage water supply commercially. It would then receive the total
revenues from water charges directly and take over some facilities and
the revolving fund from the WSDC. Instead of receiving a budgetary alloca-
tion from the regional Government and subsidies from the central Government,
it would be in a position to finance all its recurrent expenditures including
the salaries which so far are provided by the central Government, and make a
fiscal contribution to the regional Government in the form of tax levy (Chart
5 in the Appendix).
6.04      Veterinary drugs and vaccines against endemic diseases would be sold
to livestock owners at their replacement cost. In addition to establishing
a full cost recovery for water and drugs, the allocation of land usage rights



- 34 -
in the settlement, flood irrigation and range demarcation areas would open up
ways for taxation by the Government at a later stage to achieve a higher
degree of cost recovery for the agricultural services provided. A start
would be made with a registration fee and an annual land rent.
B. Producer Income
6.05      In the settlement areas, few interventions and controls would be
applied by the WSDC towards the production system of traditional cultivation.
The establishment of exclusive land usage rights and the adoption of soil
conservation practices would lead to a stabilization of the otherwise declining
productive potential of the land. At full development and including the value
of the subsistence production and an annual land rent of ESd 10 per holding,
the annual net income of the settler family would amount to about US$590.
This corresponds to a per capita income of US$99 which is about 45% of the
national average of US$220. According to the farm budget (Table 12 in the
Appendix), about three quarters of the settler-s income would originate from
crop, and one quarter from livestock production. The income is expected to
increase in real terms, not through higher physical output, but through the
projected price increases of the output in real terms (para. 5.06). In the
areas not affected by Project interventions, productivity and incomes are
expected to further decline.
6.06      Due to the vagaries of climate and markets, flood irrigation farming
in South Darfur is mostly considered a speculative side-activity of commercially
oriented people who are engaged in other businesses. Based on the various
studies that exist and taking the most realistic yield assumptions which
account for complete failures every four years and including an annual land
rent of hSd 5 per ha, winter sorghum is expected to produce a net return of
about US$96 per ha which is 40% more than that of the average return of dry
land farming (excluding the fallow area and livestock). The returns from
vegetable production are higher (US$236 per ha) (Table 12 in the Appendix).
6.07      The average transhumant pastoralist family has a cattle herd of
about 60 animals, of which about 20 to 30 are breeding cows; it also has
about 45 sheep and goats. This corresponds to a total herd and flock value
of about US$6,500.  The herd and flock provide most of the subsistence needs
of the family in the form of milk and meat. The annual cattle offtake
is estimated about 7% of the herd; this is marketed and produces the cash
income. In addition, some cattle losses are salvaged for home consumption.
The offtake from sheep and goats, estimated at 15%, is for subsistence. Thus,
the gross value of the annual production including the subsistence is esti-
mated at US$1,700 and the cash expenditure for veterinary drugs at US$100,
providing an annual family income from livestock of about US$1,600 or US$200
per capita assuming a family size of eight (Table 13 in the Appendix).



- 35 -
C. Government Cash Flow
6.08      During the Project implementation period, Government would finance
US$3.9 million or 18% of the total Project cost of US$21.5 million. The
recurrent costs of the Project after completion are estimated at about US$0.1
million annually assuming that only the settlement component would be con-
tinued by the WSDC after Project completion and that all other components
would have been either completed, transferred to other Government agencies
concerned or would be discontinued. The inflow from direct taxation (such as
income taxes, market fees, land rent) would be negligible. As the production
effect of Project investments would be very small, the revenues from indirect
taxation of the incremental production would also be very small. Government
expenditure under the Project, the recurrent expenditures and the debt service
for the IDA Credit and the Saudi Fund Loan would thus cause an accumulated
Government cash flow deficit amounting to US$2.9 million by the end of the
Project-s life in year 20 (Table 11 in the Appendix). This deficit is justi-
fiable as the Project is a pilot operation which would be expected to provide
a broad spread of experience for the development of Western Sudan which could
subsequently be applied at a larger scale.
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Production Benefits
7.01      The Project would not lead to significant incremental production,
with the exception of the production from the expanded area under flood
irrigation. The Project would test a number of approaches for technological
improvements but would not be expected to provide for their introduction at
a significant level. Production benefits would be long-term and would consist
of stabilizing production in a degrading environment rather than increasing
production. In addition, most of the investments under the Project are
experimental and the objective is to gather more information on the technical
and social parameters. No attempt has therefore been made to calculate an
overall economic rate of return for the Project.
7.02      The Project would rehabilitate about 150 existing water facilities
which are not operational at present. This would allow the existing concen-
tration of human and livestock population to disperse over a wider area.
This in turn would (i) improve the overall use of natural resources by reopen-
ing areas for crop and livestock production which were abandoned due to lack
of water; (ii) provide the opportunity for the degraded surroundings of the
water points in use to recover; (iii) reduce haulage distances to water
sources thereby saving time and energy for more productive activities; and
(iv) reduce the risk of breakdown of the water supply and thereby the risk of
production losses caused by these breakdowns.



- 36 -
B. Project Justification
7.03      The fundamental Justification of the Project is the expectation of
further experience with smallholder agriculture in marginal rainfall areas in
Western Sudan. This would include identification and subsequent testing of
improved technology aimed at sustained productivity, which would form the
basis for progressive development.  Growing human and animal populations, lack
of technological advances, poor maintenance of existing infrastructure, and
unorganized settlement are causing environmental degradation in the Western
Savannah areas.  The already low income and living standards of the people are
bound to further decline and conflicts over land and water use would intensify.
Unless a solution is evolved, the situation will continue to deteriorate,
probably at an ever-increasing rate. The longer the delay in tackling this
problem, the greater it will become and the greater the costs and difficulty
of finding and implementing a solution to it. If viable solutions emerge from
this Project, then it would have made a major contribution by opening up
prospects for the development of the Savannah areas. Regardless of this, the
experiences would still provide some lessons, technical knowledge and show
reactions of the people and the local administration to efforts at integrated
rural development.
7.04      The Project itself is not expected to produce significant quanti-
fiable benefits (para. 7.01). It would mainly serve to plan the further
steps to be undertaken. Most Project costs are for investigation of methods
to promote development of settlement and agricultural and livestock production
and their subsequent assessment. A very small portion of the investments
(about 1%) is directly aimed at immediate production increases in the flood
irrigation areas which would be expanded by about 400 ha. The flood irrigation
component is estimated to produce a financial rate of return of 14%, and an
economic rate of return of 26%.
7.05      The rate of return calculation for the wateryard component (6% of
Project cost) is based on the model of one well used for the supply of
stock water for seasonal grazing. The incremental grazing area per well
would comprise some 22,500 ha and support about 2,250 livestock units for
an additional grazing period of three months. It has been assumed that
this grazing would result in a 25% increased offtake from these animals
over and above the normal offtake of 6.7%, which otherwise would not have
occurred. The increased offtake would thus amount to about 1.7% or 38 live-
stock units per well and year. Other benefits such as the value of water for
human consumption (para. 7.02) and the value of incremental milk production
for subsistence have not been quantified and included. Based on these
assumptions the economic rate of return is estimated at 11%.
7.06      The Project would deal with about 1,700 families of cultivators
and pastoralists, or about 10,000 people, who would be affected by the
introduction in the area of land use rights on the limited scale proposed.
The average cost per beneficiary in the land allocation programs would amount
to about US$2,000 per family or about US$333 per capita. In addition, a
large majority of the total population of about 500,000 people would benefit



- 37 -
from improved water supply through the rehabilitation of wateryards and
reservoirs. The strengthening of veterinary services, tsetse control and the
supply of veterinary drugs would be to the benefit of a significant proportion
of the pastoralists.
7.07      Government and WSDC staff involved with the Project would gain
valuable experience and training in project planning, implementation and
evaluation by working together with expatriate advisers. Of particular
importance is the direct interaction between Government planners and the local
people to ensure that their concerns and suggestions are fully considered in
future plans. These training experiences would be most valuable for the
implementation of a possible follow-up project.  The Project would also
promote and introduce to the area new concepts such as cost recovery from
direct beneficiaries.
C. Risks
7.08      The technical, economic, social and environmental problems facing
the Savannah areas are considerable and have no obvious, simple solution
which could guarantee long-term effectiveness. One of the risks of the
proposed Project is the short period of three years which is available for
implementation, and the greatest challenge is whether the Project will be able
to develop and test some sound proposals for an economically viable follow-up
project. This risk would be partly mitigated by the fact that the organiza-
tional and institutional framework for Project implementation is already in
place. The WSDC as executing agency is established and equipped and work
programs have already started under the existing projects. It is therefore
expected that no more time would be lost for start-up operations. Even a
delay of a few months in credit effectiveness would not be too harmful in view
of the existing commitments of the Government and the donor agencies, including
the Association with an advance of US$1.0 million under the Project Preparation
Facility.
7.09      The risks and uncertainties are also reflected in the small scale
of the Project and the flexibility built into the implementation of its
components. The interventions are limited and selective, and except for the
wateryard rehabilitation and flood irrigation, are pilot operations which may
or may not provide solutions to problems. The implementation of the Project
would demonstrate the practicality of carrying through this kind of inter-
ventions in Western Sudan. Even if the Project, by its limited scope
and duration, would not achieve its main objective to develop an improved
technology acceptable to the population, it would indicate whether it would
be useful to continue the search for development opportunities or to abandon
the efforts.
7.10      The success or failure of the Project would also depend on whether
it will be possible to develop a system of controlled land use and create a
social and economic environment where that system was acceptable to the land
users. The system would not work if it had to be imposed on the people by



- 38 -
coercion. The system must be one that is understood and adopted by the people
because of a realization that it offers a solution to their problems. There
is, however, no guarantee that a system will be developed that would be both
effective in the long run and acceptable to the people. Much would depend on
the goodwill and ability of the traditional, elected and appointed leaders.
It is expected that Government officials would give active support and be
influential in pursuading the traditional leaders to support the Project and
cooperate in its activities.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations agreement was reached and subsequently confirmed
by the Government on the following principal points:
(a) any new appointment for the Director General of WSDC
would be made in consultation with the Association
(para. 4.07);
(b) the Government would maintain the staffing and operational
capacity of the provincial Veterinary Services Department, Range
and Pasture Administration and the National Water Authority in
South Darfur at the budgetary levels of 1980/81 (para. 4.10),
(c) water rates covering the full operation and maintenance
costs are acceptable to the Government and the rates
would be reviewed annually during the preparation of WSDC's
Anrnual Work Programs with a view to adjust them to the
actual cost of operation and maintenance of the wateryards
(para. 6.02), and
(d) the total amount of watercharges from rehabilitated water-
yards would accrue to a revolving fund which would be
jointly administered by WSDC and NWA (para. 6.02).
8.02      Agreement was also reached during negotiations and subsequently
confirmed by the Government that Government would pay ISd 200,000 into the
Project account, in addition to providing for salaries and taxes and
duties (para. 3.44).
8.03      An additional condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit
is the conclusion of a Subsidiary Agreement between the central Government
and WSDC (para. 3.36).
8.04      The proposed Project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA
Credit of US$13.0 million on standard terms to the Government of Sudan.



APPENDIX
Char t 1
r KfiY >3  g '73Pi $   '3i,F  'f' H     U O U 3L. t
P trne:'a'rearriV)nni3    "ro     Year 1  Project Year 2    i    Project Year 3
ACt;vity                                         1                       982                     98              1984
'74-n- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ P 
x \ N '    -    ,     F    3    ~1  t~24         3    4    1    2
W AT CL;JY A RL3P RE-H9,E>L IT AC    41,
racurernemla of Equiornen3
-,erabil,iKW oTA     RuiaN V eatv'nards  |                                                                    Iii |I\
,Cr;J-our.cflL ofs Si3niorc MA2terials 712              . 1\t r '\t
7 lrco;rnromi Tran3s                      3         g;-       5'       'S.                           \\\
I  c  ~       ~         7I
Pr^scura,anr EccipLriter , Vehi_les       r  (N*"\e    Sr "i'  I3N                                    \\
~~~~ie  Swin............i, t?:rSrj                  ' '>.*0                  33   \  X  N    
7 Xs; ; chrnr;r 3 'PEatar Supp' >y       d            N '\ -'\\,*i      
TOin TiPl. N i.r Se i lt! , ,>:                IX.    .    wo.\\\ 
ofr .i   C . i S'  iG,rcwr                                            \VaXI .\   \O
t'i D,sc 1CC PFATD 2
a buLrvei's, E;nal DOs;gns                           t>j N\'jiH             K <A\\t\                 \\
Cin  P rn^pIucaa, Cr                                  iNN |  .AN  ;\\ \ 
v\ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ \N
S     RA-IG E 1.A<NA.>G EMl/iENlT i(3        X.        ;\\\ '33    LN 0\\t\         
L  ,-!:otr:f'r-- ceSurvSey                                                    K >o j   s\t |.\ 
Pr,.-of irnigon Equ'ys-enst, Voiezin      r           M\;    ga ,               |     \     t\ 4'\ \             -
Cit> 503rD o~~ Cry Seosam Mraznm'
\A;  S,'tri, n  _-r i-eros   Sply                                           \var vs
L; AN\iMA/L.\ SEALTHd,TSETSE CON4TROL                  \    \ 0t\\ (                           !    Si
U~~~~~~~~~~~~ IrO l                                                     "                NN I?   ,E   pmentVe re     ,^     l         >\\   ' \
P roc uirarnesnt o'D iqpr'Nrt VehiNa..               t 3  'X ! x    Z        N\N1\ \G       q      4\\\
Co fis itC on                                                          j     \S\\t\      
.E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ G <                                                      _L__
_~~~~~~~~~~~~
RAi, B1' Sat,l\       (MAr ii   d JuGice -M!A Octeo9rl
/        Procured  in the Pre-project Phase with Saudi Fund Frnencing
2/ Foreign Construction Suppiies for ali Construction under the Proiers (Al CompDonents)                     ordBn-259
MM~~~oldBn-29



SUDAN
VVESTERN SAVANNAH PROJECT
Regional Government of Darfur
Governor                                 Regional People's
of Darfur Region     J                          Assernbly
I
Deputy Governor
Miniser ofMiniser ofMiniser ofMinister of   |Minister ofi
Agicultuer ofFinaner                            Adfniinisteraton         Educaton and  |Housing and 
Agriculture   Finance       Administration              ~~~Health    |        Social ServicesO
South             North
Darfur            Darfur
Province          Province
_=;________________________________    Provincial Commissioner
South Darfur
Provincial Commissioner                                                                                   rt -Z
North Darfur
VVorld Bank-23074



SUDAN
WESTERN SAVANNAH PROJECT
Provincial Agricultural Administration of South Darfur
|Provincial Commissioner
|Deputy Commissioner
Assistant Co mmissioner|         Assistant Commissioner            Assistant Co)mmissioner           Assistant Cozmmissioner|
Agricultural Services                  Livestock                    Natural Resources                   Water Services
National Water Authority
Crop Protection               -Animal Production                -Soil Conservation                   Ground Water
-Horticulture                    Animal Health                     Range Management                  Surface Water
Extension                        (Veterinary Services)             Forestry                          Mechanical Section
-Game and Wildlife                  Erection Section
Administration and
Finance
World Bank-22600
rt Z
(A)I-



- 42 -                                                    APPENDIX
Chart #
SUDAN
WESTERN SAVANNAH PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE WESTERN SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION WSDC
Minister of
Agriculture
Board of Directors
Chaired by Provincial Commissioner
Director General's Office           Planning, Monitoring and
Director General's Office                          Evaluation Unit
Nyala                                  Agricultural Economist*
Administration and         |Agricultural Services                                             Enierng Se1_viceI
F inance D ivision                                D ivision                                  Dnivisio
Deut DMirector Genral                             Senior Agriculturalist*                            Chief Engineer*
F inance Section                              -Settlement and Irrigation Unit                  Construction
Financial Manager*                             Settlement Agriculturalist
LAccounts                                        Settlements Southern District                   Design
Stores Management                              Settlements Eastern District                   Supervision
-Procurement                                   -Flood Irrigation Schemes                        Clerk of Works*
F'ersonnel Section                                   Land Management
Personnel Manager                            -Development Centers                            Utilities
I raining Section
Training Officer                                     Dimsu                                  -Workshops
.General Secretariat                                 Umm Rakuba                                Vehicle Maintenance Supervisor
LJumeiza
Typing                                                                                -Survey Section
-Files                                   -Livestock Unit                                  Senior Surveyor
Communication                            Livestock and Range Specialist
I                               ~~~~~~~~~Transport Mangement
Khartoum Office                                   -Range Schemes                              Transport Manager
Project Coordinator                                 Veterinarv Programs
Tsetse Control
LWateryards Unit
*Filled under the Project by International Recruitment                                                          World Bank - 22601



APPENDIX
- 43 -                                          Chart5
SUDAN
WESTERN SAVANNAH PROJECT
FLOW OF FUNDS FOR WATERYARD OPERATION
A. Present Situation
User Charge
Local Rural Council
Subsidy from Central Governmen                          Regional Treasury                          O    -therBudgetary Expencliturcs
Staff Salaries                 National Water Authority
|        ~~South Darfur
Operation and Maintenance of Wateryard
B. Project Period for Rehabilitated Wateryards
Increased User Charge
tional Water Authority
Surplus Funds
WSDC Revolving Fund
Regional Treasury~ ~             Procurement of Fuel and Spareparts l
Flegional Treasury   q         ~Payment of Salaries and Wages     l
|Part of Salaries
-   b        ~~~National Water Authority
Operation and Maintenance
C. Future*
Full Cost User Charge
Tax           National Water Authority                   WSDC Revolving Fund Incorporated
Regional Treasury            S                      South Darfur                         into National Water Authority
IProcurement of Spare Parts and Fuel
Operation and Maintenance
*General application depends on results of experiments with renting of wells to user communities,
which would be undertaken during the Project period.
World Bank - 22602



SUD AN
WESTERN SAVANNAH PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(ESd '000)
TOTAL COST
% Total    % Foreign       % Taxes and
_  PPF       1          2         3       TOTALS        Cost        Exchange        Duties
Development Centers                100.1       693.5      298.2      369.0   1460.8          9            61               6
Settlement Schemes (4)              30.2       607.9      534.0      303.7   1475.8          9            45               7
Flood Irrigation                     0.0        18.0       39.1       45.1    102.1          1            32               2
Range Services                       0.0       407.0      216.0      101.0    724.0          4            55              16
Veterinary Services                   0.0      938.5      120.3      130.3   1189.1          7            50              15
Trypanasomiasis Control              0.0       135.8       84.2       21.2    241.3          1            55              15
Water Supply                          0.0      953.7        0.0        0.0    953.7          6            77              11
Management and Administration    520.0        1521.2    1207.1    1207.1   4455.4           26            65               5
Engineering Services               201.6      1145.2      620.7      556.5   2524.0         15            60               4
Planning, Monitoring and
Evaluation                         0.0       128.6      179.2      299.2    607.0          4            87               _
Total Baseline Cost                851.9      6549.4    3298.7    3033.1  13733.1           80            61               7
Physical Contingency                 0.0       800.4      292.7      284.3   1377.4          8            66              10
Price Contingency                    0.0       803.0      517.9      754.2   2075.2         12            49               4
Total Project Cost                 851.9      8152.9    4109.3    4071.6  17185.8          100            60               4
US Dollar Equivalent              1064.9    10191.1    5136.6    5089.5  21482.2
(D H



SUDAN
WESTERN SAVANNAH PROJECT
SUMMARY OF DISBURSEMENT CATEGORIES
(ESd '000)
TOTAL COST
PPF            1            2              3          TOTALS           Exchagne
Water Supply Equipment                            0.0        1481.5          31.1          53.9        1566.5            67
Building Construction                             0.0        1442.0        505.9           12.6        1960.5            27
Vehicles                                          0.0        1636.2           0.0           0.0        1636.2            68
Machinery & Equipment                           179.6         643.5           0.0         152.8          975.9           75
Veterinary Drugs                                  0.0         139.1           0.0           0.0          139.1           96
International Staff, Consultancies
and Fellowships                                60.0         795.0        813.0          750.9        2418.9           100        I
WSDC Staff Salaries & Allowances                  0.0         625.7         837.0         878.6         2341.3           -        L
Vehicle Operation                               309.9         754.4       1094.8         1193.7        3352.8            83
Aircraft Rental                                 225.0         274.3         395.0         424.7        1319.0           100
Rental of Buildings                              54.1         108.3        149.9          181.0          493.4           -
Other Civil Works                                 0.0         158.4         165.3         294.3          618.0           18
Field Allowances                                  0.0          34.5          36.0          37.9          108.4           -
Miscellaneous Costs                              23.3          59.9          81.2          91.3          255.7           30
Total Project Cost                              851.9        8152.9       4109.3         4071.6       17185.7
US Dollar Equivalent                           1064.9       10191.2        5136.6        5089.4       21482.2
Hm



- 46 -
APPENDIX
Table 10
SUDAN
WESTERN SAVANNAH PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursements
US$ million -------
IDA Fiscal Year                    at end of
and Quarter                      Quarter            Cumulative
1980/81             June 1981                          1.0 1/               1.0 1/
K l,f/82           September 1981 2/3/                1.0 1/              2.0 1/
December 1981                     1.0                  3.0
March 1982                        2.0                  5.0
June 1982                         1.0                  6.0
l.82/83             September 1982                     0.9                  6.9
December 1982                     0.7                  7.6
March 1983                        0.7                  8.3
June 1983                         0.7                  9.0
1983/84             Septemiber 1983                    0.9                  9.9
December 1983                     0.7                 10.6
March 1984                        0.7                 11.3
June 1984 4/                      0.7                 12.0
i98Lt/85            September 1984                    0.4                 12.4
December 1984                     0.3                 12.7
March 1985                        0.2                 12.9
June 1985 5/                      0.1                 13.0
L/   .5isbursements under the Project Preparation Facility and under the
existing credit 718-SU.
9'| Expected Date of Signing: August 1981.
7/   Expected Date of Credit Effectiveness:  September 1981.
Exoected Project Completion Date:  June 1984.
5/   Expected Credit Closing Date:  June 1985.



SUDAN
WESTERN SAVANNAH PROJECT
Governmet Cash _flow
(60d '000) V/
Year                                                           5           2          3         4         3          6         7          0         9          50         i1        12        13         14         13         16       _57         lS         19        20 Tta
SOURCES OP FUSES
Crop ten-                                                                   3         5                    -                  5      5                               8         8         9           a         g          5          8         9                             144
Eegintratie fe f-rlI-d titl-.                                         4          4         0          0         0          5         0          0         0          3         0.        0           0         o          0          0         0*         0          0          9
Lendreet                                                   -               -     1         2          4         8         E6        E6         16        El         1I        E6        E6          16        16         16        16         16         16         16       240
Iap-rtduieeoe d ae-                                     901         172    114             0          5         0          0         0          0         0          0         0         0           0         0          0         0          0          0          0     1.187
The reene   Eo  eslebilited -ntnryardn                    -         104        200       316        1         42        4..        41 AU AU  A.12                           .417ll  417           .417 412 AU1.41       412 AU1. AU                    AU                  7. Al -3-01
Tnrol Revon-                                      901          284       3 33       320       A1j       4fl       441       -49k 41 44            -441       A44)      A41.      41         A4il       441        441       44I       -441.       LAI       441        .8
(2)  Extenl- Eeecn
IDA C-ndit I/                                          4,000      2.400    2,640         360          0         0          0          0         0         5          0         o         o           a         o          o          o         o          a         o        ,0
ODA G-te                                                 400        4E2        148          0         0          0         0          0         5         0          5          0        0           0          0         0          0         0          0          0        960
SFD Le..nI                                             1,780      1,285        438         17         0         0          0          0         o         o          o          o        o           o          a         a          o         o          a          0     3,520
Total Etmto,,l Fie-orig                          j6,soo      4,097     3,226        377          a         0          5         E         5          0         5          0         0          8          0          5         5          0          0         8    14,080
TOTAL SOEECES                                           .8        4,381      3,559       903        429       433        441       441        441       441        4~41      445l      441         441       441l       441         41       441        44l       441      2296
Cepitel coats                                          4,762         632        510          0        0          0          0          I         0         0         4            0        I                    0          0          0         0          E        0       3,904
q Operting Coats                                         4,243       3,477      3,362        lE  4    10          o- 00     100 I      lE.    104          100        E    100         100       100       100        100             lEE       EEl0 100        1    .00 O0  12,972
T-tl. P-oject Cents                              9,005       4,109    4,072          100      000        100        100        100       100       100        .o0         lIE      i(   100  LEE         ol        000       100        1EO        lE  100       10    . 8876
(2)  Plot Serice
IDA. Credit                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9          9          6           6
frincipal                                                          -         -         -         -          -          -              -               -          96          96       06        95,        96         96        90          6         9         9            6
Servi-c  hage                                                     30        48        I8         72        72        72          72        72         72        70          60       67        65         63         61        59         30         56        54        ,1009
SF0 Lee.
Pri-lpol                                                           -         -         -         -          233      233        232        272        233       233         237      235        235       231        230        235       232        235        235      3,520
letersac                         -          36        60        ~~~       ~~~        ~~~      ~~~         ~~~       ~~~ ~~~~~70  70  70  66  60 56  47  4381    3         28         3         19         14          9       _5          -         748
Total SeSt Service-                                                       109        238       142        327      373        360        303       23         443        47        431       424        412        410       404        398        392       30_6O4/
TOTAL. COtS                                            9,050       4,100      4,100       238        242       477      473       4,60        463      .           53 43       537      571        124        512       311        004       498        4_92       401      25_232
FIT 4500013IET CASE stow                    ~~~~~~~~(1,924)  272      (622)      665       107        (44)     (32)        (27)      (22)       (13)    (1037)      (9)       490)      (83)       (76)       470)      (63)         5 7)     4  1)     444)    4  ,29Z)
I/  1901-1904 En Curret Fric-n; 0985  iowed    t .e onrot 0984 prices
2/  T-nco-: El Toot  rePoy-ett  potted, including 10 year  gr-re  0.757. sevc    h-rge uo aecut  ftihd-uo  and cutatuodiog.
_ TEA crdlt ic jet--re  froc. 1% cf the priocipel Is paid het-re eor   11-20 vi the I.a.,
3)  Thic Fe-jcct u-uld cr0y o-  uhour ue baIC   f the existing SF0 loot of RinEs 30 OIIto...
Thc cth-r hulf ci the Icu.  -cud be epeot  c other p-ojerta.
4/  Teno:  20 Moor  ropuyseot period, lnldSg5yer  gae                    -2tesrs  no oncut oShroond curst-disS.
5)  Tic rcretotsf-r 4 -etrl-ete orly.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E



SUDAN
WESTERN SAVANNAH PROJECT
Illustracive Commodity and Farm Uudgets - Flood Irrigation and Settlement Farms
At Fu11 Development, in bSd, 1981 Constant Prices
Flood Irrigation Farmer-tm                                           Settlement Farm
Winter          Sorghum
Units        Sorghum          Stalk           Vegetables             Millet          Grourodnuts         Gum Arabic           Livestock
(a)  COMMODITY BUDGETS
(i)  PHYSICAL
Output:  Com.odity                                          grain           stalk        Dried vegetables          grain            in shell              Gum
Yield                                   kg/ha              750           1,815               1,875                400              90(1                 1.1
Inputs:
Seed                                   lkg/ha               15              -                  -                   15              100
Labor
Bush clearing/lrrig. rehabil.    jman-daYS7ha             6              _                    10                  5                5
Land preparation                                          I              -                     I                  2                2
Sowing/transplanting                                     15                                   15                  5                7
First weeding                              "              6              -                     8                  8                8
Second weeding/banding                                    2              _                     8                  6               17
Thinning/re-sowing/transplanting                         18              -                    20                  5                5
Harvesting                                                5               S                  20                   3               15
Threshing/winnowing/picking/dryin                         8              -                    12                  8               11                20
Total Labor                                              61              5                    94                 40              70                  20
(ii)  FINANCIAL
Price                                   LSd/ton            84               12.5               120         j      105              110               ?11
Value/ba                               'LSd/ha             63               23.4    1          225                 42               99
Seed                                    LSd/ha               2                                   5                  2                7
Hand tools                                  "                1I                                       I             I                 I
Sacks                                                        1 I                                 5                  1                2
Insecticides                                "                -             -                    20         i
Cost of Prodactinn                                                4           1                       31                  4              10
Re-turn:
Net return/ha                           LSd                59               22.4    i          194                 38               89                  0.2
Net re crarlan 1as                      ESd                          1.2                         2                  1                 1.3               0.4
(b)  FARM BUDqETS
Cuiz'ol,e.l Ata:                             ha                  2                                    1                  4                2                 ...                  6 ii ,r,-k  -ni-,
Val.e o7 'rud:cti'L,                         Ld/holding        126               47                225                 168              198                 7
Cost of Production                           ESd/holding         8                2                 31                  16               20
Land Rent                                    LSd/holding        10                                   5 S                6                 4141
Het Return per Holding                      LSd/holding        108              45                 189                146              174                  3
Total 1/                                                 153                            189                                        464                                                          >
(c)  INCOME
Per Capita  Net Income                       LSd -                    26                            32                                          77
Per Capita  Net Income                       USd                      32                            39                                          97
1/  Sum of net return on each crop.
2/  Each family is assumed to have an adult equivalent of 6 members.
3/  Each settler has a herd of 6 animals (cows, goats and sheep)
fros which he earns a net return equal to 10. of that earned by a
fully fledged pastoralist (see Table 13) who has a herd of 60 animals.
*   Flood irrigation farmers are assumed to have other sources of income as well.



APPENDIX
Table 13
SUDAN
WESTERN SAVANNAH PROJECT
Illustrative Commodity and Farm Budget - Pastoralist
Physical                            Cattle                  Milk            Goats/Sheep       Total
Herd Size                           60                                      45
Offtake                    X         7                                       15
No.      4 head              4,125 kg             6.75 head
Breeding cows              No.      25-30
Live weight per animal   kg         Steer:   375                             10 kg
Old cow: 300
Milk yield per cow                                         150 kg
and per year               kg                        per year for 55X
of total herd
Labor Requirement  man days/year                                                              750
Annual Mortality  head               6                                                          6
Financial
Prices:  Market Value    ESd    125 per head              0.12 per kg       18 per head
Salvage Valuel/ ESd       41.7
Drugs/head/year ESd        1.0
Herd Value                 ESd    6,000                   -                810              6,810
Value of Annual Production
Value of Sales and
Subsistence             bSd      500                 495                122             1,117
Salvage value              ESd        250                                                      250
Total                 ESd       750                 495                122             1,367
Annual Inputs
Drugs per year            EzSd        60                                                       60
Net Value of Production    ESd         690                 495                122             1,307
Net Return/Man day           ESd         0.92                0.66               0.16              1.74
Per Capita Income 2/         ESd                                                                163.4
Per Capita Income            US$                                                                 204.3
1/   Six animals die yearly, and have a salvage value equal to two cattles at their market
value.



- 50 -
SUDAN
WESTERN SAVANNAH PROJECT
Table of Contents of Implementation Volume
ANNEX I:        Internationally Recruited Staff, Consultancies and Training
ANNEX II:       Development Centers
ANNEX III:       Settlement
ANNEX IV:       Flood Irrigation
ANNEX V:        Livestock and Range Development
ANNEX VI:        Strengthening of Veterinary Services
ANNEX VII:      Water Supply
ANNEX VIII:     Detailed Project Costs
ANNEX IX:       Economic and Financial Analysis



24          ' ___                                          ___ __- _-7-                                                                                 \                                                   2s-     ~ -             IBRD  15642
S U D A N
)Z  I                           WESTERN SAVANNAH PROJECT
Communications & Land Systems
j                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Prorcr 1p4horc r
_    Herrqmners WSD .
DA RFUR                                                                                                                                         _
F-~ rrhb,,rno1
E -    fi-,go C,hI ... d k,  
Budo ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 "Y                                                                                                                                                                      7            ;=     _ Z,"H,l
;  ubbum  /$] | \ at1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ! \ Glngt \ ; Qz- :lluv-l tr:nslflon rone~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~02-0Ir.~ t02,22on
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L, /                                          yi \/                                                      A       -vs
/ (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Bob:a'r Z 2 TArbK                                                                                                                                             I     r    W b A4ar 2
0 ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~                                                                                                             ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~  Sb.      DA I\'r  GFA 
Umm TlkeQng  tV   <6\<>   dg       |. ' . .           ,  |  1= "$E:jA 11   ;:        \GS   ElI.eNh  f - 
Ab. G. E- \
K.                           A6y~~.    7     Aod                             ;\%V5 
or-g"b. ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E2~r 
l- G-IY-  ElS ,HI                                                                                                            ' },  "-                             \       I                                     5r-'I<J.npAr
II Ire H..b                                      \           B A H R  FE* G H A Z A, \L                                                                                                                                                           9P 9s T 
El F,F,,!*OmAfl\. sB
|R \|.d..0N 
/    l  2  30  49  i F  |  ,  EgLEs \ .. )\ X>> >-- i tETtl()lA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LJ     A 
S-,v,~ ~ ~                                                                                                      '.o                                                                                                       int                     _
24^"    --   '    -    --'  -    -'  j   25'         2b'                       -    -'-''-'                        27'                <'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ETIGI



I



I E S D 15i643
SUDAN
/                   ~~~~WESTERN SAVANNAH PROJECT
Water Resources & Livestock
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R- c-l, DA R   F RR.\ s-  . lh
E-t1o21CMd
trggh \ lo~ DARFR                                                         O 22221     *!u artAsgibo       Co0  t                                       \  Felig'              91 :2            6l lO     2
KuSbumX          OTlmbusku     z       <           <       l       om                  ,.gYhd    S.  daDf                      3  Jvmp ~eSOSfA 1       ......... @                ,,{sO2 ........ H.bb.l,t, lle0
=E ud:o6                                                                                                                                '4 '                       _012k 122,122:SSt                     i 122, DnT-  UD  29r6
\ & S S A6ir  |   |   6&   *   \   tGI/'JIELAYA_\  \<j  \  ais  -O  ARo~ 1D  __                       -                               W
\K\1\2b01b,
o                                                                                              -                                                                                     41  *  WosrOo52 25o25520H266152.-,
v                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ab,,ooSo52                      12
2    Abo,I                            72, , F   Tog ibt2 1. lVN'2Ro 2 t2AhGA \         \    rDV$  Avb-                                    K ORDOFA
Thico    .              .      ' *i G.lIooI|ol                    adkjk     2                              * AvoGo2h
Gdod            1C1. Mdkuk H1022
*  ~ ~ ~ ~              00002.                  s~~~~~~~~,go~~~~o,e             ASUMA~~~~~~TARIQ
M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ n                                          Dc U        oE2\\        J   lP' \.  a >|dOt
74T                                                                                                                           n 2Y-  252EI H2-\,
-U-oo DigOl Gulyo.  El HIi                          '\\ \
2120222  12~~~~~~06~~Q1C   ,  0  C11                                                                           ols                                       110,02202222 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~2222   2224GI
Ny.-10001 226I    06   I
msn~go~o  aO~"0C121A,10 -211 
Rod~~~~~~                                                                                    f 2222: BAHE EL ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARAB
0   2   30  00  S, 0          .0.021.121......loom
1221112  '6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pe
77~~~~~~~~~OAI 2 
I --!  ZC$.0        i,Q  ,



