OPPICIAL
DOCUMENTS    REDIT NUMBER 1181 SU
Project Agreement
(Western Savannah Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
THE WESTERN SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Dated                              , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1181 SU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated          ., 1982, between
THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called
the Association) and THE WESTERN SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
(hereinafter called WSDC).
WHEREAS, by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between The Democratic Republic of the Sudan (herein-
after called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to eleven million two hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 11,200,000), on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement but only
on condition that WSDC agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS, by a Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and WSDC, the proceeds of the Credit provided for
under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to
WSDC on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS WSDC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. WSDC shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,


﻿-2-
financial and engineering practices and, shall provide, or
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. In order to assist WSDC in carrying out
the Project, WSDC shall employ a Financial Manager, an Agricul-
tural Economist and a Clerk of Works whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. WSDC shall employ a Senior Agriculturalist, a
Settlement Agriculturalist and a Chief Engineer in consultation
with the Association.
Section 2.04. Until the completion of the Project WSDC
shall:
(a) prepare each year by March 1 and submit by April 15 to
the Association, for its review and comments, WSDC's Proposed
Annual Work Program and Budget for the following year in a form
acceptable to the Association; and
(b) based on the above, make such modifications in said
Program as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 2.05. WSDC shall, from time to time, review the
adequacy of the water charges to ensure that the level of said
charges fully cover the operation and maintenance costs for the
provision of water and make such adjustments to reflect price
increases as may be necessary on an annual basis.
Section 2.06. WSDC shall ensure that all beneficiaries of the
wateryard rehabilitation program shall pay the water charges
determined in accordance with Section 2.05 above.
Section 2.07. In carrying out Part C (1) of the Project, WSDC
shall take all necessary measures to ensure that wateryards to be
rehabilitated for the exclusive use of migrating pastoralists
shall be located and designed in accordance with WSDC's land use
plans.
Section 2.08. WSDC shall:
(a) maintain or cause to be maintained records adequate to
reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate


﻿-3-
accounting practices, the operations and financial condition of
the accounts established pursuant to Sections 3.02 and 3.03 of the
Development Credit Agreement; and
(b) authorize its Director General, or such other person
as said Director General may designate in writing, to make
withdrawals from said accouats for purposes of expenditures under
the Project.
Section 2.09. (a) Except as the Asociation shall otherwise
agree, procurement of goods and suppliras to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of the
Schedule to this Agreement; and
(b) upon the award of any contract for goods and supplies or
services to be financed out of the Credit, the Association may
publish a description thereof, the name and nationality of the
party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract price.
Section 2.10. (a) WSDC undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation and
for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by WSDC to replace or repair such goods; and
(b) except as the Association may otherwise agree, WSDC
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.11. (a) WSDC shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request;
(b) WSDC shall:
(i) maintain records and procedures adequate to record
and monitor the progress of the Project (including
its cost and the benefits to be derived from it),


﻿-4-
to identify the goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and to disclose their
use in the Project;
(ii) furnish to the Association every six months a
semiannual Progress Report for the Project not
later than two months after the completion of each
reporting period;
(iii) enable the Association's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any
relevant records and documents; and
(iv) furnish to the Association at regular intervals all
such information as the Association shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
it, the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds;
(c) promptly after completion of the Project but, in any
event, not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between WSDC and the
Association, WSDC shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by WSDC and the Association of their respec-
tive obligations under the Project Agreement and the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Credit; and
(d) WSDC shall, not later than December 31, 1983, prepare
and submit to the Association a proposal for a possible follow-up
project in the Project Area.
Section 2.12. WSDC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, WSDC shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿-5-
Section 2.13. WSDC shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
Section 2.14. WSDC shall take, or cause to be taken, all such
action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed, all
such land and rights in respect of land, as shall be required for
carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of WSDC
Section 3.01. WSDC shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. WSDC shall deposit the revenues from rehabi-
litated wateryards in the Project Area into a special account to
be exclusively used for the operation and maintenance of said
wateryards.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. WSDC shall maintain records adequate to
reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices, its operations, financial condition and
operation of the accounts established pursuant to Sections 3.02
and 3.03 of the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 4.02. WSDC shall:
(i) submit its unaudited financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) including the accounts
mentioned above, to the Association, in English no
later than six months after the end of each fiscal
year;


﻿-6-
(ii) have its accounts and financial statements for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by the
Auditor General of the Borrower;
(iii) have its Statements of Expenditures to be submitted
for disbursement separately recorded and verified
semiannually by the Auditor General of the
Borrower;
(iv) retain, until at least one year after the Closing
Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, re-
ceipts, contracts and other documents) evidencing
the expenditures on account of which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account on the basis
of Statements of Expenditures, and enable the
Association's accredited representatives to
inspect all such records;
(v) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but, in any case, not later than nine months after
the end of each such year:
(A) certified copies in English of its financial
statements for such year as so audited;
and
(B) the report in English of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(vi) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of
WSDC and the audit thereof as the Association
shall, from time to time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.


﻿Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of WSDC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date twenty (20) years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify WSDC
of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
For WSDC:
Western Savannah Development Corporation
P.O. Box 9025
KTI Post Office
Khartoum
The Democratic Republic of the Sudan
Cable address:
WESADECOR
Khartoum
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken
and any document required or permitted to be executed under
this Agreement on behalf of WSDC may be taken or executed by the
Director General of WSDC or such other person or persons as
said Director General shall designate in writing and WSDC
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
WESTERN SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
By
Authorized Representative


﻿SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods and supplies estimated to cost the equivalent of
more than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) shall be pro-
cured in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines) on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   To the extent practicable, goods shall be grouped in bid
packages estimated to cost more than one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000) equivalent each.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods and supplies in accordance with
the procedures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manu-
factured in the Sudan may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(a) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Sudan if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of WSDC and the Association that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in the Sudan equal to at least twenty
percent (20%) of the ex-factory bid price of such
.*             goods;
(b) Group B: all other domestic bids; and
(c) Group C: bids offering any other goods.


﻿101
- 10 -
3. In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other and, if, as a
resu.Lt of this comparison, a bid from Group A or Group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from Group C, all Group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each Group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to:
(i) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes
which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for
the importation of the goods offered in such
Group C bid; or
(ii) fifteen percent (15%) of the c.i.f. bid price
of such goods if said customs duties and taxes
exceed fifteen percent (15%) of such price. If the
Group A bid in such further comparison is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award, if
not, the bid from Group C which, as a result of the
comparison under paragraph 3 is the lowest evalu-
ated bid, shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Notwithstanding the provisions set forth in Part A.1 above:
1.   Contracts for goods and supplies which cannot be grouped
in accordance with Part A.2 above and which are each estimated to
cost the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) or
less may be procured in accordance with the normal procurement
procedures of the Borrower acceptable to the Association.
2.   Contracts for the procurement of proprietary spare parts
for vehicles, equipment and water facilities and of replacement
equipment shall be awarded through limited international tendering
after obtaining quotations from a group of potential suppliers,


﻿under the circumstances, to assure competitive prices, provided
that the total amount of contracts entered into under this para-
graph shall not exceed, in the aggregate, the equivalent of two
million dollars ( 2,000,000). Limited international tendering
shall be carried out in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in Part A of the Guidelines except that no notifi-
cation or advertisement of the invitation to bid will be required
and no margin of domestic or regional preferences for manu-
facturers will be applicable.
3.   Services for aircraft hire may be procured on the basis
of competitive bidding advertised in the Sudan and adjacent
countries or by negotiated contract with the Borrower's agencies
providing aircraft services.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards
and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods and supplies to be
procured pursuant to Part A.1 hereof:
(a) before bids are invited, WSDC shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders;
(b) after bids have been received and evaluated, WSDC shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Associa-
tion of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform WSDC and state the reasons for
such determination;


﻿- 12 -
(c) the terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were invited; and
(d) two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first Application for With-
drawal of Funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding para-
graph, WSDC shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first Application for Withdrawal of Funds from the Credit
Account, in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform WSDC and
state the reasons for such determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the 4 4-'-day of et,
1984.
FOR SECRETARY


