Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.: AB4128 
Operation Name 
Food Crisis Development Support Credit under Global Food Response 
Program 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
Macroeconomic Management (34%); Agricultural Extension and 
Research (33%); Social Safety Nets (33%)  
Project ID 
P112761 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF BANGLADESH 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
August 31, 2008 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
September 4, 2008 
Date of RVP Approval 
according to GFRP 
Guidelines 
October 10, 2008 
1. Country 
Context 
 
Bangladesh’s overall development record has been impressive. Annual economic growth has averaged 
over 6 percent over the last five years; the poverty rate fell from 49 percent of the population in 2000 to 
40 percent in 2005; and progress toward several other Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) has been 
on track. This performance is all the more noteworthy when viewed against the many development-
constraining factors that the country faces – high population density, severe vulnerability to natural 
disasters, a limited natural resource base, and weak institutions of governance. Despite the good record on 
poverty reduction and social development, there remain significant development challenges. Some 60 
million people still live in deprivation, two-thirds of them trapped in extreme poverty. Furthermore, 
Bangladesh’s impressive overall record on growth and macroeconomic stability is being increasingly 
tested under difficult global conditions and insufficiently developed institutions. 
 
The gains in poverty reduction since 2005 due to 6 percent plus annual GDP growth may have been at 
least partially eroded due to natural disasters and food price shocks. In addition to two natural disasters in 
2007, a large segment of the Bangladeshi population, mostly the poor and low-income group, has been 
suffering from the ongoing food crisis since late last year.  Together with rising global prices of oil and 
fertilizer, a significant part of which have now been passed on to the consumers, the country is going 
through a very tough time. The unabated food price inflation during the last several months has caused 
enormous hardship by continuing to erode purchasing power of the poor and low-income groups.  While 
the impact of food price inflation is still unfolding, the nearly 40 percent increase in rice price between 
April 2007 and March 2008, accompanied by 5 percent nominal wage increase for all workers, is 
projected to have led  to a 3 percent average loss in real income for households. The Government of 
Bangladesh (GoB) has taken several measures to
 
reduce the sufferings of the poor: food grain, 
particularly rice, is being made available to the poor at subsidized prices, a new employment guarantee 
scheme has been initiated to help people in distressed areas (such as 
Monga
)
get employment during lean 
agriculture periods, and adequate availability of farm inputs including seeds, fertilizer, diesel are being 
ensured to farmers. 
Page  2
2
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
Resources from the proposed operation will provide the government with needed fiscal space to absorb 
the pressure from the expansion of food-based safety nets and building up of food stocks. It would help 
mitigate the impact of food price increases, and would contribute to maintaining core service delivery to 
vulnerable groups.  The government has taken a number of actions to improve the sustainability of public 
sector finances by strengthening revenue mobilization and adjusting administered prices. The government 
spent an additional $250 million in FY08 on food and food-based safety net programs. In the FY09 
budget, allocations to food security programs have been increased by 45.6 percent. The government has 
also taken actions to ensure adequate food grain availability by improving farmers’ access to agricultural 
inputs, particularly fertilizer.    
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The food price inflation has caused enormous hardship in Bangladesh by eroding purchasing power, 
particularly of the poor and low-income groups. The overall food inflation in the country has been in 
double digits since the beginning of 2008, driven mainly by rising rice prices.  Given that rice accounts 
for about a quarter of household expenditures and a third for poor households, the high price has resulted 
in a significant negative wealth effect on a large section of the population.  Moreover, some of the 
reduction in poverty since 2005 that may have resulted from the 6 percent plus annual economic growth 
in recent years is likely to have been negated by this food price shock.   
The proposed operation directly responds to GoB’s request to assist the Government’s measures to 
maintain macroeconomic stability, ensure food security, and help those who have been (and continue to 
be) affected by rising food prices. It will help GoB meet the immediate short-term needs by reducing the 
fiscal pressure on the FY09 budget arising from food related spending. In the absence of concessionary 
financing resources, GoB may be forced to reduce development spending and/or resort to higher domestic 
bank borrowing in order to support its increased social spending to assist those affected by the food crisis. 
This could compromise the country’s macro economic stability. The proposed operation, together with 
assistance from other development partners, most notably the Asian Development Bank, is being 
designed to help mitigate that risk.  
The World Bank Group’s most recent Country Assistance Strategy (2006 – 2009), discussed by the Board 
in April 2006, is aligned with the country's Poverty Reduction Strategy that was adopted in November 
2005.
1
In the CAS, the Bank Group has attempted to build on Bangladesh's many strengths of which 
maintenance of macroeconomic stability and impressive social gains are two important ones. The reform 
agenda being supported under the proposed operation with its heavy emphasis on a sustainable macro 
economy; deepening and widening the social safety net to help the poor and low-income groups cope with 
the adverse impact of high food prices; and enhancing food security by ensuring adequate availability of 
food at stable prices, is consistent with the CAS’s core objectives. 
4. Financing 
 
Source: (US$ 
million.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
130 
 Total 
130 
1
The second Poverty Reduction Strategy in currently under preparation. 
Page  3
3
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
Monitoring and Evaluation.
Improving the quality and effectiveness of policies, including policies to 
mitigate the impact of the food price shock, would require timely and reliable information on indicators of 
inputs, outputs and outcomes.  The existing M&E system of the country can play this role, although there 
is room for improvement in certain areas.
 
Repeated rounds of Household Income and Expenditure 
Survey (HIES) conducted by BBS at intervals of roughly 5 years provide a solid basis for consistent 
monitoring of poverty, household consumption and inequality.  The last round of HIES was in 2005 and 
the next one is planned for 2009.  Additional information on MDG indicators is provided by other surveys 
such as the Demographic and Health Surveys and Child Nutrition Surveys. A Labor Force Survey (the 
latest round in 2005-06) provides information on indicators related to employment and characteristics of 
the labor force. But given the timing of these surveys, they cannot reflect the welfare impact of the food 
price shock, although the HIES 2005 data has been useful in (roughly) simulating the direct impact of the 
shock on household consumption and poverty.
2
A
rapid survey conducted by the World Bank to 
complement the simulation results provides a snapshot of direct and indirect impacts of the price shock 
and government programs introduced to mitigate the impact. The next HIES, due to start in mid-2009, 
will provide a rich set of indicators that reflect the medium-term impact of the food price shock on 
poverty and social outcomes as well as that of the mitigating policies put in place by the government.       
 
Limited capacity at different levels poses a challenge to M&E efforts though capacity improvement has 
occurred along multiple dimensions over the years. The existing monitoring system with the household 
surveys conducted by the BBS at its core appears to be adequate for tracking changes in key poverty and 
social indicators, which will also reflect the medium-term welfare consequences of the food price shock. 
In addition, if necessary, rapid assessments (like the one just conducted by the Bank) can be used to 
monitor short-term welfare impact and government programs. Over the longer term, improving the 
quality and effectiveness of programs will require strengthening of capacity in key institutions involved in 
M&E and linkages between M&E and policy.  Ongoing efforts by the government and donors are likely 
to improve data quality, timeliness and the process of feedback to policymakers, which would be critical 
for informing a comprehensive safety net strategy, including interventions in response to shocks like the 
food price rise. 
Fiduciary Aspects
.
Fiduciary arrangements for this operation are the same as those used for managing 
GoB
’s own foreign exchange reserves at Bangladesh Bank (BB) and budgetary resources through the 
treasury system.  While recent assessments of these fiduciary arrangements continue to highlight a weak 
environment, efforts have been made in recent years to improve the systems, with significant results. 
·
First, a comprehensive reform effort to improve PFM institutions is ongoing. This includes 
reforms to improve budget planning, accounting and auditing of government transactions, 
financial reporting and procurement.  Accounting transactions are being computerized to improve 
the accuracy and timeliness of public financial information.  Reconciliation of budget accounts 
and corresponding bank accounts is improving and computerization is being extended to capture 
these transactions. 
 
·
Second, the IMF safeguard assessment confirms that Bangladesh Bank’s safeguards framework 
has been strengthened in a number of areas, including publication of its financial accounts (as per 
International Financial Reporting Standards), reconciliation of monetary data reported to the IMF 
with the audited accounts, and improvements in foreign exchange management. Since FY03, BB 
has had its financial statements audited by internationally affiliated audit firms in full compliance 
2
Such estimates of the likely impact of food price shock have been conducted by the World Bank as well as various 
think-tanks in Bangladesh. 
Page  4
4
with international auditing standards. The entries of the deposit account will, upon request from 
IDA, be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA under terms of reference in 
accordance with international standards on auditing. 
Disbursement
.
Proceeds of the Credit will be disbursed to a specific deposit account of the Ministry of 
Finance established at BB for this purpose.  An amount equivalent to the Credit proceeds will then be 
credited to an account of the Government to finance budgeted expenditures.  Transactions and balances of 
the Government account will be fully incorporated into its accounting records and financial statements.  
Disbursement will not be linked to any specific purchases and no procurement requirements will be 
needed.  If any portion of the Credit proceeds is used for ineligible purposes as defined by the Financing 
Agreement, IDA will require the Borrower either to return that amount to the deposit account or refund 
the amount directly to IDA. 
6. 
Risks and Risk Mitigation 
 
Major risks to the proposed operation and associated risk mitigation strategies are characterized as 
follows: 
o
Future commodity price increases
.
Bangladesh remains vulnerable to international commodity 
price increases.  A further increase in food and energy prices could undermine the Government
’s 
developmental efforts and programs for the poor.  Continued high food and fuel prices will mount 
pressure on the Government for policy responses that may be sub-optimal but politically expedient.
3
The objective of redirecting resources to cope with high food prices could become more difficult in 
the event that revenues and concessional foreign financing fall short of the budget targets or if 
substantial new and unavoidable spending needs arise.  These risks are mitigated through intensive 
monitoring by GoB and dialogue with civil society and development partners.  GoB is also committed 
to the already established principle of protecting priority expenditures by adjusting low priority 
spending.  Meanwhile, the Bank will continue to engage with the Government, in coordination with 
other development partners, on the medium-term development issues on agriculture, safety nets and 
price risk management strategies.
 
o
Risk to macro economic stability
.
Further increases in international commodity prices may put 
pressure on country’s balance-of-payment if import payments continue to rise.  Production for exports 
could also suffer because of the apparently increasing fragility of power supply.  In turn, this could 
affect the country’s macroeconomic stability with pressure on external balances.  In the past, 
Bangladesh’s exports (mainly, garments) have been remarkably resilient: after a 5.4 percent decline in 
the first quarter of FY08, the overall growth for the year was close to 16 percent.  Exports, together 
with a rising growth of remittances, have nullified the pressure of the recent growth in import 
payments.  Nevertheless, there remains a risk which could reduce Bangladesh’s foreign exchange 
reserves.  The proposed operation, along with the recent assistance from ADB on food crisis, is 
expected to mitigate this risk.
 
3
Rice prices have started to decline since April 2008.  During April-July 2008 period, rice recorded a large 
decline, falling 19.3 percent on favorable prospects for new crops for most major producers.  Despite the 
decline, rice prices in July 2008 were still almost double its price in January 2008 ($732 per metric ton in July 
2008 compared to $375 per metric ton in January 2008).  Wheat prices have fallen by over 45 percent in July 
2008 from recent peak in February 2008.  However, real prices of most food commodities are projected to reach 
their peaks only in 2010 and return to their 2008 level or below only in 2015 (see Rising Food Prices: Policy 
Options and World Bank Response, April 2008 paper prepared by PREM, ARD and DEC).
 
Page  5
5
7. Environment 
Aspects 
Environmental Issues
:
The extent of environmental degradation in Bangladesh poses a substantial social 
and economic concern. The Bank will fully support GoB efforts being initiated to strengthen adaptation to 
climate change. Overall, the policies supported by the proposed operation are not expected to have any 
significant negative effects on the environment, natural resources, or forests. 
 
8. Contact 
point 
 
Contact: Vinaya Swaroop 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel:   5764-4211 
Fax:  880-2-8159029-30 
Email: vswaroop@worldbank.org 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
