Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.: AB4127 
Operation Name 
Food Crisis Development Support Credit under Global Food Response 
Program 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
Macroeconomic Management (34%); Agricultural Extension and 
Research (33%); Social Safety Nets (33%)  
Project ID 
P112761 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF BANGLADESH 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
August 31, 2008 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
September 4, 2008 
Date of RVP Approval 
according to GFRP 
Guidelines 
October 10, 2008 
1. 
Key Development Issues and Rationale for Bank Involvement
 
Bangladesh’s overall development record has been impressive. Annual economic growth has averaged 
over 6 percent over the last five years; the poverty rate fell from 49 percent of the population in 2000 to 
40 percent in 2005; and progress toward several other Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) has been 
on track. This performance is all the more noteworthy when viewed against the many development-
constraining factors that the country faces – high population density, severe vulnerability to natural 
disasters, a limited natural resource base, and weak institutions of governance. Despite the good record on 
poverty reduction and social development, there remain significant development challenges. Some 60 
million people still live in deprivation, two-thirds of them trapped in extreme poverty. Furthermore, 
Bangladesh’s impressive overall record on growth and macroeconomic stability is being increasingly 
tested under difficult global conditions and insufficiently developed institutions. 
 
The gains in poverty reduction since 2005 due to 6 percent plus annual GDP growth may have been at 
least partially eroded due to natural disasters and food price shocks. In addition to two natural disasters in 
2007, a large segment of the Bangladeshi population, mostly the poor and low-income group, has been 
suffering from the ongoing food crisis since late last year. The overall food inflation in the country has 
been in double digits since the beginning of 2008, driven mainly by rising rice prices.  Given that rice 
accounts for about a quarter of household expenditures and a third for poor households, the high price has 
resulted in a significant negative wealth effect on a large section of the population. Together with rising 
global prices of oil and fertilizer, a significant part of which have now been passed on to the consumers, 
the country is going through a very tough time. While the impact of food price inflation is still unfolding, 
the nearly 40 percent increase in rice price between April 2007 and March 2008, accompanied by 5 
percent nominal wage increase for all workers, is projected to have led  to a 3 percent average loss in real 
income for households.  
The proposed operation directly responds to GoB’s request to assist the Government’s measures to 
maintain macroeconomic stability, ensure food security, and help those who have been (and continue to 
be) affected by rising food prices. It will help GoB meet the immediate short-term needs by reducing the 
fiscal pressure on the FY09 budget arising from food related spending.  
Page  2
2
The 
World Bank Group’s most recent Country Assistance Strategy (2006 – 2009), discussed by the Board 
in April 2006, is aligned with the country's Poverty Reduction Strategy that was adopted in November 
2005.
1
In the CAS, the Bank Group has attempted to build on Bangladesh's many strengths of which 
maintenance of macroeconomic stability and impressive social gains are two important ones. The reform 
agenda being supported under the proposed operation with its heavy emphasis on a sustainable macro 
economy; deepening and widening the social safety net to help the poor and low-income groups cope with 
the adverse impact of high food prices; and enhancing food security by ensuring adequate availability of 
food at stable prices, is consistent with the CAS’s core objectives. 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
Resources from the proposed operation will provide the government with needed fiscal space to absorb 
the pressure from the expansion of food-based safety nets and building up of food stocks. It would help 
mitigate the impact of food price increases, and would contribute to maintaining core service delivery to 
vulnerable groups.  The government has taken a number of actions to improve the sustainability of public 
sector finances by strengthening revenue mobilization and adjusting administered prices. The government 
spent an additional $250 million in FY08 on food and food-based safety net programs. In the FY09 
budget, allocations to food security programs have been increased by 45.6 percent. The government has 
also taken actions to ensure adequate food grain availability by improving farmers’ access to agricultural 
inputs, particularly fertilizer.    
3. Preliminary 
Description 
 
The Government of Bangladesh (GoB) has taken several measures to
 
reduce the sufferings of the poor: 
food grain, particularly rice, is being made available to the poor at subsidized prices, a new employment 
guarantee scheme has been initiated to help people in distressed areas (such as 
Monga
)
get employment 
during lean agriculture periods, and adequate availability of farm inputs including seeds, fertilizer, diesel 
are being ensured to farmers. In the absence of concessionary financing resources, Government’s 
developmental efforts and programs for the poor could be undermined and GoB may be forced to reduce 
development spending and/or resort to higher domestic bank borrowing in order to support its increased 
social spending to assist those affected by the food crisis. This could compromise the country’s macro 
economic stability. The proposed operation, together with assistance from other development partners, 
most notably the Asian Development Bank, is being designed to help mitigate that risk.  
4. Environment 
Aspects 
The extent of environmental degradation in Bangladesh poses a substantial social and economic concern. 
The Bank will fully support GoB efforts being initiated to strengthen adaptation to climate change. 
Overall, the policies supported by the proposed operation are not expected to have any significant 
negative effects on the environment, natural resources, or forests. 
5. Financing 
 
Source: (US$ 
million.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
130 
 Total 
130 
 
1
The second Poverty Reduction Strategy in currently under preparation. 
Page  3
3
6. Contact 
point 
 
Contact: Vinaya Swaroop 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel:   5764-4211 
Fax:  880-2-8159029-30 
Email: vswaroop@worldbank.org 
 
1. 
For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
