                                     Document of
                                 The World Bank

                           FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                    Report No: ICR00001297



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT

                            ON CREDIT IDA 4511-BD


                FOR A TOTAL AMOUNT OF SDR 82.7 MILLION
                      (US$130 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO

                 THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH



                                        FOR

             A FOOD CRISIS DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT CREDIT

      UNDER THE GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS RESPONSE PROGRAM (GFRP)


                              SEPTEMBER 30, 2009




Poverty Reduction and Finance
Bangladesh Country Management Unit
South Asia Region
                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                          Currency Unit = Bangladeshi Taka (Tk.)
                           US$1 = Tk. 70.23 (September 2009)
                            GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
                                 July 1 ­ June 30

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB     Asian Development Bank                       HS        Highly Satisfactory
ADP     Annual Development Program                   HU        Highly Unsatisfactory
BCIC    Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation   ICR       Implementation Completion Report
BERC    Bangladesh Energy Regulatory Commission      IPPs      Independent Power Producers
BPC     Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation             LTU       Large Taxpayer's Unit
BPDB    Bangladesh Power Development Board           MDGs      Millennium Development Goals
BTCL    Bangladesh Telecommunications Company        M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
        Ltd.
BTRC    Bangladesh Telecommunication Regulatory      MS        Moderately Satisfactory
        Commission
BTTB    Bangladesh Telegraph and Telephone Board     MU        Moderately Unsatisfactory
        (BTTB)
BWDB    Bangladesh Water Development Board           MOF       Ministry of Finance
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy                  MTBF      Medium-Term Budget Framework
CTG     Caretaker Government                         MTMF      Medium-Term Macroeconomic
                                                               Framework
DAE     Department of Agricultural Extension         NBR       National Board of Revenue
DEC     Development Economics and Chief              NGOs      Non-Governmental Organization
        Economist (World Bank)
DO      Development Objectives                       OMS       Open Market Sales
DSC     Development Support Credit                   OPCS      Operations Policy and Country
                                                               Services
DPL     Development Policy Lending                   PDO       Program Development Objective
EGP     Employment Guarantee Program                 PFM       Public Financial Management
EGPP    Employment Guarantee Program for Poorest     PFMIP     Public Financial Management
                                                               Improvement Plan
ENDA    Emergency Natural Disaster Assistance        PRGF      Poverty Reduction and Growth
        Program                                                Facility
ESW     Economic and Sector Work                     PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategies -
                                                               WB/IMF PRS Progress Reports
FCDSC   Food Crisis Development Support Credit       QAG       Quality Assurance Group
FY      Fiscal Year                                  QEA       Quality at Entry Assessment
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GNFS    Goods and Non Factor Services                QSA       Quality of Supervision Assessment
GoB     Government of Bangladesh                     S         Satisfactory
GFRP    Global Food Crisis Response Program          SASPF     South Asia Poverty and Finance
GTCL    Gas Transmission Company Limited             SDR       Special Drawing Right
HIES    Household Income and Expenditure Survey      SOE       State-Owned Enterprise
HNPSP   Health, Nutrition and Population Sector      Tk        Taka
        Program
HR      Human Resources                              TSC       Transitional Support Credit
IDA     International Development Association        TTL       Task Team Leader
IEG     Independent Evaluation Group                 U         Unsatisfactory
IMF     International Monetary Fund                  UK        United Kingdom
                                                     VAT       Value Added Tax


                                                i
    Vice President:   Isabel M. Guerrero, SARVP
  Country Director:   Xian Zhu, SACBD
   Sector Director:   Ernesto May, SASPF
   Sector Manager:    Miria A. Pigato, SASEP
Task Team Leader:     Vinaya Swaroop, SASEP
ICRR Team Leader      Lalita Moorty, SASEP




                      ii
                   THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
                A FOOD CRISIS DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT CREDIT
              UNDER THE GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS RESPONSE PROGRAM
                                (IDA4511-BD)

                                                        CONTENTS
Preface................................................................................................................................. v 
A.  Basic Information......................................................................................................... vi 
B.  Key Dates ..................................................................................................................... vi 
C. Ratings Summary ......................................................................................................... vi 
D.  Sector and Theme Codes ............................................................................................ vii 
E. Bank Staff .................................................................................................................... viii 
F. Results Framework Analysis ...................................................................................... viii 
G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs ..................................................................... ix 
H. Restructuring ................................................................................................................ ix 

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 2 
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ................................................. 8 
3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................. 14 
4.  Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ........................................................... 15 
5.  Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ....................................................... 15 
6.  Lessons Learned.......................................................................................................... 17 
7.  Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............. 18 

Annex 1: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ................ 19 
Annex 2 : Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) ................................................................. 20 
Annex 3 : Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)......................................... 20 
Annex 4 : Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ....................... 21 
Annex 5: Comments of Co financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .......................... 23 
Annex 6 : List of Supporting Documents ......................................................................... 24 
Annex 7 : List of persons interviewed .............................................................................. 25 

Map 33368




                                                                   iii
                                                Preface

The Food Crisis Development Support Credit was extended to the Government of the People's
Republic of Bangladesh (GOB) in October 2008, in the amount of SDR 82.7 million (US$130
million equivalent). The entire amount was drawn upon effectiveness on November 20, 2008.

Lalita Moorty (SASEP) led the Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICRR) team and
was responsible for the overall coordination and supervision of the report. The core ICRR team
consisted of Sudhir Chitale (Consultant, SASEP and principal author), Zahid Hussain, Sanjana
Zaman and Farria Naeem (SASEP).

The report is based on interviews with and inputs from World Bank staff (headquarters and the
country office), key government officials, members of civil society, and materials from project files.
The ICRR team is especially thankful for inputs from the following colleagues: Vinaya Swaroop
(Team leader of the operation, MDW); Shaikh Shamsuddin Ahmed, Qaiser Khan (on Social Safety
Nets, SASSP); Nihal Fernando, Johannes George Pius Jansen, Md. Aminul Islam Khandaker (on
Agriculture, SASDA); Alma Kanani (on Governance, SASGP); and Alan Townsend (on energy,
SASDE). Sheoli Pargal (OPCCS) provided the Global Food Crisis Response Program (GFRP)
perspective. Mildred Gonsalvez, Mehar Akhter Khan, and Rita Soni (SASEP) retrieved the SAP
data and skillfully formatted ICRR document.

The ICRR Team gratefully acknowledges overall guidance from Sanjay Kathuria (Lead Economist,
SASEP) and Miria Pigato (Sector Manager, SASEP). The ICRR was virtually reviewed September
16th. Abebe Adugna (CFPIR) and Sheoli Pargal (OPCCS) were the peer reviewers.

A list of government officials and members of civil society, who were interviewed for this report in
Bangladesh, is provided in Annex 7.




                                                  v
       A. Basic Information

    Food Crisis Development Support Credit

    Country: Bangladesh                          Program Name: Food Crisis Development Support
                                                 Credit

    Program ID: P112761                          L/C/TF Number(s): NA

    ICR Date: September 30, 2009                 ICR Type: Core ICR

    Lending Instrument: DPL                      Borrower: People's Republic of Bangladesh

    Original Total Commitment: SDR 82.7 M        Disbursed Amount: SDR 82.7 M

    Implementing Agency: Ministry of Finance

    Co-financiers and Other External Partners: N/A



B. Key Dates

Development Support Credit I
         Process                Date             Process           Original Date       Revised/Actual
                                                                                          Date(s)
Concept Review:        09/04/2008          Effectiveness:        11/20/2008         11/20/2008
Appraisal:             09/14/2008          Restructuring(s):     NA                 NA
Approval:              10/28/2008          Mid-term Review:      NA                 NA
                                           Closing:              03/31/2009         03/31/2009


                            1
C. Ratings Summary

    C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
    Outcome:                                         S
    Risk to Development Outcome:                     M
    Bank Performance:                                S
    Borrower Performance:                            S




1
     All ratings given by the ICR should use a six-point rating scale (Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
     Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, or Highly Unsatisfactory), except
     for the rating of Risk to Development Outcome that use a four-point scale (Negligible to Low,
     Moderate, Significant, High).

                                                      vi
   C.2 Detailed ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
   Food Crisis Development Support Credit - P112761
                Bank                        Ratings                      Borrower                    Ratings
   Quality at Entry:                            S            Government:                                  S
   Quality of Supervision:                      S            Implementation                               S
                                                             Agency/Agencies:
   Overall Bank Performance:                    S            Overall Borrower Performance:                S



C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
Food Crisis Development Support Credit - P112761
           Implementation Performance                       Indicators     QAG Assessments (if any)           Rating
Potential Prob. Program at any time (Yes/No):                  No        Quality at Entry (QEA):               NA
Problem Program at any time(Yes/No):                           No        Quality of Supervision (QSA):         NA
DO rating before Closing/Inactive status:                      NA
Implementation Performance                                               QAG Assessments (if any)
Potential Prob. Program at any time (Yes/No):                  No        Quality at Entry (QEA):               NA
Problem Program at any time(Yes/No):                           No        Quality of Supervision (QSA):         NA
DO rating before Closing/Inactive status:                      NA



   D. Sector and Theme Codes

   Food Crisis Development Support Credit - P112761
                                                                              Original             Actual
   Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
   1. Central Government administration                                           25                 25
   2. Other Social Service                                                        25                 25
   3. Crops                                                                       25                 25
   4. Petrochemical and Fertilizer                                               13                  13
   5. Oil and Gas                                                                12                  12
   Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
   1. Global Food Crisis Response                                               Primary            Primary




                                                      vii
 E. Bank Staff
        Positions                             At ICR                                  At Approval
Vice President:             Isabel M. Guerrero                           Isabel M. Guerrero
Country Director:           Robert Floyd (Acting)                        Xian Zhu
Sector Manager:             Miria A. Pigato                              Miria A. Pigato
TTL:                        Vinaya Swaroop                               Vinaya Swaroop
ICRR Team Leader:           Lalita Moorty



 F. Results Framework Analysis

 Program Development Objective:

 1.      The Food Crisis Development Support Credit (FCDSC) was designed to mitigate the
 impact of high food prices and enhance food security through an expansion of the food-related
 safety net programs while maintaining sustainable public finances.

 (a) PDO Indicators

                            FY06               FY07           FY08            FY09              FY10
                                                             Baseline2                        (Budget)
 PDO 1: Maintain sustainable public finances
 Indicator 1: An increase in the revenue/GDP ratio.
 Total Revenue (%)           10.7              10.4            11.4            11.2             11.6
 Tax Revenue (%)              8.5               8.3             9.1            9.0              9.3
 Comments: The program supported by the operation resulted in an increase in the revenue/GDP ratio in
 FY08 compared to FY07. The increase was sustained in FY09 and FY10. The tax rate however remains
 very low and needs to increase. This requires a number of structural reforms.
 Indicator 2: A stable domestic debt/GDP ratio.
 Value (%)                   18.0              19.3            20.03           20.1             20.1
 Comments: Despite the increase in the food-crisis related expenditures, the overall public finances have
 remained sustainable. This is evident from the stable domestic debt/GDP ratio of about 20 percent.
 Indicator 3: A declining trend in energy and fertilizer SOE losses as a percentage of GDP.
 Value (%)                    0.6               0.4             2.3            0.9              1.0
 Comments: In FY08, the increases in administered sale prices of petroleum, CNG, and fertilizers lagged
 behind the rise in world prices of crude and Urea resulting in losses of the SOEs. In FY09, the
 administered sale prices were increased faster than the world prices of Crude and Urea. This resulted in
 a decline in the losses of the four large SOEs in FY09 and subsequently a decline in the budgetary
 transfers to them.


 2
   The measures contained in the Government's program were implemented during FY08, beginning with
 the floods in July- September 2007 through the food crisis in April 2008. Some of these measures had an
 immediate impact on outcomes in FY08 while the impact of others was spread out over FY09 and FY10.
 3
   Based on the latest data, higher than the domestic debt reported in the Program Document of 18.5 percent
 of GDP.


                                                      viii
PDO 2: Mitigate the impact of high food prices on the poor through an expansion of food related
safety net programs.
Indicator: An increase in percentage of poor who access at least one of the safety net programs of
the Government.
Value                                                       13.0
Comments: The coverage of the food-related safety net programs increased from 232 man months in
FY08 to 501 man months in FY09. Furthermore, the total food distributed through all the safety net
programs increased from 1.2 MTs in FY08 to 1.8 MTs in FY09. The specific indicator mentioned in the
Program Document (PD) above, however, can only be measured after the data from the household
income and expenditure survey (HIES) becomes available. The survey is currently underway and the
results are expected to be available in FY11.
PDO 3: Enhance food security.
Indicator 1: An increase in fertilizer dealers appointed by the Bangladesh Chemical Industries
Corporation (BCIC) at the union level.
Value: Number of      4850                4850              4850          5554            5554
dealers
Comments: The increase in number of fertilizer dealers has improved the fertilizer availability and is an
important component of the package that contributed to a bumper Boro crop in June 2008 following the
11 percent reduction in the Aman crop in December 2008 (over the previous year).
Indicator 2: An increase in the procurement price of rice.
Value: Tk/Kg                 14.5            15.5           18.0          28.0            22.0
Comments: The increase in the procurement price of rice has been important contributor to the increase
production and building up the stock of rice in FY09 and FY10.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicators:

Not applicable

G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
Not applicable. There was no ISR for the FCDSC

H. Restructuring
Not applicable




                                                    ix
             A FOOD CRISIS DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT CREDIT
           UNDER THE GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS RESPONSE PROGRAM

            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT


The Backdrop

1.      The Food Crisis Development Support Credit (FCDSC) was processed against the
backdrop of a severe food crisis facing Bangladesh which was the result of two floods, cyclone
Sidr, and a worsening global food situation. The Bank's credit was designed to help the
Government's program enhance the food-related safety net, implement measures to maintain
sustainable public finances, and ensure food security. The operation was a $130 million credit,
which was drawn down upon effectiveness. The Bank's operation complemented resources
provided by the ADB ($170 million) and the IMF ($217 million) under its Emergency Natural
Disaster Assistance (ENDA) program. No budget support was available from other development
partners.

2.      The operation was processed under the Bank's Global Food Crisis Response Program
(GFRP). The operations under GFRP are eligible for expedited processing. They are approved
"in principle" by the RVP and are circulated to the Board, with the approval being effective five
business days thereafter unless a Board discussion is requested by at least three executive
directors. The operation benefitted from the guidance provided in the GFRP framework
document, which reflects the Bank's knowledge base on social safety nets, agriculture and
policies related to food prices/market stabilization. As the food crisis was not anticipated, the
operation was not included in the CAS and the resources for the credit came from the existing
CAS envelope.

3.       Over the past five years (2003-07), the Bank has supported the Government's policy and
institutional reform program through a series of multisector budget support operations ­ the
Development Support Credits (DSCs). In addition, a one-off budget support in the form of a
Transitional Support Credit (TSC) was processed in June 2008 to support the country's ongoing
reforms during the transition period.1 Being a fast-track emergency operation, the FCDSC
operation was not designed to address the structural issues related to enhancing food security in
the medium-to-long term. These issues will have to be addressed together with the Government
and other development partners through other projects.

4.      The operation was processed during a transition period when there was a Caretaker
Government (CTG) in Bangladesh. There was a national election in December 2008, almost
immediately after the credit was declared effective in November 2008. Awami league (AL), one
of the two main political parties in Bangladesh won the election by a landslide and has formed a
new Government beginning January 2009. The change in Government has, however, not
materially affected the outcome of the operation since the underlying policies have been
supported by the new Awami League Government with no major disruptions.




1
  There is a constitutional provision in Bangladesh for transition period between two elected Governments
to ensure a free and fair elections during which the country is run by a caretaker Government largely
consisting of technocrats.

                                                    1
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1      Context at Appraisal

5.       The FCDSC was designed in response to the food crisis in Bangladesh which began in
end 2007 and peaked in April 2008. The crisis manifested itself in the sharp rise in the market
price of rice, which pushed a large number of households into extreme poverty. The genesis of
the food crisis could be traced to the confluence of three events. First, Bangladesh suffered from
two shocks: twin floods of July-September 2007 and cyclone Sidr in November 2007. These
shocks damaged the Aman crop resulting in a loss of production of nearly 1.2 million tons of rice
(11 percent of the Aman crop).2 Second, the loss of production in the Aman crop coincided with
the global food crisis. Global food prices had steadily increased, nearly doubling over 2005-07.
This was accompanied by a sharp decline in the global stocks of rice by the end of 2008. Third,
worried by the global trends in food prices and reduction in stocks, India ­ Bangladesh's main
source of rice imports ­ progressively increased trade restrictions to a point where, by April 2008,
all non-basmati rice exports were banned. With no possibility of importing rice from anywhere
else, the price of coarse rice in Dhaka peaked at Tk.36 per Kg in April 2008, about 50 percent
higher than in October 2007.

6.     The rise in the price of rice caused hardship to the poor-and-low-income groups in
Bangladesh.3 A survey carried out by the Bank indicated that between December 2007 and
March 2008, the number of households who skipped a meal or ate less at least once a month rose
from 43 percent to 58 percent. The situation remained the same or got worse for many of the
consumer classes by June 2008. In addition to the cutback in the quantity of food intake,
consumers also switched to lower quality food, reduced non food expenditures, contracted loans,
reduced educational expenditures, and took children out of school.

7.       The CTG responded vigorously to the food crisis. The Government's response as
described in the Letter of Development Policy (LDP) dated 14th September 2008, had three main
elements.4 First, the Government expanded the food-related safety net program. Budgetary
allocations for the ongoing food-and-cash-transfer programs were increased, the Open Market
Sales (OMS) program for rice was initiated, and a new 100 days Employment Generation
Program (EGP) was launched. Second, Government pursued fiscal policies to enhance revenues
and reduce budgetary transfers to loss making SOEs to create fiscal space for implementing the
safety net program, and third, the Government increased the producer price of rice, ensured
availability of inputs and announced the intention to increase the public stock of rice5 to support
the Boro crop which is planted in December/January and is harvested in May/June mostly under-
irrigated conditions.

8.      The Bank supported the Government in three ways. First, it provided immediate
financial assistance through supplementary financing of existing quick-disbursing operation ($75

2
   The Aman crop is generally planted during the monsoons in June/July and is harvested in
November/December. Unlike the Boro crop, the Aman crop is mainly rain-fed.
3
  The impact of the rice price shock is particularly severe in Bangladesh because of the sheer size of the
population living around the poverty line. See Bangladesh Poverty Assessment 2008 for detailed
assessment.
4
  In addition to these policies the LDP also describes a number of ongoing policies which were continued.
These included (i) a continued decentralization down to the Upzilla level, and (ii) a number of policies to
improve governance and accountability.
5
   This gave additional assurance to the farmers that their Boro crop will find a market.


                                                   2
million), processing a budget-support operation ($100 million) and reallocating $75 million from
an existing operation for recovery following hurricane Sidr. Second, resources under the present
operation provided the fiscal space to absorb the additional costs of expansion of safety nets and
building of food stocks, and third, the Bank provided valuable input to the Government to
improve the quality of the Government's policy response to the crisis. Specifically, the Bank:

        Carried out a rapid survey of 2000 households in July 2008 on the impact of food price
        rise on the poor. This helped design the program.
        Using its access to the secretariat of the GFRP and DEC commodity data bases, provided
        regular information on developments in the world commodity markets and the food
        situation.
        Through intervention from a Bank Managing Director's (MD) visit, the Bank facilitated
        500,000 tons of rice exports from India to Bangladesh. India had already committed to
        making these exports, but the matter was facing administrative problems. The visit by
        the MD to India, who raised the issue with the Indian Finance Minister, helped clear the
        administrative hurdles.
        The Bank hosted a two-day workshop for designing the 100-day EGP that was an
        important element of the Government's response to the crisis.
        During appraisal, Bank staff prepared a note on Agriculture and Food Policy that helped
        the Government design interventions in the enhancing food security.

9.      A number of considerations guided the design of the operation as a quick-disbursing
budget support operation covering many sectors. First, as discussed in the Program Document
(paragraph 6), quick-disbursing budget support was urgently needed to cushion the fiscal
pressures arising from the expansion of the food-related safety net programs. In the absence of
such support, the country would have had to forgo crucial maintenance and development
expenditures, which would have affected the macroeconomic stability and medium term growth
potential. Second, the operation had to be multi sectoral since the expansion of the safety net
program had to be supported in parallel by measures to boost revenue growth to control fiscal
pressures and to increase agricultural production.

10.      At the time the operation was being appraised, Bank staff and Senior Management were
cognizant of governance concerns related to the expansion of the food-and-cash-based safety net
programs.6 As in other IDA countries (and even in some developed countries) with weak
implementation and monitoring capabilities, Bank staff was aware that safety net programs in
Bangladesh were prone to leakages, delayed payment of cash and food following completion of
work, problems with beneficiary selection and weak targeting. Bank staff was also aware that
food-based safety net programs were more susceptible to leakages associated with procurement,
storage and distribution of grains and were therefore less efficient than cash-based transfers.
Indeed, at the time the operation was being prepared, there was some anecdotal evidence to
support this in a few press articles. Despite operating under these difficult governance conditions,
faced with an emergency, Bank staff responded in a timely manner by taking steps to minimize
the risk of governance problems. These included supporting the government's overall strategy of

6
  The fiduciary risks to the operation were acknowledged in the program document and the operation
largely contained the same fiduciary arrangements that were judged to be satisfactory in the previous
DSCs. In addition, a number of measures to mitigate fiduciary risks were being implemented by the
Government. These included, strengthening auditing arrangements, financial management and external
oversight by the Comptroller and Auditor General. In addition, the newly implemented procurement law
was expected to reduce the misuse of budgetary funds in contracting. Despite these measures, the staff
remained concerned about the governance problems related to the safety net programs.


                                                 3
shifting towards cash-based safety net programs using a variety of instruments including
dialogue, technical assistance to improve safety net programs and lending.

11.     The FCDSC was approved in October 2008 on the basis of prior actions implemented
over FY08 and early FY09. The prior actions set in motion a number of programs, which
addressed the crisis by expanding food-related safety nets, creating conditions for a good Boro
crop and revenue-enhancement measures to accommodate the increased fiscal expenditure. The
progress towards addressing the crisis was tracked by a set of monitorable indicators included in
the program document (PD). The operation was a $130 million credit, which could be withdrawn
upon effectiveness.

1.2        Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators:

12.        As indicated above the Government's program had three main PDOs.

   i.      To maintain sustainable public finances during a period of increasing expenditure
           outlays needed for expanding the food-related safety net programs. The key
           indicators for this PDO were:

               An increase in the revenue/GDP ratio.
               A stable domestic debt to GDP ratio.
               A decline in the energy and fertilizer SOE losses.

  ii.      To mitigate the impact of high food prices on the poor through an expansion of the
           food-related safety net programs. The indicator for this PDO was:

               An increase in the percentage of poor who access to at least one of the safety net
               programs of the Government.

 iii.      To enhance food security. The key indicators for this PDO were:

               An increase in the number of fertilizer dealers appointed at the union level by the
               Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation (BCIC). The baseline number was
               4850 in FY08.
               An increase in the procurement price of rice from Tk 18/Kg in FY08 to Tk 28/Kg in
               FY09.

1.3        Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification: Not applicable

1.4        Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program.

        A. Maintain sustainable public finances.

13.     The reforms under the FCDSC were designed to maintain sustainable public finances to
accommodate the increased spending arising from an expansion of the food-related safety net
programs. The Government strategy to achieve this was through measures to bolster revenues
and adjust administered prices of fertilizer and petroleum products that would reduce the losses of
the SOEs and consequently budgetary transfers that they received.




                                                  4
14.      Bolster revenue mobilization. At about 8.4 percent of GDP, Bangladesh has one of the
lowest tax rates among countries at similar levels development. Increasing tax collection was
therefore a key element of the Government's strategy to bolster revenue mobilization. In the
short run, in response to the crisis, the increased tax collection was largely to be achieved by
improving compliance with the existing tax policy and collecting past arrears rather than
attempting structural reforms of the tax system. The Government implemented the following
measures: (i) introduced universal self assessment in income tax; (ii) introduced direct trader
input in import cargo clearance to improve efficiency in customs; and (iii) offered a special time-
bound opportunity to disclose undeclared income in the early part of FY08.

                    Table 1: Policy Areas and Prior Actions Supported by the FCDSC
      Reform Area Supported by FCDSC                    Prior Actions as per Program Document
    Ensure sustainability of public sector     The Governemnt has taken steps to bolster revenue
    finances through, among things,            mobilization.
    stronger revenue mobilization, reduction
    of financial losses of state-owned         The administered prices of compressed natural gas (CNG),
    enterprises(SOEs), and reduced             fertilizer and petroleum products have been increased.
    domestic borrowings.
    Expand food related safety net programs In its FY09 budget, the government has increased
    to help the poor and low income groups. resources for food related safety net programs by over
                                            Tk31 billion; this includes expansion of the existing safety
                                            net programs and introductions of a new scheme -- the
                                            100 day Employment Guarantee Program.

    Ensure adequate availability of food       The Government has made provisions to improve farmer's
    grains at prices that balance producers    access through expansion of dealers at the Union level
    and consumers interest.                    and reflecting higher cost of production raised the
                                               procurement price of rice to encourage a good supply
                                               response.
    Source: FDSC Program Document.

15.      Reduce the losses of State Owned enterprises. Administered prices of petroleum
products, urea fertilizer and compressed natural gas (CNG) were increased as indicated in the
Table below. These were unpopular measures, indeed the price of fertilizer was increased for the
first time since FY06! The rationale behind increasing the prices was not only to reduce the loss
of the SOEs estimated to be about $950 million or about 1.2 percent of GDP in FY08 and
subsequently reduce the burden of subsidies to the Government budget but also to eliminate the
gap between domestic and border prices to discourage smuggling of fertilizer and diesel to India.7




7
  The diesel price gap between India and Bangladesh was Tk 18.9/liter before the price adjustments. After
adjustments this was narrowed to Tk 3.9/liter. The same applies to fertilizer. The pre adjustment price was
half the Indian price. After adjustment the price was doubled to make it on par with the Indian prices.


                                                    5
                                Table 2: Petroleum Prices and Urea Prices
               Item                               FY06     FY07    FY08             FY09    FY10
               Disel Pump Price (Tk/litre)             30        35        40        55      44
               Petrol Pump Price (Tk/litre)            42        58        65        87      74
               LPG Cylinder (Tk)                       600       600       600      1000    1000
               Urea Buffer level (Tk/Kg) 1/            5.3       5.3       5.3      10.7    10.7
               Urea for Farmers (Tk/Kg) 2/                6       6         6        12      12
               Memorandum Items
               Brent Crude Oil World Price               23     28         31        42      23
               (Tk/Litre)
               Urea World Price (Tk/Litre)               15     15         21        34      17
               1/ This is the price at which urea is supplied to the fertilizer factories
               2/ Retail price of urea fertilizer to farmers
               Source: Ministry of Finance

B.      To mitigate the impact of high food prices on the poor through an expansion of the
food-related safety net programs.

16.     Increase resources allocated to food-related safety net programs. The Government
currently implements a wide range of safety net programs targeted to the poor including both cash
and in-kind (food) programs. In response to the food crisis, in FY09 (July 2008 to June 2009),
the Government increased the budgetary allocation of the food-related safety net programs by
TK11 billion ($170 million) or by about 25 percent over FY08 (Table 4, Section 2.1). The Open
Market Sales (OMS) program which allows urban consumers to buy three kilograms of rice per
person at a fixed price of Tk 28/Kg below the prevailing market price of Tk34/Kg, was initiated
on August 20, 2008; the start of the lean season.8 On September 1, 2008, on the basis of the
response from the poor, the amount sold to each person was increased to 5 Kg. At its peak, the
program was expected to serve about 3.3 million persons.9

17.     Introduce the 100 days employment generation program (EGP). In addition to the
food-based safety net programs, a new 100-day EGP costing about Tk20 billion (US$ 300
million) was also included in the FY09 budget. The EGP was intended to be the employment
opportunity of last resort for up to 2 million workers during the low agricultural seasons and in
periods of high food inflation. Wages under the program are set at Tk 100 per day, just below the
market wage. Those requesting help from the program are entitled to 100 days of work. If the
local agency is not able to give them a suitable job, then they are entitled to benefits at the rate of
Tk 40 per day for the first 30 days and TK 50 per day for the remaining days on which work
cannot be provided. The EGP program was expected to operate in two phases the first of which
was to be implemented over September 15 through November 2008.

18.    As mentioned in paragraph 10, Bank staff took steps to minimize the risk of governance
problems arising during the implementation of the safety net programs.




8
  This is a period when the Boro crop has been harvested and the work has not started on the next (Aman)
crop. There is therefore a sharp fall in demand for labor and drop in rural incomes.
9
  The rice was sold to any urban or peri urban consumer via 6700 outlets throughout the country and 75
Bangladesh Rifles (BDR) outlets in Dhaka.


                                                      6
         Based on lessons from international experience of the food-related safety net programs,
         Bank staff supported the government's intended shift towards cash-based safety net
         programs to minimize governance risks.

         Bank staff participated in the formulation and implementation of the 100 day EGP. They
         shared the experience of the Indian National Rural Employment Guarantee Program
         (NREGP) in designing the EGP. This was followed by a two-day seminar organized by
         the Bank where Bank staff shared their international experience on dos and don'ts on
         designing and implementing an employment guarantee program.

         In 2008, the Bank prepared a poverty assessment, which contained a detailed assessment
         of the efficiency of the safety net programs. This was followed by a detailed assessment
         of the 100-day EGP based on a survey of 2375 households. The assessment highlighted
         problems in geographical targeting, the extent of benefits going to non poor and problems
         with administrative targeting.


C.       Enhance food security

19.      The Government's strategy for enhancing food security had three components. First, it
took a number of measures to ensure that the inputs needed for the forthcoming Boro crop were
available to the farmers in time and at affordable price. Second, the Government raised the
procurement price of rice to create incentives for the farmers to produce more for the market.
Third, the Government announced its intention of increasing publicly-held food stocks in order to
dampen price rise expectations. The main policies initiated were:

20.      Improve farmer's access to fertilizers. To improve farmers' access to urea fertilizers,
the Government introduced a card which entitled them to a certain amount of fertilizer at a
subsidized price. The card is given to the farmers by the Department of Agricultural Extension
(DAE) block supervisors on the basis of an estimate of requirement based on field visits. The
fertilizer was to be distributed through BCIC10 registered private fertilizer dealers. The number of
dealers appointed by BCIC was increased from 4850 in FY08 to 5504 in FY09 and they were
relocated from the upzilla level to the local union level which is one step closer to the farmers.

21.     Raise the procurement price of Rice. At the beginning of the FY09 Boro planting
season, the Government announced an increase in the procurement price of rice from Tk18/Kg in
FY08 to Tk 28/Kg.

22.      Increase the target for the publicly-held food stock from 1 to 1.5 million tones. The
Government declared its policy to increase size of the public food stock from 1 MT in FY08 to
1.511 MTs in FY09 from the previous year's target of 1 MTs through a combination of domestic
procurement and imports. This higher level of food stock, which amounted to 5.6 percent of
annual consumption, ensured that (a) there was enough food in the country to feed the population
in a crisis if import channels were temporarily blocked; (b) the food stock was large enough to
influence, if necessary, the open market price and be able to sell food to the poor-and-low income
groups at subsidized prices. Moreover, the mere announcement of the Government's intention of

10
   The Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation (BCIC) has the monopoly on the urea fertilizer
production, imports and distribution.
11
   This is a total of wheat and rice: 0.3 Million MTs of paddy, 1.2 Million MTs of Boro rice, and .05
million MTs of Wheat.


                                                   7
holding larger food stocks dampens price rise expectations which generally lead to panic buying,
hoarding and fuels further price rise.

1.5     Revised Policy Areas: Not Applicable

1.6     Other significant changes: Not applicable.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1     Program Performance:

A. Maintain sustainable public finances.

23.     The momentum generated by the program supported by the operation has been sustained
and the overall fiscal situation has remained in balance while accommodating substantial increase
in outlays on the social safety net programs. Over FY07-09, GDP growth has been maintained at
about 6 percent p.a. (Table 3). The overall fiscal deficit has been maintained between 3.2 to 3.5
percent of GDP and domestic financing of the budget12 has been maintained around 2 percent of
GDP.13 Finally, the ratio of Government debt to GDP, an indicator of overall fiscal sustainability,
has declined from 46.5 percent in FY07 to 44.8 percent in FY09 and is projected to decline
further to 44.4 percent in FY10. Finally, as per the objective of the operation, the domestic
public debt has remained stable at around 20 percent of GDP. The outcomes under the specific
areas addressed under the operation are as follows.




12
   A key variable controlled by the Government that has implications to inflation.
13
   Generally, the Ministry of Finance is inclined to over budget the development expenditures. The actual
development expenditures have invariably been less than the budgeted amount by about 1-1.5 percent of
GDP resulting in an overall budget deficit of about 3.5 percent of GDP and domestic financing of about
1.5-2 percent of GDP ­ in line with the recent trends.


                                                  8
                         Table 3- Bangladesh: Summary Macroeconomic Indicators
                                                                                    Estimate Budget
                                                         FY06     FY07      FY08     FY09     FY10
     Output and Prices
     Real GDP Growth                                      6.6       6.4      6.2      5.9       5.5
     CPI Inflation                                        7.2       7.2      9.9      7.0       6.5
     External Outlook
     Current account balance (% of GDP)                   0.9       1.4      0.9      2.2       1.2
     Gross official reserves (billion $)                  3.5       5.1      6.2      7.5       7.0
     In months of GNFS imports                            2.7       3.3      3.4      3.7       3.4
     Public Finance
     Total Revenue                                        10.7     10.4     11.4      11.2     11.6
       Tax Revenue                                        8.5      8.3      9.1        9.0      9.3
       Non Tax Revenue                                    2.2      2.1      2.3        2.2      2.3
     Total Expenditures including support to SOEs         13.9     13.6     15.1      14.7     16.6
        O/W Budget support to SOEs                          ..       ..     1.7        0.7      0.9
     Overall Budget deficit including support to SOEs      3.2      3.2      3.7       3.5      5.0

     Deficit Including SOE Support financed by:
       External Financing                                 1.0      1.3      2.3        1.7      2.0
       Domestic financing                                 2.2      1.9      1.4        1.8      3.0
     Total Public Debt                                    46.9     46.5     44.4      44.8     44.4
     Domestic Public Debt                                 18.0     19.3     20.0      20.1     20.1
     Source: IMF, GoB & WB Staff Estimate

24.     Bolster revenue mobilization. As indicated in Table 3 above, tax revenue responded to
the continued efforts to improve compliance and collect past arrears. There was an increase in
the Tax/GDP ratio (0.8 percent) in FY08 which has been maintained since then. These gains,
however, have been marginal and the Government may not be able to sustain them.14
Unfortunately even the tax measures announced in the FY10 budget involve reliance on penalties
and incentives such as the introduction of a money whitening facility to improve compliance
while corporate tax rates remain high at 42.5 percent for financial institutions and 35 percent for
non-financial institutions and are riddled with loopholes for tax avoidances. For increasing
tax/GDP ratio to the 10-12 percent range a deeper structural reform of the tax system which has
been considered for some time,15 needs to be implemented. The key elements of the tax reform
include: (i) restructuring the VAT to simplify the system, move towards a modern invoice-based
credit system, broaden the base and reduce reliance on inefficient incentives. (ii) Reduce and
unify multiple corporate tax rates to a lower uniform rate while limiting the use of tax holidays
and other tax relief that erode the tax base.

25.     Reduce the losses of State Owned Enterprises. Over the past two years, FY09 and
FY10, the Government fully met the objective of reducing the deficit of the five largest energy
and fertilizer SOEs and consequently the budgetary transfers to them. In meeting this objective,
the Government was fortunate that the world price of crude oil and Urea which had reached 42
Tk/Litre ($98 per barrel) and Tk 34/Kg ($493 per ton) in FY08, and which were responsible for
the high losses in FY08 amounting to 2.3 percent of GDP, had almost halved to Tk 23/Litre and

14
   The improved compliance, which is behind the increased tax/GDP ratio could be attributed to severe
penalties announced for non-payment of tax and fraud. It may not be possible to maintain this level of
compliance in the face of the structural problems in tax and internal incentives for tax avoidance.
15
   See IMF Selected Issues 2007, "Government Revenue Performance and Reform Potential."


                                                    9
Tk 17/Kg by June 2009. In parallel, the Government did not fully decrease the increased
administered sale prices of petrol and fertilizer to farmers, thereby reducing the losses of the
energy and fertilizer companies as indicated in the Table below.

                                  Table 4: SOE Losses ( percent of GDP)
                                              FY06       FY07      FY08   FY09      FY10
            Net Profit/Loss of State-owned
            Enterprises
            BPC                                -0.8      -0.6     -0.8     -0.1      -0.4
            BOGMC (Petrobangla)                 0.1       0.1     -0.5     -0.1      -0.1
            BCIC                               -0.1      -0.1     -0.8     -0.5      -0.4
            PDB                                 0.1       0.2     -0.1     -0.2      -0.1
            Total                              -0.6      -0.4     -2.3     -0.9      -1.0
            Memorandum Items
            Brent Crude Oil World Price
                                                23        28       31       42        23
            (Tk/Litre)
            Petrol Pump Price (Tk/litre)        42        58       65       87        87
            Urea World Price (Tk/Kg)            15        15       21       34        17
            Urea for Farmers (Tk/Kg)             6         6       6        12        12
            Source: Ministry of Finance

26.      While the objectives of the program were met in FY09 and were sustained in FY10, the
SOE finances in Bangladesh and in turn their budgetary implications are vulnerable to
fluctuations in international prices and the reluctance of the Government to adjusting the
administered prices in line with the world prices. This calls for a reform of the pricing system for
these SOEs. The best practice in the energy area is to link the administered market prices of
petroleum products to the world prices of the crude so that the domestic price adjustment is
automatic and is not wholly discretionary. In this system, sharp short-term fluctuations can be
handled by adjusting taxes or having a sinking fund. In fertilizer, the domestic fertilizer price
should be better pegged to the world price of urea. Such a policy would however require a safety
net for farmers who are net buyers of rice (which is the majority) since such farmers would not
benefit from higher rice prices while still facing higher fertilizer prices. One way to address this
would be to introduce a fertilizer voucher system for poor farmers.16

B. Expansion of food-related safety net programs

27.      Increase resources allocated to food crisis related safety net programs. The GoB has
substantially increased the allocations to the food-based safety net programs and introduced the
100 day EGP in the FY09 budget. The increased budgetary outlays on the safety net programs
succeeded in achieving their main objective which was to ensure that the increased number of
poor could earn incomes and have access to low cost food through a food-based program. The
monitoring indicator for this policy included in the credit ­ increase in the number of poor
accessing at least one safety net program from 13 percent in FY08, will be estimated when the
data from the planed household survey becomes available in FY11. There are, however, other
indicators which show that there was a substantial increase in coverage. For instance, coverage
of the four food-based programs; VGD, VGF, TR and the relief in the CTG area, increased from
232 man months in FY08 to 501 man months in FY09. Similarly the total food distributed



16
     See Johannes Jansen (2008)


                                                  10
through all the programs indicated in Table 5 increased from 1.2 MTs in FY08 to 1.8 MTs in
FY09.

                         Table 5: Expenditures on Safety Net Programs (Percent of GDP)
     Policy and Indicators                           FY06      FY07     FY08      FY09          FY09     FY10
                                                   Actuals Actuals       Est    Budget           Est.   Budget
     Six Food Based Safety Net Programs
     Vulnarable Group Development (VGD)              0.08      0.07     0.13      0.14          0.12     0.10
     Vulnarable Group Feeding (VGF)                  0.06      0.09     0.16      0.12          0.24     0.21
     Test Relief (TR) Food 1/                        0.08      0.08     0.08      0.10          0.17     0.14
     Gratutious Relief (GR) for Food                                    0.03      0.03          0.03     0.02
     Food Assistance in CTG-Hill Area                                   0.04      0.04          0.04     0.03
     Food for Work (FFW)                             0.07      0.08     0.09      0.09          0.17     0.14
     Total for Six Food Based Programs               0.28      0.31     0.53      0.52          0.76     0.63
     Subsidy for Open market Sales (OMS)                       0.1         0.11   0.34   0.44   0.10     0.22
     100 Day EGP                                                                         0.32   0.15
     Employment Generation Program for the                                                               0.17
     Poorest (EGPP)
     Total on Safety Net Programs Including                   0.38        0.42    0.86   1.28   1.01     1.03
     OMS EGP and EGPP
     Memorandum Item
     Nominal GDP Billion Taka                                 4157        4725    5458   6149   6149     6867
     Source: Ministry of Finance
     1/ T he numbers for FY06 and 07 includes both test and gratutious relief.


28.     There was an increase in the overall expenditure on the safety net programs (including
OMS) from 0.86 percent of GDP in FY08, to 1.01 percent of GDP in FY09 (Table 5). This
increase in expenditure has been maintained in FY10 as well. The actual implementation of
different components of the program (cash vs. food based programs) in FY09 differed from what
was originally budgeted by the government (see paragraph 16). During FY09, the actual
expenditure on the six food-based programs (without the OMS); the VGD, VGF, TR GR, CTG-
Hill Tracts and FFW, was nearly 50 percent higher than in FY08 as well as what was budgeted
for them in FY09.17 On the other hand the actual expenditures on the open market sales (OMS)
and the 100-day employment generation program were less than their budgeted amounts.

29.      Discussions with the Government as well as official correspondence on the subject
however, indicate that the increased reliance on the food based programs in FY09 was a result of
the specific circumstances during FY09 and FY10. The expansion of the food-based programs in
FY09 was due to the Government's success in creating conditions for a bumper Boro crop and a
buildup of nearly 1.2 million tons of rice stock by end 2008, which was necessary to dampen
price rise expectations. Rice stocks have to be rotated every six months and selling them through
the OMS would have sharply depressed prices and created disincentives for the Aman crop that
was being planted in end 2008. Thus the Government was obliged to use a large proportion of




17
   The food released to be distributed through the OMS by the Ministry of Food and disaster Management,
declined from .27 MTs in FY08 to .2 MTs in FY 09. At the same time the food released for the six food
based programs increased from .96 MTs in FY08 to 1.6 MTs in FY09.


                                                               11
the public stock through the food-based safety net programs including the FFW.18 Over the
medium term, however, the Government remains committed to expanding its reliance on the
cash-based safety net programs as evident in the FY10 budget.19

30.      The 100 day EGP. The first phase of the 100 day EGP was implemented over August ­
November 2008, at a cost of Tk 9.4 billion and created employment for over 2.3 million persons.
There were three major evaluations of the EGP including one by the Bank. In addition, the
Government carried out its own assessment. The results of these evaluations are encouraging and
justify the Bank's support for the government's intended shift towards cash-based safety net
programs. The program had moderate leakages, reached intended beneficiaries, helped reduce
the worst effects of Monga (hunger) problems which affects 5 to 7 districts every year, and
helped create assets to improve living conditions. The evaluations also uncovered instances of
fraud and identified areas where the program can be improved upon. On the basis of these
evaluations the new Government is planning to replace the 100 day EGP with a new program
called: The Employment Generation Program for the Poorest (EGPP). The new program is
expected to retain the useful features of the 100 day EGP and improve on its shortcomings. The
main innovations are likely to be: (i) improved geographical targeting. The new program is
likely to allocate more resources to the poorer districts on the basis of the poverty map developed
with Bank assistance. (ii) Some provision would be made for non-wage expenditure associated
with the projects, and (iii) there would be a provision for an independent third party evaluation.
The Government has requested for Bank assistance to design the new program building upon the
experience of the 100-day EGP.

C. Enhancing food security

31.      The package of policies implemented in response to the food crisis met the objective of
improving food security following the food crisis. Improved input supplies, higher procurement
price, announcement of the Government policy to build up stocks and assurances of imports from
India created conditions for a bumper Boro crop of 17.7 million MTs in FY08 compared to 14.9
million MT in FY07, an increase in nearly 19 percent. This was followed by good Aman and
Boro harvests in FY09 further improving the food supply situation. Currently, the domestic
stocks of wheat and rice have returned to comfortable levels ­ around 1.14 million MTs as of 30
June 2009 compared to only .44 million MTs in April 2008. Retail prices of coarse rice (the
staple of rural and urban poor) in Dhaka have declined by almost 41 percent to Tk21 from their
peak of Tk36 per Kg in April 2008. The prospects for the FY10 domestic harvest are good and
buoyant 2008 world rice production has also boosted world rice inventories by 10 percent to a
seven year high of 120 million Tons and is expected to increase further in 2010.

32.     While the policies implemented by the Government have succeeded in addressing the
immediate food crisis, they have not made a dent in the structural problems facing agriculture
which need to be addressed if agricultural production and productivity is to be increased to meet
the needs of the growing population.20 For instance, the fertilizer distribution policies followed in
the context of this credit helped overcome the shortage of fertilizer during FY09. Since then, the

18
   The level of food stocks to be held needs to simultaneously serve three objectives: providing safety net
for the poor, stabilize market prices and provide emergency relief. These issues are discussed in greater
detail in Jansen (2008).
19
   The newly introduced Employment Generation Program ­ which is an important cash based program is
likely to continue to be an important feature of the Safety net program in Bangladesh.
20
   These policies were extensively discussed in a note prepared by the Bank team during the appraisal of
the operation. See Johannes Jansen (2008).


                                                   12
Government has announced a revised policy whereby the Government (and not the fertilizer
dealers) will appoint fertilizer retailers in all corners of the country. This change, however, does
nothing to address the inefficiencies in the current fertilizer production, import and marketing
system which remain largely in the public sector, monopolistic and beset with governance
problems. Moreover under the current system, agricultural extension staff is preoccupied almost
full time in the assessment and monitoring of fertilizer issues at the union level and consequently
their primary responsibility of providing agricultural support to farmers is hindered.

2.2     Major Factors Affecting Implementation:

33.       There have been three factors which have helped implementation and resulted in positive
outcomes. First, the new Awami League Government, which came into power immediately after
the credit was declared effective, supported the underlying policies with no major disruptions.
The main exceptions have been the reformulation of the 100-day EGP and an increased emphasis
on food-based safety net programs for reasons explained in paragraph 29 above. Second,
Bangladesh has been fortunate in experiencing good weather (without floods or hurricanes) in
FY09 and FY10. These, combined with the policies initiated under the credit have resulted in
good harvests in FY09 and FY10. Currently, the public food stocks are above 1 million MT and
the price of rice has fallen to the pre food crisis levels. Third, world food and energy prices have
been falling. The world stocks of rice are high and it will be easy for Bangladesh to build up
stock by imports if necessary. Similarly, crude and urea prices are half their levels in FY08.
These, combined with the Government's policy of continuing with the high administered prices
of fertilizer and petroleum has reduced the SOE losses and consequently budgetary transfers.

2.3     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

34.      Bangladesh has a well developed system of monitoring poverty, social safety nets and the
food situation. The last round of the HIES was used to simulate the impact of rice price rise on
household consumption and poverty which helped design the program. The results from the next
round of HIES will be available in 2011. This survey will allow the Government to understand
more thoroughly the impact of the policies initiated under the program on poverty, food security
and the efficiency of safety nets. Meanwhile there have been two separate surveys ­ one,
nationwide by the FAO and BRAC and the other by the World Bank focused on the Monga
region. These surveys have given the staff insights into how the safety net programs initiated by
the Government are working. These surveys have also been used to assess the 100-day EGP and
helped the Government make adjustments to the program. The Government's monitoring system
for the food situation is also well developed. The lead agency in this area is the Food Planning
and Monitoring Unit of the Ministry of Disaster Management. Regular tracking reports by this
unit have given the Government real time information on food production, prices and stocks and
helped adjust market interventions as necessary.

2.4     Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation

35.      Over the past five years (2003-2007), the Bank has actively supported the Government's
policy and institutional reform program through a series of multisector budget support operations
­ the Development Support Credit (DSCs). In addition a one-off budget support in the form of a
Transitional Support Credit (TSC) was processed in June 2008 to support the country's ongoing
reforms during the transitional period. Being a fast track emergency operation, the FCDSC
operation was not designed to address the structural issues related to enhancing food security in
the medium to long term. There is clearly a large unfinished agenda of medium to long term
issues in the area of food security, improving the tax system, improving the efficiency of safety


                                               13
net programs, governance, public financial management, and improving agricultural productivity.
Building on the success of the DSC series, the next CAS, which is currently under preparation,
could include a series of multisector DPL operations to address the unfinished agenda.

36.     The experience of reforms under the FCDSC has shown that merely attempting to
improve compliance under the existing policies will not result in a sustained increase in tax/GDP
ratio and a structural reform of the tax system is needed; the analytical work on which is
available. On safety nets, the Bank is already processing a National Social Protection Project
where the Government is planning to experiment with cash transfers to the poor being made
conditional on beneficiaries sending their children to school. Finally, interventions are also
needed for improving agricultural productivity including a reform of the fertilizer marketing
system. To provide a basis for this reform a study of the current fertilizer marketing system is
necessary. The TOR for this study have been prepared by the Bank team and shared with the
Government.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1     Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
        Rating: Satisfactory

37.      The FCDSC set itself clear, relevant and fairly modest objectives. The overriding
objective was clear ­ to provide relief for the large number of poor who were affected by the food
crisis. The design of the project was simple, focusing on three reform areas contained in the
Government's program of expanding the food related safety net, ensuring sustainable public
finance and ensuring food security. Bank staff had worked closely with the Government to fine
tune the program and formulate the operation. The program document was also clear that the
FCDSC being a fast track emergency operation; was not designed to address the structural issues
related to enhancing food security in the medium to long term. Finally, the Bank team relied
upon reliable Government institutions such as the Ministry of Food and Disaster Management
and the Ministry of Finance to implement the program.

3.2     Achievement of Program Development Objectives:
        Rating: Satisfactory

Objective 1: Maintain sustainable public finances.

38.     The Government was able to maintain sustainable public finances and accommodate the
increase in outlays on the social safety nets. The fiscal accounts show a low overall fiscal deficit,
low domestic borrowing and a stable domestic debt/GDP ratio. The revenue measures
implemented by the Government have also resulted in an increase in the tax/GDP ratio and the
increase in administered prices resulted in falling losses of the fertilizer and energy SOEs.
(Section 2.1 A).

Objective 2: To mitigate the impact of high food prices on the poor through an expansion of
the food based safety net.

39.     There was an increase in resources spent and the number of poor served by the social
safety nets during the food crisis. No major fraud was discovered in the implementation of the
food based safety net program. This was perceived as a major risk at the time the program was




                                                14
being formulated. Where problems of targeting and efficiency were discovered, such as those in
the EGP, corrective action was quickly initiated. (Section 2.1 B).

Objective 3: Enhance food security.

40.     The package of policies implemented by the Government in response to the crisis
succeeded in creating conditions for a bumper Boro crop. The buildup of public food stocks and
imports from India helped dampen the price rise expectations and reduced the market price of
coarse rice to its pre crisis levels. (Section 2.1 C).

3.3     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating:
        Rating: Satisfactory

41.      The overall outcome of the operation was satisfactory. The operation set itself clear and
achievable objectives. The program supported by the operation was clearly focused in three areas
and was well aligned with the Government's program. The implementation was carried out by
reliable agencies and the program was closely monitored by Bank staff based in the country
office.

3.4     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts (if any):

3.5    Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops (optional for
Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes): Not applicable.


4.    Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

        Rating: Moderate

42.     The operation succeeded in achieving the development outcomes that it set out to achieve
namely providing relief to the poor during the food crisis. In achieving this objective, the
program relied on scaling up existing instruments and institutions. The current operation
however, also exposed the structural weaknesses and inefficiencies in revenue mobilization,
safety nets and the low agricultural productivity. These weaknesses pose a risk to the outcome of
the operation and make Bangladesh vulnerable to shortfalls in food production and fluctuations in
the world markets in the future.

5.    Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1     Bank Performance

(a)     Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry (i.e.,      performance    through    lending
phase):

        Rating: Satisfactory

43.     As discussed in Section I, Bank staff worked closely with the Government in the
preparation stage, as the food crisis was unfolding, to ensure the quality of program. A lot of this
assistance was informal. Bank staff, using its access to the secretariat of the GFRCP and DEC
commodity data bases provided regular information on developments in the world commodity


                                               15
markets. Bank staff prepared a substantive note on Agriculture and Food Policy21 in July 2008
which helped the Government formulate policies to achieve food security. The Bank also carried
out a rapid survey of 2000 households in July 2008 on the impact of food price rise on the poor.
Almost all the Government departments involved in implementing the safety nets rely heavily on
the Bank's poverty work including the latest poverty assessment and the poverty map, which is
used to determine geographical targeting. Bank staff had a particularly important role to play in
designing the 100 day EGP. The assistance took the form of sharing the experience of the Indian
National Rural Employment Guarantee Program (NREGP). This was followed by a two-day
seminar organized by the Bank where Bank staff shared their international experience on dos and
don'ts on designing and implementing an employment generation program.

(b)     Quality of Supervision (including M&E arrangements):

        Rating: Satisfactory.

44.     Although no explicit supervision budget was allocated to the operation, Bank staff
closely supervised the implementation of the program. Bank staff was involved in assisting the
Government in preparing the Medium Term Budgetary Framework in FY08 and 09, which
highlighted the vulnerability of the fiscal accounts to the low tax rates and transfers to the loss
making energy and fertilizer SOEs. The Bank staff was also involved in tracking the food safety
net programs. An assessment of the overall safety net program was carried out in the 2008
poverty assessment where a number of weaknesses were highlighted and suggestion were offered
on reform of the safety nets. More importantly the Bank carried out a survey of nearly 2375
households in the chronically food insecure Monga areas, over October 2008 ­ July 2009, and
used this survey to provide the Government with an assessment of the 100 day EGP. This
assessment and the poverty map constructed with Bank assistance are being used by the
Government to redesign the EGP.


(c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance:

        Rating: Satisfactory.

45.      The overall Bank performance is judged to be satisfactory on the basis of satisfactory
quality at entry combined with satisfactory quality of supervision.

5.2     Borrower Performance

(a) Government performance

46.     The Government was very quick in responding to the food crisis. While efforts were
made to access international assistance, the Government was prepared to take hard decisions to
address the crisis with its own resources. The Government was committed to the expansion of
the safety net to provide relief for the poor even if it involved a combination of higher domestic
borrowing22 (risking inflation); reducing planned capital spending or scaling down support to
recurrent expenditure/maintenance activities. As the year progressed, the Government was able
to access budget support from the ADB ($170 million), the IMF ($217 million) and from the

21
  See Jansen (2008).
22
 The FY09 budget was expansionary and the domestic borrowing was estimated to rise to 2.8 percent of
GDP from 1.4 percent of GDP in FY08.


                                                16
Bank, and was able to keep domestic financing at a manageable level of about 1.8 percent of
GDP in FY09 as against 2.8 percent of GDP provided for in the budget.

47.      Although the program supported by the FCDSC was designed by the CTG, the Awami
League (AL) Government which came into power immediately after the credit was declared
effective continued with many of the reforms initiated by the CTG and has been very proactive in
making mid-course corrections as needed. The food situation was carefully tracked by the Food
Planning and Monitoring Unit and important adjustments were made to the producer price of rice,
amount of food sold through the OMS and the food-based safety net programs to ensure that the
interests of the producers and consumers are balanced as anticipated in the PD. The Government
also monitored the implementation of the 100-day EGP in detail by conducting its own survey
and drawing upon two surveys conducted by the development partners to understand the
weaknesses of the EGP and redesign it with assistance from Bank.

(b) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance:

        Rating: Satisfactory

48.     For reasons noted above, overall borrower performance is rated satisfactory.

6.      Lessons Learned

49.     The FCDSC holds important lessons for Bank's response to emergencies in Bangladesh.
Credits processed in response to emergencies, especially food emergencies have to be processed
quickly, must help shape Government's response and contain few if any structural reforms.23 In
the case of FCDSC, the GFRP framework was available under which the FCDSC could be
processed quickly on the basis of RVP approval. The country, however, did not receive any
additional resources under the GFRP. Moreover, since the operation was not anticipated, it was
not included in the CAS and the resources for the operation had to come from the existing CAS
envelope. On the basis of our experience of the FCDSC, the Bank should consider making a
provision for emergency response operations in the forthcoming CAS. This is particularly
important in Bangladesh, where because of its location and geography the country is especially
vulnerable to natural disasters.      If possible, preapproval should be obtained from
management/Board to trigger the release of resources against a broad set of parameters that define
an emergency and an agreed Government response.

50.     The experience under the FCDSC also indicates that the informal assistance the Bank can
provide in designing the Government's response to a crisis is just as important as the resources
provided by the operation. Most of the Bank's assistance in the FCDSC was informal. The Bank
must find a way to improve sharing of lessons from emergency response from other countries.
Perhaps the experience gained under the GFRP framework will help in this regard.

51.      Although the FCDSC being an emergency operation is not designed to address structural
issues, the operation has highlighted the importance of some critical reforms that will allow
Bangladesh to achieve food security and fiscal sustainability over the medium term. These
include reforms of the tax system (paragraph 24), a reform of the administered prices of energy
and fertilizers (paragraph 26), increasing the efficiency of the food related safety net programs


23
  During an emergency there is generally no time to build the political consensus needed to successfully
implement structural reforms.


                                                  17
(paragraph 30) and reforms needed to increase agricultural productivity; especially improving the
fertilizer marketing system (paragraph 32).

52.     Experience with the operation shows that the Bank can be effective in providing
emergency assistance even to countries where the overall governance environment is weak. The
Bank worked closely with the government to prepare the operation in a timely manner, and
continued its close engagement during the implementation period by monitoring funds allocated
for safety-net programs and supporting the government's efforts to take remedial action to fix
problems with the safety nets through analytical work.

53.     As in other IDA countries, the recent, multiple global crises ­ food/fuel and economic ­
combined with recurring natural disasters have increased the strain on safety net programs in
Bangladesh and have brought increased attention to governance concerns. As such, it becomes
important for the Bank to continue assisting the government to strengthen the safety net programs
through its analytical work as well as through lending to support reforms.

7.      Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

        Borrower comments:

54.     The GoB has sent comments (Annex 4) responding to an earlier draft of the ICRR and
outlining their views on the implementation of the FCDSC. The Government broadly agrees with
our assessment of the operation and appreciates the timely support coming at the time when the
Government was "weary and exhausted servicing the payment of food procurement from
domestic and international sources." The Government also appreciates the reliance of the Bank
team on Government institutions to implement and monitor the operation.

55.     The Government also acknowledges that the tax rate is low and points out that a number
of reforms have been implemented over the years including setting up large taxpayer unit,
automation of Dhaka customs house and adoption of a strategic development plan of NBR. We
believe that while these institutional reforms are useful steps, deeper structural reforms (outlined
in paragraph 24) are needed if Bangladesh is to achieve tax revenues in the range of 10-12
percent of GDP needed to achieve medium term fiscal sustainability.




                                               18
    Annex 1: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

                         Food Crisis Development Support Credit

(a) Task Team members

                                                                                  Responsibility/
           Name                                Title                     Unit
                                                                                    Specialty
Lending
Supervision
Vinaya Swaroop                Lead Economist                           SASPF
Zahid Hussain                 Senior Economist                         SASPF
Sandeep Mahajan               Senior Economist                         SASPF
Diepak Elmer                  Economist                                SASPF
Tara Vishwanath               Lead Economist                           SASPF
Ambar Narayan                 Senior Economist                         SASPF
Umar Serajuddin               Consultant                               SASPF
Md. Abul Basher               Economist                                SASPF
Johannes George Pius Jansen   Senior Agriculture Economist             SASDA
Nihal Fernando                Senior Rural Development Specialist      SASDA
Qaiser M Khan                 Lead Human Development Specialist        SASSP
Shaikh Shamsuddin Ahmed       Social Protection Economist              SASSP
Suraiya Zannath               Senior Financial Management Specialist   SARFM
Zafrul Islam                  Senior Procurement Specialist            SARPS

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                              Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
              Stage                    No. of Staff Weeks                       US$
                                                                 (including travel and consultant
                                                                               costs)
 Lending
              FY08                            39.09                         165,667.49
                        TOTAL:                39.09                         165,667.49
 Supervision/ICR
              FY09
                        TOTAL




                                               19
Annex 2 : Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

Not applicable.

Annex 3 : Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

Not applicable




                                        20
Annex 4 : Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                               21
22
Annex 5: Comments of Co financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                     23
Annex 6 : List of Supporting Documents

1.     Report No. 45044-BD. IDA Program Document for a Proposed Food Crisis Development
Support Credit in the Amount of SDR 82.7 million (US$130 million equivalent) to the People's
Republic of Bangladesh. October 9, 2008. (Includes the Letter of Development Policy)

2.     Letter from Dr. Mohammad Tareque, Secretary, Finance Division, Ministry of Finance.
To Mr. Xian Zhu, country Director World Bank, June 21, 2009. Subject: Food Based Safety
Nets.

3.      Delgado Christopher, "The Global food Crisis Response Program (GFRP) at the World
bank", Food and Energy Briefing. Agriculture and Rural Development Department.

4.     Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICRR) on six: IDA-37930-BD, IDA-
3961-BD, IDA-4129-BD, IDA-4312-BD, IDA-4362-BD, IDA-4312-1-BD. World bank Report
ICR 00001019, March 31, 2009.

5.     Johannes George Pius Jansen (2008), "Bangladesh: Agriculture and Food Policy Note",
World Bank. Mimeographed.




                                           24
Annex 7: List of persons interviewed

Government of Bangladesh
1. Dr. Mohammed Tareque, Secretary, Ministry of Finance
2. Mr. Arastoo Khan, Additional Secretary, Finance Division, Ministry of Finance
3. Mr.Kazi Shofiqul Islam, Joint Secretary, Finance Division, Ministry of Finance
4. Mr. Md. Jafar Uddin, Deputy Secretary, Budget Wing 1
5. Mr. Md. Ruhul Amin, Director General, Ministry of Food and Disaster Management
6. Mr. Pius Costa, Director General, Directorate General of Food, Ministry of Food and
Disaster Management
7. Mr. Mohammad Abdul Wazed, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Food and Disaster
Management
8. Mr. Md. Syed Ali, Director General, Department of Agricultural Extension

World Bank
1. Mr. Vinaya Swaroop, MDW, TTL for the FCDSC Operation
2. Mr. Zahid Hussain, SASEP
3. Mr. Nihal Fernando, SASDA
4. Mr. Johannes George Pius Jansen, SASDA
5. Mr. Md. Aminul Islam Khandaker, SASDA
4. Mr. Shaikh Shamsuddin Ahmed, SASSP
5. Ms. Tahseen Sayed, SACBD
6. Ms. Alma Kanani, SASGP

ICRR Team

Lalita M Moorty, SASEP, Task Leader
Zahid Hussain, SASEP
Sanjana Zaman, SASEP
Mehar Akhter Khan, SASEP
Mildred Gonsalvez, SASEP
Sudhir Chitale, Consultant




                                          25
[MAP]
