Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7809-DO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Performance and Accountability of Social Sectors Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated November 18, 2009 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 7809-DO 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated November 18, 2009, entered into between DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to provide this financing on 
the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program 
and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s 
maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank 
therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and fifty million Dollars 
($150,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a Conversion 
of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the 
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Page  4
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable 
Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in accordance with 
the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis applicable to 
consecutive withdrawals from the Loan Account which in the aggregate equal fifteen 
million Dollars ($15,000,000) shall be converted from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate for the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of the 
General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions 
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section II of the Appendix to this 
Agreement and relating to 
Cooperation and Consultation
), the Borrower shall promptly 
furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this Article II as the 
Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party, 
exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
Page  5
3
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for 
its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have 
the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action 
taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 
1
to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has, in the opinion of the 
Bank, become inconsistent with the objective of the Program. 
 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any action or 
policy under the Program (including any action listed in Section I of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement) in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, adversely 
affect the achievement of the objectives of the Program. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the 
eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire on May 17, 
2011. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its 
Secretario de Estado de Hacienda
.
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Secretaría de Estado de Hacienda  
 
Avenida México No. 45, Gazcue 
 
Santo Domingo, Apartado Postal 1478 
República Dominicana 
 
Tel: 
 
  Facsimile: 
 
(809) 687-5131  
(809) 688-8838 
Page  6
4
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 
 
By /s/ Vicente Bengoa Albizu 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Evangeline Javier 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the
Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program, aimed to enhance performance of social 
sectors to promote human capital for the poor, include the following:  
 
1.  Issued Presidential Decree No. 118-09 dated February 14, 2009, establishing the legal 
and regulatory framework for the restructuring and strengthening of the Borrower’s 
social protection system as well as mandating social protection programs to be organized 
as non-conditional cash transfers, targeted subsidies, and cash transfers conditioned to the 
investment in human capital by poor families. 
 
2.  Issued, through its Vice-President’s office (acting as head of the Social Cabinet), 
Resolution No. 01-01 dated March 9, 2009; Resolution No. 02-09 dated March 12, 2009 
and Resolution 04-09 of August 31, 2009, strengthening the institutional framework and 
operative rules of the CCT 
Solidaridad
 Program, through: (i) the creation of an inter-
institutional Committee for the coordination of all policy actions to be developed in the 
social protection sector; (ii) the creation of an Inter-agency Committee, for the 
coordination of all policy actions to be developed for the health, education and nutrition 
sectors; and (iii) the approval of two new manuals: the first on cross-cutting processes to 
be applied to all social programs, and the second on the operative rules applicable to the 
CCT 
Solidaridad
 Program. 
 
3. 
Issued, through its Secretary of Education, Resolution No. 3126-2009 dated August 14, 
2009, validating the student evaluation standards for pre-primary education and the first 
cycle of basic education, as well as ordering the mandatory use of performance indicators 
(
indicadores de logro
)
for the third cycle of the initial level and first cycle of the basic 
level in all public and private schools. 
 
4.  Issued, through its Vice-President’s office (acting as head of the Social Cabinet), 
Resolution No. 06-09 dated September 17, 2009 approving the Borrower’s plan to 
expand the network of institutions affiliated to the CCT 
Solidaridad
 Program (to include 
the 
Abasto Social
 network, including 
colmados
 or corner grocery shops). 
 
5. 
The Borrower, through its Vice-President’s office (acting as head of the Social Cabinet), 
has prepared and thereafter informed its Finance Secretary, through an official letter 
dated September 17, 2009, an assessment quantifying and estimating the costs of supply-
gaps linked to the redesign of the CCT 
Solidaridad
 Program, covering: (a) the provision 
of education services and related inputs (didactic materials); (b) the provision of primary 
health care services including access to essential medicines; and (c) the provision of 
micronutrients (iron and folic acid), prioritizing CCT 
Solidaridad
 beneficiaries, 
specifically pregnant women and children under two years old.  
 
6. 
The Borrower, through its State Secretariat of Finance, has taken the necessary measures 
to ensure that sufficient funds will be included on the Borrower’s 2010 Budget Law to 
cover the supply-gaps linked to the redesign of the CCT 
Solidaridad
 Program identified 
Page  8
6
in the assessment referred to in paragraph 5 of this Section, as well as special measures to 
ensure that those funds are disbursed in a timely fashion, as evidenced by: (a) official 
letter No. 0000617 dated September 22, 2009 from the Borrower’s General Director of 
Public Credit to the Sub-secretary of the Treasury; (b) official letter No. 5697 from the 
Borrower’s Sub-secretary of the Treasury to PAFI’s General Coordinator dated 
September 25, 2009; (c) official letter No. 1981 dated August 19, 2009, from the 
Borrower’s General Director of Budget to the Borrower’s General Director of Public 
Credit; and (d) official letters No. 5689, 5688 and 5687 dated September 23, 2009 from 
the Borrower’s Secretary of Finance to the Borrower’s Secretaries of Education and of 
SESPAS, and the Borrower’s Vice-President, respectively. 
 
7.  The Borrower, through the State Secretariat of Economy and the Secretariat of Public 
Administration, has completed an institutional diagnostic to assess the preparedness and 
capacity building needs for the introduction of performance agreements in the education 
and health sectors, as evidenced by official communication No. 0002791 dated 
September 22, 2009 from the State Secretary of Public Administration to the Borrower’s 
State Secretary of Economy, Planning and Development. 
 
8. The Borrower, through SESPAS, has signed internal management agreements 
(
Convenios de Gestión
)
with two of the Borrower’s regional health services, as evidenced 
by agreements entered into between SESPAS and the Regional Health Service 
Directorates of 
Cibao Central
 and 
El Valle
 respectively, duly signed by the Borrower’s 
Secretary of SESPAS and the Director of the respective health service directorate before 
a
notary public on July 1, 2009. 
 
9.  The Borrower has published electronically on the CCT 
Solidaridad
 Program website, 
through its Social Cabinet, the list of CCT 
Solidaridad
 beneficiaries, as well as the 
results-based needs assessment to cover supply gaps in health, education and nutrition 
sectors referred to in paragraph 5 of this Section, as evidenced by official letter No. 
00187 dated September 17, 2009 from the Borrower’s Director of the Social Cabinet, 
informing other departments of said electronic publication, accompanied  by a screenshot 
of said publication on the 
Solidaridad 
Program website 
(
http://www.solidaridad.gob.do/solidaridad/BrechasEducacionysalud.aspx
). 
 
10. The Borrower, through its Secretariat of Finance, Planning and Development, its 
Secretariat of Economy, its State Secretariat of Administration and its Office of the Vice-
President (acting as head of the Social Cabinet), has signed a basic management 
agreement (
Acta Acuerdo
)
agreeing on the policy and institutional strengthening actions 
needed to improve the performance and accountability of the CCT 
Solidaridad
 Program, 
as evidenced by 
Acta Acuerdo
 
duly signed by representatives of each of the parties on 
September 21, 2009. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 
 
Page  9
7
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.
 
The Loan shall (except for amounts required to pay the 
Front-end Fee) be withdrawn in a single tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan 
Tranche Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars) 
Percentage of Expenditures  
to be Financed 
Single Tranche 
 
149,625,000 
100% 
Premia for Interest Rate 
Caps and Interest Rate 
Collars 
-0- 
Amount due under Section 
2.07(c) of this Agreement. 
Front-end 
Fee 
 
375,000 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this Agreement 
in accordance with Section 2.07 
(b) of the General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
150,000,000 
 
C. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.
 
1. 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
(a) 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into a 
Deposit Account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
(b)  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into 
the Deposit Account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s 
National Treasury, in a manner acceptable to the Bank 
 
2. 
For purposes of paragraph 1(a) of this Section C, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first 
request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, the Borrower shall open and, thereafter 
maintain, a Deposit Account in United States Dollars at the Central Bank of the 
Dominican Republic, on terms and conditions satisfactory and acceptable to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall confirm to the Bank:  
 
(a)  
the name and number of the Deposit Account mentioned in paragraphs 1.(a) and 
2
above; 
 
(b)  
the foreign currency amount received in the Deposit Account referred to above; 
 
(c)  
the foreign currency amounts withdrawn from the said Deposit Account at the 
Central Bank of the Dominican Republic, and the equivalent amounts credited to 
the National Treasury single account to finance budgeted expenditures; and  
 
(d) 
the date and name, and/or number of the Borrower’s account to finance budgeted 
expenditures to which the amounts equivalent to the amounts withdrawn from the 
Loan Account have been credited. 
 
Page  10
8
D. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall 
not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an 
amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request 
shall be cancelled. 
 
E. Audit.
 
1. 
Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six (6) 
months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and  
 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account and 
their audit as the Bank shall reasonably request.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 10, 2010. 
Page  11
9
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies.  
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
November 15, 2022 
6.66% 
May 15, 2023 
6.66% 
November 15, 2023 
6.66% 
May 15, 2024 
6.66% 
November 15, 2024 
10.00% 
May 15, 2025 
0.00% 
November 15, 2025 
0.00% 
May 15, 2026 
0.00% 
November 15, 2026 
0.00% 
May 15, 2027 
0.00% 
November 15, 2027 
0.00% 
May 15, 2028 
10.00% 
November 15, 2028 
10.00% 
May 15, 2029 
6.66% 
November 15, 2029 
6.66% 
May 15, 2030 
6.66% 
November 15, 2030 
6.66% 
May 15, 2031 
6.66% 
November 15, 2031 
3.33% 
May 15, 2032 
3.33% 
November 15, 2032 
3.40% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
Page  12
10 
 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
Page  13
11 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“CCT 
Solidaridad 
Program” means the Borrower’s conditional cash transfer program for 
poor Dominican households as part of the Borrower’s social protection system and 
created pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree 536-05, dated September 26, 2005. 
 
2. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure
:
(a)  
for goods or services
 
supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
Page  14
12 
 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which 
the Borrower is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or 
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other 
recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient) 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address 
such practices when they occur. 
 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
4. “PAFI” 
means 
Programa de Administración Financiera Integrada
,
th
e
Borrower’s 
program for the managing and assignment of public resources. 
 
5. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the 
letter dated September 28, 2009 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in 
support of the Program during its execution. 
 
6. “SESPAS” 
means 
S
ecretaría de Estado de Salud Pública y Asistencia Social
,
the 
Borrower’s Secretariat of Public Health and Social Assistance. 
 
7. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled “Single 
Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
8. 
“Social Cabinet” means the Borrower’s set of secretariats in charge of organizing and 
coordinating the Borrower’s social sector and social assistance programs, and 
coordinated pursuant to the Borrower´s Presidential Decrees No. 570-05, dated October 
12, 2005, No. 1082, dated September 3, 2004, and No. 1251, dated September 22, 2004. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
Page  15
13 
 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until 
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank’s 
representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Loan.” 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly:
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution Date (as 
herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by 
the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in 
the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
(b)  
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the 
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan 
Agreement.” 
 
Page  16
14 
 
(c) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(d) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout these General 
Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of 
which the Loan is made.”
 
