Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5025 
Operation Name 
First Performance and Accountability of Social Sectors 
Development Policy Loan 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Health (25%); General education sector (25%); Other social 
services (25%); General public administration sector (25%) 
Project ID 
P116972 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 
Implementing Agency 
 
Secretaria de Estado de Hacienda y Economía 
Avenida México No. 45. Gazcue.  Dominican Republic 
Date PID Prepared 
September 2, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
September 15, 2009 
Date of Board Approval 
November 17, 2009 (TBC) 
·
Country and Sector Background 
 
Despite recent improvements in this decade, the Dominican Republic (DR) still faces challenges 
in ensuring access to quality education and health for most of its population, especially its 
poorest citizens. Despite almost universal coverage in basic education (94 percent), access to 
pre-school and secondary school is limited (31 and 53 percent, respectively) and unequal. 
Differences persist in net enrollments between richer and poorer children in pre-school (7 
percentage points) and secondary school (6 percentage points). In the health sector, primary 
services at the first level of care need strengthening. Maternal mortality rates are stubbornly high, 
estimated at 150 per 100,000 deliveries for 2007. The confluence of high levels of service 
coverage and high levels of mortality suggests substantial shortcomings in the quality of delivery 
for key primary health services, in particular at the first level of care. Lack of staffing continuity 
(particularly physicians), medicines and other medical inputs are also among key contributing 
factors to reduced access to the first level of care by the poor. Immunization relies more on 
vaccination campaigns and less on continuous implementation of mother and child health care 
protocols at the first level of care. Although important progress has been achieved in the overall 
nutrition of the population, preventive nutritional interventions are yet to reach all of the poor 
and most vulnerable groups of the population.  Preventive interventions such as ensuring access 
to micronutrients for mothers and children remain an important challenge, particularly for the 
poorest groups. 
 
The below average indicators of human capital are partly a product of the scarce public resources 
being allocated to the crucial social sectors of health and education. Public expenditure in 
education amounts to only 2.1 percent of GDP (average for 2004-2006), which is the lowest 
share of GDP across the LAC region. Furthermore, the economic crisis may dramatically 
increase poverty and unemployment, and create additional fiscal pressures. Reduced fiscal 
revenues and limited access to external financial markets in the midst of a global economic crisis 
could also endanger the planned budget execution, particularly social sector funding. A further 
Page  2
decline in public social expenditures would halt any efforts to improve equitable access to 
quality education and health services and would undermine the capacity of the social protection 
system to serve as a buffer for the poor in this time of crisis.  
 
In this context, there is a large consensus in the DR that three major social policy challenges are 
emerging. First, it is urgent to preserve the human capital of the poor in the short term, especially 
through the protection of the Conditional Cash Transfer (CCT) program, Solidaridad, education 
and primary health care services. Compared to 2003, the DR now has a social protection 
mechanism to protect the extreme poor through the CCT program, 
Solidaridad
,
which can be 
used to provide an income protection floor to maintain consumption levels. This program already 
covers about two million people. Second, an adequate supply-side response to the increased 
demands of new CCT program beneficiaries requires an expansion of supportive health and 
education services. Third, the crisis also presents an opportunity to improve the impact of public 
services in the social sectors over the medium term, through social and public sector policy 
reforms that should not be postponed due to the adverse macroeconomic context. These reforms 
are at the center of this proposed DPL program. 
 
·
Operation Objectives 
 
This is the first in a planned series of three Development Policy Loans (DPLs) to support the 
strengthening of the Performance and Accountability of Social Sectors (PASS) in the DR. The 
strategic vision of the PASS is to improve results in social sectors (mainly social protection, 
education and health), preserving in the short term, and enhancing in the medium term, the 
human capital of the poorest citizens. Consistent with this vision, the PASS DPLs have four 
inter-related objectives: (a) to enhance the performance of social sectors to promote human 
capital (health, nutrition, education) for the poorest citizens, through a fundamental redesign of 
the Government’s CCT program, 
Solidaridad
,
and its articulation with critical actions in health 
and education; (b) to improve budget management to support the performance of the social 
sector within the CCT program; (c) to support the gradual implementation of Performance 
Agreements in social sectors; and (d) to enhance transparency and accountability to users
 
in 
social sectors by strengthening the  enabling environment for a better informed demand for 
improved public sector performance in the social domain. 
 
·
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The PASS is consistent with the new Country Partnership Strategy (CPS). The CPS calls for 
“reducing vulnerability while producing results for all.” The PASS will help preserve and 
enhance the human assets of the poor (health, education) by supporting a meaningful shift in 
social policy from social assistance to the protection and promotion of human capital. It will 
enhance accountability both within government agencies, and between government agencies and 
the public. Specifically, the reforms targeted by the PASS are in line with the following CPS 
pillars: (i) 
Social Cohesion and Services
,
which calls for producing better results in education, 
health and social protection; (ii) 
Quality of Public Expenditures and Institutional Development, 
which will benefit from the contributions of the PASS in its performance-oriented approach and 
through measures to improve budget management to support the joint performance of social 
sectors in delivering the CCT performance targets. The PASS performance –orientation approach 
Page  3
involves the introduction of basic 
management
 agreements in the short term and a gradual 
movement toward a performance-informed budgeting framework in the medium-term, with the 
gradual introduction of 
performance
 agreements.  A gradual movement toward a performance-
informed budgeting framework will support better decision-making, transparency and 
accountability for public spending, highlighting the need for more resources and better programs 
to achieve critical results in the social sectors; (iii) 
Capacity-building of Non-traditional Actors 
(including civil society
), which will benefit from a better informed demand for improved public 
sector performance in the social domain
.
·
Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
150 
 Total 
150 
 
·
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The implementation of the loan(s) will require close coordination among the Bank and the 
respective Government institutions responsible for the implementation of the reforms that are 
supported by the DPL. These include the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy, the 
Social Cabinet, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education.  
 
·
Benefits and risks 
 
There are two major series of macroeconomic and politico-institutional risks associated with the 
PASS.  From an economic standpoint, the current global financial crisis and economic downturn 
are expe
cted to reduce the DR’s main exports of goods and services and its remittances. It is also 
increasing the government’s cost of rolling over existing debt and servicing variable-rate debt. 
These exogenous developments will likely reduce economic growth, strain government finances, 
and put pressure on the exchange rate; the risk becomes that these developments might stall or 
reverse the reform momentum.  While the current economic risks are substantial, mitigating 
factors include reduced oil and food prices, which should reduce external financing 
requirements. Declining inflation should help limit the negative impact of slower growth on the 
poor. The financial resources provided by the PASS DPL1 and other IFI financing are expected 
to mitigate the debt-management risk in 2009. The ongoing macro-monitoring and country 
dialogue will offer a source of advice for the authorities on policies to deal with other potential 
issues as they may emerge. Finally, a Stand-By Agreement with the International Monetary Fund 
is being prepared.  
 
From an institutional standpoint, there is a risk that reform priorities could shift over time, and 
this is exacerbated by intersectoral coordination challenges within the Government. To address 
this risk, PASS policy actions were selected on the basis of strong Government ownership and 
the existence of broad consensus outside the Government, as demonstrated by consultations that 
took place as part of the DR National Development Strategy and the last National Civil Society 
Summit. Furthermore, civil society oversight will be ensured through regular dialogue and 
information-sharing, and DPL supported actions (enhanced access to budget information and 
Page  4
results of social auditing mechanisms). The PASS will also support the formalization and 
institutionalization of the major committees that will oversee the implementation of the 
redesigned CCT, including the CCT Intersectoral Committee, bringing together Education and 
Health Ministries with the CCT program. Finally, PASS measures to improve budget 
management reform to support the joint performance of social sectors within the CCT will align 
incentives for social agencies to jointly deliver the agreed-upon performance targets for the CCT 
program.
 
A
second institutional challenge to the PASS could be the limited administrative capacity and 
financial constraints in implementing the targeted reforms.  To address this challenge, the PASS 
is complemented by a combination of  technical assistance, grant financing, and capacity-
building to be provided by the Bank through various instruments (e.g. non-lending technical 
assistance (NLTA), investment lending and synergies with other Bank operations), as well as by 
IADB, and other donors. 
 
The major benefits of the programmatic DPL are highlighted below as part of the positive social 
and institutional changes that should be expected out of the social protection and public 
administration reforms that will be supported by the PASS.   
 
·
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The
 
actions supported by the proposed operation will have no significant effects on the 
environment, forests, and other natural resources. 
 
Preliminary analysis suggests that the proposed PASS program will have significant, positive 
social impacts: 
(i) 
Increased emphasis on human capital promotion as part of the overhaul of the CCT 
program, 
Solidaridad
.
The PASS-supported reforms will make payment of transfers 
conditional on households’ compliance with health and education co-responsibilities, 
thereby increasing incentives for eligible extremely-poor families to keep children in 
school longer and to improve health care behaviors (through regular health visits and 
training on select health issues). The PASS will also support improvements in budget 
management so as to support the availability of health, nutrition and education inputs that 
are associated with coresponsibilities.  
(ii) 
Strengthening of the safety net response of the Government, preventing harmful coping 
strategies that can have negative and sometimes permanent effects on the human capital 
and welfare of household
 
members (e.g. leaving school early, malnutrition).   
(iii) 
Positive externalities beyond the CCT program and target population, including, for 
example: positive impact of social policy and budget measures on both CCT and non-
eligible CCT beneficiaries, since they will target the supply of health, nutrition and 
education services in priority regions; development of a culture of results in social 
sectors, by enhancing performance orientation in social sectors through the gradual 
introduction of performance-informed budgeting; and enhanced transparency of the 
national budget.  
 
·
Contact point 
Page  5
Contact: Carine Clert 
Title: Sr. Social Protection Specialist 
Tel: (202) 458-4913 
Email: cclert@worldbank.org 
 
·
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
