Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4872 
Operation Name 
First Performance and Accountability of Social Sectors (PASS) 
Development Policy Loan (DPL) 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Health (25%); General education sector (25%); other Social 
Services (25%); Public Sector Governance 25% 
Project ID 
P116972 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Date PID Prepared 
June 16, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
August 3, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
September 15, 2009 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Three major social policy challenges are emerging in the Dominican Republic
.
First
,
it is 
imperative to preserve the human capital of the poor, especially through the protection of the 
CCT social transfers, education and primary health care services. Beginning in 2003, the DR has 
a
social protection mechanism to protect the extreme poor through the Conditional Cash 
Transfers (CCT) 
Solidaridad
,
which is used to provide an income protection floor to maintain 
consumption levels. This program already covers almost two million people. 
Second
,
supportive 
health and education services must be expanded to meet the increased demands of new CCT 
program beneficiaries. 
Third
,
the economic crisis presents an opportunity to improve the impact 
of public services in social sectors over the medium term, through social and public sector policy 
reforms that should not be postponed due to the adverse macroeconomic context. These reforms 
are at the center of the objectives of the proposed Development Policy Loan program (See 
Section 2 below). 
 
The First Performance and Accountability of Social Sectors (PASS) Development Policy Loan 
(DPL) is consistent with the new Country Paper Strategy (CPS) under preparation. The CPS calls 
for “reducing vulnerability while producing results for all.” The PASS will help preserve and 
enhance the human assets of the poor (health, education) by supporting a meaningful shift in 
social policy, from social assistance to the protection and promotion of human capital. It will 
enhance accountability both within government agencies, and between government agencies and 
the public.  
 
Specifically, the reforms targeted by the PASS are in line with the following pillars: 
·
The reform of the safety net framework is in line with the pillar on Social Cohesion and 
Services
,
which calls for producing better results in education, health and social 
protection.  
·
The pillar on the Quality of Public Expenditures and Institutional Development
 will 
benefit from the contributions of the PASS through: i) measures to improve budget 
management to support the joint performance of social sectors in delivering the CCT 
performance targets; and ii) its overall approach to performance orientation. The latter 
involves the introduction of basic 
management
 agreements in the short term and a 
Page  2
gradual movement toward a performance-informed budgeting framework in the medium-
term, with the gradual implementation of 
performance
 agreements. Management 
agreements will start to establish an overarching framework that focuses public policy, 
budget and management issues around performance. These basic management 
agreements will include the key policy actions and intermediate outcomes that are 
contained in the PASS matrix. The agreements will be between the Ministries of 
Economy, Finance, Public Administration and social sector ministries (Health, Education 
and Social Cabinet). A gradual movement toward a performance-informed budgeting 
framework will support better decision-making, transparency and accountability for 
public spending, highlighting the need for more resources and better programs to achieve 
critical results in the social sectors. 
·
Finally, the pillar on Capacity-building of Non-traditional Actors (including civil society) 
will benefit from a better informed demand for improved public sector performance in 
the social domain
.
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The strategic vision of the PASS is to improve results in social sectors (mainly social protection, 
education and health), preserving in the short term, and enhancing in the medium term, the 
human capital of the poorest citizens. Consistent with this vision, the PASS has four inter-
related objectives: i) to enhance the performance of social sectors to promote human capital 
(health, nutrition, education) for the poorest citizens, through a fundamental redesign of the 
Government’s Conditional Cash Transfers (CCT) 
Solidaridad
,
and its articulation with critical 
actions in health and education; ii) to improve budget management to support the performance 
of these social sector within the CCT program; iii) to support the gradual implementation of 
performance agreements in social sectors; and iv) to enhance transparency and downward 
accountability in social sectors by strengthening the environment for a better informed demand 
for improved public sector performance in the social domain. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
This operation is being proposed as the first of a series of three sequential programmatic 
operations. Overall, the programmatic DPL series PASS will focus on four areas of policy 
actions:  
 
I. 
Enhancing the performance of social sectors to promote human capital for the poor
.
This will support the shift from the government’s Conditional Cash Transfers flagship program 
Solidaridad
 to a full-fledged CCT. This improved CCT will focus on the promotion of human 
capital, with related critical actions in health and education and select actions to enhance the 
overall quality of service to CCT beneficiaries. This will also improve the performance of the 
social policy targeting system 
SIUBEN
,
which is used to determine the eligibility of cash 
transfers (and other government transfers) to the extreme poor.   
 
II. 
Improving budget management to support the performance of the CCT program
.
This is necessary to increase budget allocations to meet the entitlements envisioned under the 
CCT program (and other social programs), and to ensure that the budget for the CCT program is 
executed as programmed. To date, the lack of resources and the unpredictable nature of budget 
execution, the ability of the CCT program to plan and deliver has been undermined. The PASS 
will help increase the predictability and efficiency of financial management and budget processes 
Page  3
that support the delivery of the CCT, including the associated education and health sectors, 
through:
 
i)
 
The development of rolling multi-annual projections of entitlements, supply gaps (in 
health, nutrition and education) and budget resources; and ii) Ensuring the consistency between 
the CCT entitlements and annual budget outturns. This will result in ensuring that the annual 
budget is firmly linked to the rolling multi-year CCT projections
.
III. 
Supporting the gradual implementation of performance agreements in the social sectors.
 
These agreements will enhance the performance orientation of the budget and management 
processes. Budget management is currently largely focused on the control of financial and 
human inputs which hinders the prioritization of the programs based on their outputs and 
outcomes, particularly the critical social programs. In addition, this focus has reduced the 
flexibility of management arrangements (also impacting on efficiency). The DPL program will 
help support a very gradual movement toward a flexible performance-informed budgeting 
framework. This will help to support better decision-making, including managerial flexibility, 
transparency and accountability for public spending. Furthermore this will highlight the need for 
more resources and better programs to achieve results in the social sector. 
 
IV. 
 Improving Transparency and Civil Society Oversight.
 
This reform addresses some of the most critical challenges hindering a more informed demand 
for improved public sector performance in social sectors. At budget level, the
 
Financial 
Management Information System (SIGEF) is only accessible to authorized users, hindering the 
public’s access to timely and comprehensive budget information. At the CCT program level, 
there is no effective social auditing scheme with verifiable and quantifiable feedback and no 
adequate feedback loop. The complaint system also needs to be broadened. In response, the 
PASS will support the improvement of transparency and downward accountability at two levels: 
that of the CCT program and of the government budget. 
 
4.  Environment, Poverty and Social Aspects 
 
The
 
actions
 supported by the proposed operation will have no significant effects on the 
environment, forests, and other natural resources. 
 
Preliminary analysis suggests that the proposed PASS program will have significant, positive 
social impacts. First, the fundamental redesign of the CCT program 
Solidaridad
 will emphasize 
human capital promotion. It will also increase incentives for eligible extremely-poor families to 
keep childre
n
in school 
lon
ger and to improve health care behaviors (through regular health visits 
and training on select health issues). The PASS-supported reforms will make payment of 
transfers conditional on households’ compliance with health and education co-responsibilities, 
and also improve budget management so as to support the availability of health, nutrition and 
education inputs. The PSIA will assess the size of these expected positive impacts on the CCT 
target population and identify any potential risks. In particular, as health and education 
conditionalities will be enforced for the first time with the revamping of the CCT program, the 
PSIA will look at barriers poor families will face in order to comply with the program. Barriers 
may include access to national identity documents or eligible households who could not meet the 
conditions because of supply gaps. Mitigation measures to remedy these risks will be developed. 
The documentation risk mitigation measure is already in place: the WB Social Protection 
Investment project under implementation supports the Government’s efforts to reduce the 
number of undocumented poor Dominican households. 
 
Page  4
Second, in the context of the financial crisis, these reforms will help improve the safety net 
response of the Government, preventing harmful coping strategies that can have negative and 
sometimes permanent effects on the human capital and welfare of household
 
members (e.g. 
leaving school early, malnutrition).   
 
Third, specific complementary actions in health and education will yield additional benefits, 
even if the specific outcomes of these actions will be difficult to observe by the end of the three-
year program duration. For example, PASS support of improvements in prenatal control and 
quality of delivery services will contribute to better health outcomes in the long-run.
 
Finally, the PASS reforms are expected to have positive externalities beyond the CCT program 
and target population: 
·
Support to the improvement of the targeting system administered by SIUBEN will improve 
the quality of the Government’s overall safety net response.  The proxy-means test used by 
SIUBEN is also used to target the fuel subsidy (Bonogas). 
·
Social policy and budget measures that support improvements in the supply of health, 
nutrition and education services will take place in priority regions that include both CCT and 
non-eligible CCT beneficiaries.  
·
The PASS public sector reforms will contribute to the development of a culture of results in 
social sectors, by enhancing performance orientation in social sectors (through management 
agreements in the short term and gradual implementation of performance-informed budgeting 
in the medium term with performance agreements). And,  
·
The measures to enhance transparency in the budget will contribute to a more informed and 
vocal demand by constituents and other stakeholders for preserving critical elements of social 
spending.  
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
150 
 Total 
150 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Carine Clert 
Title: Sr Social Protection Specialist 
Tel: (202) 458-4913 
Fax: (202) 522-1201 
Email: cclert@worldbank.org 
 
