Report No. PID9173
Project Name                     Mongolia-Transport Development (@)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Highways
Project ID                       MNPE56200
Borrower(s)                      MONGOLIA
Implementing Agency
Address
Ministry of Infrastructure
Ministry of Infrastructure
Contact Person: Mr. Byamba Jigjid, Minister
Tel: 976-11-326222
Fax: 976-11-310612
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                March 7, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         October 29, 2000
Projected Board Date             March 22, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Analyses of the performance of the transport sector have been made under a
previous IDA Transport Rehabilitation Project and two ADB Highway
Projects. These have identified the following transport sector
issues.Funding and management of road maintenance. With less than 13t of
its national road network and 3t of its total road network paved, Mongolia
needs to allocate more than the usual share of its GDP to maintaining its
network of mostly earth roads, but has until recently failed to pay
adequate attention to maintenance. Its allocation of just 0.2w of GDP to
road maintenance during the 1990s was an even smaller percentage of its
GDP than the inadequate amounts of other countries at a similar state of
economic and political development (Cambodia and Vietnam both allocated
more than 0.6%). Present road network (kms)Source: Bank estimates based on
DOR dataMany of the formed earth and gravel roads are now in such poor
condition that drivers avoid them, preferring to create alternative tracks
across the steppes, and in doing so degrade valuable pasture land. The
neglect of timely maintenance of the few paved roads is now evident in an
high incidence of severe localized deterioration, sometimes making the
roads impassable. These poorly maintained roads combine with even lower
standards of vehicle maintenance to produce on of the world's highest
rates of road fatalities (measured as fatalities per motorized
vehicle).The UK's Transport Research Laboratory, working within the IDA
Transport Rehabilitation Project, has estimated that about U$12.5 million
is needed each year for road maintenance (estimates made by the ADB are
slightly higher), once the past neglect has been overcome. That in itself
will need a further U$20 million. However the average expenditure on road
maintenance in each of the last three years has been less than U$1
million.Estimated necessary and justifiable expenditure on road
maintenance(U$m per year)Source: Bank estimates, based on TRL data In a
vast and under-populated country (1.53 people per km2, the lowest national
figure in the world) with a sparse road network and few motorized



vehicles, balancing the few available financial resources between
expanding the network and maintaining what little already exists involves
many difficult choices. Management of the recently reconstituted Road
Fund, which is required to provide funding for both new construction and
maintenance, is the forum where those choices will now be made. Given that
most of the finance for new road construction comes through loans, credits
and donations, the Road Fund is largely used as the source for counterpart
funding, leaving inadequate funds for maintenance (although most economic
evaluations give a higher ranking to maintenance than to expansion).
Unless a substantial share of the new finance available to the Road Fund
is allocated to routine and periodic maintenance, future annual
maintenance costs will be even higher than the U$12.5 million indicated
However, the government is reluctant to dedicate funds to road maintenance
when there is a severe lack of paved roads throughout the country (only
1,600 kms of paved roads, 20% of which are in urban areas, in area
comparable to that of France, Spain, Italy and the UK combined). External
funding for new construction projects could be drastically reduced if
donors see that their investments are not being adequately maintained, and
therefore are not sustainable.Institutional weaknesses. Although the road
sector institutions have received technical support from IDA's on-going
Transport Development Project and two ADB Highway Projects, there has been
little support for institutional management or for road transport
activities. The agencies' strategic planning and project selection and
prioritization procedures are little developed and they lack modern
analytical and information tools which would allow their resources to be
managed efficiently. They have little experience of implementing
competitive bidding procedures or in supervision of consultants and
contractors. Through ADB, JICA and Kuwait Fund supported projects, the
Roads Department is now gaining experience of ICB procedures, and in the
last three years, has added NCB procedure experience through the on-going
IDA Transport Rehabilitation Project. The bidding documents from this
project are being used on the IDA-financed Ulaanbaatar Services
Improvement Project, and will serve as a model for future bidding and
contract documentation, replacing the previous ad hoc and inconsistent
documents. Road maintenance industry. Until 1995, when the previous road
maintenance units of the Department of Roads were converted into publicly
owned contracting companies, all road maintenance was undertaken by force
account. Subsequent progress under the overall privatization policy of the
Government has been slower than expected, in part hindered by the drastic
scaling down of the industry's operations. The companies have not yet
developed much commercial management expertise. The quality of their
output, together with that of local engineering consultants in the road
sector is further reduced through: (a) weak institutional procurement
procedures, (b) inappropriate controls on unit costs, and payment delays,
and (d) inadequate and ineffective quality control, supervision, contract
management and enforcement.Lack of competition and high cost of road
transport services. While there is adequate competition on the two main
transport corridors leading out of Ulaanbaatar, the low population density
makes it difficult to sustain competing services on other routes,
resulting in a lack of competition, high costs and unreliable services for
both freight and passenger transport. This makes it unattractive for
traders to visit remote regions unless they are adequately compensated,
which as well as high prices, results in traders taking advantage of the
monopoly to sell inferior quality goods (such as time-expired medical
supplies).High accident rates and increasing vehicle induced air
-2 -



pollution.   The Road Transport Department that estimated that more than a
quarter of road accidents are directly attributable to the bad condition
of the vehicles, and in a further quarter it is a contributory factor. The
fatality rate is about 70 per 10,000 vehicles (about double what would be
expected for a country of similar income) and of these about a quarter are
pedestrians (the severe climatic conditions result in few cyclists or
other non-motorized vehicle users). The proportion of accidents
attributable to vehicle condition is much higher than in most other
countries at a comparable stage of development, and is partly attributable
to the lack of a vehicle maintenance industry and a lack of spare parts
and the means to pay for them. While the project will not address the lack
of parts directly, by introducing voluntary testing one year in advance of
the complusory system, it will give an opportunity for a maintenance
industry and parts supply system to develop. If the proposed VIS halves
the accidents attributable to vehicle condition, it could save up to 50
lives each year. In the last few years a large number of used vehicles
have been imported to Mongolia from Eastern Europe and Korea, many of them
having failed the emissions tests in their home country. As well as being
of doubtful safety and reliability standards, these vehicles make an
increasing contribution to mobile source air pollution in Ulaanbaatar and
other urban areas. While procedures and equipment that will allow the
regular and reliable monitoring of air quality are only now being
introduced, the partial monitoring undertaken for the last few years
indicates a consistently high and increasing level of S02, N02 and
particulates (recording of CO or C02 levels will only start later this
year).Government strategyThe Ministry of Infrastructure and the IDA
produced a transport strategy (Taming the Tyrannies of Distance and
Isolation) in 1998. This highlighted the need for better planning of
investments in the sector, and a higher allocation of funding for
maintenance. An outline investment strategy indicated that investment in
transport of about 3% of GDP would be needed to sustain the proposed
economic growth rate of about 4%, and that of this investment about 68%
would need to be on roads, of which about 45% should be on routine
maintenance (that is, road maintenance requires about 0.9% of GDP). New
investment should be aimed at increasing the accessibility of isolated
communities and in reducing the impact of Mongolia's distance from ports
and world markets on the prospects for economic growth. Emphasis should be
placed on establishing one East-West corridor linking seven regional
capitals with the capital city and on one North-South corridor, linking
the capital with both China and Russia. The IDA would concentrate its
investment assistance on the former, while the ADB and donors would
concentrate on the latter. Finances of the Road Fund would be
restructured and focused on maintenance, with national budget revenues
contributing to new construction and counterpart funding of foreign loans.
The need for a comprehensive, multi-annual road maintenance plan was
recognized to ensure that the new roads were adequately maintained, and
the necessary finance could be resourced and then used efficiently. With
competition already being the paradigm for delivery of transport services,
the strategy recognizes that the low level of demand for most transport
services places a heavy responsibility on a regulating agency to ensure
adequate competition. In the many instances where competition is not
feasible, negative concessioning should be used to ensure provision of
minimum acceptable standards of accessibility. The few remaining publicly
owned transport services should be sold (MIAT airline) or totally (urban
buses) or partially concessioned (railways). The scarcity of qualified
- 3 -



professionals (in a total population of less than 3 million) means that
regulatory resources should be concentrated in a single agency.      The
strategy placed a strong emphasis on addressing the high level of road
fatalities and proposed the rapid implementation of a vehicle inspection
system (VIS) to reduce the number of accidents attributable to poor
vehicle maintenance. It also proposed that the VIS deal with emerging
problem of vehicle emissions contributing to a degradation of air quality,
and encouraging a culture of care for the environment among motorists.In
respect of human resources, the strategy recognized that in an emerging
competitive economy, acquiring marketing and management skills through
experience can be a slow process, so external support should be sought for
training in these areas. A particular need was recognized in the road
construction and maintenance industry, as well as in the management of
transport enterprises, such as urban buses and inter-urban freight and
passenger services.
2. Objectives
The project aims to improve the accessibility of the isolated and remote
central and western regions of Mongolia, which include about 36t of the
national territory and about 27t of the population, increase transport
capacity for rail-borne export trade, and reduce the number of fataliites
resulting from road accidents. To meet these objectives the project will
help to keep the two access roads to the region open all through the year,
implement an operations information system for the railways and initiate a
system of annual vehicle inspections.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The main value added of Bank support is in reinforcing the awareness of
the benefits of low-cost infrastructure interventions, and of an efficient
allocation of scare resources between competing demands for maintenance
and upgrading.Dialogue during project identification, including joint
preparation of the transport strategy between the Government and IDA, has
increased the former 's awareness of the potential advantages of building
and maintaining gravel rather than paved roads when there is a severe
budget constraint, and of the economic and social importance of providing
better access to the isolated regions of the country. The first change has
in large part been influenced by the success of the gravel road component
of the on-going project and in part the greater assurance of funds for
routine road maintenance following restructuring of the Road Fund. The
second change has also in part come from an appreciation of the
development advantages of increased accessibility from the roads included
in the on-going project. Moreover, the proposed new project will: (i)
support the ADB efforts to restructure the Road Fund by giving users some
influence over its resource allocation, and thereby help reinforce a
maintenance culture in the DoR. It will provide resources needed to
upgrade roads beyond the Government's own capacity, expand the country's
infrastructure and reduce the isolation of its remote regions, an
essential condition for their social and economic growth and consequent
poverty reduction; (ii) provide technical assistance in engineering
design, construction supervision, and project management; (iii) help
increase potential donors awareness of the benefits of short-section
upgrading to gravel roads and of keeping them in good condition; and (iv)
continue to expose road transport institutions to modern technology, and
connect them to sources that will permit them to link up to new
technological developments in their fields as they evolve. The ADB
- 4 -



welcomes the support of the IDA in its efforts at reform in road transport
and, by increasing the pressure for implementation of its changes in the
management of road infrastructure, supplements its own value added.
4. Description
The structure of the proposed project is based on the recommendations of
the Transport Strategy (Taming the Tyrannies of Distance and Isolation,
Report No. 18242-MOG). The project follows-up on three components of the
on-going Transport Rehabilitation Project (TRP, C-2615-MOG) ) and is
complementary to the Asia Development Bank's Road Development II Project.
Reconstruction and improvements of roadsThe proposed Transport Development
Project will include civil works on three roads: i) reconstruction of the
paved road from Erdenesant to Arvaikheer (177 km out of the total road
length of about 240 km). Technical and economic assessments were made
alternative classes of rehabilitation for 26 sections of the road, and the
alternatives and sections with the highest weighted economic rate of
return were selected for improvement. ii) upgrading to an all-weather
gravel surface of eighteen short sections of the earth road from
Arvaikheer to Khovd (93 km out of the total road length of about 1,040
km); iii) nine additional short section improvements of the Kharkhorin to
Tosontsengel road (86 km out of the total road length of about 480 km),
also with all-weather gravel surface. Construction will be supervised by
staff from the Department of Roads, supplemented by one foreign civil
engineer for each of the three roads. Technical Assistance and Training
Program A start was made on increasing the technical capacity of the
Department of Roads through extensive training and technical assistance
under the TRP and the ADB Road Development Project. This is being
supplemented under the on-going ADB RDII Project through technical
assistance related to the Road Fund and Road Board and implementation
plans for a road maintenance equipment pool, to be privately managed
within five years. The government of Sweden has recently given a grant for
training staff of the Department of Roads in the management of contracts.
These initiatives will be supported by the project, through training in
management and planning techniques, including co-sponsoring visits to
other transition countries that have already established advisory Road
Boards. Road Safety/ Implementation of a system of registration and
inspection of road vehicles.The project will provide technical assistance
to design and implement a revised accident reporting system, and provide
for an analysis of its first two years' results. It will include
procurement of a vehicle testing system with a capacity for about 100,000
tests per year (there are presently about 70,000 motorized vehicles, with
the number increasing at more than 10t per year). The system will provide
six additional testing lines for trucks and light vehicles in Ulaanbaatar
and three mobile test stations for use elsewhere. Road Maintenance
Technical assistance will be provided for the preparation of a three-year
rolling road maintenance plan. This will be based on an inventory
(including road condition) of the road network that is being developed
under ADB technical assistance. In the first stage of development it will
be a spreadsheet based plan, but later evolution will be to a data base
model. The desirable characteristics of the final model have already been
proposed under the ADB technical assistance. The capacity of the road
maintenance industry has declined precipitously in recent years as the
road maintenance budget has fallen to a level that cannot sustain its
fixed costs. Increases in the capacity to use any increase in the road
maintenance budget will depend on expanding the physical, managerial and
- 5 -



financial capacity of road maintenance companies. To increase the ability
of the industry to use the budget for maintenance of gravel and earth
roads, the project will provide six additional sets of equipment(each set
comprising a grader, a pneumatic tired roller and a backhoe loader). This
equipment will become part of a pool that will be managed by a leasing
company that is presently wholly owned, but will be privatized as its
financial stability improves.Railway Operations Information
System.Technical assistance will be provided to Mongolian Railways for
implementation of an off-the-shelf comprehensive Operations Information
System (OIS), which when used together with the components of the
management information system already in place, will facilitate the
advance planning of use of locomotives and wagons and allocation of train
crews.
1. Reconstruction and improvements of roads
2. Technical Assistance, Training Program and PIU
3. Road Safety/Vehicle Inspection System
4. Road Maintenance
5. Railway Operations Information System (OIS)
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost       47.92
6. Implementation
The implementation period for the project will be four and a half years,
from mid-2001 to end 2005. Civil work on two of the roads will start in
mid-2001 and continue for three years, while work on the third road
(Arvaikheer to Khovd) will start in April 2002 and be completed within
three years. The VIS will start on a voluntary basis before April 2002 and
on a permanent basis one year later. The accident reporting system will be
reviewed during 2001, any changes implemented by April 2002 and the
analysis of results completed two years later. Design of the OIS for the
railways will be completed by April 2002 and its implementation and
testing by April 2004.The project will be cofinanced (in parallel) by a
grant of SDR 5.5 million from the Nordic Development Fund. This will be
used for procurement of equipment for the vehicle testing stations,
construction supervision of the civil works contracts and the technical
training of staff of the Departments of Roads and Road Transport.The road
reconstruction and improvement and the road maintenance components of the
project would be implemented by the DoR, the road safety and vehicle
inspection system component respectively by the Ministry of Justice and
the DoRT, while the Ministry of Infrastructure would be responsible
implementing the other components. Both DoR and DoRT are within the
Ministry of Infrastructure (MoI), which would have responsibility for
overall direction of the project. The DoRT and MoJ have clearly defined
responsibilities in respect of road accidents, with the MoJ being
responsible for all regulations other than those for bus service licenses
which are managed by the DoRT, which is also responsible for physical
infrastructure for vehicles, including vehicle testing stations. An
agreement has been reached by which the police (responsible to the MoJ)
have the power to stop vehicles suspected of non-compliance with safety or
environmental standards, and order them to go directly to an inspection
station. If they fail the test, the vehicle will be immobilized and the
driver liable to prosecution. The MoI has gained familiarity with Bank
project implementation requirements through the Transport Rehabilitation
- 6-



Project (TRP).Financial management (FM) and disbursements will be handled
by the Project Implementation Unit. While the staff of the PIU includes
those who gained experience of IDA procurement during the TRP, the FM
functions needs further strengthening to fully comply with IDA minimum
requirements. A financial management assessment was carried out during
pre-appraisal and an action plan to improve FM was agreed. PIU has already
implemented these actions. Detailed FM arrangements are given in Annex 6.
IDA will review the effectiveness of the FM systems installed and the
staff capability during a planned Country Financial Accountability
Assessment in the spring of 2001 and will provide further assistance
during supervision. The World Bank Offices in Mongolia and China have
staff that will be available to advise those of the PIU as necessary.
Disbursement arrangements will follow standard procedures for IDA projects
in Mongolia.Annual audits, conducted in accordance with standards
acceptable to IDA, will be carried out by an independent auditor
acceptable to IDA and will be funded through the proceeds of the Credit.
7. Sustainability
Improving accessibility is just one of several necessary conditions to
create an environment for growth. The principal risk to sustainability of
the benefits of the project is that other conditions needed to stimulate
economic growth in the western aimags will not be created. Most
significantly, the marketing system for agricultural products (cashmere,
wool, meat and milk) need to be revised. For exports to be increased,
particularly of lamb to the Middle East), transport links between Mongolia
and deep water ports need to be improved. The ADB is already funding
paving of the road to the Chinese border; the Mongolian Minister of
Infrastructure has recently obtained agreements that Mongolian and Chinese
trucks will be able to enter each others national territory avoiding the
need to change vehicles at the border and China Railways will
significantly reduce its tariffs for moving containers to and from
Mongolia. Under the on-going China Container Logistics Project, inter-port
competition has been introduced in Tianjin (the port that serves Mongolian
external trade), and this should improve the quality of service to
Mongolian exporters.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The biggest problem experienced in infrastructure projects supported by
IDA and other donors in Mongolia has been delays in implementation,
generally caused by inexperience or management deficiencies in the
implementing agencies. Implementation of the on-going TRP is about
half-year behind the original schedule, in part due to inexperience in
competitive bidding processes and a lack of understanding by contractors
of their contractual obligations. Most of the civil works contractors
expected to bid for contracts under the project will have learned from
their experiences on the TRP. They will also benefit from the training
being provided by SwedeRoad and the Department of Roads will be better
placed to manage the contracts following their training under the
technical assistance component.In addition, the institutional arrangements
for project implementation have been kept as simple as possible, by the
early establishment of a PIU with staff experienced in project
implementation, as the focal point for all project related activities,
from project inception, through preparation and implementation, and
focusing on two primary implementing agencies (the Department of Roads and
the Department of Road Transport). In compliance with the conclusion of
- 7 -



the Country Portfolio Performance Review of June, 1999, the PIU has been
established in advance of project implementation, so that training can be
given before project startup. Implementation of the early stages of the
on-going Transport Rehabilitation Project was hampered by a lack of
clarity of responsibilities with the ADB, which was implementing its own
Roads Development Project at the same time. Coordination between IDA and
ADB has significantly improved since that time, and the new projects of
each of the agencies have been prepared in close collaboration. ADB is now
taking the lead in the roads sub-sector in Mongolia, with the IDA playing
a significant but supporting role.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The Environmental Assessment and Management Plan
for the three project roads was prepared by a Mongolian Environmental
Consulting Company with previous experience of international projects.
According to the EA report, the project road and stretches proposed for
rehabilitation do not pass through any protected areas. Except for the 226
km Erdenesent-Aravaikheer Road which will be strengthened and where
necessary rehabilitated with black top overlay, only selected sections -
(nine varying in length from 1.2 km to 22.3 km (total 82.9 km) along the
Kharkhorin-Tosontsengel road and eighteen sections varying in length from
2 km to 13.5 km (total 92.7 km ) along the Arvaikheer-Khovd road) will be
improved and rehabilitated to a good quality gravel surface. The
improvements and rehabilitation will be carried out within the
right-of-way of the existing roads. Thus the Environmental Assessment did
not identify any impacts of significance. Instead the major impacts are
construction related and associated with potential impacts on water
quality during culvert/bridge rehabilitation, borrow materials extraction,
transport; noise; dust generation; smoke from asphalt mixing plants, and
impacts from construction/maintenance camps. All the above impacts are
temporary, localized and reversible and will be mitigated during the
implementation of the project. The road link which adjoins the Special
Protected Area of the Bogdkhaan Mountain is 3.5 km away from the mountain
and outside the 3.0 km protection zone within which construction is
prohibited. A major significant positive environmental impact resulting
from the project will be the reduction of multi tracking along the
rehabilitated sections and the resultant rehabilitation of the multi track
areas for grazing. The project also includes setting up of three vehicle
inspection stations in Ulaanbaatar and provision of three mobile stations
for use elsewhere, to implement inspection and maintenance of private cars
and commercial light and heavy duty vehicles. As part of the safety
inspections to be carried out at these stations, compliance with the
present vehicle emissions standards will be assessed and recorded, and an
analysis of the results will be made by the Ministry of the Environment
and Natural Resources as part of its review of the current standards. The
equipment to be provided to the testing stations will be capable of
monitoring standards at least equivalent to those current in Europe.On
October 28, 2000, the EA reports (in English and Mongol) were delivered
and disclosed in aimags and settlements along the project roads and the
availability of the reports was advertised in the local news papers.
11. Contact Point:
-8-



Task Manager
Robin C. Carruthers
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 16, 2001.
-9-



