t/ *lU  Iu " i,th,    i "jUI   Ili cis i  (IJ It   ' t  # .116, ... . ........ ,
E397 Vol.2
February 2001
REPORT OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
ASSESSMENT AND MITIGATION MEASURES ON ROAD
CONSTRUCTION IN THE REGION OF TSAGAAN DAVAA.
(Amendment to the Report of the Detailed Environmental
Assessment and Mitigation Plan for Selective Rehabilitation of
Kharkhorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel Road).
.....~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .-   ...t ..  ..
"ENCO" CO., Ltd                  SCANNEO FILE COPY HI
i;;'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -t_ate fg  j
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e ,                         W-- 
FcILEr CCP
FILE jCuialph'Prwn:e or #) Lr4Cr GRD'TI ESW Co1ifg Adm PTo-
Environmental Consulting Comzpaiiny ' EXOC-" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar , Mongolia, 2000.



World Bank, Department of Roads (Government Implementation Agency) of Mongolia
REPORT OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
ASSESSMENT AND MITIGATION MEASURES ON ROAD
CONSTRUCTION IN THE REGION OF TSAGAAN DAVAA.
(Amendment to the Report of the Detailed Environmental
Assessment and Mitigation Plan for Selective Rehabilitation of
Kharkhorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel Road).
"ENCO" CO., Ltd
Environmental Consulting Compaciy ' ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, 2000.



World Bank, Department of Roads (Government Implementation Agency) of Mongolia
Approved EIA:
......                      S.Banzragc
State Secrey,
6.- Ministry of Nature and the Environment
REPORT OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
ASSESSMENT AND MITIGATION MEASURES ON ROAD
CONSTRUCTION IN THE REGION OF TSAGAAN DAVAA.
(Amendment to the Report of the Detailed Environmental
Assessment and Mitigation Plan for Selective Rehabilitation of
Kharkhorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel Road).
Reviewer:                                     On Behalt of Contractor
...............                         /Ll              Dr. A.N amkhai
Senior Officer of the MNE,                   Director - General "ENCO" CO., Ltd
State Senior Inspector !
....... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~   . ...............
Recognised EIA:
.Mr. B.Enkhtur
-VIC Director 6f A pt. Roads,
. Mongolian Govern. nent
Impieffentatiop Agncy
Recognised EIA:
....... .                 _.Batjargal
Project Lea r of World Bank
Environmental Consulting Company, ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, 2000.



World Bank, Road Department (Governmiient Imiplementation Agency) of Mongolia
Report of Environmlental Imnpact Assessment and Mitigation Measures on Road Construction in thle Region of
Tsagaan Davaa. (Amendmient to thte Report of the Detailed Environmental Assessment and Mitigation Plan for
Selective Rehabilitation ofKlhar;k-lorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel Road).
TABLE OF CONTENTS
P reface       ............................................................                                                                                    I
1. Legal basis  of the  land  use  .........................                                      ...................................                         2
2. Existing Environmental Background of the Region Tsagaan Davaa   ...........                                                                                 6
2.1. Flora ............................................................                                                                                   6
2.2. Forest ............................................................                                                                                  6
2.2.1. Forest evaluation  data ..........................................................                                                          7
2.2.2. Amount of deforestation along the route and its evaluation                                                         . .                     9
2.2.3. Ecological and Economic Evaluation of Forest Reserves                                                            . .                        11
2.3. Soil ..............................................................                                                                                 13
3. Environmental impacts to the road construction and operation stages . - -...                                                                               17
3.1. Flora ............................................................                                                                                  17
3.2. Forest ............................................................                                                                                 17
3.3. Soil and  land  use  ............................................................                                                                   18
3.4. Air quality ............................................................                                                                            20
3.5. Surface   water ............................................................                                                                        20
3.6. Fauna ............................................................                                                                                  22
3.7. Noise and vibration ............................................................                                                                    22
3.8. Socio-economic  impacts ............................................................                                                                23
3.9. Public opinion survey ............................................................                                                                  24
4. Mitigation measures of the negative impacts during construction and
operation  stages. ............................................................                                                                           26
4.1. Restoration  of used  land ............................................................                                                             26
4.2. Utilisation and restoration of quarries and borrow pits                                                           .             .                   27
4.3. Pollution  prevention  ............................................................                                                                 27
4.3.1. Air quality ............................................................                                                                  28
4.3.2. Noise .............................................................                                                                       28
4.3.3. Protection of surface waters, supervision                                                           ..                                    28
Environmiental Consulting Comnpany "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, 2001.



World Bank, Road Department (Government Implementation Agency) of Mongolia
Report of Environmental Impact Assessment and Mitigation Measures on Road Construction in the Region of
Tsagaan Davaa. (Amendmienit to the Report of the Detailed Environmental Assessment and Mitigation Plan for
Selective Rehabilitation of Kharkhorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel Road).
4.3.4. Soils, siltation control ..........................................................   31
Recommendation and Conclusion ........................................................              34
References ............................................................                             35
Mitigation and Environmental Management Plan for Upgrading Tsagaan
Davaa Unpaved  Road ............................................................                    37
Monitoring plan                                                                                     39
Training program                                                                                    41
Restoration, Monitoring and Supervision Expenses                                                    43
Environmental Consulting Comnpany "ENCO" Co.. Ltd. Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, 2001.



World Bank, Road Department (Government Implementation Agency) of Mongolia
Report of Environmental inpact Assessment and Mitigation Measures on Road Constructiotn in the Region
of Tsagaan Davaa. (Amendment to the Report of tlhe Detailed Environmental Assessment and Mitigation
Plan for Selective Rehabilitation of Klarkhorin - Tsetserleg - Tosonitsen gel Road).
Preface
At the request of the World Bank experts, in the process of implementing the project for
selective upgrading of the Kharkhorin-Tsetserleg-Tosontsengel unpaved road there posed
a necessity to change the road track going along the Tsagaan Davaa. In this connection,
during October 14-17, 2000, an expert group including forest expert B. Bayarsaikhan,
botanist Dr. D. Khishgee, soil expert Dr. R. Baatar and environmentalist Dr. A. Namkhai
conducted a field survey and appropriate measurements at a 6.5-km-long road track that is
to be built in the region of Tsagaan Davaa.
This report has been made on the basis of this survey concerning a 6.5-km-long road track
to be built in the region of Tsagaan Davaa as an amendment to the detailed environmental
impact assessment of the Kharkhorin-Tsetserleg-Tosontsengel road made with respect to
the most sensitive to expected road construction activities environmental components as
forests, soils, flora, and land use.
Apart from this, possible negative impacts that may arise during the road construction
period and proposed mitigation measures are included in the report.
Considering that such environmental components as climate, ground water
resources, etc. that are likely to be most affected during the road construction activities,
were highlighted in the report mentioned above, it is decided that there is no necessity to
duplicate it.
Environmtiental Consulting Company " ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, 2000.  1



World Bank, Road Department (Governinent Implemnentation Agency) of Mongolia
Report of Environmental lImpact Assessment and Mitigation Measures on Road Construlction in the Region
of Tsagaan Davaa. (Amentdment to the Report of the Detailed Environmiental Assessmnent and Mitigation
Plan for Selective Rehabilitation of Klzarkhorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel Road).
1. Legal basis of the land use
Section of unpaved road covered upgrading by this project is not really connected to the
special protected areas and areas planned to be protected. Tsagaan Davaa is loaded near to
the border of natural monument mount Bulgan.
Special protected areas are divided in the article 3 of special protected area law as
following.
Strictly Protected Areas
Natural Conservation Park
Nature Reserves
Natural Monument
Natural monument mount Bulgan is located behind of Tsetserleg town and Tsagaan
Davaa is 3.5km from the middle of the mount. Historical and cultural monuments of the
mountain Bulgan are not seen from Tsagaan Davaa.
Within 0.1-3.0 km of the territory of Natural or Historical and Cultural Monuments, it is
prohibited to construct buildings which spoil the view and scenery, to plow or dig land, to
use explosives, to explore or mine natural resources, to touch, erode or remove Natural or
Historical and Cultural Monuments, or conduct any other activity which causes damage to
them. Construction of road within the border of special protected areas which are under
straight control of Ministry of Nature and Environment is permitted by the law (article 17
para4) so ground work and explosion for road upgrading rear mount Bulgan which is
about 3.5km is not violate legislation. For a safety reason of autotraffic it would be
possible to cut some trees in the back side of Tsagaan Davaa in order to change old road
can be solved by the local government according to the Land Forest Law.
In the course of activities undertaken in order to ensure more safer conditions regarding
the Tsagaan Davaa's northern slopes' protrusive sections by laying down the track round
them, there may appear a need to cut down some of the trees. In compliance with the
Mongolian Law on land and forest, this issue shall be resolved on the basis of decisions
issued from the local administration.
Environ,tnental Consultintg Comnpany - ENCO' Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, 2000.  2



World Bank, Road Department (Government Implementation Agency) of Mongolia
Report of Environtmzenital Imiipact Assessment and Mitigation Measures on Road Construction in the Region
of Tsagaan Davaa. (Amendment to the Report of thte Detailed Environmental Assessment and Mitigation
Plan for Selective Rehabilitation of Kharkhorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel Road).
In pursuance with the provisions of this law appropriate requests have been submitted to
the Ministry of Nature and Environment of Mongolia, Arkhangai province's Governor's
Office, and Arkhangai province's Ih Tamir soum's Governor's Office, respectively.
In reference to those requests by Resolution No. 207 of Ts. Badrakh, Governor of
Arkhangai province, on October 11, 2000, a 7.0-ha area has been assigned along the
exploratory track made for building the Tsagaan Davaa road. Also, an official permit to
lay down a new road track for the Tsagaan Davaa road has been granted according to
official paper No. 3/1042 issued by the Minister of Nature and Environment of Mongolia,
Mr. U. Barsbold and official paper No. 3/1029 from the Head of the Minister of Nature
and Environment's Policy Implementation & Regulation Department, Mr. Ts. Damdin.
The official paper signed by the Minister of Nature and Environment, Mr. U. Barsbold, is
attached hereto.
To: Mr. Bud Head of the Road Department (Governmental Implementing Agency)
In reply to your paper No. 1/930 of 2000
Taking into account the fact that the road track around the Tsagaan Davaa in the province
of Arkhangai that is to be built under the schemes of the project for selective upgrading of
the Kharkhorin-Tsetserleg-Tosontsengel road crosses the boundaries of the Bulgan
mountain preserve but does not violate the regime of a limited access zone stipulated
under the provisions of Article 17 of the Law on areas under special protection, the road
upgrading activities are not considered to be contrary to the requirements of
environmental protection.
U. Barsbold
Minister of Nature and Environment of Mongolia
Also, Mr. D. Battulga, head of Arkhangai province's Environmental Monitoring
Department, and Mr. G. Zundui, head of the Khangai range's Natural park Department's
Protection Administration, also gave their permissions and supported the work on
building a road track in this region. In accordance with Resolution No. 44 of the Governor
of Arkhangai province's Ikh Tamir soum, to which the territory of Tsagaan Davaa is
Environmental Conisulting Company -ENCO" Co., Ltd. Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, 2000.  3



World Bank, Roadi Departmnent (Governmnent Imnplementation Agency) ofMAonigolia 
Report of Environniental Inipact Assessmient and Mitigation Measures on Road Conistl-uictiont ini t/le Region
of Tsagaatn Davaa. (Anliendmtent to the Report of the Detailed Environmental Assessment and Mitigation
Platt flor Selective Rehabilitation of KltarkSlorini - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel Road).
Scale 1:50 000
.~ ~ ~ d .     hlza  daa     ViA:\-  
IA             A                                                                   _ A
.   . ...  .  . ..   ., , .  ,  .   ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V.
.   .   .       .~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Eny omnnta CosulingtGolpay,  ENO"  o.,Ltd Ulanbata, M?nglia 200.A



World Bank, Road Department (Government Implementation Agency) of Mongolia
Report of Environmental Impact Assessment and Mitigation Measures on Road Constr-uction in the Region
of Tsagaan Davaa: (Amendment to the Report of the Detailed Environmental Assessment and Mitigation
Plan for Selective Rehabilitation of Kharkhorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel Road).
referred administratively, he also granted his permission to assign a track for road
construction activities. As can be seen from all the above, the construction of a road track
in the region of Tsagaan Davaa will not be contrary to the laws on land and on areas
under special protection.
Environmnenttal Conslulting Company " ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia. 2000.    5






World Bank, Road Department (Government Implementation Agency) of Mongolia
Report of Environmltental Imtipact Assessnment and Mitigation Measures on Road Constru(ction in the Region
of Tsagaan Davaa. (Amendment to the Report of thze Detailed Environnmental Assessment and Mitigation
Plan for Selective Rehabilitation of Khlarkhlorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel Road).
2. Existing Environmental Background of the Region Tsagaan Davaa
2.1. Flora
As the Tsagaan Davaa is located not far from Tsetserleg, being Arkhangai province's
center, its vegetational cover has been overgrazed, in particular in its southern side.
The vegetations of the territory in the vicinites of somon's centre are subject to strong
pasture degradation. Here grow  Carex Duriuscula, Potentilla  anserina, serratula
centouroides, stipa krylovii, Iris lactea, Poa attenuata, Agropyron cristatum,
Achnatherum splendes, Adenophora stenantina, Allium senescens, Androsace
septentrionalis, Arenaria capillaris, Artenmisia changaica, A. Frigida, A. miicrophylla,
A.sieveriana, Astragalus adsurgens, A. galactites, A. Mongolicus, Attriplex sibirica,
Bupleurum bicaule, A. scorzonerifolium, Capsella bursa pastoris, Carduus crispus.
Out of the local flora, it is its forests that are to be most affected by the road construction
activities.
2.2. Forest
The area studied falls under the category of forest vegetation region's central and
southeast forest spur according to the forest vegetation-zoning scheme.
The area is characterized with a sharp continental climate, which means that the winter is
cold and long, the summer is short with occasional frosts, daily air temperatures are high,
and nights are cold, winds are strong in daytime and mild in nighttime, precipitation is
low. Because of all this, each group of forests has its own biota formed around it. While
the forest restoration capacity of the Tsagaan Davaa's northern slope's forests is quite
high, but much will depend upon the growth conditions and soil moisture capacity.
The Tsagaan Davaa situated at 6 km to the northwest from Tsetserleg city being the center
of Arkhangai province, is one of the country's biggest passes. In the pass region there are
such difficulties as huge snowdrifts in winter and spring seasons due to which the pass
region's traffic often has to stop nearly completely and in summer and autumn seasons the
local roads are frequently made impassable by rain and mud. Therefore, the upgrading of
the Tsagaan Davaa road will be of significance not only for the province of Arkhangai,
but also with respect to the economy of the whole country.
Environmental Consu(lting Company " ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, MvIongolia, 2000.  6



World Bank, Road Department (Government Implementation Agency) of Mongolia
Repor t of Environmental Impact Assessment and Mitigation Measuires on Road Construction in the Region
of Tsagaan Davaa. (Amenidmlent to the Report of the Detailed Environmental Assessmlenit atnd Mitigation
Plan for Selective Rehabilitation of Khlar-khlorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel Road).
A detailed measurement has been carried out and an ecological and economic estimation
made to the forests located along a new 6.5-km-long road route. Larch trees dominate in
the forests in the north of the Tsagaan Davaa along this 6.5-km-long route, with birth
groves that can be met here and there.
2.2.1. Forest evaluation data
It is planned that along the Tsagaan Davaa new route that is to be built, such sub-
compartments of the 1324 compartment as 11, 12, 14, 15 are to be cut down.
In the Figure below there are the major data relating to the forest area to be crossed by the
road track. The data are given for each of the above sub-compartments, comparing the
lines planned on paper with the real situation.
1324 compartment: 11 sub-compartment - The sub-compartment forest is located
inclined by 25 degree in the north-eastern direction, being a mature larch forest with 30%
of birch trees. The forest's average height is 19 m, average diameter 28 cm, 0.5 density
rate; the undergrowth makes up 3,000 per hectare, 2 m tall, 20-year-old. (Fig. 2, 4)
Dominating are motley grass ritidum moss, montane taiga grass soils, out of shrubs there
are Spiraea and occasionally dog rose. The average reserves per hectare are 120m3, its
structure consisting of birth and young larch trees making up 20%.
The structure could be expressed in the following way:
5L/130/2L/70/3B/50,
which means that:   (5L/ 130/ - 50% is larch 130 year-old).
According to the above parameter of this sub-compartment, the area's soil water storage is
adequate, and its forest capacity is high. The road track makes its way through the lower
part of the sub-compartment for approximately 500 m in length.
12 sub-compartment - The compartment's forest is being under reafforestation. To be
under reafforestation means that for the time being there are no forests but there are
provided proper conditions for forests to grow. Along the area, 2.5-m-tall young trees are
recorded 500 per hectare. The area is 25 degree inclined in the southwest, and in future
Environmental Consulting Comnpany  IENCO Co., Ltd Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, 2000.   7



WVorld Bank, Roadl Departmentt (Governmtent Itnplementation Agency) of longolia
Report of Environmental Inpact Assessmnent and Mitigation Measures on Road Construction, in the Region
of Tsagaan Davaa. (Amendment to the Report of the Detailed Environmtlental Assessment andl Mitigation
Plan for Selective Rehabilitation of Khart-khorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel Road).
Figure 2. Lanch forest of 1 1 and 14 sub compartment's.
Figure 3. Reafforestation section of 14 sub compartmnent's
Eniviron,nental Conisitlti,iig Comipaniy "ENCO "Co)., Ltd . Ulaanbaatar . Mon~zoliu, 2000  8



World Bank, Road Department (Government Implementation Agency) of Mongolia
Report of Environmental llnpact Assessment and Mitigation Measures on Road Construction in the Region
of Tsagaan Davaa. (Am41endnment to the Report of the Detailed Environmental Assessmnent and Mitigation
Plan for Selective Rehabilitation of Kharkhorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel Road).
there will be forests with larch trees dominating. As far as its species, soils, etc. are
concerned, those parameters are similar to those of the 11 sub-compartment, only there
are much more shrubs. The road route is to cross the sub-compartment for about 460
meters along. (Fig. 3, 4)
14 sub-compartment - This area, being the highest part of the Pass's northern forest, will
be the least affected by the route - only for approximately 80 meters. Its forest area is 30
degree inclined and birch trees make up 20% of the forest structure with 140-year-old
larch trees. The structure is as follows:
8L/ 140/2B/40
The forest capacity is -4, density rate 0.6, reserves per hectare 140 m3, with respect to
other characteristics they are close to those of the 11 sub-compartment, but it should be
noted that this area's restoration capacity is moderate. (Fig. 2, 4)
15 sub-compartment - This area will be affected by the route the most, and the route will
make its way along the sub-compartment for about 1,300 meters. It also differs in terms
of its forest structure where dominating are larch groves. The forest site is 25 degree
inclined to the north and larch trees make up only 40% .
The birth grove sub-compartment's average height is 14 m, average diameter 14 cm,
density rate 0.6; undergrowth makes up 4,000 trees per hectare, of which 50% are birth
trees and 50% larch trees, respectively. The young trees' height is 2 m, age 15. The forest
types are birch groves with motley grass, Cowberry bushes and larch trees. The birth
groves' forest capacity is good, growth rate is high. The average reserves per hectare is
110 m3. (Table 1.) The structure is as follows: 5B/50/5L/150/
2.2.2. Amount of deforestation along the route and its evaluation
Deforestation will affect an area of 3.7 hectare along the route to be built around the
northern sides of the Tsagaan Davaa, and according to estimates, it is envisaged that 234
m3 of larch forests and 170 m3 of birth groves will be cut down.
Along the route will be cut a total of 404 m  of timber and its fees evaluation makes up
517,974 tugrugs.
Environmnental Consulting Company  ENCO" Co., Ltd Ulaanbaatar Mongolia, 2000.      9



World Bank, Road Department (Government Implementation Agency) of Mongolia
Report of Environmental Impact Assessment and Mitigation Measures on Road Construction in the Region of
Tsagaan Davaa. (Amendment to the Report of the Detailed Environmental Assessment and Mitigation Planfor
Selective Rehabilitation of Kharkhorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel Road).
Tsagaan Davaa
(Mountain pass)
legend                     Cold spring
Current road 
Area of Reforestation
New road
Forest to be cut
Larch forest                          Section of road structures
Birch forest
Compartment boundary f
Ce  b1324- number of compartment
Sub compartment boundary                             11-15 - number of sub compartment
<     ,
Figure 4. The forest schema of Tsagaan Davaa
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Litd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, 2000.             10



Worcld Banik, Roadi Department (Governtiment Implementation Agency) of Mongolia
Report of Environinental Imnpact Assessment and Mitigation Measures on Road Construlction in the Region
of Tsagaan Davaa. (Amendmiient to the Report of the Detailed Environmental Assessment and Mitigation
Plan for Selective Rehabilitation of Khar;khlorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel Road).
Table 1.
Amount of timber and timber cutting fee evaluation
Assortment       Tree species     Amount of    Value per cubic  Total value (T)
classification                     trees to fell    meter of timber
m 3              ()
Commercial            Larch              12              3258            39096
Half-                 Larch              36              2712            97632
commercial            Birch              13              1632            21216
Petty                 Larch              73              2226            162498
Birch             51               1380            70380
Firewood              Larch             113              720             81360
Birch             106              432             45792
Total                 Larch             234                -             380586
Birch             170                             137388
Sum total                   404                              517974
2.2.3. Ecological and Economic Evaluation of Forest Reserves
Initial methodology of ecological and economic valuation of forest resources was
developed in early 1990's. But the criteria of the valuation was differential rent , which is
defined on the basis of marginal cost and private cost. Therefore in the connection with
market economy relations we have faced for reconsideration of economic valuation
methodology. During this study period Ministry of the Nature and Environment
redeveloped economic valuation methodology for forest resources on the base of market
prices of forest products.
Total economic value of forest resources consists by following its components:
i. valuation of timber resources
ii. valuation of non timber material resources
iii. valuation of forest land
iv. valuation of useful functions of forest resources
Environmental Consulting Company " ENCO " Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia. 2000.  1



World Bank, Road Departnent (Government Implementation Agency) of Mongolia
Report of Envir on miental Imlpact Assessmnent and Mitigation Measures on Road Constr-uction in the Region
of Tsagaan Davaa. (Amtiendmtient to the Report of the Detailed Environmental Assessment and Mitigation
Plan for- Selective Rehabilitation of Klarkhorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsen gel Road).
The framework of using economic valuation of forest resources
i. valuation of forest resources in monetary terms for including that into
the national capital;
ii. scientific basement of establishing forest resources user payment, leasing tax and
repayment fine system;
iii. for assessment of forest resources restoration activity and to make cost benefit analysis
on forest resources use;
iv. to account the amount of damage to forest resources;
v. for assessment of transferring forest land to other types of land use, such as to
agriculture, industry, mining, road construction, etc.
vi. to strengthening the quality of forest resources inventory and management activity.
The ecological and economic evaluation of the forest reserves has been made as per the
Instructions for ecological and economic evaluation of forest reserves approved by
Minister of Nature and Environment's Order No. 11 of 1998.
Economic evaluation:
The area under study is referred to the 3rd region of the forest reserve evaluation:
Larch 8,660 tugrugs x 234 m3 = 2,026,440 tugrugs
Birch 5,196 tugrugs x 170 m3 = 883,320 tugrugs
Total                  2,909,760 tugrugs
Ecological and economic evaluation:
Larch 21,650 tugrugs x 234 m3 = 5,066,100 tugrugs
Birch 12,990 tugrugs x 170 m3 = 2,208,300 tugrugs
Total                           7,274,400 tugrugs
Table 2.
Total evaluation
Kind of evaluation                          Evaluation (tugrugs)
Forest yield evaluation                     517,974
Economic evaluation                         2,909,760
Ecological and economic evaluation          7,274,400
Sum total                                   10,702,134 tugrugs
Environmienital Consuelting Company - ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia. 2000.  12



World Bank, Road Department (Government Implementation Agency) of Mongolia
Report of Environmental Imzpact Assessment and Mitigation Measures on Road Construction in the Region
of Tsagaan Davaa. (Amendment to the Report of the Detailed Environmental Assessment and Mitigation
Plan for Selective Rehabilitation of Klharkhlorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel Road).
Upon assessing the ecological impacts to be imposed in connection with the cutting of
timber along the route and thus changes to occur in the area, it is estimated that in terms
of money it will make up 10,702,134 (ten million seven hundred two thousand one
hundred thirty four) tugrugs.
2.3. Soil
The soil study along a 6.5-km long road section to be upgraded has been carried out in
two stages - around the Tsagaan Davaa's northern and its southern sides, and laboratory
analyses made to the profile samples taken.
Black earth clayey soils cover an area extending to 5.9 km starting from the water culvert
to the east of Tsagaan Davaa located in the northwest of Tsetserleg city. The first profile
represents the soil of this section of the road.
Profile I - performed in the western side of the northwestern road near the stream to the
west of the Bulgan Mountain at the foot of Tsagaan Davaa (Fig. 5)
Ag 0-5 cm     Black, rooty, argillaceous, thick lumpy layer
A. 5-35 cm    Black, argillaceous, thick, moist, rooty, with distinctive textural change of
layers (horizons), humus, HCe non-volatile
B. 35-70 cm   Yellowish brown, light argillaceous, Hce non-volatile, gradual textural
change of layers
C. 70-90 cm   Yellowish, sandy, with friable stones, sand here and there, non-carbonate
Areas along the both sides of the road section are not subject to overgrazing and erosion,
being mostly pastures with fertile soils.
The soil contains in its humus layer 6.0% of humus and 0.32% of nitrogen, bases
absorbed in the soil come to 29.2 mg-eq/100 g in total, including 28 mg-eq of ions of
calcium, 1.2 mg-eq of ions of magnesium. The concentrations of volatile phosphorus and
potassium being plants' major fertilizers are 0.9 mg/lOOg and 26 mg/100 g, respectively.
Approaching to the top of Tsagaan Davaa its soil's humus layer tends to get thinner, and
the amount of gravel and stones is likely to increase. Also, in some of the places there
took place drifting of stones and gravel, and the soil layers' formation has not been
developed completely.
Environmental Consulting CompanY  ENCO' Co., Ltd Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia. 2000.   13



World Bank. Road D)epartment (Government Imp'ementation Agency) ofMongolia
Report of Environmental Impx2ct Assessment and Mitigation Measures on Road Construction in the Region of
Tsagaan Dave. (Amendment to the Report of the Detailed Environmental Assessment and Mitigation Planfor
Selective Rehabilitation of Kharkhorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel Road).
Figure 5. Soil profile in the Tsagaan Davaa.
Figure 6. Used quarries in the region of Tsagaan Davaa.
Environmental Consulting Compyiny "LN(C0  Co., Lid, Cflaanbaatar, Mongolia. 2000.         14



Worlcl Bank, Road Department (Government linpletenntation Agency) of Mongolia
Report of Environtmental IImpact Assessment and Mitigation Measures on Road Construction in the Region
of Tsagaan Davaa. (Amrzendment to the Report of the Detailed Environnmental Assessment and Mitigation
Plan for Selective Rehabilitation of Kharkhlorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsen gel Road).
As the pass's upper northern slopes are steep, under the influence of water drifting traces
are observed around the sides of the road and the soil is heavily eroded. The humus layer
tends to increase towards the lowlands. Meadow soils cover the lowlands around the
bridge to the north of the pass. In the northern and southern slopes of the pass there are
old pits once used that were abandoned without conducting reclamation actions. Areas
along the both sides of the road section are not subject to overgrazing and erosion, being
mostly pastures with fertile soils.
The soil contains in its humus layer 6.0% of humus and 0.32% of nitrogen, bases
absorbed in the soil come to 29.2 mg-eq/lOO g in total, including 28 mg-eq of ions of
calcium, 1.2 mg-eq of ions of magnesium. The concentrations of volatile phosphorus and
potassium being plants' major fertilizers are 0.9 mg/lOOg and 26 mg/lOO g, respectively.
Approaching to the top of Tsagaan Davaa its soil's humus layer tends to get thinner, and
the amount of gravel and stones is likely to increase. Also, in some of the places there
took place drifting of stones and gravel, and the soil layers' formation has not been
developed completely.
As the pass's upper northern slopes are steep, under the influence of water drifting traces
are observed around the sides of the road and the soil is heavily eroded. The humus layer
tends to increase towards the lowlands. Meadow soils cover the lowlands around the
N .;<iX  bridge to the north of the pass. In the northern and southern slopes of the pass there are
old pits once used that were abandoned without conducting reclamation actions.
The soil humus and black earth layers up to the Tsagaan Davaa pass are observed to be
thinning, stones, and gravel in their composition increasing. Apart from this in some
places, there were landslides, boulders, and gravel, showing that the soils' layers are not
quite stabilized completely. The new road section to be built along the sides of this pass
makes its way through birth groves where there are montane taiga soils. These soils are
clearly distinguished with its forest subsoil from the black earth soils that are observed to
cover a bare area at the Tsagaan Davaa's southern sides' lower parts.
Now we shall take the second profile as representing montane taiga soils.
Envirorlnmental Consulting Comnpany "EENCO" Co., Ltcl, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia. 2000.  15



World Bank Road Department (Governmiient Imnpletnentation Agency) of Mongolia
Report of Environmlental impact Assessment and Mitigation Measures on Road Conistr-uction in tlhe Region
of Tsagaan Davaa. (Amnendinent to the Repor t of the Detailed Environmental Assessment and Mitigation
Plan for Selective Rehabilitationi of Klhark--horiin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel Road).
Profile 2.
A 01  0-3 cm. Forest subsoil consisting of grasses, rocks, leaves and other plant leavings
A 02 3-7 cm. Dark brown coarse-grained humus (half-decayed plant organic substance).
There are many thin roots and the transformation line is quite clear
Al   7-16 cm- thin brown to dark gray fine-grained soils with medium clay texture,
rooty, non-carbonated, the transformation line is smooth
AB 16-26 cm. Gray-brown, medium clay, moist, granular, rooty, fragmental, non-
carbonated, the transformation line is clear
B 1 26-36 cm. Brown, clay, highly fragmental, occasional roots, stones, non-carbonated,
the transformation line is clear
BC 32-52 cm. Yellowish brown, with big stones, fragmental, granular, non-carbonated,
the upper layer is of light clay, and the underlying layers of sand texture
The soils have in their 0-3 cm-thin topsoil about 70% of organic substance. To a depth of
3 to 7 cm, the content of organic substance reaches 56%. As to the soils' humus content,
in their Al layer the amount of humus makes up 7%, and in AB layer 3%. The soils were
formed over the eluvial- deluvial deposits appeared in the course of granite weathering.
The soils are not devastated due to human activities; their natural fertility rate is high and
fit to be applied as pastures. The state of the soil cover along the new road section to be
built as aforesaid, preserves its natural condition, so far has not been affected due human
actions neither used for pastures, and is characterized with high fertility capacity.
Environmenital Consuelting Comnpany  ENCO  Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, 2000.  16






World Bank, Road Department (Government JImplementation Agency) of Mongolia
Report of Environmnental Impact Assessment and Vitigation Measures on Road Constr ulction in thle Region
of Tsagaan Davaa. (Amendment to the Report of tlhe Detailed Environrrmental Assessmnent and Mitigation
Plan for Selective Relhabilitation of Khlarkhorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsen gel Road).
3. Environmental impacts to the road construction and operation stages
3. 1. Flora
* Whereas the vegetative cover in the surroundings of the accommodation for workers
and quarries as well as along the work route is expected to undergo heavy or medium
degree of overgrazing, if upon the completion of construction works the relevant sites
are cleared and levelled, all damaged sections and quarries restored in compliance with
the prescribed rules, then the direct impacts to affect the vegetation are expected to be
minimal and it will eventually restore gradually. With the view to accelerating the
process of re-establishment of vegetation in the quarry and borrow areas the seeds of
perennial or grass plants are required to be scattered.
. During the operational period impacts are expected to be caused with respect to
vegetation through dust and silt generation, noxious fuel fumes, some kinds of heavy
metals to be absorbed by the plants growing within a 50-100 m zone on the both sides of
the road. The vegetation is to be affected mostly in summer seasons while in winters its
effects will be comparatively lower. However, impacts to take place during the
operational phase are not expected to cause any fundamental changes with respect to the
locality's plant species.
3.2. Forest
The most important role of forests is that they are essential in terms of soil protection and
regulation of water regime. Therefore, the cutting of woods may have such negative
impacts as deterioration of its soil protective capacity or a surface water flow increase, as
a consequence of which the area's soil may be subject to erosion. In order to mitigate
those unfavorable consequences we are to recommend the following measures:
- to take measures to make the new routing as much winding as possible
-  to reafforestate the old track and restore its afforestation capacity conjugating it with
the native forest
-  as there is a high probability that forest's primary and secondary vermin will intensify
their activity under the influence of wood cuttings, it is necessary to take measures for
immediate removal of cuttings from the forest.
Environiiiental Consiultinig Comipanzy  ENCO" Co.. Ltd. Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, 2000.  17



WVorldt Bank, Road Department (Government Impleinentation Agency) of Mongolia
Report of Environmental Imipact Assessment and Mitigation Measures on Road Constructiont in the Region
of Tsagaan Davaa. (Amendmnent to the Report of the Detailed Environmental Assessment and Mitigation
Plan for Selectiv e Rehabilitation of Kharkhorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel Road).
- to transfer the payment specified as per to the ecological and economic evaluation to
the governor's office of the province and undertake urgent measures for afforestation
of the old road track.
In view of this, it is desirable to take immediate actions for reafforestation of the old road
track trying to conjugate it to the native one instead of waiting when the track would be
able to restore itself naturally.
The restoration costs shall be estimated and included in the costs of road construction
activities. Upon accomplishing the construction activities appropriate actions shall be
taken immediately for conducting re-planting and reafforestation activities with the
involvement of specialized organizations and experts in forestry.
3.3. Soil and land use
The soils have a 30 to 40 cm thick black humus layer, and in the course of road
construction activities the fertile soils and their vegetative cover will be removed from an
area that will be 6.5 km in length, 10 m in width or approximately 6.5 hectares. With the
removal of a 30-cm-thick topsoil from this 6.5-hectare area together with the earth will be
removed from the ground the following amounts of humus, nitrogen required for plants,
volatile phosphorus, potassium:
I. 6.5 ha x 30 cm x 1.3 g/cm3 x 6% humus - 1521 tons of humus substances
2. 6.5 ha x 30 cm x 1.3 g/cm3 x 0.32% nitrogen = 81 tons of nitrogen
3. 6.5 ha x 30 cm x 1.3 g/cm3 x 0.9 mg-% phosphorus = 228 kg of volatile phosphorus
and
4. 6.5 ha x 30 cm x 1.3 g/cm3 x 26 mg-% potassium = 6.6 tons of volatile potassium,
respectively.
Around the southern side of the Tsagaan Davaa that is to the east of the road, and also
nearby its northern and southern edges there are some old quarries once used for mining
gravel and sand to repair the road and then abandoned without any reclamation efforts
made.
Environmlental Conslting Company  ENCO  Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, 2000.  18



World Bank, Road Deparhtent (Government Implementation Agency) of Mongolia
Report of Environmzlenital Itmipact Assessmiient and Mitigation Measures on Road Construction in the Region
of Tsagaan Davaa. (Anmendment to the Report of thre Detailed Environmental Assessment and Mitigation
Plan for Selective Rehabilitation of Kh2arkhorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel Road).
Upon using those quarries for obtaining sand and gravel in the process of road
construction, they shall be ploughed, back filled and covered with earth. In the course of
those activities, it is important that the soil removed from the above 6.5-ha area, and first
of all, its 30 to 40 cm-thick black earth topsoil be piled up separately, and then applied for
covering the backfilled quarries with this black earth topsoil. Also, it is highly
recommendable to carry out restoration activities trying to do them in such a way that the
scarps and slopes located along the road sides were not collapsed; and level them upon
covering with black earth, re-seed and re-plant with local species of perennial plants.
If the restoration activities would be duly carried out, any negative impacts are expected
to be mitigated and the region will be able to restore its natural condition. Also, it is
advisable to cover the former road track with a black earth topsoil piled separately to a
depth of 20 to 25 cm and re-plant with perennial vegetation species
* In the course of the activities for making a road track in the region of Tsagaan Davaa
it is projected that an area 6.5 km in length, 10 m in width will be excavated to a depth
of 3 to -4 meters.
* However, there is some positive aspect, as no new quarries are to be dug for this
because there are two abandoned quarries located in the southern and northern sides of
Tsagaan Davaa that are supposed to be used.
* In the course of transportation of sand from the pits to the road sections upgraded
preconditions will be created for multitracking, deterioration of soils and vegetation, a
considerable area will be denuded, its ground rammed, making thus it prone to wind and
water erosion.
* As for such places of the road sections being upgraded where workmen's camp,
parking places of heavy machines and technical facilities are to be located temporarily,
their soils and vegetation will be destroyed and polluted with fuel and lubricants and
cluttered up.
* If there appear a need to break through the mountain and lay the road along the bluff it
may cause such adverse impacts upon the soils and vegetation as rockslide, landslide,
sand and gravel shifting from the nearby cliffs and highlands.
Environmrental Consuiltinig Cotmtpany " ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, 2000.  19



World Bank, Road Department (Government Implementation Agency) of Mongolia
Report of Env'ironi,iental limpact Assessment and Mitigatiotn Mleasuires on Road Constriuction in tile Region
of Tsagaan Davaa. (Amendinent to the Report of the Detailed Environmental Assessmizent and Mitigation
Plan for Selective Rehabilitation of Kliarkhorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel Road).
* If the location of drainage culverts, dry streambed's water outlets is wrong it may
cause additional erosion and devastation with respect to the soil.
* Though CO, C02, H2S gases and heavy metals (Pb, Zn, Cr) being available in the
composition of fuels will be emitted from vehicles, adding to the pollution of the
vegetation growing along the road sides, but their effects are not expected to be
significant. During blasting operations the dust generated is estimated to spread within a
radius of 4,500-5,000 meters.
* The road pollution rate may be increased due to trash thrown on the wayside by the
traveling public in view of which it is advisable to take such preventive steps as
placement of warning posters and markings
3.4. Air quality
* The dust to be generated due to earthworks, borrow pit and quarry operation,
movements of vehicles will not extend more than 300 m away, and, accordingly, would
not affect the local residents being a nuisance to construction workers only. In spring
windy and dust stormy days dust plumes are possible to extend 500-1500 metres away
but just for a while.
*  However, no such serious effects are anticipated to be caused because of just a couple
of vehicles usually passing along the road. The permissible levels of dust and fume will
be exceeded only in the case of a flow of columns comprised by 20 and over tons
vehicles and even then they are expected to be dispersed in 15-20 minutes.
* Such adverse effects are likely to take place but compared with the driving along the
unrepaired road they are estimated to be much lesser in the long end
3.5. Surface water
1. A 6.5-km-long road track that is to be built in the region of Tsagaan Davaa will pass
by Gants Mod mineral spring located to the northwest of Tsetserleg, at a distance of
3.4 km. In this regard, it is recommended not to carry out any activities related to the
road construction close to the area of this mineral spring.
2. Though there are no rivers and brooks with regular flows running in the road
construction area, in summer's rainy seasons there usually appear some intermittent
rivers and brooks used by local livestock for watering.
Envitonmnental Consuzlting Comipany  ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, 2000.  20



World Bank, Road Department (Govern-n ent Implementation Agency) of Mongolia
Report of Environmnental Imipact Assessmtient and Mitigation Measures on Road Construlction in the Region
of Tsagaan Davaa. (Amenidmlent to the Report of the Detailed Environmental Assessment and Mitigation
Plan for Selective Rehabilitation of Kharkhorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel Road).
3. When the road track crosses rivers and brooks, piping, changing their stream by re-
channeling, etc. it is estimated that there will be a high risk of contamination of the
river or brook's waters. Because of this, it is recommended to carry out such activities
as promptly as it would be possible. On the other side, such small rivers and brooks
serve as watering points for the local livestock and animals, so it is necessary to
consider that their diseases, or, sometimes, death may inflict losses to local herdsmen
4. In the course of road construction activities it is advisable to keep in mind that in
connection with the use of quarries for this purpose the natural regulating capacity of
rivers, dry streambeds' flows may be seriously deteriorated and water evaporation and
infiltration rates may increased.
5. Degradation of ground surface during the construction period in the form of
depressions will cause problems in terms of soil erosion and human and animals
security.
6. The major impacts to be caused to the surface waters upon the completion of the
works will be the rubber compounds from tyres to affect the vegetation and soils
along the road, toxic fumes contained in fuels, heavy metals which are possible to
pollute rivers and courses being washed off with rains and water from melted snow.
7. On the other side, during rainfall and mud flows the river flow increases for several
times compared with which concentrations of pollutants would be so insignificant that
it would hardly affect the water quality. According to the road operation guidelines,
by the year of 2018 an estimated 651 vehicles a day will go along the iroad and,
accordingly, there are no grounds to consider that water would be polluted
significantly. In the study area, organic pollution takes place temporally in low flow
period, especially in springtime. Therefore, natural condition is such that, river waters
and their aquatic life are sensitive to lubricant materials such as petrol and oil, organic
and domestic wastes as negative impacts related to car wash, improper management
of waste.
8. High concentration of hydro carbonate ions amounting to 1.95 to 2.0 mg-eqv/l in the
river waters will negatively effect on accumulation of calcium in the construction
materials of roads, bridges and culverts. It leads to degradation of quality of
construction materials, consequently shortening the life time of buildings and
structures built.
Environtmental Consliltinzg Comvpany  ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, 2000.  21



World Bank, Road Departmetnt (Governtn ent Impletnentation Agency) of MUongolia
Report of Environmental Impact Assessmenet and Mitigation Measures on Road Construction in the Region
of Tsagaan Davaa. (Amerldndent to the Report of the Detailed Environmental Assessmenit and Mitigation
Plan for Selective Rehabilitation of Klarkhorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel Road).
3.6. Fauna
* startling nesting birds which nests are nearby the workers' accommodation and
quarries
* disturbing mammals living in burrows to shy away by destroying their burrows
* reducing the habitat areas of foxes and corsaks
* destroying insects inhabiting the soils
* the road may halt passages for migratory animals to migrate
* Operation of vehicles and plant in the quantities beyond actual technological needs
will make noise disturbance to exceed the permissible levels and disturb wild animals
inhabiting the site causing them to startle away
The above direct impacts are expected to take place during the road construction phase
but they would not make any principal changes in the ecology of the valley's wildlife and
they will be recovered in approximately 1-2 year-period upon completion of the road
construction works.
The direct impact anticipated to be imposed upon the fauna during the road construction
phase are supposed to be restored as soon as the construction phase is accomplished, thus,
no direct impacts upon mammals, insects, etc. are projected to be caused.
As for the migratory animals and birds opportunities for whose migratory routes are
expected to be restricted so that they will have to go round the site during the construction
activities they will be provided with possibilities to return to their habitual routes. On the
whole, during the road operation phase none of direct or permanent character impacts
upon the faunal distribution areas are expected to be imposed.
3.7. Noise and vibration
* Tsagaan Davaa is located at a distance of 8 km from Tsetserleg city, and the noise to
be generated during road construction activities will not exceed the permissible level or
is expected to be far less than those for city regions. Anyway, even local households
seldom settle close to the pass in any season of the year.
* As the road noise and vibration are dependent upon such factors as the traffic
intensity, vehicles speed, road vibration, they are not expected to be at the same level
Environmtiental Consuilting Company ' ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, MIongolia, 2000.  22



World Bank, Road Department (Government Implementation Agency) of Mongolia
Report of Environ,nzental Iimipact Assessment and Mitigation Measures on Road Construction in the Region
of Tsagaan Davaa. (Anmendmient to the Report of the Detailed Environmental Assessment and Mitigation
Plan for Selective Rehabilitation of Kharkhlorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel Road).
along the whole length of the road. Traffic flows will be low, the road site is away from
soums, settlements and isolated groups of households stipulating thereby that any noise
and vibration to be generated would not have any noticeable effects upon the settlement
and rural people's life.
3.8. Socio-economic impacts
Social impacts
*  In demographic and socio-cultural terms the project performance will benefit the
settlements and soums located along the route by assisting to upgrade their educational,
enlightenment levels, facilitating the distribution of press, mail, movies, arts and printed
matters.
* The upgrading of the Tsagaan Davaa road will allow to meet the traffic demands of
the populations of 7 soums situated along the road running to more than 50 thousand
people.
*  as the concentration of population along the route constitutes just 1.7 per sq. km no
negative social and ecological effects are anticipated to take place.
* the project performance won't entail any aftermath with respect to such factors as the
population age, sex, growth patterns.
* it will effect beneficially the population movements and settled state.
* the freight turnover will be increased and the rate of motor vehicles' breakdowns and
delays will be reduced
* the number of households residing along the road will rise and the opportunities for
linking them with market centres will be increased
*  the number of tourists visiting Taikhar and Khorgo tourist centres will be increased
which will provide preconditions for further development of crafts and commerce to
bloom
* it will benefit the populations of the settlements along the route by reducing the
number of the unemployed and alleviating impoverishment
* the traffic will become safer with minimising slippery, vibration and corresponding
risks and reducing the number of traffic accidents
Environtmental Consulting Company -ENCO" Co., Ltd Ulaanbaatar. Mongolia. 2000.  23



World Bank, Road Department (Governmlent Implementation Agency) of Mongolia
Report of Environnental Imtpact Assessmtient and Mitigation Measures on Road Construction in the Region
of Tsagaan Davaa. (Amtendment to the Report of thte Detailed Environmental Assessmnent and Mitigation
Plan for Selective Rehabilitation of Khark-horin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel Road).
* nor accidents, risks neither damages are expected to be caused in the course of
implementation of this project to the local populace and as far as social issues are
concerned.
Economlic impacts
Economic benefits to be brought by the project shall be defined according to its main
showings including an increase in economic productivity and raising its efficacy which is
as follows:
* it will provide incentives for the local residents to proniote their traditional businesses
supporting their interest in running farms that would be able to produce merchantable
productions.
* the road will help to strengthen the local residents' farms, establish new cooperatives
gradually turning them into farms.
* the local residents will place more emphasis upon improving the quality of their
agricultural production and make them marketable.
* As a consequence of all above, the local budget revenues will be increased and
economic efficiency and development will be promoted.
3.9. Public opinion survey
In the course of our field survey, we carried out a survey of the local administration and
common people concerning the importance and outcomes of the work for upgrading the
road in the region of Tsagaan Davaa. The most of them held the opinion that if the
environmental restoration activities would be carried out according to the legislation of
Mongolia, they expected that it would have long-term beneficial impacts only.
Totally 15 persons were involved in the questionnaires. On summing up their answers
provided with regard to the first question, namely, their position concerning the project,
all persons covered by the questionnaire in total said that they were to support it 100%.
As to the second question about possible positive and negative  impacts the road
construction and operational activities would have upon the local nature and environment
Environmzenital Consulting Company  ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia. 2000.  24



World Bank, Road Department (Government lInplementation Agency) of Mongolia
Report of Environnmental Impact Assessment and Mitigation Measures on Road Construction in the Region
of Tsagaan Davaa. (Atendmient to the Report of thle Detailed Environmental Assessmlent and Mitigation
Plan for Selective Rehabilitation of Khlarkhlorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel Road).
majority or 76% said that the positive effects would outweigh, 24% considered that it
would be of negative effects meaning earthworks, dust generation and soil contamination.
As to the third question about possible influences the project would have with respect to
their soum's and their own life, 90% were confident that it would help to raise the area of
pasturelands, any kinds of businesses especially transport would be promoted,
breakdowns of vehicles and technical facilities would be minimised.
Being asked about any apprehensions might be excited in connection with the road
upgrading activities, 80% replied they had no apprehensions, while the rest expressed
their concern that the ecological balance, land outlook, soils might be destroyed, quarry
and borrow pit be left without reinstatement, and the works might be ceased.
In reply to the question concerning any environmental protection traditions, customs,
sacred ovoos, river bodies being available there, it was noted that the Gants Mod spa is
regarded with worship; it was prohibited to cut down trees, and, also, there are some
sacred mountains and ovoos. Regarding the point on any archeological monuments being
available in the area, few people named the Bulgan Mountain.
Any possibility that the road would somehow affect the livestock pastures 80%
considered that it was multitracking that affected the pastures and the construction of a
new road would be of great help in reducing this pressure.
Any localities along the road that are characterised by heavy snowfalls, rainfalls, storms,
strong winds?
-They said that the Tsagaan Davaa, Solongot Davaa and Ikh Tamir river used to overflow
its basin.
Summing up, it is possible to draw a conclusion that most of the people residing and
working along the road track that is to be built would like this work to be accomplished as
quickly as it would be possible. Though, some negative impacts are expected to take
place, but the positive ones are viewed as to overweight, especially in reference with the
soums, locality, the public it would be of great economic significance.
Environrmental Conszulting Company 'EVCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, 2000.  25






WVorld Bank, Road Department (Govern tnent Itmplementation Agency) of Mongolia
Report of Environmental /npact Assessnment and Mitigation Measures on Road Construction in the Region
of Tsagaan Davaa. (Amendment to the Report of the Detailed Environnmental Assessmtient and Mitigation
Plan for Selective Rehabilitation of Khlarkhorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel Road).
4. Mitigation measures of the negative impacts during
construction and operation stages.
Considering that the most of negative impacts upon the environment and nature are
expected to take place during the road construction stage relevant actions designed to
mitigate such impacts shall be carried out by the Contractor responsible for the
construction works. In this light it is advisable that actions designed to mitigate the
negative impacts be incorporated into the contract terms and conditions to be made with
the Contractor responsible for the construction works.
4.1. Restoration of used land
Article 49 of the Law on Land specifies general requirements for rational use and
protection of land. In order to meet the above requirements it is needed to take the
following restoration actions upon the completion of earthworks:
* With the aim of putting an end to a practice of using the multi tracks existing around
the road's improved section to re-cultivate some of the tracks. In providing the
upgrading of the road face's bottom take, measures that the slope's angle be not more
than 450 and protect it from stone and land sliding.
* Upon completion of excavation works reinstate the borrow pits and quarries
smoothing their edges so that they would look similar to their surroundings and
topsoil.
* In order to prevent wildfires particularly in arid spring and autumn seasons when the
grass is extremely dry impose some restrictions concerning open fires to be lit and
ensure that cigarettes and matches are completely extinguished before being thrown
away.
* To use in the construction activities as less multi tracks as would be possible.
* The areas designated for conducting road upgrading activities should be reclaimed and
rehabilitated according to the design and transferred to the disposal of local
authorities.
Environmental Consulting Company  E\ENCO" Co., Ltd Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, 2000.  26



World Bank, Road Department (Government Implementation Agency) of Mongolia
Repor t of Environmental Impact Assessment anid Mitigation Measures on Road Construction in the Region
of Tsagaan Davaa. (Amtendnment to the Report of the Detailed Environmental Assessment and Mitigation
Plan for Selective Rehabilitation of Kliarkhorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsen gel Road).
* as the lands adjacent to the road are used for pastures the trenches' slopes shall be
convenient for livestock to pass over them
* warning signs shall be erected to mark places of high risk of accidents or where
livestock and animals may cross the road. Poles supporting such signs shall be made
strong enough to withstand livestock's scratching
* as part of general maintenance operations, rubbish and debris discarded by passing
motorists should be collected up and diposed of in suitable waste disposal sites,
4.2. Utilisation and restoration of quarries and borrow pits
* the location of borrow pits shall be agreed with the local authorities and appropriate
authorisations obtained and appropriate taxes and payments are paid according to the
agreement reached.
* borrow pits and quarries shall be backfilled with overburden and construction wastes
and compacted, their slopes be smoothed to be suitable for any livestock and animals
to enter and go out
* Upon levelling the borrow pits and quarries they shall be topsoiled and seeded with
seeds of local common plants to develop a vegetative cover over them
* if borrow pits or quarries could be used as a watering pond for livestock their sides
shall be properly shaped to be of 5 to 1 gradient,
4.3. Pollution prevention
* Tanks for storage of fuels and chemical substances shall be placed on a base within an
earth dam. The base and walls must be impermeable. US$ 1000 per 100 tonn.
* All valves and covers shall be in good condition and supplied with locks
*  If there are spillages of fuels, lubricants and construction materials actions shall be
taken to immediately clear and remove them to prevent watercourses from being
contaminated.
* any solid wastes and effluents from the construction workers' camp shall be removed
and disposed of in a special landfill to be backfilled and reprofiled later.
* All wastes shall be removed from the construction site and disposed of in a waste
disposal landfill agreed with the local authorities. Construction wastes may be used to
backfill borrow pits opened up.
Environmental Consulting Company -"ENCO- Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, 2000.  27



World Bank, Road Department (Governrrment Implementation Agency) of Mongolia
Repor t of Environmlenital Inmpact Assessment and Mitigation Measures on Road Construction in the Region
of Tsagaan Davaa. (Anmendment to the Repor t of the Detailed Environmrlental Assessnment and Mitigation
Plan for Selective Rehabilitation of Klharkhorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel Road).
4.3.1. Air quality
A variety of techniques can be used to minimise dust generation and vehicle emissions.
Paving or use of geotextiles on heavily trafficked area eg around batch plants, haul routes,
site entrances.
* Carrying out bulk crushing and/or material storage inside sheds.
* Turning engines off when vehicles/plant is not in use and keeping vehicles well
maintained.
* Clean wheels of vehicles when leaving site to prevent the spread of mud onto
surrounding roads.
* Cutting and grinding operations should use equipment and techniques which minimise
dust eg wet cutting saw or vacuum extraction.
- Spray and damp down with water, unpaved work areas, stockpiles and dust generating
materials during loading and unloading.
- Reduce width and number of haul roads.
* The road, denuded areas and stock piles shall be sprayed or damped down.
- Materials transported to and from the site shall be covered by tarpaulin to prevent dust
generation.
* In order to avoid excessive emissions of toxic fumes only vehicles and construction
plant being in good condition shall be utilised.
4.3.2. Noise
* The noise level shall not exceed 70 dB
* if the workers' camp is situated close to the construction site construction plant and
vehicles must be operated in turn to avoid producing excessive noise
* vehicles and plant shall be furbished with sound absorbers
* engines of plant shall be turned off when not in use
4.3.3. Protection of surface waters, supervision
The following key measures are effective in minimising many of the identified above.
* General Site Management
* Management of silty water
Enivironnmental Consulting Comrpany  ENCO' Co., Ltd Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, 2000.  28



World Bank, Road Department (Government Implementation Agency) of AMongolia
Report of Env vironmnental Imlpact Assessment and Mitigation Measures on Road Construction in the Region
of Tsagaan Davaa. (Amendment to the Report of the Detailed Environmental Assessment and Mvlitigation
Plan for Selective Rehabilitation of Kharkhorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel Road).
A. General site management
* Ensure that all construction operations comply with relevant regulations concerning
water pollution and land drainage. Manage and control construction works to ensure
that best practice in water management and avoidance of water pollution is followed.
Be aware that runoff quality is critical following a rainfall event or snowmelt.
* Ensure that site foremen know the location of surface water drains, of the foul sewers
and of local streams. Nothing polluting, including muddy water, should enter the
surface water drains.
* Position spoil and temporary stockpiles well away from watercourses and drainage
systems. Direct surface water away from the stockpiles to prevent erosion.
* Do not wash tools and equipment in any watercourse. Washwater should not be
discharged into a watercourse or into road drains or disposed of in any other way that
could result in a discharge to a river or stream.
* If discharging to surface water, vehicle washing effluent on the construction site
should be routed through a suspended solids lagoon and then through an oil
interceptor but should not contain detergents. But, preferably, wash in a bunded area
and discharge to sewer.
* Look out for underground pipes where these have not been identified during the site
study prior to operations. Avoid disturbancel breakage of pipes particularly those
containing foul water or diesel.
* Where bridges and other structures over, or adjacent to, rivers are being cleaned or
repainted, debris should be prevented from falling into the watercourse or into the
embankments.
* Ensure that site personnel are fully aware of the potential impact to groundwater
associated with certain aspects of construction works so as to minimise the incidence
of accidental impacts on groundwater.
* Ensure that all containers are securely stored and labelled, so that appropriate
remediation action can be taken.
B. Management of silty water
There are several ways to minimise the problems caused by silty water. These methods
are described below.
Environmlenital Consutltinig Cormpany " ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia. 2000.  29



World Bank, Roacl Departmnent (Governin ent Imipleittentation Agency) of Mongolia
Report ofEnvironinental Imtipact Assessmzent and Mitigation Measures on Road Constr-uction in thie Region
of Tsagaan Davaa. (Ametndment to the Report of the Detailed Environmental Assessment and Mitigation
Plan for Selective Rehabilitation of Klharkhorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel Road).
i)    Prevention
* To avoid the need to dispose of silty water, avoid water entering excavations in the
first place. If surface water is flowing into excavations, then use cut off ditches or
grade the ground to prevent flow. If groundwater is flowing into excavations, it may
be worth installing cut off walls or using wellpoint dewatering.
* Use the corner of the excavation as a sump and avoid disturbing that corner.
* If there is water in the excavation, do not allow plant or personnel to paddle about in it
and stir up particulate matter.
* Water running down the side of an exposed batter face may dislodge fine particles and
take them into suspension. Consider cut off drains at the top on exposed sides.
* Water in an excavation which is open for some time can be controlled by stone filled
edge drains leading to sumps. The quicker any free water (rain seepage etc.) is drained
away the less opportunity to stir up and suspend particles.
ii)    Control of Discharge
When deciding how to manage disposal of silty water the following options can be
considered. Those at the top of the list are least expensive and cause least risk of
accidental pollution.
(a)    Pump to grassland or other excavation/soakaway - These areas should preferably
be well away from excavations to avoid recirculation.
(b)    Pump to sewer
(c)    Pump to settling tank (see guidance below)
(d)    Pass through a filtration system
(e)    Use flocculants in conjunction with settling tank
Water containing oils or other chemical contammation should not be discharged to
watercourses or into or onto the ground. Whichever system is used make sure that
adequate controls are in place to stop things going wrong.
Basing upon the estimates and calculations made in the second chapter's 2. and the results
of the environmental impact assessment report's [4] it is recommended to carry out the
following actions in order to protect water resources and its quality, ensure its renewal:
Environmental Consulting Company  ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar. Mongolia, 2000.  30



World Bank, Road Department (Government Imtiplementation Agency) of Mongolia
Report of Environmental Impact Assessmient and Mitigation Measures on Road Consttuction in the Region
of Tsagaan Davaa. (Amendmnent to the Report of the Detailed Environmental Assessmtient and Mitigation
Plan for Selective Rehabilitation of Klharkhlorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel Road).
1. Proposed constructions of bridges and culverts should be able to pass maximum
discharges with different probability of occurrences (P=1.2.3.4.5 and 10%) required in
the technical document of the project and for this case it is recommended to use in
preliminary technical-economical studies maximum flood discharges estimated by
method of maximum rainfall intensity.
2. It is necessary to elaborate maximum flow analysis conducted in preliminary study
once more in construction period. It will contribute to prevention of high costed
constructions and security of transport and passengers.
3. Wastes and sediments will be accumulated during the floods in river bed and blocking
culverts, reducing their flood discharge passing area. Due to this effect will be rise
water levels in upstream sites, creating artificial floods. Therefore it is recommended to
organize activities within the project implementation concerning reduction of above
mentioned negative impacts.
4. The catchment areas of selected rivers and streams are relatively small. However, due
to steep slope during the flood events with probability of occurrences of 1-5 percent,
flow velocity could reach up to 0.85-2.5 m/s. In addition that soil erosion also greatly
encourages flash flood formation in the study area. Therefore' should consider
constructions for prevention road and bridges against harmful soil erosion processes.
5. Construction units, including parking of vehicles, buildings for workers should be set
up outside of protected zones for small rivers. Considering that some of the companies
being engaged in the upgrading of the road have violated the above condition it is
necessary to take measures to prevent them to do so again.
4.3.4. Soils, siltation control
The cost of correcting erosion problems are often many times greater than the
costs of simple preventative measures.
Typical slope protection methods include:
i)     Vegetation techniques
ii)    Impermeable membranes and surface coatings
iii)    Revetments, including masonry, dry masonry etc
iv)    Surface drainage
Environmental Consultitng Companiy  ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia. 2000.  3 1



World Bank, Road Department (Government Imnplementation Agency) of Mongolia
Report of Environniental Inpact Assessment and Mitigation MVeasures on Road Construction in the Region
of Tsagaan Davaa, (Amenidmlent to thze Report of the Detailed Environmental Assessment and Mitigation
Plan for Selective Rehabilitation of Kharklzorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel Road).
Embankments
Embankment erosion is usually initiated as a result of one or more of the following
factors:
* the side slope is too steep or too long for the embankment materials withstand erosion
* embankment materials have not been compacted to specification
* concentrated road runoff is permitted to drain over the shoulder.
Embankment erosion very often starts at the road shoulder edge, where the level of
compaction tends to be relatively low, rather than on the slope surface. Revegetation of
embankment slopes is most rapidly achieved by planting with grass slips, by the
spreading of collected topsoil containing roots and seeds or by sodding with turves.
Turves should be cut from level, fallow fields, or from areas specifically cultivated for the
purpose. Grass Slip planting is frequently the most effective. A tough grass with a low
form and creeping habit should be used. Erosion of embankment slopes can also be
prevented to some extent by careful selection of the material in which the embankment
slopes can also be prevented to some extent by careful selection of the material in which
the embankment is constructed, if a choice is available. Well-graded soils with some
cohesive fraction offer better erosion resistance than single-sized non-cohesive soils. The
use of shoulder drains or berms can prevent runoff from discharging over embankment
slopes in those areas where erosion has already been initiated, but this can have the effect
of concentrating runoff elsewhere.
One of the most effective ways to control erosion on embankments and on natural slopes
below a road is to take reasonable precautions to prevent its initiation. The following
guidelines are recommended:
* avoid concentration of runoff water wherever possible
*  avoid disturbing the natural ground outside the areas to be used for construction
* do not allow construction plant to track natural ground in an uncontrolled manner (a
track mark can be to be sufficient to concentrate flow and start an erosion channel)
* pilot tracks should not be constructed unless it is possible to guarantee that erosion
prevention measures will be in place prior to the onset of the next wet season
Environ,tnental Conisulting Company " ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, 2000.  32



World Bank, Road Department (Governmnent Implemtientation Agency) of Mongolia
Report of Environmental Impact Assessment and Mitigation Measures on Road Construction in the Region
of Tsagaan Davaa. (Amendment to the Report of the Detailed Envitonmental Assesstmetnt and Mitigation
Plan for Selective Rehabilitation of Kharkhorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel Road).
* every effort should be made to prevent spoil from being dumped outside the limits of
designated spoil areas, as spoil is highly erodible, can smother vegetation and serve to
concentrate flow sufficiently to initiate erosion
*  do not allow runoff to discharge. either temporarily or permanently, onto unprotected
natural ground, other than in pre-existing drainage channels.
Cut slopes
In the chapter 5. of AIE report's Kharkhorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel [2,4] illustrated
the range of measures regularly used to treat cut slope erosion and failure along mountain
roads. Usually, factors of cost, availability of materials and practicality will limit the
selection of measures to those that can be applied on a low technology, labourintensive
basis. It is apparent from Table 5-2 (above - mentioned report [4] ) that a number of
measures may be required to solve each particular problem. These will often involve
slope trimming, vegetation applications, revetments and slope drainage. Many of these
measures will be applicable to the prevention and control of slope erosion as well as to the
stabilisation of shallow slope failure.
In order to diminish the rate of soil erosion and siltation it is necessary to stabilise the
soils disturbed around the culverts upstream and downstream. Also it is necessary to take
erosion protection measures as gabion mattresses, masonry aprons, water flow check
facilities.
Environmental Consultinig Compatny  ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia. 2000.    33



World Bank, Roadl Department (Governmnent Inlpletnentation Agency) of Mongolia
Report of Environmnental Imipact Assessmzent an d Mitigation Measures on Road Constr u ction in the Region
of Tsagaan Davaa. (Amendmiient to the Report of the Detailed Environmental Assessment and Mitigation
Plan for Selective Rehabilitation of Kharkhorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel Road).
Recommendation and Summary
One of the prerequisites for carrying out road construction activities with less adverse
impacts on the environment and nature is to arrange by the contractor company
appropriate training for its staff, and the training and seminars shall be conducted on the
topics specified in Table 5.
Due supervision and control to be enforced over the restoration work to be carried out by
the contractor upon completing the road construction activities will be of no less
importance for the environmental protection. In this view, restoration supervision
activities and relevant costs are presented in Table 6. It is necessary to underline that the
above measures will be of importance for mitigating anticipated negative impacts pointed
out in the report.
It is recommended to carry out the actions specified in the management plan, and
monitoring program that are included in the report on the detailed environmental impact
assessment of the project for selective upgrading of the Kharkhorin-Tsetserleg-
Tosontsengel unpaved road. (Table 3, 4).
It is considered that the laying down of a new road track and the construction of a road in
the region of Tsagaan Davaa will not violate the provisions of the laws on land and on
areas under special protection. On the other side, a total of forest area to be destroyed due
to the construction of this road track will make up 404 m3, and according to the ecological
and economic evaluation all the losses will amount to 10702134 tugrugs or 9730 US$ in
total. This sum shall be transferred to Arkhangai province's Governor's Office for
restoration actions to be carried out upon completing the road construction activities.
Conclusion
Proceeding from the above we can conclude that activities related to the construction
of a 6.5-km-long road track in the region of Tsagaan Davaa won't much disturb the
surrounding environment and nature provided appropriate actions will be
implemented for mitigation of anticipated negative impacts indicated in the
recommendations that should be abided by in the period of road construction,
particularly with respect to such vulnerable environmental components mentioned
in the report as air, soils, water, flora and forest.
Environ,iental Consulting Company " ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia. 2000.  34



World Bank Road Department (Governmtient Implementation Agency) of Mongolia
Report of Environmental Impact Assessment and Mitigation Measures on Road Construction in thze Region
of Tsagaan Davaa. (Amendment to the Report of the Detailed Environmental Assessment and Mitigation
Plan for Selective Rehabilitation of Klhar-khorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel Road).
References
1. Bidding  Documents  Tsetserleg-Tosontsengel  Road  Selected  short  section
improvement Drawings Contract 1, 11, 111, IV, Ulaanbaatar 1998,
2. Mongolia Transportation Rehabilitation Project,  Environmental Assessment and
Management Plan, (Unit Report), Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, 2000
3. Roads and the Environment (A handbook) Edited by: Koji Tsunorowa, Christopher
Hoban November, 1997
4. The Report of the Detailed Environmental Assessment Mitigation Plan for Selective
Rehabilitation of Kharkhorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel Road, Ulaanbaatar,
Mongolia, 2000
5. The instructions for ecological and economic evaluation of forest resources approved
by Ministry of Nature and Environment, Order No. I I of 1998.
6. World Bank, Transport Rehabitation Project Road Subproject. Feasibility study of
upgrading of unpaved Road Section and Selective Rehabiatation Ulaanbaatar,
Mongolia
7. World Bank (1991) Environmental Assessment Source Book, Vol 1-111. World Bank,
Washington D.C.
Environtmental Consulting Company  ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, 2000.  35






Worldl Batik-, Roadl Departinent (Governl lment Inmplelnentation Agenuvc  of Monigolia
Report of Enlirontnental Inp)aet Assessment a011l Mitigatioui Measiures oni Roa(d Construction in the Regioni oJ Tsagaanl Daiwaa. (Amiiendlmiietnt to the Repor t oJftlie Detailedi
Enmironmental Assessment and Mitigationi Plan fir Selective Rehabilitationi of Klharklorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsen gel Roadl).
Table 3.
A. Mitigation and Environmental Management Plan for Upgrading Tsagaan Davaa Unpaved Road.
Road Construlctiont Phase
Environ-                                      Measures taken or to be taken for                                    Implementing     Organisation       In which chapter
ment                                              mitigation of impacts                                           organisation     in charge        should be included
technical documilents
I. Lands  *  to obtain respective pennissions and authorisations from the local authorities with respect to the lands to be  Road   Departnent      Technical requirements
used for the road building workers' accommodation, fuel, lubricants and construction materials storage,  construction  of Roads           Ulaanbaatar
borrow pits for sand, silt and gravel                                                                  company                       Chap. 500 (504, 506,
507, 510, 515)
*  to prepare drawings of landfills for disposal of the workers' camp's solid wastes and effluents, for removal                          Chap. 600 (603, 605,
and disposal of construction wastes, inner roads for transportation to be laid within the construction site,                                606, 607)
take measures required to ensure that the least possible impacts be caused to the lands, soils and vegetation,
supervise their fulfilment
*  to store the topsoil from the borrow pits and quarries separately in stock piles
*  to reinstate the borrow pits and quafries by smoothing their excavation slopes to the fonm of the site,
topsoiling and replanting
*  to clean and remove any leakage of fuel, oil and construction materials in order to prevent the ground be
contaminated
2. Rivers   *  if in the process of laying down the bridge, pipes the river-bed has to be changed, take actions to restore it  Road  Departnent     Chap. 800 (802, 804,
and           and reinstate to the original formn                                                                   construction     of Roads             806, 81 ,813,
streamiis    *  to supply appropriate fastening and securing to the inlet and outlets of quarry trenches and connccting pipes    company                  815)
to prevent the ground be washed away and degraded
*  to take steps to protect the road structures from being flooded by Manuukhai river's waters
*  to change the siting of the Khujirt river's bridge to be in consistenice with the river-bed's shape
Enivironmental Consiltinig ConylmnY " ENCO" Co., Ltd , Ulianboaetar , Mongolia, 2000.                                                                37



World Baik, Road Departlmient (Governmiient Ilnpliemien tationi Ageency) of Mongolia
Repolrt of Environjinental linpart Assessmiienit and Mitigation Measiures on Road Construction in tihe Region of Tsagaan Davaa. (Amiiendlm/lenit to the Report ot/the Detailed
Environmuental Assessinent anid Mitigationi Plan for Selective Rehabilitation of Klhartklorii - 7setserleg - Tosontsen gel Road).
3. Soils    *  to perforn the construction works associated with the river-bed in shortest possible term so that to enable  Road        Department      Chap. 500, 600, 800
erosion,      water animals restore their habitual lifestyles and the watering of livestock not be hindered for a long while   construction  of Roads
contami-   *  to surround fuel, lubricants and chemical substances by an earth dam to protect the soils and waters from    company
nation of     being contaminated with rainy water
soils and   *  fill-in fuel containers and ensure that fuel refilling activities be carried out only in the daytime under due
waters        supervision
4. Wildlife  *  to avoid producing excessive noise and driving vehicles and plant outside the road construction site in order  Road      Department      Chap. 600, 900.
to prevent any disturbance to startle wild animals                                                      construction      of Roads
*  to prohibit construction workers and drivers' hunting without appropriate permits                         company
5. Noise   *  in the event the construction plant and transportation vehicles have to be operated together take measures to  Road       Department      Chap. 500, 600, 70
ensure that noise levels be checked within 70 dB                                                        construction      of Roads
*  it would be appropriate if during the road construction stage none of local people would be let to settle   company
down within a distance of 150 from the road and ensure that any noise disturbance not be allowed in the
night-time from 22.00 till 06.00
6. Acciden *  ensure that the construction site be provided with respective enclosures, lighting and alarm  signalling    Road          Department      Chap. 900(904,905,
- tal risks   system                                                                                                  construction      of Roads       906-908)
*  in the course of construction activities take precaution measures meeting safety rules and provide    company                             Chap.1700(1700-
opportunities for travellers and transportation facilities to go by the road without any delay
Environiuoemtial Conisuiltinig Comuiptany,  ENCO' Co., Ltl , Ulaanhbaatam , Monigolia. 2000.                                                              38



WVor1ld Baink, Road Depar tinenit (Government Iinplietinetation Agency) of Motigolia
Report of Enzvironmental Imilpact Assessmiienit anid Mitigationi Measures oni Roadl Conistractioni in thze Region of Tsagaani Davaa. (Amiendicmlenit to the Report of the Detailedl
Environi,nental Assessmenit anid Mitigationi Plainfor Selective Rehabilitation of Klhar-khoorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel Road).
Road operational Phlase
I. Lands  *  after the upgrading of the road section is accomplished to put in specific places signs and warnings   Authorities of a   Department  of   Chap. 500, 600, 80
and        noting that multitracking is stopped up                                                                 given soum          Roads
soils                                                                                                            Arkhangai aimags'
*  to put warning signs in any place that is of traffic accident risk                                    traffic departments
Table 4.
B. Monitoring plan
I. Air     A. During the road construction stage                                                                     Road construction    Department of   Chap. 500,
1) number of monitoring raids to be carried out : once a week                                            company            Roads        600, 700, 800
2) duration: one day
3) points subject to monitoring
sections undergoing improvements, material transportation, critical areas
B. During the road operational stage
1) Items subject to monitoring: Nox, CO
2) number of monitoring raids to be carried out: twice a year (April, October months)
3) duration : three days
4) points subject to monitoring:
Ikh Tamir soum, Tariat soum
C. National Standard of Mongolia.
UST 3867-85, UST 00 17.0.0.06-79, US'[ 0017.2.1.01-78
Eniironlnental Consuiltinig Comnjpanrv " ENCO ' Co., Ltdl, Uloanilbaatar Monigolia, 2000.                                                                 39



Woorld Bank, Roadl Departmnen t (Governmnent Imipleiien tation Agency) of Mongolia
Repol t ojfEn vir oninenital Impnact Assessm1ent andl Mitigation Measures on Road1 Construlction in the Region of Tsagaan Davvaa. (Alniendiem1ent to the Report ojdthe Detailed
Environ,nental Assessm1ent antd Mitigation Plan for Selective Rehabilitation of Kharkho-rin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel Roadl).
2. Noise   A. Number of monitoring raids to be carried out                                                        Road construction    Department of   Chap. 600,
1. during construction stage : once a week                                                           company            Roads        700
2. road operational stage: twice a year
B. Points subject to monitoring
I) during construction stage: within a 150 m distance around the sections under improvement, critical
areas
2) during operational stage: Ikh Tamir, Tariat soums
C. National Standard of Mongolia. UST 3827-85
3. Water   A.. Points subject to monitoring: BHH, HHH substances, oil products                                    Road construction    Department    Chap. 800
quality    B. Number of monitoring raids to be carried out:                                                           company           of Roads
1) during construction stage : twice a year, once a day
2) during operational stage: once a year
C. Points subject to monitoring: Tsagaan Davaa, Khoit Tamir river, Gants Modny mineral spring,
National Standard of Mongolia UST 900-92
Environmental Consuilting Compan- ENCO  Co., Ltdl, Ulaanbaatar Mongolia, 2000.                                                                       40



World Bank, Road Departmiient (Governmiiiient Inplemenetation Agency) of Mongolia
Report ofEni vironnental Imzpact Assessmttentt and Mitigationi Measutres oni Road Construction in the Region of Tsagaan Davaa. (A ,nenid,nzenit to the Report of tile Detailed
Environmental Assessnmenit and Mitigation Plan fobr Selective Rehabilitation of Klark-horin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsen gel Road).
Table S.
Training program
Training topic                                                          Expens    Organization responsible
es $
A. Traininlg                                                         400
Measures to diminish environmental pollution during road construction activities:                                                  *   Department of Roads
a). To decrease air pollution rates                                                                                                *   "ENCO" Co,.Ltd.
b). To minimize the rate of water contamination and turbidity
c). To prevent the soils from unregulated devastation
d). To protect the soils from being polluted with building mater-ials and oil products (material and oil product transportation,
storage and utilization)
e). Actions designed to reduce the noise level
2.   Monitoring over the enforcement of technological and environmental designs, the assessment's conclusions and requirements to    600
be satisfied during the road construction period:                                                                                  *   Department of Roads
a). Activities on digging, application and restoration of quarries                                                                 *   Road upgrading
b). Control over access track to be used during the construction period including their rational choice, sign posting, restoration     contractors'
c). Monitoring over the compliance with technological and environmental standards relevant to the construction of bridges,
ditching and piping; check for a serious contamination of water bodies for a prolonged period, pollution with building
materials and oil products
d). Control whether the slopes of the road embankment and ditches are sufficiently gentle to be passed over by cattle and wild
animals
e). Control over the fixture and reinforcement of the road embankment, ditch slopes including re-planting, lining with stone, etc.
and examine their quality
Environinental Consutltinig Comtipa,ny   ENCO" Co., Ltd , Jlaanibaatar , Monigolia, 2000.                                                            41



Wor ld Bank, Road Departimtent (Gover-n7nent Inpletmientation Agency) of Mongolia
Report ofEnvironnlental Iimpact Assessmiienit anid Mitigatioli Measur es oni Road Conistruction in the Region of Tsagaan Davaa. (Amendmzl ent to the Report oJ tile Detailedl
Envirotnlenital Assessment and Mitigation Plan fio Selective Rehabilitation of Klharklhorin - Tsetserleg - Tosorntsen gel Road).
3.   Environmental monitoring control to be enforced on the part of the local authorities and traffic department
a). Control on the part of local authorities concerning the excavation and maintenance of quarries, the state of places specifically    350    *   Department of Roads
assigned for disposal of domestic garbage and construction waste                                                           *   Local authorities
b). Control and monitoring over the outcome of measures taken with the view to minimizing the air, water and soil pollution
rates
c). Technological control to be enforced on the part of the Traffic Department concerning the road construction drawings and
designing
4.  T o discuss the quality and results of actions taken for leveling and reclaiming quarries, temporary roads and workers' camps upon
the completion of road construction activities, ensuring that incomplete actions or done at an improper level be accomplished,    250    *   Department of Roads
drawing up relevant statements to be submitted to the local authorities                                                        *   Local authorities
5.                                                          Total                                                           1600
Environmiental Consulting Coinpan-y  ENCO' Co., Ltd, Uloanibaatar , Mongolia, 2000.                                                              42



World Bank, Road Department (Governmtent Implementation Agency) of Mongolia
Report of Environmiental nimpact Assessmnent and Mitigation Measures on Road Construction in the Region
of Tsagaan Davaa. (Amientedment to the Report of the Detailed Environmental Assessment and Mitigation
Plan for Selective Rehabilitation of Kharkhorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel Road).
Table 6.
Restoration, Monitoring and Supervision Expenses
Names of expenses                                  USD
B.Restoration works
* To fill quarres and borrow areas and make them even with surrounding
slopes                                                                     3000
*  To scatter surface soil and cover with it                                   2500
*  To take and remove of cutting forest                                        600
*  To sow plant seeds                                                          700
*  Reforestation of old road                                                   3500
*  To sow seeds in places affected by access roads                             800
*  To multi-tracks and sow plant seeds                                         1400
* To clean place of workers' camp, material stores and machinery and
equipment                                                                   450
*  To remove solid wastes                                                      300
Sub Total                                      12250
C. Monitoring and supervision
*  Joint inspection to be carried out by the Ministry of Nature and            550
Environment, Department of Roads and "ENCO" Co., Ltd.
*  Inspection of local government and administration                           300
Sub Total                                      1500
D. Unprovoked total                                 1500
All Total                                     14600
Environmental Consultinig Company  IENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, 2000.  43



