E-397
MONGOLIA TRANSPORT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT AND
MANAGEMENT PLAN
"ENCO" LIMITED
Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia
October 5, 2000






MONGOLIA TRANSPORT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT AND
MANAGEMENT PLAN
Submitted to:
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.,
Washington, D.C. 20433
Submitted by:
ENCO LIMITED
(Environmental Consulting Company)
Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia
October 5, 2000






Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                          05. Oct. 2000.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
1   INTRODUCTION ..........................................................4
2   REGULATORY FRAMEWORK ...........................................................4
2.1  WORLD BANK ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REQUIREMENTS ....................5
2.2  MONGOLIAN ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REQUIREMENTS ......................5
3 PROJECT DESCRIPTION                                 . . . 10
3.1  PROJECT DESCRIPTION, LINK 1, ERDENESENT - ARVAIKHEER             ..10
3.2  PROJECT DESCRIPTION, LINK 2, KHARKHORIN TO TOSONTSENGEL ..              11
3.2.1 Existing Conditions .11
3.2.2  Description of The Proposed Work .12
3.2.3  Selective upgrading specifications .12
3.3  PROJECT DESCRIPTION, LINK 3, (ARVAIKHEER - KHOVD) . .14
3.3.1  Selection of road sections for improvement .14
4 ENVIRONMENTAL SETTING                                . . . 18
4.1 LINK 1 (ERDENESENT - ARVAIKHEER)                      .         .        18
4.1.1 Geography .18
4.1.2 Seismicity .18
4.1.3 Climate.                                                          18
4.1.4 Surface Water .19
4.1.5 Ground water resources .20
4.1.6 Soil .21
4.1.7 Land use ..........                                               22
4.1.8 Flora .22
4.1.9 Fauna .23
4.2 LINK 2 (KHARKHORIN - TOSONTSENGEL)   .                 .24
4.2.1 Geography .24
4.2.2 Climate ..............                        ,                   25
4.2.3 Surface Water .26
4.2.4 Groundwater .28
4.2.5. Land use ..............                                  ......... 28
4.2.6. Flora .30
4.2.7. Forest .32
4.2.8. Fauna .33
4.3  LINK 3 (ARVAIKHEER - KHOUD)           ............................ 36
4.3.1  Geography ............................                           36
4.3.2  Climate ............................                             37
4.3.3  Surface Water ............................                       38
4.3.4  Soils ............................                               39
4.3.5  Fauna ............................                               41
4.3.6  Flora ............................                               43
4.4  PROTECTED AREAS               ............................ 45
4.5  PUBLIC-OPINION POLL             ............................ 45
5    ENVIRONMENTAL SCREENING ............................                         48
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia         I



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                                                                05. Oct. 2000.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
5.1    OBJECTIVES .......................................................                                            47
5.2    SCREENING  METHODOLOGY .......................................................                                47
5.3   SCREENING  RESULTS .......................................................                                     48
5.3.1    Erdenesent - Arvaikheer Road Upgrading ................................................... 48
5.3.2    Kharhorin - Tosontsengel Road Rehabilitation ............................................ 49
5.3.3   Arvaikheer - Khovd Road Rehabilitation ...................................................... 50
6    ASSESSMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS                                           ..................................... 51
6.1   ACQUISITION  OF ROW  .......................................................                                   51
6.2    ROW  GRADING  AND  CLEARING .......................................................                           51
6.3    CONTRACTOR  MOBILIZATION .......................................................                              51
6.4    ESTABLISHMENT OF CAMPS AND  SUPPORT  SITES .......................................... 51
6.5  ESTABLISHMENT AND OPERATION OF ASPHALT PLANTS ............................... 51
6.6  OPERATION OF EXISTING QUARRY AND BORROW SITES ............................... 52
6.7    GRADING  IN STEEP, HILLY OR  UNSTABLE AREAS ............................................ 52
6.8    DRAINAGE INSTALLATIONS .......................................................                                52
6.9   INSTALLATION  OF BASE COURSE, REGRAVELLING ......................................... 52
6.10  BITUMEN  APPLICATION .......................................................                                   52
6.11  INCREASED  ACCESS .......................................................                                      52
6.12  INCREASED  OPERATING  SPEEDS .......................................................                           52
7      ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND  MONITORING  PLAN .                                              ..................................... 53
7.1. IMPLEMENTATION OF RECOMMENDED MITIGATION MEASURES .................... 53
7.2.  EXPENSES FOR  MITIGATION  MEASURES .................................................. 53
7.3.  SUPERVISION  OF ENVIRONMENTAL MITIGATION ............................................. 55
7.4.  ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING .......................................................                               56
8      SUMMARY  AND  CLOSURE .......................................................                                         56
REFERENCES   ..58
Appendices
Appendix A          Environmental Protection / Mitigation Plan
Figures
Map 1              Mongolia Transportation Development Project
Fig. 3.1.           General location of the Erdenesant-Arvaikheer paved road
Fig. 3.2.           General location of the Selected for upgrading sections of the Kharkhorin -
Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel road
Fig. 3.3.           The selected sections of the Arvaikheer - Bayankhongor - Altai - Khovd road
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia                                                   11



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan
I INTRODUCTION
This environmental assessment and management plan has been prepared to identify and
assess potential impacts associated vith the proposed upgrading of the Erdenesant -
Arvaikheer Road (Link 1) and the proposed rehabilitation of the Kharkhorin - Tsetserleg -
Tosontsengel (Link 2) and Arvaikheer - Altai - Khovd (Link 3) Roads in Mongolia (Map 1). The
work proposed has been identified as part of the Mongolia Transportation Rehabilitation
Project by the World Bank. In addition recommendations on appropriate mitigation measures
to reduce or control these impacts are supplied.
The proposed projects are classified as Category B for the purposes of Operational Directive
(OD) 4.01 as no new road construction is involved and all work is anticipated to be completed
within the zone of disturbance related of the existing road system. The format of this
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) follows the recommended World Bank format for a
project specific environmental assessment (EA) and has been adapted to address the
requirements of the Mongolian Law On Environmental Impacts Assessment (1998).
Section 2 provides a brief description of the legislative framework for this EMP and identifies
relevant legislation that may have application to the proposed work.
Section 3 provides a brief project description for each of the three proposed sub-projects and
identifies related activities.
Section 4 provides a brief description of the environmental setting for each project area. These
descriptions have been developed from previous EMP documents and they should be
considered as primary information source documents for this EMP. The authors of this report
did not acquire any additional environmental setting information beyond that supplied by the
World Bank and those documents.
Section 5 discusses the screening methodology used and presents the conclusions of that
examination.
Section 6 presents as assessment of environmental effects. For those elements of the
proposed work that the screening process identified as worthy of comment or consideration.
Section 7 presents the basic requirements for a project specific Environmental Management
and Monitoring Plan.
Section 8 presents a summary and conclusions for the report.
Appendix A contains a generic Environmental Protection Plan (EPP).
Reviewers of this document are directed to the previous Environmental Management Plans
developed in Mongolia for most of the information presented here. Those documents are
identified in References on Page 58.
Environmental impact assessment report, environmental management and monitoring plans
regarding the above three road sections to be upgraded have been discussed and officially
approved according to the appropriate regulation by the Ministry of Nature and Environment
of Mongolia early in 2000.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan
2 REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
2.1 WORLD BANK ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REQUIREMENTS
World Bank environmental assessment requirements are found in O.D. 4.01
'Environmental Assessment". This directive stipulates that any project to be funded by the
Bank must be categorized by the degree of severity of environmental impacts anticipated.
The three road sections to be rehabilitated or upgraded have been categorized as a "B"
project which means that a full EIA is not required. The rationale behind this categorization
is based upon the understanding that no new roads are being built, but that existing
roadways are being upgraded to current standards for engineering, maintenance and
trafficability, and will follow existing routes. This does not preclude the need for some
assessment to identify appropriate planning and mitigation requirements during program
implementation.
The Bank O.D. 4.01 suggests that for projects where several similar programs are to be
implemented none of which require individual EIA 's, that alternatives such as a sectoral
EA can be considered. Such altematives include specific environmental design criteria and
construction supervision programmes. For road upgrading and rehabilitation programmes,
the sub-projects involve identical activities and environmental effects which can be
identified in a general sense even before specific project plans have been developed.
For the proposed projects in Mongolia, the location and extent of work has already been
identified to the sub-project level and preliminary screening for parts of the work has been
completed. For these reasons, the EMP in Section 7, and the EPP in Appendix A may be
applied as required to all sub-project locations.
2.2 MONGOLIAN ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REQUIREMENTS
A series of laws and regulations directed at the protection of nature and the environment
has been developed starting from 1995 in Mongolia, and today there are nearly 20 pieces
of applicable legislation currently in force.
In addition to the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment (1998), the following laws are
applicable to the selective upgrading or rehabilitation of roads:
*  Law on Special Protected Areas (1994)
* Law on environmental protection, 1995
* Law on air, 1995
* Law on protection against chemical toxins, 1995
* Law on wild plants, 1996
* Law on forest, 1995
* Law on water, 1995
* Law on land, 1995
* Law on mineral resources, 1995
* Law on protection of forests from wildfires, 1996
Law on Environmental Impact Assessment (1998)
This law was enacted by the Mongolian Parliament's session of January 22, 1998. It's
purpose is to regulate the prevention and control of potential negative impacts upon human
health, nature and the environment that may take place in the development of enterprises,
buildings, structures and economic activities, as well as their mitigation and response
actions requirements.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan
The provisions of Article 4.1 of Chapter 2 states that environmental impact assessments
shall be conducted for any type of project that includes new enterprises, buildings,
structures or the updating, modemization and extension of existing ones and otherwise
affects natural resources. Interstate and interurban roads are included in the infrastructure
development projects specified in item 5 of the Annex on the classification of environmental
impact assessments. Accordingly, an environmental impact assessment is required with
respect to the Erdenesent to Arvaikheer (Link 1) upgrade, the Kharkhorin-Tsetserleg-
Tosontsengel road (Link 2) upgrade and the Arvaikheer to Khovd road (Link 3) upgrade in
Mongolia.
Overall, the procedure for making environmental impact assessments can be divided into
two stages. A project developing organization provides the project's feasibility study and
other background documents to the Ministry of Nature and Environment applying for a
general assessment statement. Upon receiving the application, the Ministry reviews the
feasibility study and issues a decision whether or not a detailed environmental impact
assessment is required. Upon the issuance of such a decision the assessment is to be
carried out by an organization qualified to make environmental impact assessments in
compliance with the provisions of item 5 of Article 7 of the Law on Environmental
Protection and items 9.4, and 9.7 of the Law on Environmental Impact Assessments.
This right is granted by the decision of the Minister of Nature and Environment for a period
of two years and upon its expiry, the company shall file an application to extend it upon
rendering an account of its activities.
The following items shall be included the environmental impact assessment:
* environmental setting,
* complete project description,
* major potential impacts of the project and recommendations for their mitigation,
* estimates of magnitude, spread and consequences of possible project impacts,
* accident and risk assessment,
* action plan for environmental protection,
* environmental monitoring program,
* results of public consultation,
* and other issues connected with the project considered important.
A qualified organization engaged in the preparation of detailed environmental impact
assessments upon receiving an official request from the project implementing organization,
presents it to the Ministry of Nature and Environment for screening by its staff. Decisions
and comments are generated by the Ministry's staff to be approved finally by the state
secretary of the Ministry of Nature and Environment.
The company that has made the detailed environmental impact assessment shall submit its
response to the Ministry of Nature and Environment's staff and make appropriate
amendments, alterations and revisions according to their recommendations and shall bear
full responsibility for the accuracy of its report.
The project developing organization shall submit for approval by the Ministry of Nature and
Environment a detailed environmental impact assessment report including environmental
protection action plan, environmental monitoring program, carry them out and present its
performance reports within the prescribed term.
For this:
* In order to supervise the progress of its actions and their results, ensure the
implementation of recommendations and conclusions contained in the environmental
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan
impact assessment, the project developing organization shall conduct its activities
according to its environmental protection action plan and environmental monitoring
program
*  The action plan shall provide for such issues as actions for mitigation and elimination of
negative impacts anticipated according to the environmental impact assessment, their
duration and funding required
*  The environmental monitoring program shall specify ways, techniques and duration of
checking any changes occurring in the environmental status and trends due to the
development of a project, making appropriate analyses and tests, reporting on its
outcomes, actions for the implementation
The performance of the environmental protection action plan and the environmental
monitoring program shall be supervised by local environmental state inspectors, a given
province, soum's Khural of People's Representatives, its Presidium, motor road's state and
local inspectors.
Law on Environmental Protection (1995)
The law specifies the rights and responsibilities of the state administration's central and
local bodies as well as the general public with respect to safeguarding people's rights to
live in a safe and sound environment, while providing due consideration for socioeconomic
development and the demand to preserve natural resources.
Also the law regulates such processes as evaluation of natural resources, monitoring of the
environmental status and trends, collecting environmental data, and protection and
restoration of nature and the environment.
Parallel with that, reflected in the law are such issues as public participation, royalties and
payment for the use of natural resources, and ecological education.
A specific feature of this law is that it serves as the foundation for a number of specific laws
issued conceming some particular natural resources such as land, water, air, plants, and
animals.
Law on Special Protected Areas (1994)
In 1991, the Government of Mongolia approved a 'Procedure on Protected Areas',
established the network or protected areas and their protection rules and regimes, and
classified protected areas into 4 categories, which became an initial step towards forming
an integrated network or protected areas.
New Mongolian laws, 'Law on Special Protected Areas' (1994) and 'Law on Bufferzones of
Special Protected Areas' (1997), were adopted. In 1995, the Govemment of Mongolia
passed 'The General and Special Regulations of Strictly Protected Areas and National
Parks' and the Parliament approved 'The National Program on Special Protected areas' in
1998.
Thus, it can be considered that the Government of Mongolia has completed the legislative
background for protected areas. In this field over 30 rules, regulations and
recommendations have been approved and implemented by authorized organizations
within the implementation framework of government policies.
Other laws
In the laws on air, water, land, plants, forest, etc. authority is granted to the provinces
(soum's) governors to give permits to use natural resources on their areas and,
accordingly, in upgrading the road sections, the contractors shall obtain proper permits
Envirorimental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan
concerning quarries to be used, locations for camps and storage facilities and places to
acquire water and dispose of wastes.
In addition, it is provided for in the aforesaid laws that road construction activities shall be
carried out under the supervision of local environmental inspectors.
Upon completing the road construction activities, environmental rehabilitation plans shall
be carried out in compliance with the recommendations issued from specialized
organizations to conform to the procedures and principles indicated in the above laws.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                                                                          05. Oct. 2000.
Environmental Impact Assessment Chart
Policy,Program,Long-term Plan, etc.         Proposal for developing a particular
l proj.ct
National Level                              Project level
Submission of proposals concerning          General Assessment
environmental protection
Policy and trends
Granting authorizations to         Conditional                  Sectional                        Comprehensive
Implement directly                 permission                   assessment                       assessment
Detailed assessment
Preparation of project documentation
(Feasibility study, drawings, etc.)
Detailed assessment report screening
E.vironmenta Consulting Company ENOCo.,Ltd, nbaarDecision making                                     l
_ Project performance_
Environmental plan
Monitoring program enforcement
Environmental Consuiting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia                                                      -8 -



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                       05. Oct. 2000.
3 PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.1 PROJECT DESCRIPTION, LINK 1, ERDENESENT - ARVAIKHEER
The upgrading of the paved road from Erdenesant to Arvaikheer, is being funded from the
World Bank Transport Rehabilitation Project. For the year 2000, it is planned to upgrade
26 sections for a total length of 226 km (Fig.3.1.). The actual location of the sections
identified for upgrading are identified in a preliminary EMP listed in the references section.
In response to the above, advisers to the project together with experts from DoR appointed
a working group to identify those sections of the road which are in greatest need of repair
and improvement. The working group is also working on such matters as technical
specifications of the road repair and a feasibility study.
Project environmental experts have visited the site and carried out a preliminary study of
the environmental setting of the road where upgrading work is to be implemented. A
summary of that information is presented in Section 4.1.
Design Capacity
The Erdenesant-Arvaikheer road's total length is 226 km, 6.5 m wide on average, and with
a load capacity estimated to be 8 to 10 tonnes per axle. In other words, a two axle
vehicle's weight may be 16 to 20 tonnes to a maximum weight up to 40 tonnes for multi-
axle vehicles.
Traffic Count-Data
According to traffic count data obtained on the Erdenesant-Arvaikheer road in October and
November of 1999, there were from 582 to 745 vehicles per day between Erdenesant and
Elsen Tasarkhai. There were 327 to 418 vehicles recorded between Elsen Tasarkhai and
Arvaikheer, and 203 to 319 vehicles for a 10-km-long road section from Arvaikheer to the
road southward. These traffic counts are an increase of 30% over that observed in 1998.
The vehicle count carried out on the Erdenesant, Ongii river's bridges revealed that some
70% of all vehicles recorded were medium to heavy load trucks.
Recent traffic forecasts called for increases of 7 to 8% for cars and buses and 5 to 7% for
trucks. It is therefore felt that a traffic growth rate will do down to 6-7% within a few years.
Road Upgrading Methodology
Technologies chosen for the road upgrading will vary depending upon the state of each of
the road section to be upgraded.
The following upgrading methods are more suitable for the natural and climatic conditions
of Mongolia and they meet most requirements specified in the motor road repair and
maintenance services regulations endorsed by Order No. 205 of the Minister of
Infrastructure Development of Mongolia, dated August 26, 1998.
The major activities to be done in the course of upgrading the Erdenesant-Arvaikheer hard
top road are those related to the road overlay repair.
The road overlay repairs include the following:
* rehabilitation of worn-out part of the overlay
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia    - 9 -






102"T                     1040                      106°                      1080
l     ,      I                 s.  ;t        'L      0 WA
Fig.3. I. General location of the Erdenesant-Arvaikheer paved road (Link 1)






Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                         05. Oct. 2000.
* rehabilitation of its leveled smooth surface layer
* improvement of roughness and overlay's traction capacity with respect to vehicles
* building up overlay structures' strength
* extension of the roadway in compliance with technical maintenance requirements
For this, first surface processing activities are to be completed and carried out in
accordance with regulations.
*  If the road sections are wom out and destroyed, they are restored by application of
gravel, and gravel top.
*  If an asphalted road section is heavily worn out, the overlay should be removed. The
former overlay may be exposed to heating to restore its original asphalt property and
then placed back.
Proceeding from the above, the following things are required for all cases:
* Bitumen or asphalt base
* Resin, emulsion
* Fine-grained crushed stone
*  Crushed stone and some specifically designed machines for asphalt, including a
pavement roller
Selective upgrading activity design
The Erdenesant-Arvaikheer road design has been undertaken in compliance with generally
accepted engineering specifications in the world.
The Russian method for overlay design is considered the most appropriate method for use
in Mongolian climatic conditions.
3.2 PROJECT DESCRIPTION, LINK 2, KHARKHORIN TO TOSONTSENGEL
3.2.1 Existing Conditions
In response to a decision taken in June of 1997 that provided for completing the project of
upgrading the unpaved road from Tsetserleg to Tosontsengel, funds were allocated from
the main project, the World Bank Transport Rehabilitation Project.
The decision was implemented starting in 1999, and during the first stage's activities,
seven sections of the road with a total length of 51.8 km were upgraded. For the year
2000, it is planned to improve nine more sections totalling 82.0 km in iength. Advisers to
the project together with experts from DoR appointed two working groups to identify those
sections of the road, which are in greatest need of repair and improvement. The two
working groups are also working on such matters as the technical specifications of the road
design and a feasibility study.
Contracts are to be established between the DoR and four contractors for upgrading
selected sections of the unpaved road from Kharkhorin to Tosontsengel.
Project environmental experts have visited the site and carried out a preliminary study of
the environmental issues on the selected sections where upgrading activities were
supposed to occur and a corresponding report was submitted in May of 1997. At a later
stage it was decided to include some additional sections for improvement. And subsequent
legislation has introduced further regulation on environmental impact assessment.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia    - 10-



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                              05. Oct. 2000.
3.2.2 Description of The Proposed Work
Nine sections of the Kharkhorin-Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel road have been selected for
upgrading. The selected sections are enlisted in the following table and are shown on Map
1 and Fig.3.2.
List of road sections designated for the selective upgrading
of Kharkhorin-Tsetserleg-Tosontsengel gravel road
name    lengthiost $ Traffic intensity   Distance from
No  name    lengk     ( cost, e     parameter    Kharkhorin, km     Name of locality
1  HTsT-23   22.3    4165145    1 (d,1I)-O. 1 2   358.0       Both sides of
Solongotyn Davaa
2   HTsT-8    5.9    1101974        2(d,1)-0.17       125.1       Tsetserleg, Tsagaan
_________                        ~~~~~~Davaa
3  HTsT-25    3.2      414116       4(d,1)-0.32       392.8      Tsetsuukh briade
4  HTsT-15    1.2      156881         5-0.91          216.5       Dongoi Davaa
5  HTsT-16    8.1      849886         6-0.43          217.7      Dongoi Davaaes north
6   HTsT-6    4.3      510227        7(d)-0.36         75.8      Tuvshruuiekh soum,
_____ ____ _____ ____ ____ _____ ____ ____ K huren   valley
Around Terkh rivers
7  HTsT-21    10.6    1151299         8-0.36          321.3       reinforced concrete
I            I   ~~_ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ bridge
8  HTsT-24    12.5    1528878       3(d,l)-0.20       380.3       Tosontsengel and gkh
Up to Khanui rivers
9  HTsT-12    14.8    1431788         9-0.35          176.4       reinforced concrete
________ I  I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I__ _ __ _ _   b rid g e
Total      82.9
3.2.3 Selective upgrading specifications
It was originally planned that the road sections selected for upgrading should be 6 m wide
and 1 m for each shoulder for a total width of 8 m. The previous project from Kharkhorin to
Tsetserleg to Tosontsengel had a width of 10 m, and it was been decided to keep the same
width for the road sections in this project. The gravel road upgrading activities will be
carried out according to standard cross-sections dependent upon the road's underlying
material and cross slope. Specific design road sections include the following:
1. Construction of a gravel road - to ensure that the total depth of a dirt road's
embankment on flat terrain will be up to 1.0 m; its base will be up to 0.5 m, with the
embankment 300 mm thick and its gravel cap 200 mm thick
2. Construction of a gravel road - to ensure that the total depth of a dirt road's
embankment in wetlands be up to 1.0 m; its base lower base will be up to 1.0 m, the
embankment up to 300 mm and its gravel cap 200 mm thick
3. Upgrading a gravel road with an embankment up to 1.0 m above the existing road's
grade - to decide depending upon the existing road's state as to whether there is a
need for any earth to be added and in doing this keep the embankment's upper part
300-mm-thick and its gravel cap 200 mm thick
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia          - 11 -



fur~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rhn                                                     ~     ~     aciw
(u  f  n u
HTsT-12 - Number of road section,   -  Road sections scheduled for upgrading~~d
Fi...  eea lcto o h slce frugadn  ecoso teKahoi-he~re -W~~                                      ( .1






Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                       05. Oct. 2000.
4. Upgrading a gravel road with an embankment up to 1.5 m above the existing road's
embankment- to decide depending upon the existing road's state how much earth is
required to be added to keep the road's upper part 300-mm-thick and its gravel cap 200
mm thick
5. Upgrading an old road's embankment- carry out embankment compaction and grading
operations along the whole width of the embankment and provide a 200-mm-thick
gravel cap
6. Extension of a partially-excavated road embankment along the steep terrain and
upgrade the gravel road - extend the embankment width up to the standard width, the
embankment's upper part to be 300 mm thick and its gravel cap 200 mm thick
7. Extension of a partially-excavated road embankment along the steep terrain and
upgrade the gravel road - extend the embankment width up to the standard width, the
embankment's upper part be compacted and graded and its gravel cap 200 mm thick.
8. Extension of a partially excavated road embankment width up to the required width so
that its vertical curve and horizontal slope parameters meet standard specifications -
complete excavation activities until its width will meet the standards requirements,
compact and grade the road and provide a 200-mm-thick gravel cap.
9. Extension of a fully excavated road embankment - extend the roadway up to the
standard width and provide with a 200-mm-thick gravel cap.
Types of upgrading activities
1. Earthwork
Site clearing
* Topsoil removal
* Embankment filled with soft material
E mbankment filled with solid material
R Removal and transportation of spoil material that does not meet requirements
* Removal and transportation of solid material that fails to meet requirements
Compaction ensuring that the embankment's underlying 150-mm-thick layer's highest
density be 90% in dry period
* Compaction ensuring that the excavation's underlying 300-mm-thick layer's highest
density be 93% in dry period
*  Compaction ensuring that the embankment's upper 300-mm-thick layer's highest
density be 93% in dry period
* Re-cover with topsoil
2. A 200-mm- thick gravel wearing layer be provided
3. Drainage facility
* excavation on the site for installation of pipes
* excavation of channels and their outlet sides
* excavation of solid material
* preparation of a sand and gravel mixture for re-filling
4. Embedding with broken stone
5. Preparation of piping
6. Prefabricated concrete items
7. Concrete moulding
B. Other items of piping
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia  - 12 -



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                        05. Oct. 2000.
9. Discharge guideways
10. Stone compaction, armour stone (rip rap)
3.3 PROJECT DESCRIPTION, LINK 3, (ARVAIKHEER - KHOVD)
The type of road between Arvaiheer and Khovd is shown in the table below:
Arvaiheer- 1 Bayanhongor 1 Altai- 1 Total
N2     Type of road    Bayanhongor    -Altai     Khovd  _        Percentage
Road length in km
1  Paved road             26            5          7       38       3.8%
2  Graveiroad              6            5          70      81       8.1%
3  Improved earth road    56            42        135      233     23.2%
4  Earth track            118          319        215      652     64.9%
Total          206           371        427    1004      100%
The sections of road to be improved are mostly gravel or improved earth roads. The
general condition of existing gravel and improved (graded) road sections relative to earth
sections was unacceptable. Badly damaged, corrugated, and potholed sections with
wheel ruts were  found on the roadway and the embankment and embankment
shoulder.were failing.
The road sections in Garid canyon and Dald Havtsgait were the worst sections and did not
comply with road design standards. The roadway deterioration described below presents
the main reasons for danger to road traffic and generally longer travel times:
*    Excessive wear of pavement, with many potholes and serious corrugation This
was caused by unsatisfactory compaction of the road embankment,
*    General erosion and failure of embankment shoulder,
*    Poor condition of drainage control, including culverts and ditches,
*    Embankment failure caused by flood and erosion.
The Arvaiheer-Khovd road is located in flat steppe within a region of mountainous terrain
which has resulted in highly localized traffic problems. As an example, traffic was diverted
from the main road to a temporary road near to Garid canyon between Arvaiheer-
Bayanhongor because the main road was badly damaged recently by heavy rain.
3.3.1. Selection of road sections for improvement
Selection of route between Arvaheer-Bayanhongor
The sections of road between Arvaheer-Bayanhongor through Garidiin Had and Dald
Havstagait are in the poorest shape. The worst locations have many impediments to traffic
flow and are often impassable durng bad weather. The maintenance cost of these
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia   - 13 -



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                            05. Oct. 2000.
sections is relatively high. The realignment of the road through the Bayanteeg coal mining
settlement was found to be economically viable as a result of a feasibility study carried out
by DoR in 1993. Because of the very poor condition of the existing state road between
Arvaiheer and Bayanhongor, two options of road alignment were considered for
improvement. They were the existing alignment or through the new proposed alignment
through the Bayanteeg coal mining settlement.
A summary of conditions considered for comparing the alternatives is presented in the
Table below:
Road Characteristics      Through Garidiin    Through       Difference
_______ _______ _______ ______Had        -Bayanteeg    _ _ _ _ _  _
Length, km                            112             126            14
Average travel speed, km/hr           26               34             8
Characterstics of terrain         Mountainous        Rolling
Travelling time, min                  270             230            40
The road alignment through Bayanteeg coal mining settlement is 14 km longer than the
existing route. However, the average travel speed of vehicles was increased by a factor of
1.3, and travel time was decreased by 40 minutes. Cost estimates per 1km were
$99,293.00 for the existing route, and 73,386 US$ for the Bayanteeg alternative.
The overall comparison of the routes results in the Bayanteeg coal mining altemate being a
preferred choice for engineering, social, and economic development reasons. Therefore
the sections for improvement in this area were selected along this alignment of the road.
Selection of road sections for improvement
The whole Arvaiheer-Khovd road was divided into a total of 64 sections. There are many
of these sections which require improvement, however 18 road sections were identified as
being most in need of funding from the World Bank (Fig.3.2.). They are presented in the
following table.
Section    Location    Length                       Name of location
/chl      /km/
ABH-01    96.2-101.2      5                  Beyond wooden bridge in Bavanteeg
ABH-02    127.8-137.0    9.2                 Near to Bavanteeg coal mining
ABH-03    165.9-170.3    4.4                 Before wooden bridge in Taats
ABH-04    170.3-183.8   13.5                 Between Bayanteeg and Olziit soms
ABH-05    183.8-188.8     5                 Adjacent to main road junction
AH-06    232.7-234.7     2           _      Wooden bridge over Nariin river
AH-08    299.0-303.0     4                  To concrete bridge in Baidrag
AH-09    308.5-316.3    7.8                 Beyond concrete bridge in Baidrag
AH-10    575.3-584.7    9.4                 Baarangiin davaa
AH-12    604.5-609.9    5.4                 Sadargan valley of Gurvan Shar
AH-13    614.8-617.3    2.5                 Sadargan valley of Gurvan Shar
AH-15    619.7-622.7     3                  Sadargan valley of Gurvan Shar
AH-16    625.7-631.7     6                  Sadargan valley of Gurvan Shar
AH-17    628.2-630.7    2.5                 Eeven buudal, concrete bridge
AH-18    812.3-816.8    4.5                 Zereg som. Near to Baishin Uzuur
AH-19    850.2-852.8    2.6                 Zereg som. Zergiin haya
AH-20    853.6-857.0    3.4                 Zereg som. Khodoo nuur
AH-21    862.8-865.3    2.5                 Zereg som. Ereg Us
Total                    92.7
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia        - 14 -






92'                 94"                96"                 98"                 100"               102"                i 04°
'Ni~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-N
ABH-o1, AH-21 - Number of road section,
- Road sections scheduled for upgrading
Fig.3.3..The selected sections of the Arvaikheer-Baynkhongor-Altai-Khovd road (Link 3)






Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                        05. Oct. 2000.
Arvaiheer-Bayanhongor route:
ABH-01.     This 5km section from the main road junction to the Bayanteeg coal mining
settlement beyond the wooden bridge in Bayanteeg.  Unformed earth track without
embankment, constructed of earth subsoil. Major drainage system issues.
ABH-02.     Requirement to locate and design for new alignment on this 9.2 km long
section from Bayanteeg coal mining towards Bayanhongor. High occurrence of multi
tracking.and rolling terrain with earth subsoil.
ABH-03.    This 4.4km long section starts at 23 km from wooden bridge in Taatsiin.
The road runs along a terraced rocky plain with poor grade and geometry characteristics.
The subgrade of the road is generally earth.
ABH-04.    This 13.5 km long section starts at the end of section ABN-03 and has
similar geometry and subgrade problems
ABH-05.    This 5km long section continues from end of the section ABH-04 and shall
be connected with the main route by a new concrete bridge. There are problems of
roadway deterioration caused by heavy floods in the rainy season.
Bayanhongor-altai route
AH-06.      This 2km long section starts 34km from Bayanhongor in the direction of
Altai. This section requires work because there is no altemative route running through the
Nariin River valley except the existing road alignment. A wooden bridge over this river and
is frequently damaged due to the regular passage of heavy trucks from nearby coal and
gold mines. The poor condition of the bridge does not meet present requirements and
every year a span section is lost during the rainy season. The wooden bridge should be
replaced with a concrete span to avoid diverting traffic from the designated state road and
to lessen pressure on the existing alternate route. The altemative route has fewer
impediments to traffic and often looks like a main road diversion but it runs along the
prohibited route through a national protected area - Shaliin Hooloi.
AH-08.      This is 4km section starting at 299km from Bayanhongor and goes to the
Baidrag bridge. The existing road is earth track but some of road sections were graded
and repaired. This section is close to the concrete bridge over Baidrag River between
Bayanhongor and Altai, and is regularly damaged by heavy flooding because the road runs
along a major water collecting depression. When the main road went closer to Bombogor
som centre, the road section running along the drainage was longer, but the length of the
road section along the drainage was shortened by re-aligning the road following a ridge of
hills. However, there are still problems caused by multi tracking by traffic.
AH-09.      The road from Baidrag River to Olon Ovoot runs through very rolling terrain
with many canyons and hills. It is a difficult section for heavy trucks to travel and the
existing road is earth track. A realignment of the road to improve road geometry will
address this problem. It was noted that because of the poor condition of the existing road,
heavy and medium truck traffic diverted from the main road and went through the national
protected area of the Gobi called Shaliin Hooloi.
Altai-khovd route
AH-1 0.     This is 9.4 km long section crosses Baaran Pass between Altai and Khovd.
Most of this section of road is on embankment in grade cuts in a mountainous area. There
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia    - 15 -



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                           05. Oct. 2000.
are many drainage and erosion problems with the embankment and shoulder caused by
surface run off.
AH-12, 13, 15, 16,17      These sections are part of the road from Baaran Pass to
Sonduult (locally called Dalain Eeven Buudal). These road sections run through a flat wide
valley at the foot of Hasagt Gutvan Bogd Khairhan mountain. Major design issues involve
drainage and erosion control due to run off from mountains during the rainy season. Total
length of sections is 19.4 km.
AH-18.       This is 4.5 km long section is close to Baishin Uzuur in Zereg som of Khovd
Aimag. the road is on embankment and the existing road condition is below standard
because of a failing subgrade constructed of marshy subsoil.
AH-19, 20, 21.     Total length of these three sections near to Zereg som of Khovd
Aimag is 9.5 km. The existing road condition is below standard because the subgrade is
constructed of marshy subsoil.
The selected sections and their locations are shown on Map.1, Fig.3.1, 3.2, 3.3.
Enviromnental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia      - 16 -



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                         05. Oct. 2000.
4 ENVIRONMENTAL SETTING
4.1 LINK I (ERDENESENT - ARVAIKHEER)
4.1.1 Geography
The Erdenesant-Arvaikheer road makes its way through the Khangai range's foothills and
is referred with respect to its geographical zoning as Khangai-Khentii mountainous region's
Khangai subregion's southem part. For its' administrative division, it passes through Tuv
province's Erdenesant soum, and Uburkhangai province's Burd, Zuil, Ulziit, and Zuunbayat-
Ulaan soums.
The areas ranges and mountains' formation took place before the formation of the
country's other mountains and ranges and there has not been any significant recent
orogenic events.Because weathering has been going on for a long time slopes are mostly
gentle, with rounded tops. The region is to a large extent, treeless. Along the most of the
route the dominant landforms are low mountains ranging from 1500 to 2500 m in height
which are replaced around the city of Arvaikheer with smaller foothills.
As the weathering process has continued for a long time, the area's intermontane valleys
are well formed, and rather wide. There are rivers and streams around the valleys with
colluvial and alluvial sediments accumulated at the base of slopes caused by wash-outs or
gravity. These have not accumulated in great quantities.
The area's mountain slopes are gentle, with a few occurrences of bedrock and talus, while
fine-grained sands, and soils are quite thick. This has resulted in soils formations that are
relatively thick with high amounts of humus and nutrients.
The area's surface waters are recharged from rainfall and ground water resources. There
are no lakes in the area and only a few salt water pools and salt marshes. As-to its
vegetative cover, dominating plant species are plants typical of steppe and sometimes of
arid steppe communities.
4.1.2 Seismicity
The route area is referred to an 8-magnitude zone under the MSK64 classification of
seismicity. It is located within a zone where Richter scale 6.0-6.5 magnitude earthquakes
are possible.  In the surroundings of Zuil and Burd soums there are epicenters of
earthquakes of such magnitudes on record.
4.1.3 Climate
The road section from Erdenesant to Arvaikheer city runs across river valleys, sandy areas,
and wetlands located at altitudes ranging from 1200 m to 2400 m, and covering an area
varying greatly in relief and altitude. For example, the road makes its way through the
Body river's valleys covered with sandy soils, the Khugnukhan mountain's west part, the
Bayanturuun stream-Jargalant river and Tarna river's valleys, Mongolian sands, the Sant
range, the Zegest river's head stream, Dulaan khairkhan, the Mukhar range's spur (2548
m), and the Ongiin river valley. The area in the region of Erdenesant is elevated to a
height of 1813 m above sea level. As the areas along the road are significantly varied in
relief and altitude, there is much difference in terms of micro climates as well.
Temperature regime. The annual mean air temperatures along the road vary from -0.5 C
to 0.8 degrees C with discontinuous permafrost underlying the terrain. According to
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia     - 17 -



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                         05. Oct. 2000.
historical data, the annual mean air temperature is 0.1 C for Erdenesant, and 0.8 C for
Arvaikheer. Air temperatures for January do not go above -18.1 C in Erdenesant and -15.2
C in Arvaikheer with the lowest temperature value being from -37 o to -39 degrees. Air
temperatures go below -30 degrees in winter on average for 18 days.
Monthly mean temperature in January can range from -16 to -18 C in the Body river's
valleys, Mongolian Sands, Jargalant, Tamai river's valleys, Sar valley, and Ongiin river's
valleys and from -14 to -16 C in the mountainous area.
July's air temperatures do not exceed 16.7 C in Erdenesant and 15.5 C in Arvaikheer with
the highest being 33 to 36 C. The number of days with temperatures over 30 C is from 9 to
15 days per year. In July, the temperatures range from 16 to 17 C in valleys and
depressions, and 15 to 16 C the mountainous area. The thaw period lasts from 102 to 105
days per year. Soils are recorded to start freezing at mid-October and thawing takes place
at mid-April.
Precipitation regime. The area along the Erdenesant-Arvaikheer route lies in part of the
Khangai range but because of its location to leeward, the amount of precipitation that falls
in winter and summer periods is insignificant and the region can be viewed as arid.
Relative humidity is about 50-60% in winter, 35-40% in spring, 52-55% in summer and 40-
45% in autumn. For about 125 to 130 days a year the relative humidity of the air is 30%
and less.
Rainfalls take place for approximately 45 days in the thaw period, during which 15 to 20
days have a precipitation total of 5 mm and higher. There are some cases when 54-110
mm precipitation has fallen in a day. The total amount of precipitation that falls along the
route in warm period averages about 260 mm in mountainous areas and 230 to 260 mm in
valleys and lowlands.
Snowfalls are observed for 27 to 30 days during the year's cold period while the amount of
snowfall per day is minor averaging 2 to 5mm. Snow cover is recorded to start at the end
of November and early in December, and the period of persistent snow cover lasts 60 to
120 days. Melting starts in late February. In general, the amount of precipitation per cold
period ranges from 11 to 15 mm, which results in few occurrences of slipperiness, mud, or
puddles.
Wind regime. As the local relief along the Erdenesant-Arvaikheer route varies
considerably, its wind regime is not predictable. In the spring and autumn seasons there
are more windy conditions with speeds reaching 3 to 5 m/s on average and 2 to 3 m/s in
winter. Such locations as Arvaikheer, Saryn valley, Jargalant, the Tarnai river's valleys,
and Mongolian Sands are known as places with strong winds, and the occurrences of dust
storms with speeds exceeding 15 m/s.
According to Erdenesant, and Arvaikheer meteorological data, the dominant wind
directions are western, northwestern and northern, with the average speed reaching 5 to 7
mis.
4.1.4 Surface Water
Condition of River Basins
The area's rivers can be divided into the Arctic Ocean basin or Orkhon, Tuul rivers' basins',
Central Asian closed basin or Ongi river's basins'. As the road makes its way across the
above mentioned basins, the road's upslope side will often be washed away and the
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia     - 18-



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                         05. Oct. 2000.
roadway affected by the influence of freezing and thawing processes. As to its downslope
side, there is a general trend for sedimentation from wind erosion and deposition and the
process of aridization is intensified. The extent of those processes and effects will vary
depending upon the road location with respect to the river valley orientation and the road
embankment's height.
The road runs across 8 river and streambed basins and the road interaction is different with
respect to each of the basins. The lowest impact occurs when the road parallels the
watercourse above the active stream valley.
Very often the road sections go across river valleys. For example, the Ongi river's valley is
crossed by the road for about 14.5 km, Jargalant mountain's nameless streambed's valley
for 8 km, Chovon valley for 20 km, Tamai river's valley for 55 km, Salkhit-Ovoo's northem
streambed for 32 km and Badyn river's valley for 18 km. The road's upslope side drainage
facility capacity must be more than that of the lower side's facility and it will need to be
expanded towards the lower part of any valley.
The road sections cross Saryn river's valley and nameless streambed's valley at its head
for 40 km, Ubur deli valley for 32 km and Uyanga valley for about 40 km. Both sides of the
road are likely to be washed out, and therefore, the road embankment should be built high,
with well designed drainage facilities along the both sides of the road. Additionally, multiple
crossings of individual watercourses will result in an increase in culvert density.
Temperature and icing regime
The rivers freeze late in October and becoming completely ice-bound in the first half of
November with ice cover thickness ranging from 125 to 150 cm. There are many ice
mounds found along the rivers. The rivers break up in the first half of April so the rivers are
ice-bound for five months and essentially waterless throughout the winter.
4.1.5 Ground water resources
The ground water resources of the area along the route are recharged with summer and
autumn rainfalls. As the soils are mostly stony with dry streambeds, their water absorption
property is high, and rainwater is observed to be quickly absorbed.  Ground water
resources are distributed around such places as Khangai range's foothills. The ground
waters' depth depends upon the surface land characteristics but generally the ground
waters found in the upper and middle slopes of mountains are located rather deeply.
As for the relationship of the amount of water upon the a strata's rock' structure, the
conglomerate layers are viewed as carrying the most water, next to sand stone, shale and
other sedimentary rocks.
Operational well discharge is 0.3-2.3 I/sec, to depths of 0.5-76 m from the land surface,
with a water height being from 0 to 78 m. The Quaternary deposit water amount depends
upon such factors as the rock structure, its thickness and position relative to the local
terrain, underlying rocks' properties and climatic conditions. Water resources occur at
varied depths along the mountain ranges, their slopes, plains, depressions, valleys,
meadow, terraces, so it seems to be more appropriate to characterize it with respect to the
type of water-bearing sediments.
There is not much in alluvial water resources to be found within the route area. Proluvial
water resources are associated with sediments occurring around the base of mountain
slopes where sediment thickness can sometimes be hundreds of meters whereas it may
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia     - 19 -



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                          05. Oct. 2000.
not exceed dozens of meters on the plains. The water resources are recharged at the
expense of drying streambeds and some atmospheric precipitation. Proluvial sediment
water percolated through the coarse-grained rock masses lies deep from the surface while
water resources found at the bottom of valleys are not as deep. As sand and gravel are
replaced with fine-grained sands with a lower capacity for absorbing water from the
mountain slopes this provides conditions for ground waters not absorbed to show up in the
form of springs under appropriate relief conditions.
Proluvial sedimentary water bearing layers occur at a depth of 1.5 to 5.0 m and in some
cases even deeper. The water bearing layers thickness can vary from 1-2 to 15-25 m. he
proluvial sedimentary water amount depends upon two factors; the rock structure and
relief. While water resources around the depression edges and the mountain base are
adequate, the water resources occurring at lowlands with fine-grained sediments are less
so. A wells' discharge should be 0.1-2.0 1/sec, with springs around 0.1-101/sec.
If eluvial ground water resources occur in coarse-grained sediments formed due to the
process of weathering of bedrock, water resources may be found in stony argillaceous
ground. Eluvial-deluvial waters are established by joining together the bedrock's ground
water -bearing layers.
4.1.6 Soil
The road along the Arvaikheer-Erdenesant soum route runs through an area with
intermontane valleys, plains, small hillocks, and river valleys.
The intermontane valleys are covered with chestnut, dark chestnut and meadow chestnut
soils that are common for the most part of the route, while small hillocks, and knolls are
covered with alpine dark chestnut and alpine chestnut soils that are less common.
The route runs across a number of rivers and streams where the valleys are covered with
alluvial meadow, and alluvial turfy soils. In some places there are salt marsh and saline
soils.
Soil Types along the Route
Alpine dark chestnut soils are found where vegetation cover with meadow grasses
dominate. Species included are Stipa, Cleistogenes, Leymus all located at an altitude of
1380 to 1400 m around the mountain slopes and at an altitude of 1600 m and more on the
mountain's southern and northern sides. The mountains' lower slopes are covered mostly
with chestnut soils. The organic layers thickness is 24 to 28 cm, with organic content 2.5-
3.1%, gradually decreasing with depth.
Alpine chestnut soils are also found on the plains covered with caragana grasses, and
grass communities. It has a chestnut colour, with the organic layer as thick as 18 to 27 cm
and directly underlying it, a carbonated B layer (horizon). The content of organic material
is 1.8-2.1%, and the soil is light clay, or sometimes sand in texture.
Meadow chestnut soils are frequently found on lowlands within areas with chestnut soils
where there are better conditions for surface water and moisture storage. The A layers
thickness is 25 cm, and the content of organics is about 2.2-2.5%. The soil has a light clay
texture.
Plain valley's dark chestnut soils are common at an altitude of 1700 m and above, with an
organic layer up to 38 cm, an organic content of 3.5%. The soil has a light clay mechanic
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia      - 20 -



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                          05. Oct. 2000.
texture with some fragmental stone. The soils are rich in nutrients as phosphorus reaching
2 mg, and potassium 18 mg/l00g.
Plain valley's chestnut soils are encountered in areas covered with caragana grasses, and
Leymus-grass communities. The A layers thickness ranges from 18 to 25 cm, the content
of organics is 1.8 to 2.4%, and the soil has a light clay, sometimes sandy texture.
Meadow soils, salt marsh meadow and saline soils are distributed along the river and
stream valleys but the area covered by such soils is insignificant. The soils are frequently
found on areas where ground waters are close to the surface. The meadow soils are
fertile, organic content makes up to 5-7%, while the salt marsh and saline soils are not so
rich in organics, which makes up 1.2-2 %.
Those soils are characterized with natural fertility, most suitable for pastures, and not
weathered much by wind and water. There are very extensive excavations left along the
both sides of the road that were once used as sand and gravel sources during the road
construction. Their vegetation has restored itself but they are still unsightly.
During the road upgrading and restoration activities, it is recommended to include
consideration of topsoil salvage and return over all disturbed sites including all quarries and
pits.
4.1.7 Land use
The area taken out of arable lands is estimated at 248 ha for the existing road and the
current status is regarded as general use lands. The road's occupied area is not to be
expanded in connection with the upgrading of the road, although temporary disruption from
construction activities is anticipated.
Permissions and authorizations for using quarries to supply sand and gravel for road
upgrading activities shall be obtained from local authorities and payments for land use and
resources shall be paid to the local authority.
It is recommended to use three identified gravel quarries along the Erdenesant-Arvaikheer
route. The first is located at a distance of 30 km to the west of Erdenesant, the next at 10
km east of Arvaikheer, and the third between the first two.
Pursuant to the Law on Taxation, payments for the utilization of widely distributed mineral
resources are to fall under the category of local taxes (Article 17). The aimag shall
determine the amount of taxes to be applied within the limits set out from the Great State
Khural of Mongolia as per Article 17. No conflicts with private holdings or lands have been
identified.
4.1.8 Flora
Erdenesant is Tuv province's soum located 226 km from Ulaanbaatar, and Arvaikheer is
the center of Uburkhangai province located 430 km from Ulaanbaatar.
The area lying between the two soums is referred to as the Middle Khalkha zone in terms
of it's floral and geographical characteristics. There are 9 communities of vegetation along
the route between the two soums:
1. Erdenesant soum's center. The area around the soum has undergone overgrazing to a
considerable extent.  Dominating species of plants are Poa attenuata, Roelia
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia      - 21 -



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                         05. Oct. 2000.
macrantha, chameirodos altaica, Amblinotus rupestris, Thalictrum foetidum, and
Potentilla sericea.
2. Bayanzurkh Bulgan's Rashaant soum's center area. Dominant are Fescue species.
Also common are floral species including Koeleria macranta, Poa attenuata, Andrsace
incana, Thalictrum foetidum.
3. Communities of grasses-Leymus-Stipa feather grasses are found around the alpine
steppe, small knolls and hillocks. Species such as Stipa krylovii, S. baicalensis, Calium
verum, Bupleuru, Achnatherum splends, Elymus chinensis, Allium linore, Amana
capillaris, Artemisia Adamsi, A. frigida, Aster alpinus, Astragalus Mongolicus, Corgana
pygmea, Corex peoliformus, Cleistogenes squarrosa, Dianthus versicolor, Echinopeis
latifolus and Ephedra monosperma.are common.
4. Around the mountains' middle slopes are steppe motley grass-Fescue communities.
The dominant species of plants are Poa attenuata, Thalictrum foetidum, Festuca
lenenqis, Potentilla sericca, and Vhamaerodes altaica.
5. To the southwest of Zuil soum, the westem end of the road crosses Saryn valley.
There is a watering point for livestock and the area's vegetation is subject to heavy
overgrazing.   Most common  plant species are: Carex duriuscula, Serratula
ceentouroides, Stipa Krylovii, Iris lactea, Allium senescens, Potentilla anserina,
Artemisia fngida.
6. Surrounding Ulziit soum center. There is an agricultural operation working in this area.
The area's vegetation is overgrazed to a considerable extent. The dominant plant
species are as follows: Iris Lactea, Agropyron cristatum, Corex duriuscula, Potentilla
anserina, Artemisia macrocerhalo, Galium verum.
7. Those areas designated as Grass plain. The following species of plants dominate:
Carex pedunculata, Agropyron cristatum, Koeleria macranta.
8. Alpine grasses - steppe grasses - Fescue communities. The dominant plant species
are as follows: Poa attenuata, Thalictrum foetidum, Potentilla serica.
9. The center of Arvaikheer soum.Vegetation is recorded to have been heavily
overgrazed. The dominant plant species are as follows: Potentilla anserina,
Chenopodium album, Carex duriuscula, Artemisia maerocepnala, Iris lactea, Festuca
lenensis, Koeleria macranta, Heteropappus altaicus. The dominant communities are
that of grass - Fescue, and grass - Fescue shrubs.
4.1.9 Fauna
Information on the fauna inhabiting the Erdenesant-Arvaikheer route area including insects,
fish, amphibians, reptiles, birds and mammals came from appropriate research materials,
data and observations collected in the field, and from studies carried out by the Academy
of Science's Biological Research Institute, and other research establishments.
Insects
Most widespread representatives of the order of Diptera are Crane flies as well as
(Tipulidae), mosquitoes (Culicidae), Black flies (Simulidae), Chironomidae, Syrphidae and
Tephritidae.
Out of the order of insects only the Papillio machaon is included in the Red Book of
Mongolia
Fish and Reptiles
As there are neither large rivers nor lakes along the route, no consideration has been given
to fish or aquatic habitat. There are 6 widely distributed species of reptile including Palass'
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia     - 22 -



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                        05. Oct. 2000.
Coluber and Central Asian Viper that can be found in several ecozones in the area. None
of them is on a list in the Red Book of Mongolia or classified as rare species.
Birds
We have identified 63 species of birds including 38 genera of 12 families of 6 orders in the
project area.
There are 16 nesting migratory species, 29 nesting residents, 11 migrating visitors, 2
wintering and 1 occasional visitor species. In some years 6 species of migrating birds pass
the winter there. Some 68.2% out of 63 species or 43 species are migratory, and 25.4% or
16 are resident species. Dominating species inhabit the area's wetlands, meadows, plains,
shrubs and bushes.
There are a number of species including the Northern Raven, and (Eurasian) Tree and
House sparrows that live in proximity to households, farms, and human settlements. As to
their population numbers, there are 2 or 3.2% rarest, 22 or 34.9% rare, 31 or 49.2%
common and 8 or 12.7% widespread species. Rare and rarest species of birds include the
White Spoonbill, Whooper Swan, Bar-headed Goose, White-tailed (Sea) Eagle, Asiatic
Dowitcher, and the Eurasian Penduline Tit that are included in the Red Book of Mongolia.
Mammals
There are 25 species of most widely distributed animals involving 18 genera of 10 families
of 4 orders identified along the route. Some species of animals that are rare or nocturnal
have not been included. From our list of mammals, there is the Daurian hedgehog
mentioned in the Red Book of Mongolia, and a lynx classified as rare under the Hunting
Law of Mongolia. Also, manul, and corsac wolf are classified according to the Red Book of
IFFNNR as "uncertain", and wolf is identified in the Washington Convention of International
Sale of Rare Species of Wildlife.
Rare birds and mammals
There are 30 species of vertebrates and invertebrates that are put on lists of the Red Book
of Mongolia, of IFFNNR and Annexes 1 and 2 to the Washington Convention on Sale of
Rare Species of Wildlife. This shows that there are a number of rare and extinct species of
wildlife in the area. However, it should be noted that the life conditions, and availability of
habitat of those animals is not expected to be affected by the road upgrading work.
4.2 LINK 2 (KHARKHORIN - TOSON TSENGEL)
4.2.1 Geography
Geographically, the Kharkhorin-Tsetserleg-Tosontsengel road traverses the Khangai-
Khentii zone and the mountainous sub-district of the Selenge, Orkhon rivers' basin and
Khangai region.
The mountains of this district include the Tsagaan Khad mountains, Khokh Davaa range,
Shont mountain, the Mostiin range, the Tarvagatiin range, Bayasgalant mountain and the
Saaltyn range with an average height of 2,500-2,700 meters. These mountains are gently
sloping, covered with forests and woods mostly on their northern slopes, and usually
exhibiting stony soils. Inter-mountain valleys are narrow and deep and convert to mostly
broad, flat plains where river terraces develop.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia    - 23 -



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                         05. Oct. 2000.
As the northem slopes of the valleys have more water courses, there is a better developed
river system compared to other regions of the country. This is where Mongolia's largest
rivers, the Selenge and Orkhon originate.
Small and medium rivers including the Urd, Tamir, Khanui, Chuluut, Gichgene, Terkh,
Deed Tsetsuuh, Ider rivers originate from the northem sides of the Khangai range and are
crossed by the route. With the construction of a concrete bridge across the Terkh river in
the soum of Tariat to be performed this year all rivers but the Ider river will be crossed by
reinforced concrete bridges.
The areas's soil cover is relatively consistent in association with the area's climatic
conditions. The dark earth soils extending from the forest edges of the mountains situated
at an altitude from 1,400 to 1,600 m are gradually replaced with dark brown, brown, flood
plain marshy soils. with loss of elevation.
In the river valleys, dark brown, flood plain brown, and lowland dark soils are found.
4.2.2 Climate
Temperature regime
Since the elevation along the route is greatly varied, the air temperature values fluctuate
substantially. In January for example, the mean temperature is -15.5°C for Tsetserleg
whereas in Tosontsengel it is -330C. However, the temperature variations for July are not
as great.
The soil frosts reach -360C at the beginning of the road (Tsetserleg and lkh Tamir) and
drop to -490C and -51 OC in its final section. In summer the soil surface temperatures are in
the range of 60-650C. Along with a great difference recorded for diurnal and annual
temperature values, the annual mean temperatures are -6.80C around Tosontsengel and
over 200C for most of the remainder of the route. This is associated with local conditions
including as an example, a high alpine zone with permafrost soils. Generally, the frost
period occurs from the beginning of October to the middle of April.
Precipitation and humidity regime
In the Khangai range's northern part, the precipitation exceeds 300 mm per annum.
However, in the region of Tosontsengel around the Ider river's valleys the precipitation is
approximately from 200 to 250 mm. In the winters 10-20 mm precipitation is normal with
the snow cover coming in early October, remaining nearly 150-160 days, and melting by
early April. The spring floods are likely to continue up to mid-May and parallel the thawing
process as it occurs in permafrost soils. Serious slope runoff does hinder traffic and can
cause erosion of the road embankment.
Most of the places along the route are located at a fairly high altitude. In warmer periods
the temperature values may only reach 12-140C, and air humidity is relatively high. Often,
spring and autumn snowstorms cover the low lying road areas and cause considerable
delay to the traffic flow. Solongotyn Davaa is a location where severe weather conditions
are likely to occur.
Wind regime
Generally, wind speed along the route is not high but around Terkh Tsagaan lake and
Tariat soum, the year the wind speed has been recorded at about 3-4 m/s along the
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia     - 24 -



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                        05. Oct. 2000.
Suman river. Also, the wind speed can be higher in micro relief such as the hills of
Solongot and Shar Bulag. Winds with speed exceeding 16 m/s and above are frequently
dependent on the topography. When wind speed reaches 20- 28 mIs, dust storms are
frequently observed and in some arid places, these events occur up to 20 to 30 times
annually.
According to the recorded data, the winds of 0-4 m/s make up 155-196 days out of a total
of 248 days The occurrence of 5-9 m/s winds constitutes 44-64 days and over 10 m/s - 7-8
days.
Along the route, the westem and north-westem winds occur 50-80% of the time and winds
speeds are recorded as averaging 4-6 m/s.
4.2.3 Surface Water
The information contained in this section has been based upon information from a survey
carried out in October 1999 on water resources that cross the Kharkhorin-Tsetserleg-
Tosontsengel road. That survey included water resource studies that measured water
discharge, channel slope and other hydraulic characteristics of rivers, streams and existing
road installations including bridges, ditches and culverts. Water quality analysis of these
rivers and streams was also carried out.
The study was carried out on 12 sections with a total length of 144 km with a high
probability of selection for upgrading. These sections included the Chuluut, Gichgene,
Khanui, Urd, Terkh, Khoid, and Terkh rivers and dry beds with total catchment area of
12194 km2.
Soil erosion was noted in the cross drainage areas due to spring and rainfall flood events
with resulting damage to roads and bridges. Information on maximum flow, sediment
transport and riverbed deformation was considered essential identify the effects of floods
and ice action on road and bridges.
There are historic studies with 16 to 22 year-long records for the Gichgene, Chuluut, and
Khanui rivers, but the Khoid, Terkh, and Urd Terkh rivers as well as the dry beds have no
records, observations or studies.
Basic hydrographic characteristics of rivers and streams
Mean flow of rivers and streams has been estimated at 0.75 to 3.0 I/sec.km2 as discharge
and 24 to 95 mm as a runoff depth in the study area. Annual precipitation at Tarat,
Tosontsengel and Tsetserleg stations is 236, 219 and 354 mm, respectively.
Evapotranspiration estimated as a difference between annual precipitation and runoff
varies from 195 mm to 259 mm and indicates a wide variety of runoff conditions in the
study area. Runoff coefficient on average is 0.21which implies that 21 percent of annual
precipitation becomes surface runoff in this region. However, high intensity storms and
snowmelt do produce flood events in dry and small streams. During these fiood events the
value of runoff coefficient increases significantly. Evaporation from an open water surface
is estimated to be 500-710 mm and from a soil surface 227 mm during the thaw season In
general the climate of the region is cold and windy.
Basic morphometric characteristics and descriptions of some rivers
in the study area
The Khanuin Gol River is one of the Selenge riveres largest westem tributaries and takes its
origin from the northern slopes of the Khangain main range. Total river length is 421 km,
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia    - 25 -



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                         05. Oct. 2000.
with a catchment area of 14,620 sq.km. The Khunui, Mogoi, Tsagaan, and Balig rivers are
tributaries. The river crosses the pastures of Khunuin gol in a 1 to 3-km-wide valley and the
river flows through a 20-30-m-deep steep lava canyon at its lower end. The river channel
is 20-30 m in width at its head and widens up to 50 to 80 m at its lower end. The river's
depth reaches 2.5 m in some of its deepest places. A hydrological station was established
in 1972 at Khanuin Gol River near Erdenemandal and carries out regular observations and
studies. During the period since its establishment, the maximum flow observed was 104
m3/sec (1973), and the minimum flow (in summer) was 2.13 m3/sec (1975). The average
flow rate is 1.2 m/sec and the river's gradient along its length is 17.9%. The river freezes
over at the beginning of November and spring breakup occurs in April lasting from 2 to 3
days up to 2 to 3 weeks.
The Chuluutyn Gol is the Ider rivers largest western tributary and has its headwaters in the
hillsides of the Khangain main range. Its valley is mostly narrow and often covered with
morainal boulders. Beginning from the Teeliin Gol's pastures to Atstiin stream for nearly
100 km it cuts through 50-60-m-thick basalt creating waterfalls and rapids where it joins its
eastem  tributary the Suman Gol which originates from Terkh-Tasaaan Lake.  This
noticeably increases river channel in terms of its width and depth.
The river becomes completely ice-bound by mid-November with breakup at the end of
April. Hydrological stations were established on the river in 1977 near Undur-Ulaan soum
and 1985 near Chuluut soum where regular observations are conducted. During the period
of observation, the maximum flow recorded at the Undur-Ulaan station was 633 m3/sec
(1993), and the minimum flow was 5.76 m3/sec (1980). At the Chuluut station, the
maximum flow was 278 m3/sec (1991), and the minimum flow 1.80 m3/sec recorded in
1989, respectively
The Gichgene Gol flows from the Khangain range with headwaters at an altitude of 3211
metres.The Gichgene-Tariat station's data describes the river as having a catchment area
of 1725 km2,and being 88 km in length. The river's gradient averages 9.5%; with a rather
winding channel Observations have been conducted on the river since 1983 when the
Gichgene-Tariat hydrological stationpost was established.  During the data collection
period, the maximum flow observed was 125 m3/sec, and the minimum flow was 1.49
m3/sec.
River bed deformation
There is a lack of data on riverbed deformation and sediment transport in the study area.
Generally, rivers and streams are located in mountainous area, and consequently, riverbed
slope is rather steep and with small radius meanders. There are several types of
meandering processes that can be identified for the rivers in the study area. Natural soil
erosion processes and some human activities in the study area make river bed deformation
processes very complex and unpredictable.
It is more suitable to build bridge and culverts to cross narrow valley riverbeds located
within mountain slopes. Where meandering occurs, then locate the crossing at a relatively
narrow and straight river reach.
Ice phenomena (Freeze Up)
There are not any observations and measurements concerning ice processes in the study
area. Complete ice coverage forms in first week of November in the study area, usually, in
wet and cool regions. Also, aufeis occurs very often in small streams and springs in the
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia     - 26 -



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                          05. Oct. 2000.
study area. Such ice phenomena can deform roads and bridges, especially in the Khujirt,
Teel, Jargalant and Manuukhai rivers and in the lower reaches of some streams.
Spring ice breakup begins in April and ice-drifting begins. Autumn ice phenomena start in
the second week of October and, depending on altitude, complete ice coverage lasts from
105 to 165 days.
Water Chemistry
The water courses crossed by the project may experience some pollution from road and
bridge construction and vehicle traffic. There are no known point sources of pollution in the
study area, but there are some sources associated with livestock and agriculture.Some 13
km of road, to be rehabilitated by this project, is located in Ikh uul sum of the Zavkhan
province, along the Ider River. and therefore, some effect on the Ider river.may be
expected unless properly mitigated.
Preliminary field work has included taking samples for chemical analysis from Solongot,
Manuukhai and Khujirt rivers. The analysis shows that a total dissolved solids of Solongot,
Manuukhai and Khujirt rivers are 70.1, 113.2 and 124.9 mg/I, respectively, pH of these
rivers varies from 6.74 to 6.85, and total hardness ranges from 0.5 to 0.70 mg-eqvtl. River
waters in the study area are thus neutral and very soft. Occasional high concentrations of
NH4 indicates existence of organic pollution in the catchment areas. At the same time in
the water of Manuukhai and Khujirt rivers the total iron content is 0.7-1.0 mg/I which implies
that these rivers fall in the range of "fresh to moderately polluted". This is evidence that
organic pollution takes place in the low flow period, especially in springtime prior to
breakup.
4.2.4 Groundwater
The road leading from Tsetserleg to Tosontsengel follows a route that crosses the
intermontane valleys that form the northern slopes of the Khangai range. The Khangai
range's ground water sources are located at various depths dependent upon their
geological structure and surface intercept characteristics. In the mountainous slopes and
the lower slopes plains, alluvial and colluvial sediments originating from the quaternary
period prevail.as water bearing sediments.
Typical river valley sediments are composed of alluvial, sands, and gravels.with a loamy
cover structure. More recently formed sediments from bedrock decomposition deposited
over parent rock, together with the bedrock also result in the formation of water-bearing
layers. Groundwater occurring along the road is mostly from sedimentary layers of the
quaternary period while ground water found in the decomposed bedrock are encountered
only occasionally.
Alluvial waters are widely distributed in the river valleys' ancient and modern sediments
and gravel valleys and, because of their direct hydraulic connection with the river's waters,
and throughout the year they are charged to a varying extent from the river. The water
levels of the river valleys' groundwater correspond to the river's location and as expected
are deeper towards the centre of the river channel.
With reference to chemical composition, the groundwater is generally fresh, with an
average hardness of 3.0-4.5 mg/ I, with occasionally hydrocarbonate and calcium sulphate
waters encountered.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia      - 27 -



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                        05. Oct. 2000.
The colluvial sediment groundwater is usually found mountain fans and is quite common
along the Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel road. The depth of colluvial sediments reaches
hundreds meters in the mountains but may only be tens of meters thick in the lower
valleys.
In the lower slopes fine-grained sand and silt dominate the deposits with a reduced water
infiltration capacity and form springs and streams under adequate relief conditions.
Colluvial sediment waters occur at a depth of 1.5-5.0 m and their width ranges from 1-2 m
to 15-25 m. with the well yields of springs at 4 to 5 I/s.
4.2.5. Land use
The issue of upgrading the road leading from Arkhangai aimag's centre - Tsetserleg to
Zavkhan aimag's Tosontsengel will be of significance not only economically but
ecologically as well.
The area to be covered has been calculated estimating that the width of roads of national
importance shall be 18 metres in compliance with the instructions on carrying out land
united fund classification /3/. It means that for a 450-km-long road section between
Tsetserleg and Tosontsengel would be required some 800 ha of area.
In the course of our observations of the road's state and measurements made along the
route it was established that on average there were 20 multiple tracks (fig.2.7.1) going
parallel with the road making the area occupied by the road as much as 6-8 times l4 4
This needs to be addressed in future.
Not only the soils and vegetative cover are rubbed bare under the impact of motor vehicles'
wheels but also the sites adjacent to the road are covered with the dust produced from the
traffic movement. The upgrading of the road will provide possibilities to minimise
considerably the current area of soils and vegetative cover eroded and degraded.
The lands lying along a road leading from Kharkhorin to Tosontsengel are used for different
purposes and the vegetative cover is not even. According to the currently applied
regulations and rules lands located at a distance of 9 metres from the axis of the road are
deemed to be of different designation. The lands along the road are being used for
agricultural purposes. Also there are lands designated for the forest fund and water fund as
well as allocated for settlements. Lands designated for agricultural purposes fall under
such categories as pastures, hay-field and arable lands. Along the route there are only
pastures without any arable lands.
As the road runs through lowlands, narrow valleys of rivers there are a number of hay-
fields. Approximately, a 100 km-long section of the road crosses hay-fields and 220 km-
long road goes through pastures. However, the land, especially areas adjacent to the road
owing to erosion and degradation of technological character can not be used as hay-fields
anymore. Also the pastures are overgrazed to a substantial extent. The upgrading of the
road will be beneficial for the restoration of the hay-fields and pastures' soils and vegetative
cover.
Section of unpaved road covered upgrading by this project is not really connected to the
special protected areas and areas planned to be protected.
Tsagaan Davaa is loaded near to the border of natural monument mount Bulgan.
Special protected areas are divided in the article 3 of special protected area law as
following.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, U]aanbaatar, Mongolia   - 28 -



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                        05. Oct. 2000.
Strictly Protected Areas
Natural Conservation Park
Nature Reserves
Natural monument
Natural monument mount Bulgan is located behind of Tsetserleg town and Tsagaan
Davaa is 3.5km from the middle of the mount. Historical and cultural monuments of the
mountain Bulgan are not seen from Tsagaan Davaa.
Within 0.1-3.0 km of the territory of Natural or Historical and Cultural Monuments, it is
prohibited to construct buildings which spoil the view and scenery, to plow or dig land, to
use explosives, to explore or mine natural resources, to touch, erode or remove Natural or
Historical and Cultural Monuments, or conduct any other activity which causes damage to
them.
Construction of road within the border of special protected areas which are under straight
control of Ministry of Nature and Environment is permitted by the law (article 17 para4) so
ground work and explosion for road upgrading rear mount Bulgan which is about 3.5 km is
not violate legislation. For a safety reason of auto traffic it would be possible to cut some
trees in the back side of Tsagaan Davaa in order to change old road can be solved by the
local government according to the Land and Forest Law.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia    - 29 -



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                         05. Oct. 2000.
Borrow areas and quarries. One of the major components of road building is the issue of
siting quarries and borrows areas required for the road upgrading works.
In compliance with the survey made with respect to the quarries and borrow areas used by
the Traffic Department, totally there are about 20 quarries and borrow pits existing in this
area.
Along the 9 sections of the Kharkhorin-Tsetserleg-Tosontsengel road to be improved there
the trace of about 30-35 former quarries and borrows areas In view of the above, it is
necessary to use the former quarries that are located in the area due to be upgraded. It
would be appropriate if the Road Department will bear responsibility for such issues as
instruction and supervision, specifying reclamation and restoration activities in contracts
entered into with the contractors.
Also it is advisable to provide for in the contractors' contracts some specific points
conceming the restoration of former quarries not being used during this period. The
restoration actions shall include actions for leveling the earth to correspond the surrounding
area's slope angle and appearance, covering with black earth and re-seeding and re-
planting with seeds and seedlings of endemic plants. The contractors and principal are
needed to agree on the financial support and provisions indicating specifically its amount.
This year reclamation activities have been conducted with respect to some of the quarries
along the road that were once used and now. In case it would be necessarily required to
select sites for digging new quarries the contractor shall obtain proper formal authorizations
from the local authorities and it is recommendable to dig only one new quarry per each of
the road sections selected for upgrading.
All of them were abandoned without any reclamation and restoration efforts.
Pursuant to the Law on Taxation, payments for the utilisation of widely distributed mineral
resources are to fall under the category of local taxes (Article 17). In other words, the
aimag, capital city's Khurals of People's Representatives shall determine the amount of
taxes within the limits set out from the Great State Khural of Mongolia as per Article 17.
Therefore, this issue should be settled with the local authorities and appropriate taxes and
payments are paid according to the agreement reached.
4.2.6. Flora
In preparation of the flora assessment regarding that the upgrading activities are to be
carried out on the road sections being in operation, the flora, growing along the road
sections has been surveyed to provide a quality assessment. None of the plants growing
within the road sections is included in the Red Book of Mongolia.
Herb- plants
Where are 223 species of plants (Annex IV) growing along the road sections beginning
from Uburkhangai province's Kharkhorin in the north of Khangai range to Zavkhan
province's Tosontsengel in the south of said range, presenting in annex 1, making up 32
types of communities, and below are giving the communities of floral species typical of
each of the road sections selected for up grading.
Section HTsT- 6
1. Narrow valleys between mountains. Herb-grass steppes on middle mountains.
Where grow such plants as Poa attenuate, Koeleria macranta, Elymus chinensis, Artemisia
frigida,  Artemesia  macrocephala,  Artemesia  sieversiana,  Potentilla  anserina,
Dracocephalum, Plantago depreessa, Galium verum.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia     - 30 -



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                            05. Oct. 2000.
2. Larch forest with grassland on its northem slope, Where dominate Larix sibirica
Lonicera altaica, Dasiphora fruticosa, Rosaacicularis, cotoneaster melanocarpa. Poa
angustifolia, Poa pratensis, Festuca Lenensis, festuca altaica, Polygonum viviparum,
pulsatilla, flavescens. Sanguisorba officinalis, trifolirum lupinoster. Galium boreale, Vicia
cracca, Taraxacum officinale, Thelictrum minus, Geranium pratense, Trollins asiaticus.
3. Herb-grass steppe of middle mountains. There are such plant species as.
Festuca lenensis, Elymus chinensis, Poa affenuata, Koeleria macrantha, Heteropappus
attaicus, Dracocephalum Fotidium, Artemisia macrocephala, Galium verum
4. Herb-Elymus-needlegrass steppe. There grow Stipa baicalensis, Stipa Krylovii,
Elymus chinensis, Galium verum, Serratula centauroides, Bupleurum scorzonerifolium.
5. Valleys of Urd Tamir river. Herb-sedge-grass stand: Carex durtuscala, Carex sp.,
Iris lastea, Trigiochin maritimum, Cirsium esculentum, Achillea asiatica, Pamassia
palustris, Plantago major, Agropyron repens, Sanguisorba offinalis. Patentilla anserina.
Section HTsT- 8
6. The vegetations of the territory in the vicinites of somon's centre are subject to
strong pasture degradation. Here grow Carex Duriuscula, Potentilla anserina, serratula
centouroides, stipa krylovii, Iris lactea, Poa attenuata, Agropyron cristatum, Achnatherum
splendes, Adenophora stenantina, Allium senescens, Androsace septentrionalis, Arenana
capillaris, Artemisia changaica, A. Frigida, A. microphylla, A.sieveriana, Astragalus
adsurgens, A. galactites, A. Mongolicus, Atriplex sibirica, Bupleurum  bicaule, A.
scorzonerifolium, Capsella bursa pastoris, Carduus cnispus.
7. Larch forests. In the northern side of Tsagaan Pass and Solongot Pass grow
Larex sibirica, (which forms forest), rosa acicularis, Jonicera altaica, Cotoneaster
melanocarpa, salix sp, calamagrostis obtusa, Carex amgunensis, iris ruthenica, Anomene
crinata.
Section HTsT-12 (7.2)
8. Herb-grass high mountain steppe. Herb-festuce stand, Where grow lenensis,
Poa attenuata, Koeleria macrantha. Thalictrum foetidium, chamaerodos altaica, Androsace
incana, Potentilla sericea, Amblinotus rupestris.
Sections HTsT-15 (8.1), HTsT-16 (8.2)
9. Herb-grass lower hills mountain steppe. 'Dongoin hondii " Herb-Elymus-
needlegrass stand. Stipa baicalensis, stipa krylovii, Elymus chinensis, Galium verum,
serratula centauroides, bupleurum scorzonerifo/irum, Achnatherum splends, Acroptodon
repens, Agropyron cristatum, Allium lineare, A. odorum, A. senescens, Androsace
septentrionale, Arenaria capillaris, Artemisia Adamsii, A.changaica, A. dracunculus, A.
frigida, A. sieversiana, Aster alpinus, Astragalus Mongolicus, Bupleurum  bicaule, B.
scorzonerifolium, Campanula glomerata, Thermopesis dahurica, Thymus gobicus, Urtica
cannabina, Veronica incana, etc
10. Herb-grass steppe in the middle part of mountain. Herb-festuce stand. With
festuca lenensis (with considerable abundance), Poa attenuata, Koeleria macrantha,
Talictrum foetidium, chamaerodes altaica, Androsace incana, Potentilla sericca.
11. Flood-plain. Grass-sedge stand. With Carex vesicata, scirpus hippolytii,
Eleocharis intersita, Glyseria triflora, Calamagrostis neglecta, Hippuris vulgaris.
12. Herb grass steppe. Herb-festuce stand, herb-shallow-soddy grass festuce
stand. With Festuca lenensis (with considerable abundance), Poa attenuata, Koeleria
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia        - 31 -



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                         05. Oct. 2000.
macrantha, Agropyrmn cristatum. Thalictrum foetidium, chamaerodes altaica, Andrsace
incana, Potentilla sencea, Amblynotus rupestris.
Section HTsT-21
13. Herb-grass steppe in the lower parts of the mountains in the west-southem side
of Terchiin Tsagaan Nuur. Where grow Festuca lenensis. Kobresia bellardii.
14. Herb-grass steppe in the lower parts of the mountain in the west from Terchiin
Tsagaan Nuur.There grow such plant as Festuca, lenensis, Cobresia bellardii.
Section HTsT-23
15. Herb-grass steppe of lower mountain at the east-south part from Solongot
Herb-festuce stand. Where grow such species as Festuca lenensis, Poa attenuata,
Koelena macrantha, Androsace incana, Potentilla sericea, Amblunotus rupestris.
16. High heatland and meadow Kobresia stand: Moss-sedge-Kobresia, scrub-
Kobresia-dryed stand:Here grow Kobressia bellardii, K. humilis, K. Sibirica, Dryas
oxyodontha, Salix berberifolia.
17. Solongot Pass: High headlands stony rock streams: Where grow Dryas
oxyodontha Betula fruticosa, Betula rotundifolia, Kobresia bellardii
18. Boreal coniferous forest, in the northern slope of Solongot Pass. Siberian Pine
stand. Where grow Pinuys sibinca (in considerable anantities), Larix sibirica, Vaccinzum
vitis idea, V. uliginosum, Pyrola incamata, Calamagrostis purpurea.
Section HTsT-24, HTsT-25
19. Flood plain. In the middle part of Deed Tsetsuuch river Forb-sedge (Carex
dichroa, Carex orbicularis and the forbsful Geranium pratense, Sanguisorba officinalis,
Thalictrum simplex) on swampy meadows. Larix sibirica Salix migabeana, S. Viminalis, S.
rorida.
20. Sedge valley of the lower part of Deed Tsetsuuch river. There grow Carex
duriuscula (with considerable abundance), Agrostis Mongolica, Poa pratense, Triglovhin
maritimum, Cirsium esculentum, Taraxacum officinale, etc.
The vegetation such soum's asnear centres : lkh-Tamir, Ondor-Ulaan,Tariat of
Archangai aimak located allong the road is exposed to degretation of IlIl degree, and the
vegetation in the valleys of Dongoi, Teeliin am, of Tsagaanchuluut, Shivert-uul and valleys
in the surrounding small lakes is exposed to degratation of 11 desree. The vegetation and
pastures are destroyed by the multitracking. In-the process of excavations some of the
species will be destroyed, but they easy to be recultivated as the soil would become lighter.
4.2.7. Forest
Alpine tundra patchy forest. There are Kobresia myosuroides larch forests mixed
with Larix sibirica, Betula rotundifolia, Salix glauca, Juniperus pseudosabina, Empetrum
nigrum, Ledumpalustre, Arctous alpina, Hylocomium splendens, Aulacomnium palustre
larch forests distributed in the taiga peaty permafrost soils situated at altitudes of 2200-
2400 (2500) m in the Solongotyn Davaa and Central Khangai's Chuluut, Ider, Khanui,
Tsetsuukh rivers' basins (forests located at the river head shall be protected)
Alpine taiga forest. There are larch forests with Larix sibirica, Bromopsis
pumpelliana, Festuca orina, F. altaica, Carex pediformis, Carex amgunensis, Vaccinium
vitis-idaea, Thalictrum crassifolium, Phytidium rugosum, Abiatinella abietina, Hylocomium
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia     - 32 -



Envirorunental Assessment and Management Plan                       05. Oct. 2000.
splendens growing on the undecomposed permafrost soils at altitudes of 1800 to 2200 m in
the Tsetsuukh, Ider, Terkh, Gichgene, Chuluut, Khanui rivers' basins. (forests to be used
ensuring due protective measures)
Alpine taiga forest with thick grass. There are larch forests with motley grasses,
sedge-grasses-motley grasses, iris-motley grasses (Larix sibirica, Spiraea media,
Anemonaster, Lathyrus humilis, Viola biflora, Iris ruthenica, Calamagrostis pavlovii,
Calamagrostis obtusata, Bromopsis pumpelliana, Poa sibirica, Carex amgunensis,
Geranium pratensis) growing on the taiga turfy deep permafrost soils at the mountains of
Khoit-Tamir, Urd-Tamir, Khanui river. Those forests are widespread around Khoyoryn
Davaa and Tsagaan Davaa (forests due to be protected)
Also around Solongotyn Davaa and Khorgo there can be met single Siberian Cedar
trees or groves of Cedar trees and the birch groves at Tsagaan Davaa
The Khar-Khorin-Tosontsengel road upgraded shall pass by the northem side of
Tsagaan Davaa, Khalzan burgedei (Chuluut river's westem bank), Khoyor Khysaa (Khorgo,
Suman rivers' head), Solongotyn Davaa's northem side, along the banks of the Ider river
across groups of forests growing there and with respect to the road sections located at the
north of Tsagaan Davaa and Solongotyn Davaa that are to be upgraded, some felling and
slash removal activities may be required to be done (Figure 2.8.1)
Issues of plant species protection: In Degree 153 of the Mongolian Govemment
(1995) the following species are included as rare plant: Gentiana macrophylla,
diliummartagon medicinal plants here are totally there are 120 species put on the list. The
upgrading of the road will not effect the foregoily species of plants since these plants are
found in the distance from the road sections to undergo improvements.
Quarries to be formed after ecavations may be colonised by annual and perennial
herbeceous plants as wheatgrass, Bromegrass, Wildryegrass, Willowweed and Willows,
poplar, etc.
Forest protection: The road goes close or through the woods in such its sections
to be upgraded as those lying in the north of tsagaan davaa and solongot davaa. In view of
this, it is recommendable to exercise a special control over the contracts to be concluded
with the companies responsible for the road upgrading, in particular during road repair
activities to be carried out in those sections take measures for preventing cutting and
damaging trees, and destroying forest plantations' seedlings. The remaining part of the
road runs along the localities without woods or makes its way far from woods, therefore no
impacts are expected to take place.
4.2.8. Fauna
This site pertaining to the Khangai forest steppe zone is characterised by a
biodiversity of species of mammals typical of the forest steppe. There 52 species belonging
to 6 orders (Annex V), i.e. 37% of the country's mammal species inhabiting the site which
can be viewed to be fairly rich in mammals species diversity [10, 27].
As far as the mammals orders are concerned there are 7 species of Insectivorous making
up 13% of the site's biodiversity, 5 species of Cheiroptera (10%), 5 species of lagomorpha
(10%), 20 species of rodents (38%), 11 predatory species (21%) 4 species of ungulate
animals (7%) respectively.
Some 20 percent of the mammals species (39%) traditionally are of hunting significance of
which 4 species including the Musk Deer, the Red Deer or Elk, the Manul or Pollas Cat and
the Euroasian Lynx become rare and endangered species, 5 species as wild boar, corsak
fox, the Alpine or Mountain Weasel, hotny Weasel, can be found only occasionally which
makes them actually of little hunting significance. Other 11 species are the major hunting
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia    - 33 -



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                          05. Oct. 2000.
species of which such as the Mongolian Marmot, the Fox, the Wolf, the Long-Tailed
Souslik and the Brown Squirrel keep on being of especial importance for hunting.
As can be seen from the above, due to the road upgrading activities including excavation of
quarries, construction and assembly activities, also the builders' camp, rodents and other
small mammals, soil microorganisms are expected to move to the adjacent areas or may
be destroyed but shortly after the completion of construction activities, approximately in 2
to 3 years are expected to restore their population.
Some of the mammals being frightened away during the road construction period for a
while are expected to return to their habitat areas upon the accomplishment of construction
activities.
The impacts to be caused by the road and traffic movements upon the site's mammals
distribution and their habitats, in particular the population numbers of the fauna and their
diversity being effected negatively to this or that degree will directly depend upon such
factors as the natural conditions' specifics and man's activities.
Birds. In the river valleys, lakes, wetlands, mountain ranges and forests along the
Kharkhorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel road there are some 227 species of birds of air
referring to 48 families of 16 orders registered in the diversity structure list (Annex VI).
In summer seasons, birds usually gather on a small island located in the center of the
Terkh Tsagaan Lake. However, it is of local importance only, so does not fall under the
provisions of the International Convention for protection of wetlands.
Fish. In the surroundings of Khoid Tamir, Chuluut, Gichgene, Suman, Terkh, Ider
rivers, Terkh Tsagaan lake located along the road there are 11 species of fish enlisted
which is as follows:
1. Perch (Perca fluviatilis)
2. Pike (Esox lucius)
3. Redfin or Mongolian Whitefish (Rutilus rutilus lacustnis)
4. Lenok (Brachymystax lenok)
5. Siberian Grayling or Umber (Thymallus arcticus arcticus)
6. Burbot or Freshwater god (Lota Iota)
7. Taimen (Hucho taiman Pall)
8. Siberian catfish (Nemachilus barlatulus toni)
9. Catfish or Loach (Nemachilus strauchi)
10. Gudgeon (Chilogobio)
11. Lagowski's Minnow (Rhoxinus lagowskii)
Out of them, six ones are of significance in terms of sports and fishing. Construction of
bridges and conduits to be carried out in the course of the road upgrading activities will
increase the rate of turbidity of rivers' water thus affecting temporarily the living conditions
of fish. Because of this, it is necessary to make proper arrangements so that during spring
spawning and autumn migration of fish such activities not are carried out at all. However, it
is necessary to underline that no impacts of permanent character are expected to be
imposed during the road operation phase.
Appropriate arrangements need to be made in view of the habitual routes of animals,
particularly medium and big mammals, running along the mountains, river valleys in the
north - south direction.
There are no rare, endangered or extremely susceptible to movements of technical
facilities and people, subject to extinction species of mammals whose habitats are going
nearby the road. During the autumn September - October months rutting red deer (elks)
may cross the road around Tarvagatai range's Solongot pass but it is unlikely to be
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia      - 34 -



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                        05. Oct. 2000.
affected somehow in connection with the upgrading of the road. During the road
construction stage some certain adverse impacts are expected to be caused with respect
to the fauna inhabiting the areas adjacent to the road including the following:
1. Mice, vales, shrews, ants living in or around the borrow areas where gravel, silt
and stones are to be taken will be destroyed together with their holes and burrows. But, as
they are one of the most common biocenosis no negative impacts are projected in this
connection and, accordingly, no need to take any special actions to restore the damage
caused.
2. A number of mammals as hares, elks, wild boars, antelopes are likely to be
scared away due to the noise of people and vehicles.
3. It is necessary to prevent poaching and any actions which may disturb and scare
off animals.
With the aim of avoiding the foregoing adverse effects it is needed, firstly, to backfill the
borrow pits and quarries used for taking gravel and other construction materials, smoothing
their edges to the form of the original ground surface and topsoil them to be used by
animals coming from the areas surrounding the site; secondly, take steps to enhance the
construction workers' awareness of the environmental and hunting laws, ecological issues
to prevent poaching and other violations that may scare away animals.
The region's fauna including mammals, birds, fish, may have to move which, however, will
be of local character. Such adverse effects of human direct and indirect actions would be
coped with only through such measures and actions as relevant laws, control, awareness
raising campaigns, ecologically sound business activities of the people, to be provided on
the public (state) level.
4.3 LINK 3 (ARVAIKHEER - KHOUD)
4.3.1 Geography
The road leading from Arvaikheer via Bayankhongor and Altai to Khovd crosses the
southem flank of the Khangai range and follows the northem valleys of the Altai range.
(Map 1). According to Mongolian physical geography zones, the road location is referred
to as the Trans-Altai Gobi region's Begeltseg subzone.Elevation along the road section
ranges from 1200 to 2100 m. For local relief there are only a few mountains and lakes
while depressions and valleys are more common. The main characteristic of the area are
the large number of depressions that are separated from each other by mountains or
highlands but are linked together through narrow canyons or streambeds.
The Arvaikheer-Buutsagaan road section runs crosses the southem slopes of the Khangai
range at an altitude of 1500 to 2100 m and crosses the Ar Yarguit, Taats, Tui gol, Nariiny
gol and Baidrag, rivers all of which have their headwaters in the Khangai range.
From Bayankhongor and to Altai, the road runs along flat wide valleys located on the
mountain's southern slopes and upon passing over the Taishir range, approaches the
Great Lakes Depression. The altitude of the Great Lakes Depression is from 1200 to 1500
m. The road then makes its way across the Sharga Gobi,and Khuisiin Gobi deserts, and
reaches the city of Khovd after crossing through the Khyargas lake valleys. The dried
streambeds in the Khasagt Khairkhan mountains and the permafrost and marshy soils
around the northern side of the Baatar Khairkhan range are difficult passages for motor
vehicles.
In the vicinity of the Khov's Zereg soum , the road passes through a zone of high seismic
risk which has a history of recent major earthquakes.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia    - 35 -



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                        05. Oct. 2000.
4.3.2 Climate
The wide variation of topographic situations that are encountered on the road from
Arvaikheer to Khovd is reflected in major microclimatic variations along the route.
Elevations can range from 1200 to 2500 m and terrain types include the Khangai range
and the Great Lakes' Depression.
Temperature regime
The winter air temperatures along the route vary from -15 degrees C at Arvaikheer to -25
degrees C at Khovd. In lowland areas such as Delger, Darvi, Khovd and Zekh, the mean
temperatures in January can be from -20 to -25.1 C. The minimum air temperature for
those areas can go below -40 degrees C, and the number of days when -30 degrees is
recorded can be over 35.
The road is located at rather high altitudes and in the summer period, the air temperature
can range from 16 to 20 degrees C. The absolute maximum temperature values do not
exceed 33 to 37 degrees and the number of days with air temperatures higher than 30
degrees is not greater than 15. The duration of sunshine can be from 2800 to 3100 hours
a year. Summer daytime can last about 10 hours, while winter days last from 5 to 6 hours.
The region's high altitudes and mountainous characteristics result in frosts being recorded
at the beginning of October (Oct.3 to 13) while last frosts in spring occurs from May 20 to
June 10. The duration of the frost-free period for the area is from 36 (Altai) to 130 days.
Mean air temperature in the area of the Depression of Great Lakes is generally colder in
January and warmer in July than for the rest of the project area.
Humidity and precipitation regime
Generally this road section gets relatively little precipitation. This is particularly true for the
area around the Depression of Great Lakes' and includes the south face of the Khangai
range. The area's higher mountains including Altai, Bayankhongor, Ulziit, Nariin Teel,
Khairkhan Dulaan and Arvaikheer, often have higher amounts of precipitation per year.
Around the Great Lakes' area and the Bumbugor, Buutsagaan, Delger soums located on
the southern side of the Khangai range, annual precipitation is 5 to 10 mm. In the
mountainous regions, precipitation will be about 10 to 14 mm. Snowfalls begin in early
December, although snow cover may only stay in those years with heavy snowfalls. The
mean thickness of snow cover does not exceed 5-6 cm and the snow cover will start
melting early in February. Relative humidity averages 60 to 70%.
Some 80 to 90% of the annual precipitation falls during the thaw period. The low annual
total precipitation results in the area's dry air conditions and its relative humidity ranges
from 40 to 60%. In spring and autumn, the relative humidity value ranges from 40 to 45%.
Rainfall is recorded only 30 to 50 days per annum.
Wind regime
For the road section through the depressions and valleys located between the Altai and the
Khangai ranges, there are quite often strong winds and windstorms. The mean wind speed
is between 1.0 and 7.0 m/s and tends to increase in spring and autumn. The maximum
wind speed reaches 20 to 34 m/s. Throughout the year there are 10-30 days with dust
storms and 13-27 days when the wind velocity exceeds 15 m/s.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia   - 36 -



Environnental Assessment and Management Plan                       05. Oct. 2000.
The orientation of valleys located between the Khangai and Altai ranges controls wind
directions and mostly westem and northwestem winds occur. These winds are stronger
than winds blowing from other directions, and often exceed 5 mis.
4.3.3 Surface Water
Watercourses
The road crosses the Central Asian Intemal basin, which has an area equaling 68 percent
of the total area of Mongolia and has 40 percent of the total water resources in the country.
Runoff formation conditions vary along the road and in many areas the road has a direct
influence on local drainage.
The area crossed by the road is can be divided into several river basins,including rivers
from the southem slope of the Khangai mountains, the Ongi, Taats, Tui, Baidrag river
basins, rivers from the western slope of the Khangai mountains, the Zavkhan river, streams
and dry beds draining into the small lakes located in desert areas and rivers rising from the
Altai mountains.
Rivers from the southern slope of the Khangai mountains flow south and cross the road
from north to south. Then, river flow direction changes and some rivers from Gobi Altai
mountains flow to the north. The rivers located at the west end of the road flow to the east
to cross the road. The rivers from the Gobi Altai mountain, in particular,have developed a
dense network of stream and dry beds, beginning from the slope of the Bayanbuural and
Khantaishir mountains to the north.  Only, the stream and dry bed network of the
Khasagtyin gurvan bogd mountains go south and show heavy erosion from surface runoff.
There are small lakes, evaporating ponds, marshes and locally appearing springs.in the
area. The rivers from the Altai mountain range, and in particular, rivers, rising from
northem slope of the Darivyin, Buural bogd, Googiin range, Munkhkhairkhan, Buural
khairkhan mountain and Khokhserkh range flow in eastern and northeastern directions.
Snowmelt is dominant in river flows of the rivers from the Mongol Altai mountain range.
As the road crosses these river basins, the upslope side of the road will be more affected
by water erosion, deformation of the road due to freeze-thaw, culvert failures, and
accumulation of excess moisture in the road embankment. Often on the downslope side,
there is a trend for sediment accumulation from wind erosion and the process of
desertification is intensified.
The impact caused by hydrological processes on the road is minimized by locating the road
away from watercourses and can be accomplished by following ridges and hilltops. As a
general rule, the location of the embankment should not follow or parallel a watercourse
channel.
The road section of 27 km, located from the bridge at Baidrag river in Khairkhan nariin
valley, extents along the valley and even follows the bottom of the dry bed. When heavy
rainfall, or snowmelt result in flash floods, the road may be subjected to a washout.
River water regime
The rivers along the road are supplied with water from snowmelt, rainfall and ground water
contribution. Heaviest flows can be expected during the combination rain and snowmelt
period.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia  - 37 -



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                        05. Oct. 2000.
Snowmelt water supplies 50 to 70 % annual volume for rivers flowing from Altai mountain
and rainfall water is 5-10 % of annual volume. Rainfall water is more important for rivers
from the Khangai mountain range and reaches 56-75 % of annual volume. Ground water
contribution is estimated as 15-40 percent of annual volume of runoff and decreases with
increasing altitudes.
Spring flood starts in rivers of Altai mountain in the middle of April, but start later in May in
basins located at higher altitudes. On the lower slopes of Khangai mountain, it starts in
early April and early May at altitudes of 2500 m or higher. The peak discharge is observed
in rivers in the middle of May for drainages located above the altitude of 1500 m land and
may be as late as the end of June for rivers, originating from the Altai mountains. Spring
floods can last until the end of May for rivers from southem and eastern slopes of the
Khangai mountains and until the start of June in rivers originated from western slope of the
Khangai mountains.
The spring floods of the Altai mountain rivers lasts to the end of August or even early
September because of the contribution of glaciers to river runoff. Even, in the middle and
lower reaches of the biggest rivers, it does not diminish until 5-10 days later than the
above-mentioned date. Spring flood can continue for 110-150 days in Altai mountain
rivers, and 30-50 days in Khangai mountain rivers. The duration increases with gain in
altitude.
Low flow periods occur in the spring-summer and summer-autumn periods. In rivers with
major contributions from snow and ice melting, it is occurs in autumn. In rivers with spring
and rainfall floods, it occurs both in June and October. The thaw period low flow lasts
normally for 20-25 days but sometimes, for 30 days and more. Winter low flow is observed
for 4-5 months after the formation of ice cover in rivers and the annual lowest flow occurs
during that period of the year. Occasionally, the shallow water of big rivers in the region will
completely freeze and annual lowest flow occurs in January or February and March in any
specific year.
Flash flood formation conditions differ along the road. Moderate and light flash floods form
in river basins located on the southern slope of Khangai mountain, and in particular, on the
road section between Arvaikheer and Bayankhongor. In some areas, the road crosses the
bottom of valleys or lower sides of basins.
The development of a flood and its intensity depends on factors including local relief,
distribution of quaternary deposits in a basin, intensity of rainfall and human activities which
encourage flash flooding such as vegetation and soil degradation, wildfire, and mining.
4.3.4 Soils
Arvaikheer-Bayankhongor
ABH-01.    Along a 5-km-long road section branching off the main road from the
Bayanteeg bridge towards the Bayanteeg mine the soils consist of montane light chestnut
soils, and common light chestnut soils in the plains and valleys. Fertile soils and sparse
vegetation are used for pasturing
Light chestnut soils display a 0-15-cm-thick humus A layer and 15-25-cm AB layers
overlying a carbonated B layer, and a 50-60-cm-thick soil-forming C layer. The Ao soil
horizon has an organic content of 1.5-2%, and has a light clay mechanical texture. The B
horizon contains 2-4% of carbonate.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia   - 38 -



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                          05. Oct. 2000.
ABH-02.    Along a 9.2-km-long road section leading from Bayanteeg mine toward
Bayankhongor, there are frequent thin light chestnut stony soils formed in combination with
mature light chestnut soils. The soils are characterized by relatively high fertility and are
used for pastures. Multitracking is a common occurrence and results in soil compaction
and loss of vegetation cover. The location and fertility of these soils is similar to that of the
soils identified in ABH-01.
ABH-03.    This road section begins 23 km past the Taats wood bridge and consists of
thin dark chestnut soils mostly spread around the hills. The land is used for pastures and
is chara cterized as fertile. The montane dark chestnut soils have 0-20-km-thick horizon,
are dark chestnut in colour, and of light clay mechanic texture. The Ao layer has 2-3% of
organic material.
ABH-04.    This 13.5-km-long road section begins at the end of the ABH-03 section and
has montane dark chestnut stony soils. The area is used for pasturing and is characterized
as having high fertility, and its characteristics are consistent with that indicated for ABH-03.
ABH-05.     The road section leading from Ulziit soum center starting from the end of
ABH-04 is 5 km in length and covered with montane chestnut soils at its northem end and
light chestnut soils at its southem end. The montane chestnut soils have 0-15-cm-thick
topsoil with an Ao humus layer. The humus horizon is chestnut in colour, of medium clay
texture, with an organic content of 2%. The area is used for pasturing.
Bayankhongor-Altai
AH-06.       This road section is 2 km in length and is located near the Nariiny rivers
wood bridge. It is dominated by carbonated light chestnut soils. The area is used for
pasturing. The soils' properties are similar to the above mentioned light chestnut soils.
AH-08.       This road section is 4 km in length and starts to the east of the Baidrag
reinforced concrete bridge. It is covered with thin stony light chestnut soils formed from
material along the rivers and dry streambeds. There are frequent mature light chestnut
soils which are stony, and have fertile properties lower than that of the aforesaid light
chestnut ones. These mature light chestnut soils have generally high fertility and are
utilized as pastures.
AH-09.       This road section is 7.8 km in length and passes from the Baidrag bridge
toward Olon Ovood. It has light chestnut soils similar to that of AH-08.
Altai-Khovd
AH-10.       This road section is 9.4 km in iength and includes the area of the Baaran
pass. It is covered with chestnut soils in its highlands and light chestnut soils on the
mountain slopes. This area is suitable for pasture due to its high fertility. The montane
chestnut soils are thin, with 0-1 5-cm-thick topsoil with Ao horizon with organic of 1.8%.,
AH-12, 13,15,16,17.       The road section is 19.4 km in length and goes from the
Baaran pass to Sonduult or Dalai-Eev camp/hotel along a wide plain beginning from the
foot of the Khasagt Khairkhan. The dominant soils are desert steppe brown non-alabaster
soils and at occasional locations, saline soils. The section western edge is contiguous with
an area covered with light chestnut soils. The desert steppe brown soils have a thin upper
stone layer, overlying 1-1.5-cm-thick hard pan under which there is 1-2-cm-thick loose,
porous layer and an Ao organic layer. The Ao layer contains 0.7-1% of organic material.
The saline soils' surface is salt and salt-marsh.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia      - 39 -



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                         05. Oct. 2000.
AH-18.      The road section is 4.5-km-long runs through Baishin Uzuur and is covered
with light chestnut soils on the plains and montane chestnut soils in the mountains. There
are swampy soils in its lowlands where surface waters accumulate. These places are used
for pastures and their natural fertility is comparatively high to that of the light chestnut and
montane soils.
AH-19, 20, 21.     The road sections around Zereg soum make up 9.5 km and the
prevailing soil types are desert steppe non-alabaster brown soils along the plains and
montane light chestnut soils in the mountains and hills. These soils are used for pastures
and their fertility and other soil characteristics are similar previously mentioned desert
steppe non-alabaster brown soils. Also, the montane light chestnut soils' layers are less
thick than those of previously mentioned common light chestnut soils.
4.3.5 Fauna
The Arvaikheer-Bayankhongor-Altai-Khov road sections selected for rehabilitation are
located in the steppe and Gobian zones and because as they are apart from each other
there are substantial differences in faunal diversity. In considering such factors as their
geographic characteritics, vegetation, and ecological conditions, three groupings of faunal
species have been identified.Focus has been placed on the dominant species of animals in
a given group's ecosystem and in addition taken into account rare and/or endangered
species of animals.  Some information concerning the species diversity, forms and
population numbers located within a 5 to 10-km-wide zone along the road sections
selected for upgrading activities is also considered.
Group One
For the road section from Khairkhandulaan-Bayanteeg-Nariinteel-Ulziit-Bumbugor up to the
Baidrag reinforced concrete bridge, there are mainly steppe animal species.
Fish - In the Baidrag, Taats, Tui and Ongi rivers , there are two species of fish: the Siberian
Caffish (Oreoleuciscus potanini) and the Bearded stone Loach (Nemachilus barbatulus
toni).
Amphibians - There is a species of Common Toad (Bufo radde,) that can be found around
the area's river, stream and lake sides.
Reptiles - There are species of Toad-headed Agama (Phrynocephalus versicolor),
Mongolian Racerunner (Eremias argus), Pallas' Coluber (Elaphe dione), Haly's or Central
Asian Viper (Aquistrodon halys) that are found in larger numbers. Also there is the species
of Slender Racer (Coluber spinalis) included in the Mongolian Red Book (1997).
Birds - There are such common species such as Ruddy shelduck, Kite, Upland Buzzard,
Golden Eagle, Saker Falcon, Lesser Kestrel, Common or Eurasian Kestrel, Demoiselle
Crane, Blue Hill Pigeon, Pallas' Sandgrouse, Little Owl, Hoopoe, Gester Short-toed Lark,
Mongolian Lark, Shore or Homed Lark, Northern or Common Skylark, Richard's Pipit,
Tawny Pipit, Magpie, Red-billed Chough, Eurasian Carrion or Hooded Crow, Northem
Raven, Northern Wheatear, Pied or Black-eared Wheatear, Pere David's Snow Finch and
Twite that occupy mostly open spaces such as arid steppe, hills and knolls. In the valleys
of the Baidrag, Taats, Tui and Ongi rivers and the water bodies, ponds and wetlands along
the road section some of these birds are to be found during their nesting and migrating
seasons.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia     -40-



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                       05. Oct. 2000.
Among them there are 7 species of birds of prey including the Kite, Upland Buzzard,
Golden Eagle, Saker Falcon, Lesser Kestrel, Common or Eurasian Kestrel, and Little Owl
that are included in Annex 2 to the Washington Convention (1973) on Intemational Trade
of Rare Species of Wildlife.
Mammals - Mammals along this road section include insect-eating mammals such as the
Lagomorphs (Daurian Pika, Mongolian Pika, Tolai Hare). Rodents (Siberian Marmot, Long-
tailed Souslik, Dwarf Hamster, Long-tailed Hamster, Royle's Mountain Vole, Narrow-skulled
Vole, Brandt's Vole, Mongolian Gerbil, House Mouse, Siberian Jerboa), and Camivors
(Gray Wolf, Red Fox, Corsac Fox, Manul or Pallas' Cat, Ermine or Stoat, Steppe or
Siberian Polecat) are widely distributed in Mongolia. The Daurian Hedgehog is listed in
the Mongolian Red Book (1997) is seen rarely as is the Manul or Pallas' Cat, and Corsac
Fox. These are identified under the category of "uncertain " in the Red Book issued from
the International Union for Nature and Natural Resource Protection. The Gray Wolf is
specified in Annex 2 to the Washington Convention on Intemational Trade of Rare Species
of Wildlife.
Group Two
The road section going from the Baaran pass to Dundyn ovoo-Eev camp's reinforced
bridge to Gurvan Shar valley is inhabited generally by faunal species related to the Gobian
zone.
Fish, Amphibians - There is little information conceming any fish or amphibian species
inhabiting the area's few rivers, streams, lakes and wetlands.
Reptiles - Common species include Toat-headed Agama, Mongolian Racerunner, Gobi
Racerunner, Multi-cellated Racerunner, Pallas' Coluber and Haly's or Central Asian Viper.
The Slender Racer is included in the Red Book of Mongolia (1997) and is rarely found in
some Gobian and steppe locations. It is recommended that special care is taken during
earth-moving, transportation and road embankment construction activities in order to
identify correctly any snake species encountered.
Birds - The Northern Gobi and Great Lakes' Depression is identified as one of the main
flyways for the country's water fowl and other wetland species. Most common are Ruddy
Shelduck, Kite, Golden Eagle, Cinereous or Black Vulture, Saker Falcon, Lesser Kestrel,
Common or Eurasian Kestrel, Chukar or Rock Partridge, Demoiselle Crane, Northem
Lapwing, Herring Gull, Blue Hill Pigeon, Domestic or Rock Dove, Pallas' Sandgrouse, Little
Owl, Ergui Bor, Northem or Common Swift, Pacific or White-rumped Swift, Hoopoe, Bank
Swallow or Sand Martin, Gester Short-toed Lark, Mongolian Lark, Shore or Horned Lark,
Northern or Common Skylark, Sogsoot Boljmor, Richard's Pipit, White or Pied Wagtail,
Isabelline or Central Asian Shrike, Black-billed Magpie, Eurasian Carrion or Hooded Crow,
Northern Raven, Rodoces Hendersoni, Northern Wheatear, Pied or Black-eared Wheatear,
Gobiin Chogchookhoi, Black Redstart, Tree Sparrow, Rock Sparrow, Zagiin Bor Shuvuu.
The Rodoces Hendersoni is registered in the Red Book of Mongolia (1997) and Kite,
Upland Buzzard, Golden Eagle, Saker Falcon, Lesser Kestrel, Common or Eurasian
Kestrel, Little Owl are included in Annex 2 to the Washington Convention (1973) on
Intemational Trade of Rare Species of Wildlife.
Mammals - This area is rich in mammal species and dominant are small rodents. Insect-
eating mammals (Long-eared Hedgehog, Scilly Shrew), Bats (Daubenton's or Water Bat,
Grey Long-eared Bat, Whiskered Bat, Gobi-desert Bat), Lagomorphs (Mongolian Pika,
Tolai Hare), Rodents (Red-cheeked Souslik, Dwarf Hamster, Roborovski's Dwarf Hamster,
Mongolian Hamster, Northem Mole-vole, Royle's Mountain Vole, Steppe Lemming, Zulgiin
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia   -41 -



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                         OS. Oct. 2000.
Ogotno, Brandt's Vole, Mongolian Gerbil, Southem Jird or Myddei Gerbel, Grand or Great
Gerbel, Siberian Jerboa, Gobi Jerboa, Alagdaagantsar Mongol Daahai, South Gobi Jerboa,
Satunin's Jerboa, Thick-tailed Pygmy Jerboa), Camivores (Gray Wolf, Red Fox, Marbled
Polecat, Steppe or Siberian Polecat), and Saiga Antelope, and Goitered or Black-tailed
Gazelle.
Group Three
The road section located from Zereg soum to Ereg Us to Khuduu lake to Zereg edge to
Baishin Uzuur to be upgraded does not differ considerably from Group Two with respect to
its insects, amphibians, reptiles, birds and mammals. Its feature is that there are more
lakes, rivers, and water bodies and its proximity to the Khar Us lake results in a greater
number of waterfowl and other wetland species.
Birds - For instance, there are Black Stork, Greylag Goose, Bar-headed Goose, Ruddy
Shelduck, Red-billed Shelduck, Whooper Swan, Mallard, Green-winged or Common Teal,
Garganey, Tufted duck or Pochard, Common or Eurasian Crane, Demoiselle Crane,
Halzaan Tunjuur, Little Ringed Plover, Greater Sand Plover, Kentish Plover, Northem
Lapwing, Green Sandpiper, Common Redshank, Temminck's Stint, Black-tailed Godwit,
Common Snipe, Black-headed Gull, Herring Gull, Common Tem. Phasianus colchicus
included in a list of endangered rarest species of wildlife as per the Law on Hunting of
Mongolia (1995) and the Red Book of Mongolia (1997) is found in this area. The area is
inhabited by Black Stork, Whooper Swan, Bar-headed Goose, Rodoces Hendensoni which
are recorded in the Red Book of Mongolia (1997). Additionally Black Stork, Kite, Upland
Buzzard, Golden Eagle, Saker Falcon, Lesser Kestrel, Common or Eurasian Kestrel, and
Little Owl are included in Annex 2 to the Washington Convention (1973) on Intemational
Trade of Rare Species of Wildlife.
Mammals - Mammal diversity does not vary greatly from that of Group Two. However, the
presence of a great number of water bodies, rivers, streams, and wetlands include some
particular features that need to be recognized. Some species including Zulgiin Ogotno,
and musk-rat inhabit the edges of water bodies and reed-beds. Saiga tatarica mongolicus
included in the Red Book of Mongolia (1997), and designated as a "Dune population"
inhabits the southeast of the Khar Us lake area.
Road sections identified as AH-8-10-11-17 have rare species such as Satunin's Jerboa
(Cardiocranius paradoxus), thick-tailed Pygmy Jerboa (Salpingotus crassicauda), Marbled
Polecat (Vormela peregusna), Saiga Antelope (Saiga tatarica mongolicus) and Goitered or
Black-tailed Gazelle (Gazella subgutturosa). Also, Saiga Antelope classified as one of the
rarest endangered species according to the Hunting Law of Mongolia is present. Goitered
or Black-tailed Gazelle, Marbled Polecat are included in the list of rare species of wildlife
issued from the Government of Mongolia and dated May 25, 1995. With reference to the
species listed in Annex 2 (1973) of the Washington Convention on International Trade of
Rare Species of Wildlife, Gray Wolf and Saiga Antelope are present.
4.3.6 Flora
The road leading from Khairkhandulaan to Zereg soum covers an extensive area with
diverse vegetation communities. The vegetation of the area is characterized by the unique
combinations of plant species that are typical of steppe, or desert steppe zones.
Zone Characteristics:
* Steppe Zone - Most common plants that can be found in the steppe zone including
such species as Stipa feather grasses, various Cramineae, sedge, Artemisia, Potentilla
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia    - 42 -



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                         05. Oct. 2000.
acaulis, Knapweed, Pasque, Allium, Allium adorum. The most wide spread species
type found in the steppe is caragana,. There are shrubs of Amygdalus pedunculata,
caragana spinosa, Atraphaxis flutescens, Ribes diacanthum, Ceratoides popposa,
Kochia prostrata growing around the steep slopes of mountains and hills,and in sunny
sheltered places along the ravines and gullies. Thickets of Spiraea aquilegifolia,
Cotoneaster melanocarpa, and Pentaphylloides spread out around the steep
mountainous slopes.
Desert Steppe Zone - Located where the Mongolian steppe is transformed into the
Central Asiatic desert are dominant endemic plant species that are not found anywhere
else. On the mountain slopes, and the intermontane valleys, are species of plants that
are characteristic of the Mongolian grass desert steppe including Stipa gobica, Stipa
pennata, wild leek, wormwood Artemisia, Artemisia leucophylla, and Ajania. In the
desert steppe as well as small Gramineae species, Ceratoides, Sa/sala, Anabasus
aphylla, Caragana pigmaea, Potaninia, Corispernum, and Salsala collina can be found.
The vegetation growing along the road sections selected for upgrading can be divided into
7 community types:
1. Around the road section from Khairkhandulaan to Bayanteeg mine, there are
Gramineae grass communities with Cleistogenes dominating. The plant cover is
composed of Cieistogenes squarrosa and floral species including Stipa Klemenzii,
Artemisia caespitosa, Cargana pygmaea, C. Ieucopho/a, and C. Bungei. Lesser
grasses include Arenaria copillaris, Orostachys spinosa, and Stellaria dichtoma
2. Along the road section leading from Bayanteeg mine to Ulziit soum communities of
small tussock Gramineae-feather grasses, couch-feather grasses and small Gramineae
species are found. The dominant species are Stipa Kr/lovii, Cleistogenes squarrosa,
Koeleria cristata, Leymus chinensis, Agropyren cristata, Carex Korshinskyi, Artemisia
frigida, A. scoparia, Cargana stenophylla, and C. microphylla.
3. Along the road section from the center of Bayankhongor towards to the Nariin wood
bridge are communities comprised of Cleistogenes, Stipa, and small Gramineae and
Couch species. The dominant species of plants are Stipa Klemenzii, Cleistogenes
squarrosa, and Artemisia frigida.
4. Along the road section covering the both sides of the Baidrag bridge, and the Baaran
Pass there are communities of Stipa-saline plant species, and Cargana-Stipa. The
plant cover is composed of Stipa gobica, S. glareosa, Ajania fruticulosa, Analasis
brevifolia, Krascheninikova ceratoides, Kochia prostrata, Pti/agrostis pelliotii, Cargana
leucophylaea, C. pygmaea, and C. bungei.
5. Along the road section from Altai to Dundyn ovoo, communities of Cleistogenes-feather
grasses, small Gramineae-feather grasses, and some Fescues, and small Gramineae
species.  The vegetational cover is composed of  Stipa gobica, Stipa Krylovii,
Cleistogenes squarrosa, Kaeleria cnstata, Stipa Klemenzii, Caragana stenophylla, C.
microphylla, Galium verum, Serratula centauroides, Veronica incana, Potentilla
strigosa, Festuca lenensis, and Poa attenuatta.
6. Along the road section leading from the Dundyn ovoo towards the Eeviin camp/hotel
there are communities of Salsala, Salsala-Allium-Stipa, and Caragana-Stipa. Dominant
species include Stipa gobica, Allium polyrrhizum, Analasis brevifoli, Caragana
leucophylla, C. pygmeea, and C. Karschinskii.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia     -43 -



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                        05. Oct. 2000.
7. Around Khovd's Zereg soum there are communities of feather grasses, Carex, Leymus
plants and Gramineae species. The dominant plant species are Carex dunuscula,
Leymus chinensis, Artemisia Adamsii, Chenopodium acuminatum, Tngolochin
maritima, Plantago slasa, Puccinellia tenufolora, and Analasis brevifolia.
4.4 PROTECTED AREAS
For the purposes of describing all natural resources in the area of the work, identification of
"protected areas" adjacent or close to the projects should be identified. Noted areas
include:
* Khangai Nuruu National Park (Link 2)
* Khorgo-Terkhiin Ts. Nuur National Park (Link 2)
* Noyonkhangai National Park (Link 2)
* Khasagt Khairkan Strictly Prohibited Area (Link 3)
. Khar-Us Nuur National Park (Link 3)
* Khurk Serkh Strictly Prohibited Area (Link 3)
* Bulgan Uul Natural Monument (Link 2)
* Sharga-Mankhan Natural Reserve (Link 3)
The proposed works does not enter into or cross any of these noted protected areas and
the planned protected areas in 2001-2005 and 2006-2015 but an obvious concem would
be increased human use pressure placed upon these locations with an increase in vehicle
accessibility. In that the work does not involve the direct improvement of access to these
areas, assessment of potential impacts related to traffic increases has not been undertaken
as part of this study.
It is recommended that the appropriate authority in Mongolia examine and plan for an
increase in accessibility to these areas as part of their normal planning activities.
4.5. PUBLIC-OPINION POLL
Erdenesant - Arvaikheer road
Arvaikheer-Erdenesant route area's local people's opinion and views have been studied via
arranging meetings, discussions and questionnaires. The outcome of the questionnaires
with 12 questions touching upon such issues as the performance of this project,
socioeconomic and environmental impacts to be caused during its operation phase is
presented hereby. Over 25 persons were involved therein.
The people asked are of opinion that the upgrading of Arvaikheer-Erdenesant paved road
will be of significance providing thereby more favourable conditions for the country
infrastructure and regional development and social progress. However, they do not deny
possibilities that during the road operational period there might be some adverse impacts
due to traffic transportation discipline and motorists' actions.
They consider necessary to take into account heavy snowfalls, rainfalls, strong winds,
storms that are frequent in such localities as Sharyn Davaa, Bumbat, Erdenesant, Ulziit,
Khuitni valley, Ar Zadgai, which might affect the motor road operation. Also during the
operational period heavy weight vehicles and machines that are not designed for such a
road may be applied leading to mechanical failures. They voiced their expectations that on
the part of the state and government due efforts be exerted and consideration paid so that
the project would be implemented on time with a high quality.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia    - 44 -



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                         05. Oct. 2000.
While there are some negative impacts expected to take place during the project
implementation stage, it is possible to arrive at conclusions that its successful performance
will enable to preserve the ecological balance, protect pasture and hayfields, cease
multitracking, improve land use and minimize soil erosion and degradation and all this will
be beneficial in terms of the area's economic and regional infrastructure's development.
Kharkhorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel road
As was mentioned before, the Kharkhorin -Tsetserleg-Tosontsengel road runs along a
considerable number of settlements. In view of this we have met with the local authorities,
officials, herdsmen to be aware of their position conceming the project, possible impacts to
be caused by the project with respect to the local nature and environment, anticipated
benefits, etc.
Totally 40 persons were involved in the questionnaires. On summing up their answers
provided with regard to the first question, namely, their position concerning the project, all
persons covered by the questionnaire in total said that they were to support it 100%
As to the second question about possible positive and negative impacts the road
construction and operational activities would have upon the local nature and environment
majority or 72% said that the positive effects would outweigh, 26% considered that it would
be of negative effects meaning earthworks, dust generation and soil contamination.
As to the third question about possible influences the project would have with respect to
their soum's and their own life, 90% were confident that it would help to raise the area of
pasturelands, any kinds of businesses especially transport would be promoted,
breakdowns of vehicles and technical facilities would be minimised.
Being asked about any apprehensions might be excited in connection with the road
upgrading activities, 85% replied they had no apprehensions, while the rest expressed their
concern that the ecological balance, land outlook, soils might be destroyed, quarry and
borrow pit be left without reinstatement, and the works might be ceased.
Is it possible that wildlife would be scared away due to the road ?
- Just 5-6% of those being asked admitted that they had such concem while the rest
(nearly 100%) were sure that the region would not be ousted due to the project
performance
Rare, endangered or of medicinal or business importance species of plant growina along
the road ?
- Just a few said that they knew about some medicinal herbs growing in some places
Any customs. traditions related to the Protection of nature, worshipoed obos, water courses
7
- They said that such sacred mountains and obos were around Terkh Tsagaan lake and Ikh
Uul soum and they had some cautions in connection with them sometimes
Any archaeological and historical monuments in the surroundings?
- 4% mentioned about some such places.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia     -45 -



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                        05. Oct. 2000.
Any DOSSibility that the road would somehow affect the livestock pastures ?
- 80% considered that it was multi-tracking that affected the pastures and the construction
of a new road would be of great help in reducing this pressure
Any localities alona the road that are characterised by heavy snowfalls. rainfalls. storns.
stronc winds ?
- They said that the Solongot Davaa and Ikh Tamir river used to overflow its banks
Any oDinions and suggestions the state authorities and public organisations should be
aware of?
- Some said that the road should run through the territory of lkh Uul soum, the bridge
should be modemised, environmental assessments made, most of our respondents were
of opinion that it proper attention should be paid to the localities that used to be blocked in
the years with heavy rainfall, the project should be implemented with maximum efficiency,
funding should be secured for the road construction, and the road construction works
should be speeded up.
Arvaikheer-Bayankhongor-Altai-Khovd Road
A public-opinion poll has been carried out with respect to the selective upgrading of the
Arvaikheer-Bayankhongor-Altai-Khovd road which involved 45 persons, including officials,
local residents, etc.
Of the 45 persons covered by the poll, 26 were identified as having above average
education.Age distribution involved five persons at the age of 30 or below, seventeen
persons aged 31 to 50 and four persons over 51
All the respondents expressed satisfaction with the road upgrading pointing out that the
road upgrading would benefit the local community and herdsmen's life.
Some 46.15 per cent of those asked thought that it would affect the environment and
nature, especially soils and vegetation. About 30.7 per cent emphasized the need to keep
the impacts rendered during the road construction as low as possible. Some 19.2 per cent
regarded that appropriate permissions should be obtained from the local authorities and
due arrangements made with respect to the operation of quarries and borrow pits for sand
and gravel mining, and reclamation activities.
All those who participated in the poll held the opinion that no irreparable damage would
likely to be caused during the road construction and stressed the necessity to carry out in
full all restoration actions with ensuring due supervision. They believed that the road
upgrading would have multiple benefits for the economic, cultural and social life of the area
In general the local population expressed support for the proposed work.
Summerising the above, it can be viewed that most of the local dwellers residing and
working along the road want the works be performed in the shortest possible term with
ensuring adequate quality. They are confident that notwithstanding some possible negative
consequences and impacts the project might have, its benefits are to weigh them down.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia   - 46 -



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                         05. Oct. 2000.
5 ENVIRONMENTAL SCREENING
5.1 OBJECTIVES
The main objective of this environmental screening is to identify which if any of the
proposed projects will require some environmental planning and an EMP. The criteria for
environmental screening of road projects has been developed for several existing projects
in Asia including Papua, New Guinea. Generally, screening involves the identification of a
combination of factors, which determine the extent and degree of study required.
Screening is based on the type of activity and the existing environment in which the activity
occurs. When the work involves restoration of an existing facility without relocation or major
design change, generally the sectoral EMP is sufficient.
5.2 SCREENING METHODOLOGY
A review of information on the existing environment was taken from documentation
supplied by the World Bank and which is listed in the References. This information was
combined with the project descriptions also supplied by the World Bank to identify the
combinations of activities and environment that could require a specific EP.
1. Works, which improve access to legally identified protected areas including National
Parks, Restricted Areas, Protected Areas etc.
Whenever access is improved to controlled areas, a subsequent loss of habitat security is
lost by the introduction of more vehicles and people.
2. Works which increase demand on locally limited resources such as water, gravel,
vegetation.
The improvement of roads can generally result in increases in traffic and development with
subsequent Increased demand for services etc.
3. Road reconstruction that involves altering drainage patterns or local surface water flow.
Generally, road rehabilitation involves changes if not improvements in existing drainage
systems.
4. Roads, which are not sufficiently well maintained such that local traffic chooses to travel
cross country. This can result in a phenomenon called multi-tracking.
Multi-tracking is a persistent phenomenon in Mongolia and the sensitive nature of the
steppe grasslands to disturbance by wheeled traffic is well documented. In some areas,
several scores of individual parallel tracks can be seen adjacent to the highway.
5. Roads, which involve the development of new borrow or quarry sites or off-ROW
developments including camp or service sites in sensitive areas.
Development of off-ROW sites often results in disturbances to previously unaffected land
and particularly increases access away from the road.
6. Works, which involve major structures particularly over watercourses.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia     -47 -



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                          05. Oct. 2000.
The presence of wooden bridges over some rivers particularly in Link 2 and Link 3 may
result in some remediation work. In addition, for all three project areas, there are locations
were flooding and washouts are constant maintenance issues.
5.3 SCREENING RESULTS
The three projects, which were already discussed in Section 3, were compared against the
identified combinations above to determine their potential impacts on the environment.
The information used in the screening came from previously prepared reports supplied by
the World Bank. The information presented in those documents is considered to be more
than adequate to complete this screening exercise. These reports are identified in the
References Section of this document.
The three projects already described in Section 3 were compared against the criteria above
to determine their potential impacts on the environment. Those projects were:
1) Erdenesent - Arvaikheer Road Upgrading
2) Kharkhorin - Tosontsengel Road Rehabilitation
3) Arvaikheer - Khovd Road Rehabilitation
A review of the project descriptions and environmental settings did not identify any impacts
of sufficient significance such that a separate EA was required for any subproject. Instead
a single sectoral assessment will cover all subprojects. To perform the EA a generic
impact table was prepared which listed the main activities involved in the rehabilitation
work and identified impacts as a result of the work. The anticipated impacts are based
upon experience gained from previous projects of a similar nature.
5.3.1 Erdenesent - Arvaikheer Road Upgrading
Impacts identified for this project in the earlier EMP include loss of water quality during
bridge and culvert remediation, potential increases to air pollutants from increased traffic,
development of pits and quarries in previously undisturbed areas, and increase in local
wildlife mortality from increased traffic. Other concerns include potential release of fuels
and solvents, increased service pressure on local facilities such as water supply, and social
effects resulting from increased economic activity along the road.
Generally, all physical impacts on the environment resulting from standard highway and
road construction practices are controllable with good design and construction practices.
Culverts and in stream work should be done during low water and preferably in dry
conditions. The replacement of non-functioning drainage installations will actually result in
a positive impact on local water quality.
The location of material supply sites such as borrow pits and quarries will be a major
mitigative tool in controlling the impacts of these facilities. Locational criteria will include
proximity to the roadway, (closer is better) as well as consideration for multiple purpose
sites that combine resource harvesting with a campsite and stockpile site with potential for
future use is preferred.
Remediation of abandoned facilities will involve soil salvage during development and
restoration at completion.
Increased mortality of local wildlife can be controlled where necessary but such responses
are generally done during operations when problem areas are definable. Fencing and
other physical barriers are design solutions available.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia      - 48 -



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                          05. Oct. 2000.
The storage of pollutants during construction will be handled in such a manner as to
minimize risk of product loss and to facilitate site abandonment later as required.
Pressure on local services should be short term  and reversible.  The potential for
development of new service facilities should be included in planning including the location
of fuel/food stops, vehicle servicing, and water sources. This may have benefit at the local
economic level.
In summary, the work involves upgrading the existing road surface. Most of the effects
from the work will occur during the operations phase and will be a result of increased
economic activity.
5.3.2 Kharhorin - Tosontsengel Road Rehabilitation
Impacts identified for this proposed project include the development of many materials
source sites with a resulting loss of productive soil, dust generation, multi-tracking to the
site, introduction of pollutants into surrounding soils, and noise increases. Additional
concems are noted for water quality during installations of new culverts, deformation of
water courses from stream training works, water shadow caused by the increased height of
the embankment, general pollution issues from increased economic activity, and post
construction economic effects from the anticipated increase in traffic flow along the route.
Most concems related to the development of borrow and quarry sites can be addressed on
a site by site basis. The design grade of all sections should include consideration of cut-fill
balances so that off ROW borrow requirements are minimized. The location of borrow
sites should be as close to the ROW as possible to minimize tracking and disturbance
caused by access roads, and multiple use potential should be assessed for each location.
Remediation of sites will include soil salvage and replacement, and recontouring upon
abandonment. Dust can be controlled by water if available but not by oiling and all fuel
storage will be done in a controlled manner including siting away from watercourses.
New or replacement culverts should be installed during low water to minimize turbidity and
upslope interceptors installed to protect the embankment from washouts. Armour should
be installed along portions of the embankment where watercourses are paralleled.
Issues from the increase in economic activity should be addressed by local authorities
where appropriate. Although the rehabilitation work does not pass through any identified
sensitive areas it does provide primary access to regions with such sites. The road
improvements can be reasonably expected to increase accessibility to these sites.
The reports available about probable traffic increase do not identify such a major increase
that noise is considered a long term significant impact.
The current condition of the road is such that some remediation is necessary to control the
most readily identifiable impact related to the presence of the road with or without
remediation.
Traffic loads are sufficient now that when the road becomes impassable, the traffic leaves
the existing embankment and follows its own route. This has resulted in 'multi-tracking"
which is the major impact identified in all reports. Improvements to the existing
embankment will lessen the attractiveness of cross-country vehicle passage and result in a
beneficial impact.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia      -49 -



Environ mental Assessment and Management Plan                         05. Oct. 2000.
5.3.3 Arvaikheer - Khovd Road Rehabilitation
Potential impacts identified as concems for the proposed work include the development of
borrow and quarry sites, increased dust and noise, fuel spills, loss of water quality, multi-
tracking, and economic development concems.
Concems for borrow pit development can be addressed on a site by site basis. Generally,
the requirement for borrow can be minimized by designing the road grade to balance cuts
and fills. Where materials requirements demand off-ROW borrow that material should be
taken as close to the road as possible and preferably from a site that has multiple use
potential. Restoration of sites includes soil salvage and replacement. Dust may be
controlled by water but not by oil and access must be restricted to a single lane.
New or replacement culverts should be installed during low water and upslope interceptors
installed to lessen the potential for washouts. The embankment should be armoured
whenever existing watercourses are paralleled.
Although the project does not directly involve identified sensitive areas, improvement in the
trafficability of the road can reasonably be expected to increase accessibility to sensitive
areas. Local authorities should be prepared to address such increases as well as the
anticipated increase in economic activity at the local level.
The increase in noise is not considered an important impact because of the pre-existence
of the road.
The issue of multi-tracking will be addressed by making the roadway the preferred route to
follow.
For all three project sections, the potential increase in pollutants from vehicle operation
including metals from exhausts and material from tire wear was identified as a potential
impact. Changes to road design that improve trafficability will only result in a lower net
pollution rate per vehicle/km by making the vehicles operate more efficiently. This is seen
as a positive net impact.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia      - 50 -



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                        05. Oct. 2000.
6 ASSESSMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS
As discussed in Section 5 Environmental Screening, none of the projects were identified as
requiring a project specific EA to identify and address potential environmental impacts.
This assessment assumes that for all projects where activities are very similar, the
anticipated impacts will be similar and thus this generic assessment method is applicable
to the proposed work. The anticipated impacts are based on experience gained from
similar projects in similar circumstances. Effects are identified as being either non-
significant or significant with significant impacts being those that are long term, non-
reversible, and affecting important or limited habitat or populations. No significant impacts
were identified for the proposed programs.
6.1 ACQUISITION OF ROW
This involves acquisition of land for widening or realignment. This activity is not expected
to be significant for the sub-projects. One realignment is proposed for Link 3 (Arvaikheer to
Khovd), but it also follows an existing road or track. Minor realignments may be applied
adjacent to drainages or watercourse crossings but these will result in improved
maintenance characteristics. The project engineer should control any realignment and
preferably follow the existing ROW. Effects are judged to be non-significant.
6.2 ROW GRADING AND CLEARING
This involves movement of surface materials including organic cover wherever necessary
to perform the work. By following the existing road, grading will generally be done only on
the existing embankment and adjacent shoulders. Some grading in upslope interceptor
ditches and where cut and fill grade is possible, is expected. Wherever adjacent
vegetation cover and/or topsoil are to be disturbed, that material should be salvaged and
stored for later remedial or restorative work. All material graded on the existing ROW
should be considered for salvage and use in the rehabilitation program. This includes the
existing asphalt cover, road subgrade, culverts, and rock armour. With the use of
approved procedures, effects are judged to be non-significant.
6.3 CONTRACTOR MOBILIZATION
The contractors can be expected to mobilize their equipment and personnel in a single
event for each subproject. This can result in excessive dust, noise and disruption. Some
human health and safety issues may also arise from the unusually high traffic density.
Effects were judged to be non-significant.
6.4 ESTABLISHMENT OF CAMPS AND SUPPORT SITES
Contractors may develop work camps to house their staff during the work. Consideration
of location in existing facilities, use of local resources, avoidance of sensitive areas and site
remediation are issues for these sites. With application of appropriate planning, effects
were judged to be non-significant.
6.5 ESTABLISHMENT AND OPERATION OF ASPHALT PLANTS
This refers to activities related to sitting, operating and abandoning concrete or asphalt
plants. Concerns include air pollution, spills of bitumen, dust, noise and possible effects on
local water sources. Many of these concems can be addressed with appropriate location
selection. Effects were judged to be non-significant.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia    - 51 -



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                        05. Oct. 2000.
6.6 OPERATION OF EXISTING QUARRY AND BORROW SITES
The use of existing sites, if well located, is preferable to developing new sites. Excavation
of active river channels, or development of unnecessary off ROW access should be
avoided and preferably, most embankment material should come from appropriate grading
on the ROW. Excessive noise, dust and vehicle movement should be minimized. Effects
were judged to be non-significant.
6.7 GRADING IN STEEP, HILLY OR UNSTABLE AREAS
Although cutting and filling is a preferred materials handling method, care must be taken in
areas of cross slope particularly near watercourses. Erosion and sedimentation concerns
can be addressed by appropriate design and location. With proper design and construction
procedures, effects were judged to be non-significant.
6.8 DRAINAGE INSTALLATIONS
The proper installation of drainage facilities including culverts, interceptor ditches, sediment
traps, armour stone and where necessary bridges, can control potential sedimentation of
sensitive waterbodies and decrease maintenance requirements.  Installation of new
facilities will address many current problems. Effects were judged to be non-significant.
6.9 INSTALLATION OF BASE COURSE, REGRAVELLING
This process will result in dust and noise as well as heavy equipment movement.
Equipment must be kept on approved areas, and use of dust suppressants like water may
be considered. Effects were considered to be non-significant.
6.10 BITUMEN APPLICATION
The installation of a bitumen sealer or adhesive involves use of a potential pollutant.
Proper installation procedures and maintenance will control any concems. Effects were
judged to be non-significant.
6.11 INCREASED ACCESS
The improvement of the roads is expected to result in increased traffic flow with the
potential for increased exploitation of adjacent natural resources. The exploitation of
protected areas often arises as a policy decision from other government agencies and is
beyond the review of this document. Provided that project personnel follow approved
procedures, effects were judged to be non-significant.
6.12 INCREASED OPERATING SPEEDS
Increased operating speeds may result in increased animal and human mortality.
However, the increased operating efficiency is also expected to result in less off-road traffic
which would at least localize effects to the existing ROW. Effects were judged to be non-
significant.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia    - 52 -



Envirorunental Assessment and Management Plan                      05. Oct. 2000.
7 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND MONITORING PLAN
7.1 IMPLEMENTATION OF RECOMMENDED MITIGATION MEASURES
An Environmental Protection Plan (EPP) has been included as part of this document in
Appendix A. Its structure and content are intended to supply readily accessible information
about the mitigative measures intended to address activities and impacts. No direction is
given on the process of implementation of the measures however commonly the direction
given in such EPP's is first accepted as policy by the proponent and then directly included
in all contract documents to act as direction for contractors.
The content of the EPP addresses methods by activity and where circumstance indicates
specific locations for the application of the method are included. For example, topsoil
salvage is addressed under clearing and grading as an activity but may only be applicable
to new borrow or quarry sites by location.
7.2. EXPENSES FOR MITIGATION MEASURES
In order to implement the advice specified in the report Environmental Impact Assessment
successfully, we need to conduct training for makers of road rehabilitation project and plan,
executors of road rehabilitation, and technological and environmental rangers and
inspectors.
We calculated the expenses required for restoration of land where there were quarry and
borrow areas, holes, canals, access road and multi-tracks, workers' village and pit plant
created during the road construction as well as the expenses for checking the
implementation of measures specified in the environmental management plan on site as
follows.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia   - 53 -



Environmental Assessmeii. ,na Management Plan                               05. Oct. 2000.
Expenses for Environmental Training, Restoration and Monitoring Measures
Expenses in USD
Name of works                   Erdenesant-  Kharkhorin-  Arvaikheer    Tota
Arvaikheer  Tosontsengel   - Khovd   Total
D. Trainina for all three roads
*  Salary for teachers and specialists          800         900        1000       2700
*  Training of plan and project workers (14     480         500         600       1580
people 3 days)
*  Training of road rehabilitation engineers and  1100     1200        1400       3700
technologists (30 people 4 days)
*  Training  of inspection  and  supervision    520         600         700       1820
workers (12 people 2 days)
*  Training of local environmental rangers and  700         700         700       2100
inspectors (22 people 3 days)
Sub Total                       3600        3900        4400       11900
B.Restoration works
*  To fill quarries and borrow areas and make them  19000     13500       14000      46500
even with surrounding slopes
*  To scatter top soil and cover with it          12500        7500       7700       27700
*  To sow plant seeds                             4000         6000       5000       15000
*  To sow seeds in places affected by access roads  4500       3500       3800       11800
*  To thin multi-tracs and sow plant seeds         5000        5300       4000       14300
*  To clean place of workers' camp, material stores    7500    4500       4500       16500
and machinery and equipment
*  To remove solid wastes                          6500        2200        3000      11700
Sub Total                       59000       42500       42000     143500
* C. Monitoringq and Suwervision
*  Joint inspection to be carried out by the Ministry    1400  1800        1700       4900
of Nature and Environment, Department of
Roads and "ENCO" Co., Ltd.
*  Inspection of local government                  700         600         900        2200
Sub Total                       2400         2100       2600       7100
D. Unprovided expenses                             4000        4000        4000      12000
All Total                      69000       52500       53000      174500
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia             - 54 -



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                       05. Oct. 2000.
7.3. SUPERVISION OF ENVIRONMENTAL MITIGATION
The main objective of environmental supervision is to ensure that approved
mitigation plans and procedures are implemented as required by the proponent as well as
the contractor. In road rehabilitation projects this supervision is usually part of standard
contractor supervision and is dependent upon the experience and capabilities of the project
management.  By following the recommended procedures in the EPP, generally a
competent site engineer can control the work in such a manner as to achieve most of the
objectives sought by the mitigative procedures. Many of the procedures are implemented
during the planning and design phases of the project and are therefore the responsibility of
the proponent for supervision.
We will organize the works to implement the advice specified in the report of environmental
impact assessment on mitigation of negative impacts of road rehabilitation on environment
and restoration of broken earth, soil and plants as follows.
1. Department of Roads.
- The agency shall have the methods and technology for minimizing some negative
impacts, mentioned in the Report of Environmental Impact Assessment, included in
the Selective Road Rehabilitation Plan and Project and monitor it.
*  The agency shall have the volume and expenses of works to restore pits, workers'
camp, access operative roads and multi-tracks, make them similar to surrounding
slopes, cover them with top soil and sow seeds of local common plants specified in
the contract to be concluded with the executor of rehabilitation of roads and monitor
its implementation.
*  The agency shall carry out examination on application of environmentally friendly
technology in road rehabilitation.
e  If the executor of road rehabilitation does not do restoration works included in the
project and plan and specified in the assessment statement, the agency shall stop
funding and take a measure to have the rehabilitation work implemented by other
organization.
2. Local Government and Authority.
*  The local government shall determine the size of quarry for sand, gravel and soil-
pits and the amount of reserve to use, as well as the size of land for placement of
workers' village and building material stores, grant permission and control.
*  The local government shall control whether the job executor does restoration with
quality according to the Report of Environmental Assessment and Environmental
Mitigation Plans.
3. Executor of Road Rehabilitation.
.  The executor shall organize and conduct the work provided that it shall keep
environmental negative impacts as low as possible.
*  The executor shall restore the earth, such as quarry and riverbeds, broken during
the rehabilitation, with quality according to the advice, specified in the
environmental assessment, project and plan and hand in to the local government.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia   - 55 -



Environrmental Assessment and Management Plan                       05. Oct. 2000.
4. Enco Company
The "ENCO" will be working at the road upgrading projects implemented in the
above areas regarding the measures scheduled in the environmental management
and monitoring programs for reducing the negative impacts and providing qualified
recommendations with respect to the contracts being implemented on the site. The
work will be carried out in cooperation with the Ministry of Nature and Environment
and the Road Department's officers.
7.4. ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING
Often the term monitoring is used in the context of both inspection for compliance and
measurement for achieving stated objectives. In previous work it is noted that both
applications have been used by the World Bank.
Inspection of work done is the most common form of compliance monitoring. Contractors
are judged as to whether they have done the work as described in contract documents and
are compensated appropriately. When they do not comply with the terms of the contract,
they are required to complete remedial work to satisfy their obligations or they are not
compensated. This form of inspection can be done by the on-site engineer or staff.
Environmental effects monitoring (EEM) is more difficult to implement and to track. Clear
measurable definitions of environmental goals must first be established and then long term
studies designed to judge the success achieved in meeting those goals must be designed
and implemented. Goals for the proposed work could include:
1) Increase or decrease in the incidence of multi-tracking
2) Success of remediation efforts at borrow or quarry sites
3) Long term stability of drainage control designs
4) Regional economic development related to services for transportation vehicles
Some EEM work will involve strictly academic study, while some may have direct
application to ongoing maintenance issues. The purpose behind all EEM work is to
advance our knowledge on the applicability of techniques for achieving measurable results.
8 SUMMARY AND CLOSURE
"ENCO" Environmental Consulting Company was retained by the World Bank to develop
an EMP to address their statutory requirements under O.D. 4.01 for a Category B project.
The project description of the work involved three separate road rehabilitation and/or
upgrading projects all involving pre-existing road ROW's in Mongolia. The nature of the
work proposed and the environmental setting encountered did not require that individual
environmental impact assessments be done. The general impact level encountered was
judged to be limited in extent and duration, reversible in most instances and not significant
when compared to probable positive impacts.
The two most noteworthy biophysical concems involved disturbance to previously
undisturbed areas and the potential introduction of pollutants into the air and water
columns. The first issue will be addressed by the net positive impact of reducing multi-
tracking by making the road ROW the preferred route for all traffic. The second issue will
be addressed by increasing the efficiency of operation of vehicles by increasing their rate
of travel on an improved road surface.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia   - 56 -



Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                            05. Oct. 2000.
The information contained in this report was taken exclusively from documents supplied by
the World Bank and ENCO does not take any responsibility for the content of those reports.
Because no significant impacts were described in any supplied information, the
assessment was kept to a simple screening analysis and emphasis was placed on
development of an EPP that was generic in nature.
Respectfullly submitted,
"ENCO" Limited
Dr. Namkhai A.,
Director-General
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia        - 57 -






Environmental Assessment and Management Plan                       05. Oct. 2000.
REFERENCES
Combating Desertification in Mongolia, Ts. Adiyasuren and S. Sangidansranjav, Mongolia
Ministry for Nature and the Environment, Ulaanbaatar, 1997.
Environment and Development Issues in Mongolia, Ts. Adiyasuren, Published Articles by
the former Minister for Nature and the Environment of Mongolia, 1998, Ulaanbaatar
Environmental Profile of Mongolia: Prepared for the U.S. Agency for Intemational
Development, August, 1998, prepared by DAI, Bethesda, Maryland.
Mongolia's Tentative List, Cultural and Natural Heritage, Ministry of Enlightenment,
Mongolia and UNESCO World Heritage Centre, undated.
Red Book Of Mongolia, !987, Ulaanbaatar
Report of the Environmental Impact Assessment of Erdenesant - Arvaikheer Road;
Prepared for the World Bank and Road Department of Mongolia, May 2000,
prepared by "ENCO" Co. Ltd., Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia.
Sectoral Environmental Assessment and Environmental Management Plan, Papua New
Guinea Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project: Prepared for the
Govemment of Papua New Guinea and the World Bank, October, 1997, prepared
by Carl Bro Intemational a/s
The Report of the Detailed Environmental Assessment and Mitigation Plan for Selective
Rehabilitation of Kharkhorin - Tsetserleg - Tosontsengel Road: Prepared for the
World Bank and Road Department of Mongolia, May, 1999, prepared by 4ENCO"
Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia.
The Report of the Detailed Environmental Assessment and Mitigation Plan for Selective
Rehabilitation of Arvaikheer - Bayankhongor - Altai - Khovd Road: Prepared for
the World Bank and Road Department of Mongolia, 2000, prepared by "ENCO' Co.,
Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia   - 58 -






APPENDIX A
Environmental Protection / Mitigation Plan
Mongolia transport Development Project






ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION / MITIGATION PLAN
Mongolia Transport Development Project
Submitted to:
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.,
Washington, D.C. 20433
Submitted by:
ENCO LIMITED
(Environmental Consulting Company)
Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia
October 5, 2000






Environmental Protection/Mitigation Plan                             05. Oct. 2000.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE
1.  ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION/ MITIGATION PLAN .          ................................................1
1.1  PURPOSE .................................................1
1.2  PLAN ORGANIZATION .................................................I
1.3  POTENTIAL PROJECT INTERACTIONS AND MITIGATION   ...................................2
2. GENERAL PROCEDURES ..............                           .        .3
2.1 FIELD STAFF ORGANIZATION                          ..3
2.2 NOTIFICATION OF CONCERNED PARTIES                       .        .       3
2.3 ENVIRONMENTAL INSPECTION                           ..4
2.3.1  Position Descridption, Environmental Inspector     .4
2.4 ENGINEERING AND DESIGN                            ..5
2.5 ROAD ROW DEVELOPMENT   ..
2.5.1 Veaetation Clearin                       .5
2.5.2  Grubbing. Stripping and Soil Salvage           .7
2.5.3 Excavation, Embankment. Gradin                 .8
2.5.4 Drainage and Erosion Control .10
2.5.5 Solid Wastes and Sewae .12
2.5.6  Clean-up ..........1.....2..............                      .. 12
2.5.7 Vegetation Manaaement .12
2.5.8  Clean - Up and Reclamation .........................            13
2.5.9  Access Roads ...                                                14
2.5.10 Fuels and Hazardous Materials .15
2.6 CONTINGENCY PLANNING    ..17
2.6.1 General Procedures .17
2.6.2  Fuels and Hazardous Materials Spill .17
2.6.3 Extreme Storm Event .20
2.6.4 Heritage Resources .20
2.6.5 Wildlife Encounters .21
2.7 DECOMMISSIONING    ..22
2.7.1 General Procedures .23
3. PERMITS AND LICENSES                   . . .24
4. KEY CONTACTS    ..25
4.1 FOR ALL SPILLS    ..25
4.2 FOR WILDFIRES    ..25
4.3 FOR DEPARTMENT OF ROADS    ..25
5. CODES. STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES                 . . .25
6. SUMMARY AND CLOSURE                     . . .25
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia        I



Environmental Protection/Mitigation Plan                           05. Oct. 2000.
1.    ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION/ MITIGATION PLAN
1.1   PURPOSE
An Environmental Protection/Mitigation Plan (EPP) is a dynamic document that will be updated
as required to address new protection and reporting procedures. The World Bank as part of the
development of an EMP includes presentation of mitigative procedures as part of the EMP. This
protection plan addresses that purpose for three road rehabilitation programs in Mongolia.
The document focuses on World Bank and Mongolian requirements and is to serve as a
standard protection measures document which may be filed with any agency having jurisdiction.
The information presented within this document mayl also be used as an intemal reference tool,
with applications for training and educating Mongolian DoR personnel and representatives.
Protection measures are written in construction specification format under specific construction
activity headings.
More specifically, the purpose of the EPP is to:
1.    Ensure DoR's commitments to minimize environmental effects will be met;
2.    Document environmental concerns and appropriate protection measures;
3.    Provide clear and concise instructions to relevant project personnel regarding
procedures for protecting the environment and minimizing environmental effects; and
4.    Provide a reference document for personnel when planning or conducting specific
activities.
This EPP attempts to cover as many potential eventualities for weather change within a season,
-or complete changes in the construction schedule, as possible and is directed at construction
issues. However, to help ensure that construction practices meet the intent of the EPP an
environmental life of project program including environmental/construction coordination,
contractor education and orientation, and rigorous environmental inspection, will be component
parts in this project.
In the development of this Plan, it was assumed that construction will occur during the year
2000. Should this schedule change, the Plan will be revised accordingly and all concemed
parties will be notified.
1.2   PLAN ORGANIZATION
This EPP outlines the procedures, organization and instructions to ensure that project personnel
understand and effectively implement environmental protection procedures for both routine
activities and unplanned events associated with the proposed site development work. Potential
interactions and mitigation is discussed in the following section and standard technical
construction drawings mentioned in this protection plan will be included in the pertinent section
as project planning proceeds. The remainder of the EPP will describe environmental concems
and protection procedures for anticipated field activities for the program, and provide guidance
on responding to unplanned events.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia    - I -



Environmental Protection/Mitigation Plan                               05. Oct. 2000.
1.3   POTENTIAL PROJECT INTERACTIONS AND MITIGATION
LAND RESOURCES
The work will involve the physical movement of earth and granular material with subsequent
disturbance of soil and vegetation. Some land areas will be occupied by project support
facilities.
AIR QUALITY
Machinery and traffic will result in dust and air borne pollutants being generated.
NOISE
The temporary introduction of machinery into a small area will result an increase in ambient
noise.
WATER QUALITY
The removal and replacement of culverts and other drainage facilities will result in disturbance
to stream beds and banks and some loss of water quality.
TERRESTRIAL HABITAT
INTERACTIONS
Interactions with terrestrial habitat include:
- Loss or alteration of plant communities from clearing
- Erosion resulting from removal of vegetative cover
* Wildlife habitat alteration or loss
* Reduced habitat effectiveness or increased fragmentation
* Direct animal mortalities
* Introduction of weed species
Although all of these potential interactions are of concern, the main issues for consideration for
the proposed work involve unnecessary clearing and potential loss of habitat caused by fuel
spills.
Generally the terrestrial habitat adjacent to the project area does not exhibit unusual or rare
communities or values.
Highway and road construction has the potential to cause one or all of the identified impacts.
Mitigative measures intended to minimize these impacts are discussed as follows for each
phase of the project.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia       - 2 -



Environmental Protection/Mitigation Plan                              05. Oct. 2000.
Planning
As with all engineering projects, several dfferent embankment configurations and construction
methods were considered for the work. Utilization of existing ROW's will minimize clearing and
all grading will be controlled. Where materials conditions allow, design grades will generally
allow for a balanced cut and fill . The width of disturbance on the ROW will be kept to that
required for the work and off-ROW travel will be controlled. Borrow sites and quarries will
preferentially be located on existing areas of disturbance and the location of any support facility
will include consideration of appropriateness for multiple use.
Construction
The potential impacts to water resources are greatest during the construction phase. As noted,
primary impacts to water crossings are the release of sediments into the stream. Generally
installation of replacement culverts will be done during low water.
The location and development of fuel storage facilities will include consideration of proximity to
surface water. On site fuel storage will be monitored and trained personnel will be used for all
fuel handling.
All disturbed ground surfaces will be restored upon abandonment. Topsoil and vegetation cover
will be stripped and stockpiled for later use in restoration.
Operations
Concem for increased public access to sensitive areas is not considered as part of this EPP but
regional authorities may wish to consider the probable effects of improved access generally into
the regions served by these roads.
2.    GENERAL PROCEDURES
These procedures are directed at the construction phase of the project but are applicable during
all project phases.
2.1   FIELD STAFF ORGANIZATION
During the construction phase of the project will be represented on-site by the staff with
designated responsibilities and authorities. The Site Superintendent (SS) will be the senior
DoR representative and be responsible for overall site management and contractor supervision.
The Chief Inspector (Cl) will be responsible for direct contractor supervision and implementation
of all site activities. The Environmental Inspector (El) or designate will be responsible for all
environmental field work, programs, monitoring, and design. The Cl and El will all report directly
to the SS.
2.2   NOTIFICATION OF CONCERNED PARTIES
Prior to the commencement of construction, a pre-job meeting shall be held between DoR
Engineering and Construction Manager, the Environmental Inspector and the contractors. Key
agency representatives (e.g. Forestry Officers, the Ministry of Environment, DoT, World Bank
etc.) will be invited to this meeting. This meeting is designed to make key construction
personnel aware of the environmental scope of work: general environmental concerns,
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia       - 3 -



Environmnntal Protection/Mitigation Plan                              05. Oct. 2000.
contingency measures, as well as rules and regulations applicable to the construction area.
Specifically, the Environmental Inspector will ensure that each DoR Construction Inspector and
each Contractor Foreman is aware of specific concems associated with their particular activity.
DoR's Environmental Inspector will ensure the implementation of the EPP during all phases of
construction. This includes surveying and clearing through to clean-up and reclamation. The
Environmental Inspector will have authority to stop any work activity and will provide design
information and advice to the site superintendent.
2.3   ENVIRONMENTAL INSPECTION
2.3.1 Position Description, Environmental Inspector
The Environmental Inspector (El), or designate will report directly to the Site Superintendent
(SS) and will be on-site during the construction phase of the project. The El will be responsible
for ensuring the effective implementation of approved environmental specifications and for
addressing site-specific concerns as they arise during construction. The El will interact with the
representatives of regulatory agencies involved in the project and other interested stakeholders
throughout the construction period on important environmental issues associated with
construction.  The El will coordinate, present and document the project environmental
orientation program and construction phase water quality monitoring as directed by the SS.
Qualifications
The El will have, as a minimum, completed an accredited post-secondary degree program in
Environmental Sciences or a related natural science or engineering discipline. Preference will
be given to applicants with at least four years of professional experience and demonstrated
familiarity with construction practices and procedures for linear and/or process plant projects.
Some familiarity with permits and licenses required for developments in British Columbia and
environmental protection planning is desirable. The work will involve some isolation and
potentially living away from home for extended periods of time.
Tasks
1.    The El will maintain a daily diary recording all activities and notable events and will file
daily and weekly reports with the SS.
2.    The El will document on supplied forms all instances of non-compliance, contingency
response, and work stoppage that relate to environmental issues.
3.    The El will maintain records as required for data collection for the water, air, and noise
monitoring programs.
4.    The El will document all communications with third-party monitors and representatives of
regulatory agencies.
5.    The El will supply on-site interpretation of all environmental specifications and designs to
the SS and where necessary develop alternate specifications and designs to ensure
compliance with stated project criteria and goals.
6.    The El will document all specification and design changes, which have any relation or
impact on environmental issues, and clearly show the process of resolution that resulted
in the changes.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia      -4 -



Environmental Protection/Mitigation Plan                              05. Oct. 2000.
7.    The El will maintain a photographic record of all issues related to environmental
planning, design, specifications and appropriate permits.
2.4   ENGINEERING AND DESIGN
During the design and planning phase of the project, a number of activities will be undertaken in
the field including a geotechnical program, site surveys, and the collection of fish and wildlife
data.
Environmental Concerns
The potential environmental effects associated with these initial field programs include potential
fuel spills, fires, clearing, and wildlife encounters.
Environmental Protection Procedures
Fuel handling
1.    Fueling of vehicles and equipment will be prohibited within 100 m of watercourses,
lakes, and wetland areas, unless otherwise authorized by
2.    All service vehicles used for fueling must be equipped with automatic shut-off valves.
Waste handling
1.    Food waste will be collected daily and stored in closed containers until disposed of at an
approved land-based waste disposal site.
2.    All other waste materials will be collected separately and recycled, where appropriate.
Any materials surplus to recycling will be disposed of at an appropriate waste disposal
site.
Fires
1.    All field crews will be provided with fire fighting gear and be trained in its use.
2.    There will be no smoking near any flammable products, and suitable locations for
disposal of smoking materials will be posted.
3.    All flammable wastes will be removed or disposed of on a regular basis.
Wildlife encounters
Any incidents with nuisance wildlife or collisions with wildlife will be reported to the Site
Superintendent and appropriate authorities.
2.5   ROAD ROW DEVELOPMENT
2.5.1 Vegetation Clearing
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia        S -



Environmental Protection/Mitigation Plan                              05. Oct. 2000.
The management of vegetation resources focuses on minimizing initial impacts to plant
communities, achieving control of undesired plant growth and the establishment and
maintenance of adequate and appropriate vegetative cover during operation. Proper soil
handling is a necessary process to maximize reclamation efforts and stabilize surface
sediments. Clearing is only likely to occur at watercrossings
Environmental Concems
The environmental concerns associated with the removal of timber resources include:
*     removal of the vegetative mat may lead to excessive erosion and deposition of
sediments in watercourses and,
*     an excessive amount of slash and debris may become mixed with snow cover and be
allowed to enter the adjacent water course.
Environmental Protection Procedures
1.    Measures will be implemented as outlined below to minimize the potential effects of
clearing activities. Clearing will comply with the requirements of all applicable permits.
Clearing activities will be limited to the area of development set out in the project
description.
2.    Clearing will consist of cutting to within 150 mm of the ground and disposing of all
standing trees, as well as the removal of all shrubs, debris, and other perishable
materials from the area indicated on the engineering/surveys drawings.
3.    All slash will be piled for subsequent disposal.
4.    Only those areas designated on engineered site plans will be cleared. Trees will be
blazed at intervals in advance of clearing to demarcate the limits of the work. Blazed
trees will not be felled. Clearing activities will not remove any vegetation outside the
authorized clearing limits.
5.    During clearing, trees will be felled into the proposed work area wherever possible.
'Leaners' or felled trees that inadvertently fall into adjacent undisturbed vegetation will be
salvaged, or bucked into manageable lengths and removed onto the site for alternate
uses.
6.    Salvaged logs will not be skidded through watercourses or wet areas identified as
important.
7.    At selected decking sites, salvaged logs will be limbed, topped, and decked with butt
ends facing the same direction. Log decks will be oriented to best facilitate loading.
8.    All stockpiles of merchantable or forest product timber within the specified clearing limits
will be located so as not to obstruct the access or work of others. At the request of the
prime contractor, some timber may be salvaged for use as reinforcement for surface
diversion berms (if required) or for general construction use. Timber resources to be
used for such purposes (in order of preference) include:
*     non-merchantable timber cleared from the site;
*     merchantable deciduous timber cleared from the site;
*     merchantable conifers cleared from the site;
*     non-merchantable timber cleared from off the site; and,
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia      - 6 -



Environmental Protection/Mitigation Plan                               05. Oct. 2000.
*     merchantable timber from off the site.
9.    Disposal of cleared merchantable timber, slash, and cuttings by burning will be in
compliance with all permits and approvals, as applicable. At no time will a fire be left
unattended.
10.   All buming will be done on buming skids or exposed mineral soil on the site. No burning
will be permitted directly on organic deposits.
11.   Slash burning crews shall have firefighting equipment on hand that is capable of
controlling any fire that may occur as a result of their activities
12.   In the event of a wild fire, the Fire Response-Action Plan shall be implemented, including
notifying proper authorities and cutting fire breaks.
13.   Slash and any other construction material or debris will not be permitted to enter any
watercourse.
14.   Clearing will generally be undertaken by the use of mechanical clearing methods such
as bulldozers. Where terrain disturbance by tracked machinery may result in the loss of
topsoil or the sedimentation of watercourses and waterbodies, chainsaws or other hand-
held equipment will be used.
15.   Contingency measures will be initiated once one of the following soil degradation
indicator occurs: excessive rutting, wheel slip, build-up of mud on tires and cleats,
formation of puddles and tracking of mud down the road as vehicles leave the site.
16.   A buffer zone of undisturbed vegetation will be maintained between construction areas
and all permanent waterbodies except at crossings.
2.5.2  Grubbing, Stripping and Soil Salvage
The removal of root structures and ground mat material is required along the ditch line and in
areas of excavation such as borrow pits and quarries. In areas where the road embankment is
increased in height salvage and stockpiling of topsoil will be undertaken for later use in
restoration.
Environmental Concerns
The principal concerns associated with grubbing, stripping, and debris disposal activities are the
potential effects on the water quality and air quality. A prime objective during these activities is
the storing and stockpiling of topsoil for future use during reclamation post construction.
Environmental Protection Procedures
1.    The items below outline the procedures which will be implemented to minimize the
potential effects of grubbing, stripping and disposal of related debris.  Any work
potentially affecting water resources will be performed in compliance with permits
received from local authorities.
2.    The area to be cleared will be marked and silt fences or traps will be erected on the
sides where there is potential for stormwater runoff leaving the disturbed area. These
silt fences will be removed as the work is completed.
3.    Grubbing will be suspended during and immediately after intense rainstorms which have
resulted in excessive runoff.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia        - 7 -



Environmental Protection/Mitigation Plan                             05. Oct. 2000.
4.    Grubbing and stripping of the organic vegetation mat and upper soil horizons will be
limited to areas requiring grading.
5.    The grubbing and stripping of unstable or erodible soil will be limited to that which is
absolutely necessary to satisfy the engineering requirements of the project. Where
construction can be completed without grubbing and stripping, none shall occur.
Grubbing and stripping limits will be marked in the field prior to the commencement of
work.
6.    The organic vegetation mat and topsoil material which has been grubbed and stripped
will be, as a priority, stockpiled, or where necessary, spoiled in a manner which attempts
to cover exposed areas to promote natural re-vegetation within disturbed areas. This
work will be completed as quickly as practical.
7.    Measures to minimize and control runoff of sediment-laden water during grubbing and
stripping (e.g., settling ponds, ditch blocks, interception ditches) will be implemented as
necessary (in response to permits and field conditions). Where grubbed materials are
re-spread or stockpiled, stumps and roots will be left on the ground surface to maintain
soil cohesion, to dissipate the energy of runoff, and promote natural re-vegetation.
Erosion control measures will be implemented in areas prone to soil loss as determined
by the Environmental Inspector.
8.    Grubbing will not proceed more than five days in advance of any subsequent activity
without the installation of appropriate surface drainage control.
9.    Where extensive erosion occurs or in sensitive areas, an active re-vegetation program
will be implemented, as soon as possible, following grubbing and stripping to encourage
rapid re-vegetation.
10.   French drains, energy dissipaters, straw mats, geotextiles, silt fence and interception
ditches may be used on a site-specific basis.
11.   Monitoring will be conducted to identify any archaeological/historical materials revealed
during stripping and grubbing.
2.5.3  Excavation, Embankment, Grading
Excavation, embankment, and grading of common rock, soil, and other materials may be
required.
Environmental Concerns
The principal environmental concerns associated with excavation, embankment, and grading
are the potential effects on air and water quality resulting either from dust or from the runoff of
sediment-laden water. There is some additional concem for disturbance of unanticipated
archaeological resources.
Environmental Protection Procedures
The excavation, embankment, and grading phase of access road construction and the
development of other work areas will be conducted in a manner which ensures the minimum
amount of disturbance: All works associated with excavation, embankment, and grading
activities will be conducted in a manner which controls potential sedimentation of watercourses
and waterbodies in or adjacent to the work areas as outlined in the following procedures.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia      - 8 -



Environmental Protection/Mitigation Plan                               05. Oct. 2000.
1.    Excavation, embankment and grading in the vicinity of the stream crossing will be done
in a manner, which ensures that erosion and sedimentation of watercourses are
minimized.
2.    Excavations will be made to secure clean, neatly formed surfaces of undisturbed soil
and rock. Low-lying areas will be filled with a fill material obtained on-site from the
cutting operations. After filling and compacting the new fill material, the areas will be
provided with slopes from centre to the edge to facilitate drainage of surface runoff. The
infilling of permanent watercourses and waterbodies will not be permitted.
3.    Where blasting is required, fly rock will be controlled through the use of blasting mats
and sequenced body blasting techniques.
4.    A buffer zone of undisturbed vegetation will be maintained between watercourses and
the work.
5.    The Contractor will ensure that graded material does not spread off the site.
6.    For winter construction, snow on site will be removed to the edge of the workspace.
7.    Where a clearly identifiable watercourse is altered by any grading activities, the outflow
location of the watercourse will be maintained.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia        - 9 -



Environmental Protection/Mitigation Plan                                05. Oct. 2000.
2.5.4 Drainage and Erosion Control
A draft Drainage and Erosion Control Plan will be developed and be included in the project
documents. This plan will also serve as a resource document providing project personnel with a
terms of reference for construction activities. It is intended to augment existing information to
provide a greater understanding to interested parties as to how DoR will satisfy its commitment
to protection of the environment.
Activities associated with the construction phase of the proposed development that have the
potential to have an adverse effect on water quality include:
*     introduction of sediment into watercourses that supply known fish habitat downstream
from the site;
*     alteration or blockage of in-stream flow;
*     loss of riparian vegetation and bank cover, increasing the possibility of bank erosion; and
*     indirect disturbances of grazing activities or sites.
A Drainage and Erosion Control Plan will be specifically developed for this project and will be
implemented as a means to ensure that project activities do not incur these adverse effects.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia        o10



Environmental Protection/Mitigation Plan                                             05. Oct. 2000.
The following Table 3 summarizes the methods and use of standard erosion control measures
to be used.
Table 3        Run-off Control and Interception of Sediment Measures
Control Measure            Application                                  Comments
Vegetation Cover           Large  Slope  Large Flat  Minor
Areas           Areas         Channels
Grass and Legume Seeding   /               /             /              Effective  Permanent  Surface
Stabilization
Other Vegetative Cover                                                  Shrub Cuttings, Transplants, etc.
Non-Vegetation Cover
Straw Mulch                V               /                            Effective  if crimped  into soil
surface.
Select Material (Gravel)                                                Will require filter cloth base.
Rock Rip-rap                                             /              Good for bank erosion.
Slope Modification
Flattening                                                            T Economical, where excess fill
_l_          _  _   _   _    _   _  _   _     I    _ _ _   _  _  _  _    available.
Benching                   /              l             l              Altemate  where  fill in  short
____ ____ ____ ___ ____ ___   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    I su p p ly .
Temporary Controls
Diversion Berms and Drains   /              /                           Effective, economical.
Chutes (Spillways)                         .             /              Steep, confined slopes, specific
.___ ____ ____ ____ ____  _design  necessary
Groundwater       Control  /                I                           Reduces seepage.
(French Drain)
Check Drains
Straw Bales, Silt Fence                                                 Temporary  sediment  control,
requires maintenance
Sandbags                                                                Lacks  filtering  ability,  more
permanent
Select Timber                              _             /              Inexpensive, easy to install
Sediment Control
Vegetative Buffer Strip    /                /            /              Economic,  No  maintenance,
long-term.
Silt Fences (Geotextiles)  /                             /              Useful for sheetflow.
Silt Fences (Burlap)       /                             /              Sheetflow, short-term, up to three
months.
Straw Bale Barriers        /                /            /              Effective three to six months.
Filter                     /                             /              Permeable gravel berm permits
water to filter through.
Outlet Protection          _                                            Used   to   dissipate   water
discharge at berm, culvert, etc.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia                      - 11 -



Environmental Protection/Mitigation Plan                              05. Oct. 2000.
2.5.5 Solid Wastes and Sewage
Environmental Concems
Solid wastes, if not properly controlled, may be unsightly and potentially pose human health and
safety concerns. The release of untreated sewage is of concem with respect to the potential
effects on human health and water quality.
Environmental Protection Procedures
1. Domestic waste will be collected daily and stored in closed containers until disposed of at an
approved land-based waste disposal site.
2. Food waste will be collected daily and stored in closed containers until disposed of at an
approved land-based waste disposal site.
3. All other waste materials will be collected separately and recycled, where appropriate. Any
materials surplus to recycling will be disposed of at an appropriate waste disposal site.
2.5.6 Clean-up
Environmental Concerns
Failure to clean-up and stabilize the work site could lead to local instability and surface erosion.
Environmental Protection Procedures
1.    Weather permitting, clean-up will immediately follow the icompletion of the work.
2.    All contours will be stabilized.
3.    Stockpiled surface material will be redistributed over approved areas on site.
4.    Surface erosion control on slopes will be established using re-vegetation supplemented
by physical control features such as silt fencing.
2.5.7 Vegetation Management
Environmental Concerns
Vegetation is the primary element of habitat and as surface vegetation is a primary control of
surface erosion. Critical habitats are to be avoided andlor effects to them minimized.
Clearing and Timber Salvage
1.    Prior to clearing, work area and right-of-way boundaries, including pre-approved
temporary workspace, will be clearly staked to prevent disturbance to unauthorized
areas.
2.    Known areas of critical habitat will be flagged and avoided by all project personnel.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia      - 12 -



Envirommental Protection/Mitigation Plan                             05. Oct. 2000.
2.5.8 Clean-Up and Reclamation
1.    Weather permitting, clean-up will immediately follow civil works where site work is
completed.
2.    Slash stockpiled during clearing for use as rollback will be distributed in a thick,
uncompacted fashion over selected portions of the entire width of the right-of-way or
work site..
3.    On steeper slopes, slash stockpiled during clearing for rollback to control erosion will be
thinly distributed over the plant site and right-of-way and compacted flush to the ground
with the tracks of a small bulldozer to provide impediments to surface water flow..
Seed Mix
The seed mix choice will incorporate rapid establishing seed species, and slower establishing
species. This combination of selected species should provide competitive species that can get
a jump on weeds, and those that will produce prolonged cover.
it is critical that sites be examined for early detection and elimination of incipient weed
infestations. A trained inspector will check on reclamation success, and if necessary initiate
remedial actions. Volunteer species will be recorded, reported, and eliminated. The methods
that will be considered for weed control are: mechanical, manual, and biological control. There
will be no herbicide spraying to manage weeds.
Seeding Procedures
*1.    Seeding on snow will be done immediately following construction at the site.
2.    A re-vegetation program will be undertaken following machine clean-up, designed to:
i.) control potential wind and water erosion;
ii) establish vegetation that is compatible with surrounding vegetation and land use, and;
iii)   establish vegetation for aesthetic reasons.
3.    Seed mixes will be proposed for the project, subject to approval .
4.    The plant site and right-of-way will be monitored during the summer of 2001 to identify
areas requiring additional seed. It is not anticipated that reseeding will be necessary, but
this will be monitored.
5.    Weed control measures will be undertaken on the work area and the road right-of-way
by DoR.
6.    To minimize introduction of noxious weeds into the project area, all seed used will be
Certified #1 seed or equivalent, and appropriate seed certificates will be available for
inspection.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia     - 13 -



Environmental Protection/Mitigation Plan                               05. Oct. 2000.
Application
1.    The method used to spread the seed on the disturbed ground will depend on the
conditions of the site and the goal of the seeding.
2.    There are a variety of methods used for seed application that will be considered. Hand
seeding, seeders on construction equipment, motor driven cyclones, air blast seeders,
are a few examples.
3.    Monitoring of reclaimed sites will follow a regular timetable of site visits by either the
proponent or govemment officers, to ensure that terms and conditions corresponding to
certain permits and licenses are satisfied.
4.    For the most part, reclamation monitoring will involve the collection of information on
certain plant parameters such as species composition, percentage cover, and vigor, as
well as specific observations regarding surface stabilization and soil erosion.
5.    Information taken at the site will vary with project objectives but will include:
i).    Type of disturbance
ii).   Surface conditions at the time of seeding, type of surface materials (organic or
minerals), and an estimate of soil texture
iii).   Species and fertilizers used, rate applied, time of application
iv).   General topography, slope angle, aspect and drainage
Soil Amendments
1.    During the life of the project, productive soil will, to one degree or another, be mixed with
less productive mineral soil. The degree of impoverishment is directly related to the
quality of subsoil, therefore to aid in reclamation work, mixing of topsoil and mineral soil
will be minimized.
2.    No Soil amendments will be applied to the soil to enhance nutrient status during winter.
3.    Fertilizer, straw, and mulch will be some of soil amendments considered by DoR
improving degraded topsoil during the life of the project.
Habitat Enhancement
Revegetation of the work site and right-of-way will mainly focus on soil stabilization to prevent
erosion. The small size of the work area lessens the value of habitat enhancement. For this
project, creating wildlife habitat or improving local habitat values does not have sufficient
positive potential for further consideration and, in fact, may jeopardize certain species by
attracting them to project-related hazards, such as traffic.
2.5.9. Access Roads
Environmental Concerns
Access roads related to the work area will be developed and traveled with tracked and rubber
tired machinery. If poorly located, there is a possibility of localized erosion with potential for
sedimentation of water bodies.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia       - 14 -



Environmental Protection/Mitigation Plan                                05. Oct. 2000.
Environmental Protection Procedures
1.    Access roads will be flagged and surveyed prior to being travelled by machine.
2.    All cross slopes in excess of 10% will be avoided.
3.    All water crossings will be made at right angles, or as close to right angles as possible.
4.    Excessively wet areas, or areas with standing surface water will be avoided.
2.6.10. Fuels and Hazardous Materials
Storage and handling of flammable substances will comply with apprpriate regulations.
Furthermore, fuel storage facilities will comply with regulations which includes provisions for
berms and security. The storage facilities discussed in this section include on-site fuel storage
for construction .
Hazardous materials include all fertilizing cleaners, solvents, and chemicals that will be present
on-site during construction. Other hazardous liquid products that may be used during site
development work, such as asphalt and concrete additives, hydraulic fluids, solvents, lubricating
oil, and anti-freeze, will be used in relatively small quantities.
Environmental Concerns
The accidental release of petroleum, oils, lubricants, or hazardous materials onto land surfaces
or into waterbodies may result in degradation of habitat quality.
Environmental Protection Procedures
Storage
1.    Fuels, chemicals and hazardous materials will only be handled by persons trained and
qualified in handling these materials.AII fuel, chemicals and hazardous materials storage
facilities will be clearly marked and spill reporting procedures will be posted at all storage
facilities. Products will be kept in the original containers unless they are not re-sealable.
2.    Fire extinguishers will be located near all fuel storage facilities.
3.    Smoking will not be permitted within 10 m of any fuel storage facilities.
4.    If surplus product must be discarded, manufacturer's or local and  provincial
recommended methods for proper waste management will be adhered to.
5.    A complete inventory of all petroleum, oils, lubricants, chemicals and hazardous
materials on site will be maintained. Original labels and material safety data sheets will
be retained.
6.    If accidental mixing of fuels, chemicals and hazardous materials does occur, the waste
product will be removed to an approved disposal/recycling facility.
7.    The site chosen for containment berms will be graded to divert and contain accidental
leaks and spills. Provisions will be made so that any spills, which may occur, will be
prevented from entering any natural water bodies, storm drains and sanitary sewers.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia        - 15 -



Environmental Protection/Mitigation Plan                               05. Oct. 2000.
8.    Fuel tanks within the containment area will be located off the ground, attached to a skid
or securely placed on a cradle.
9.    All equipment maintenance with the potential for accidental spills (e.g., oil changes,
lubrication) will be done on a tarped area to facilitate clean-up, and located at least 100
m from streams.
10.   Used oil, filters, and grease cartridge lubrication containers and other products of
equipment maintenance will be collected and kept in an appropriate receptacle for later
disposal.
Equipment Fueling
1.    A fueling of vehicles and equipment will be prohibited within 100 m of watercourses,
lakes, and wetland areas, unless otherwise authorized by Penn West.
2.    All service vehicles used for fueling must be equipped with automatic shut-off valves.
Loading Operations
i.    Overflow protection will be installed on all tanks where loading and dispensing
operations take place.
2.    All personnel operating the loading and dispensing machinery will be trained in
emergency procedures in the event of a fire, spill, or other emergencies that may
potentially occur.
3.    Bonding, grounding, and isolation components will be used for protection against static
charges when bulk flammable or combustible liquids are being transferred into metal
tank vehicles/vessels.
4.    Any valves leaving the main body of the tank will be shear valves. The safety feature of
this type of valve is that it shuts from the interior of the tank should the exterior portion of
the valve be tom off the tank.
5.    The transferring of bulk fuel will be done at a central fueling facility. This will ensure the
availability of appropriate containment and spill response equipment.
6.    Fuel loading procedures will be posted at the fueling site and reviewed with all personnel
participating in fuel operations.
Dispensing Operations
1.    The length of the dispensing hose will not exceed 4.5 m (15 ft.) and will be suitable for
hydrocarbon fuels.
2.    The dispensing line from the tank to the dispensing station will be an Underwriters
Laboratories of Canada (ULC) approved steel pipe line.
3.    All personnel operating the loading and dispensing equipment will be trained in
emergency procedures in the event of a fire, spill, or other emergencies that may
potentially occur.
4.    Overflow protection will be installed on all tanks.
5.    Dispensing procedures will only be carried out using an approved electric fuel pump.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia       -16 -



Environmental Protection/Mitigation Plan                               05. Oct. 2000.
3.    To ensure adequate response capability in the event of a fuel spill, all fuel and service
vehicles will carry a minimum 10 kg of suitable commercial sorbent material for ground
spills.
4.    The contractor will provide DoR with a spill response plan. This plan will include
information on individuals responsible for spill control and clean-up, materials/equipment
available on-site for spill control and clean-up, and general procedures to be employed
for spill containment, clean-up and disposal.
5.    All spill contaminated vegetation and sorbent materials will be collected and trucked to
an approved regional disposal facility, or will be treated with in-situ bio-remediation
techniques approved by DoR.
Response Action Plan
1 .    All fuel spills will be immediately reported to DoR.
2.    When notified of a spill, the DoR Construction Inspector and Environmental Inspector will
immediately ensure that:
(a)   Action is taken to control danger to human life including the appointment of an on
site Safety Inspector.
(b)   The Contractor's spill response Plan is implemented such that necessary
equipment is mobilized and measures are being taken to control and contain the
spill. The contractor will be required to make all resources available to contain
and clean-up a spill.
(c)    The Project Engineer is notified of the spill and the initial response being
undertaken in accordance with a fuel handling permit.
3.    The following guidelines will be followed for containment of most hazardous materials.
(a)   The worker on-site who discovers the leak or spill shall immediately call for or
seek help and then attempt to stop or contain the leak or spill as directed during
the personnel training course.  Identify the product, stop the source and
physically contain the spill as practical. All spills of notable size will be reported
verbally to the Site Manager immediately upon occurrence.
(b)    Unless it is necessary to control a fire or prevent an explosion, water or fire
extinguishing chemicals will not be used on non-petroleum product spills.
(c)    Minimize traffic on contaminated soils. If on land, natural depressions or berms
constructed with materials and equipment in proximity to the site will be used to
physically contain the spill.
(d)    Clean-up will not be attempted without the advice from the Environmental
Inspector.
4.    Since impacts from small spot spills can generally be minimized if appropriate actions
are implemented, all small spills of fuels or noxious materials must be reported
immediately to the Construction Inspector and Environmental Inspector.
(a)    Suspend construction activity in the immediate vicinity of the spot spill until
permission to resume activity has been granted by the Construction Inspector
and Environmental Inspector.
(b)   The Chief Inspector and Environmental Inspector will determine appropriate
methods to remove or restore contaminated soils. Soils and vegetation heavily
contaminated with petroleum products will be incinerated or disposed of at an
approved facility.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia       - 18 -



Environmental Protection/Mitigation Plan                                 05. Oct. 2000.
(c)    Locations where spot spills occur are to be flagged or otherwise marked to
ensure the post construction monitoring of the site can be undertaken. Lightly
contaminated soil areas where restoration is feasible will be fertilized and then
cultivated to a depth below the depth of contamination, then repeated as
required.
(d)   In case of a spill, the Site Manager, together with DoR's Environmental Inspector,
shall direct further appropriate response and will record the following:
(i)   the reporting person's name and telephone number;
(ii)   the name and telephone number of the person who caused the spill;
(iii)  the location and time of the spill
(iv)   time of detection of spill or leak;
(v)   the type and quantity of the substance spilled;
(vi)   source of spill or leak;
(vii)  duration of spill or leak;
(viii)  the cause and effect of the spill;
(ix)   details of action taken;
(x)    a description of the spill location and of the area surrounding the spill;
(xi)   weather conditions at time of spill or leak;
(xii)  ground conditions at time of the spill or leak;
(xiii)  the details of further action contemplated or required;
(xiv)  the names of agencies on the scene; and
(xv)  the names of other persons or agencies advised conceming the spill.
(e)    The resident Environmental Inspector will be responsible for coordinating clean-
up and collecting all pertinent information. In consultation, if necessary, with
appropriate regulatory authorities, the Environmental Inspector will:
(i)    assess site conditions and environmental impact of various clean-up
procedures;
(ii)   assess potential for recovery versus buming;
(iii)   deploy on-site personnel to build containment dikes, or pump spilled
contaminant into storage drums;
(iv)   apply sorbents as necessary;
(v)    dispose of all contaminated debris, cleaning materials, and absorbent
material by placing in an approved disposal site; and,
(vi)   debrief all site personnel on the incident and take additional precautions
to ensure that similar accidents will not recur.
5.    The site of any reported fuel spill will be monitored for additional clean-up as required
through to job completion.
Resource List
During the on-site construction, and the on-site presence of a fuel storage tank, the following
resources will be available:
1 .    two spade shovels;
2.    three axes or pulaskis;
3.    one sledgehammer (5 Ibs);
4.    four bales of sorbent pads;
5.    25 stakes;
6.    two empty clean 45 gallon drums with caps; and, five, three gallon handled galvanized
metal buckets.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia         - 19 -



Environmental Protection/Mitigation Plan                              05. Oct. 2000.
2.6.3 Extreme Storn Event
Environmental Concerns
Extreme storm events usually involving blizzard or sand storm conditions can result in unsafe
or counter productive work.
Prevention
1. The Site Superintendent and Environmental Inspector will be continually aware of current
meteorological conditions and their relationship to on-site work.
2. Where work conditions arise such that probable impacts are not mitigable or the work
presents unacceptable risks, the work will be shutdown at the direction of the Site Manager.
General
1. During periods of high snow accumulation, clearing and material movement will be closely
monitored to avoid intermixing.
2.6.4 Heritage Resources
Environmental Concerns
Archaeological sites such as buried structures, stone tools, graves, and surface features may
be encountered or disturbed during construction activity. These features represent a valuable
-cultural resource and uncontrolled disturbance could result in loss or damage to these
resources and the information represented by them.
Environmental Protection Procedures
On-going consultations with local authorities will provide information on possible historic usage
of the site. During construction activities, which involve ground disturbance, monitoring will
ensure that appropriate actions are taken in the event of the discovery of any archaeological
remains.
Specific procedures in the event of a discovery include:
1.    Key personnel will be informed through an education and orientation program of the
historic resource potential of the area, of the legalities regarding archaeological
resources, and of responsibilities for reporting suspected finds.
2.    Site supervisors will ensure that all site workers are informed about the protection plan
and that a copy is available for review and as an aid in site and artifact recognition.
3.    Unless authorized by the provincial Archaeology Branch, archaeological sites will be
avoided and protected from excavation, construction, and related activities.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia      - 20 -



Environmental Protection/Mitigation Plan                               05. Oct. 2000.
Response -Action Plan
Reporting procedures for the discovery of heritage resources and their importance will be part of
the orientation program for employees. In the event of an archaeological artifact or site, the
following procedures apply:
1.    Where a previously unidentified archaeological or heritage site is encountered during
construction, NO FURTHER WORK will be undertaken in the immediate vicinity of the
site until it is examined.
2.    Report the find immediately to the Site Superintendent.
3.    Mark the site's visible boundaries; restrict activities to other parts of the project area until
clearance is obtained. Personnel will not move or remove any artifacts or associated
material unless the integrity of the material is threatened.
4.    The Site Manager will report the find with the following information to the provincial
Archaeology Branch and comply with any instructions provided:
(a)   nature of the find;
(b)   precise description and map location and the time of the find;
(c)   nature of the activity resulting in the find;
(d)   identity of the person(s) making the find;
(e)   present location of the material, if moved, and any protective measures initiated
for the material and the site; and extenuating circumstances
2.6.5 Wildlife Encounters
Environmental Concerns
The impact that construction activities may have on wildlife resources should not be of great
consequence to any wildlife species listed as having special status or which may be particularly
sensitive to development activities. These activities are unlikely to result in any of the following
effects; sensory disturbance, restricted movement, habitat alteration, activity related animal
mortalities and increased human and predator access potential.
Depending on the wildlife species involved, sensory disturbance may be an important issue.
Certain bird species may be displaced from nesting habitat if construction or operational
activities occur during sensitive reproductive periods. Typically, development activities are
short-term in any particular are and sensitive periods can be avoided. Species of wildlife which
reside year round in a particular area may experience temporary displacement during short term
activities, although research indicates that small territorial animals (such as furbearers) will not
significantly shift their distributions Larger, more mobile species such as deer have
demonstrated some displacement away from the immediate vicinity of construction activities but
there is no evidence to suggest that the displacement persists or that population decreases
result. Of growing concem is the incremental increase in habitat alteration when all industrial
activities are considered.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia       - 21 -



Environmental Protection/Mitigation Plan                                 05. Oct. 2000.
Environmental Protection Procedures
Personnel Training
All on-site personnel will be given direction in the orientation program on how to respond when
wildlife are encountered. No hunting by workers on or near the project site will be allowed.
Prevention
1.    Garbage habituation of bears may also occur if putrefied garbage is not removed to off-
site facilities or incinerated.
2.    Construction personnel will not be permitted to have firearms or pets, on the work site, in
project vehicles or on other associated construction facilities.
3.    Any incidents with nuisance wildlife or collisions with wildlife will be reported to the Site
Manager and appropriate provincial authorities.
General
1.    In many areas of the province, existing petroleum development roads and/or forestry
access roads are used for construction access in cooperation with other resource users
to minimize access to the facility.
2.    The recreational use of all-terrain vehicles by construction personnel will not be
permitted on the construction site.
3.    All wildlife mortalities from collisions with project vehicles will be reported immediately to
DoR.
4.    Should clearing activities expose an active bear den, activities within 100 m of the den
will be suspended.
5.    Sturdy fences will be installed around the plant site to prevent damage by wildlife after
the construction phase.
Response-Action Plan
In general:
1.    No attempt to harass any wildlife will be made by any person on the project site;
2.    Equipment and vehicles will yield the right-of-way to wildlife; and,
3.    All project personnel shall use proper care and caution when operating vehicles so as to
prevent collisions with wildlife.
2.7    DECOMMISSIONING
In the event the project is suspended measures will be taken to decommission the facilities and
re-establish vegetation to stabilize the areas of construction. Work will be carried out using
approved specifications, and will include environmental consideration and regulatory
requirements.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia         - 22 -



Environmental Protection/Mitigation Plan                                 05. Oct. 2000.
2.7.1 General Procedures
1.    The stockpiled materials such as ditch spoil and unsuitable backfill materials will be
mounded with backslopes no greater than 4:1, and berms, if necessary, will be placed
around the stockpiles.
2.    Drainage control measures will be implemented to stabilize the site and control
stormwater in areas requiring specific stabilization.
3.    All disturbed soil surfaces including topsoil and spoil sites will be reseeded. A seed mix
will be utilized which will provide a relatively rapid cover with high biomass to aid in
stabilization.
4.    Installations in the site will be decommissioned and transferred from the property.
Temporary office trailers will be unblocked and trucked off-site.
5.    Temporary diesel generator equipment will also be dismantled and trucked off-site.
6.    The fuel storage area will be removed from the site and the area re-graded and
reseeded to match existing contours.
7.    If the site is not occupied within 6 months of work completion, the site will be monitored
for an additional two years on a regular schedule. Where remedial work is required, it
will adhere to the standard and requirements identified in this EPP.
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia         - 23 -



Envirommental Protection/Mitigation Plan                               05. Oct. 2000.
3.    PERMITS AND LICENSES
Key permits relevant to this Protection Plan and the construction phase are as follows:
Potentially Required Permits                   Issuing Agency
Purchase or lease of land at work area
Road right of way
Application for borrow pit
Approval for works in, upon, over, under, through
or across navigable waters
Modification to existing Road Use Permit
License to Cut
Open Buming
Blasting
Install and Operate Radios                   T
Fuel Storage
Approval for short term non-recurrent water use
Leave to Construct
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia       - 24 -



Environmental Protection/Mitigation Plan                            05. Oct. 2000.
4.    KEY CONTACTS
4.1   FOR ALL SPILLS
4.2   FOR WILDFIRES
4.3   FOR DEPARTMENT OF ROADS
5.    CODES, STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES
This section will be developed to include all applicable codes, standards, and guidelines that are
used in the development of the project. Some of these codes are under development or
alteration. The EPP is intended to evolve with the development of the project.
6.    SUMMARY AND CLOSURE
This Environmental Protection/Mitigation Plan has been developed to address the anticipated
requirements of three proposed road rehabilitation projects in Mongolia As with all EPP
documents, it will evolve and change to respond to information currently not available.
Generally, if the requirements of this protection plan are satisfied and all conditions attached to
authorizations granted by regulatory authorities are met, ENCO Environmental Consulting
Company concludes that impacts to aquatic and terrestrial habitat and social resources should
be acceptable.
If The World Bank requires any further information please do not hesitate to contact us.
Respectfully submitted,
"ENCO" Limited
Dr. Namkhai A.,
Director-General
Environmental Consulting Company "ENCO" Co., Ltd, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia    - 25 -



