                                   Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR0000511




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                   (IDA-34780)




                                      ON A

                                     CREDIT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 26.4 MILLION
                         (US$ 34 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO

                                   MONGOLIA

                                     FOR A

                      TRANSPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                   June 27 2008




Transport, Energy and Mining Sector
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective May 30, 2008)

                     Currency Unit = MNT
                   MNT 1.00 = US$ .0008587
                   US$ 1.00 = MNT 1,164.50

                         FISCAL YEAR
                   January 1­December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ADB       Asian Development Bank
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
DoR       Department of Roads
EMP       Environmental Management Plan
EIRR      Economic Internal Rate of Return
ENPV      Economic Net Present Value
ICR       Implementation Completion and Results Report
MIS       Management Information System
MoF       Ministry of Finance
MoI       Ministry of Infrastructure
MR        Mongolian Railways
MRTT      Ministry of Roads, Transport and Tourism
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
NDF       Nordic Development Fund
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
PDO       Project Development Objectives
SIDA      Swedish International Development Agency
VIS       Vehicle Inspection System



       Vice President: James W. Adams, EAPVP
     Country Director: David R. Dollar, EACCF
      Sector Manager: Junhui Wu, EASTE
  Project Team Leader: M. Baher El-Hefnawy, EASTE
    ICR Team Leader: M. Baher El-Hefnawy, EASTE

                                            MONGOLIA
                             Transport Development Project




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 8
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 12
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 12
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 15
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 16
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 17
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 18
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 19
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 20
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 22
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 23
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 24
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 25
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 26
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                       Transport Development
Country:                Mongolia                Project Name:
                                                                       Project
Project ID:             P056200                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-34780
ICR Date:               06/27/2008              ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:              MONGOLIA
Original Total
                        XDR 26.4M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 24.4M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Roads, Transportation and Tourism
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
Nordic Development Fund; Swedish International Development Fund; Asian Development Bank


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process         Original Date     Revised / Actual
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:        03/09/2000    Effectiveness:         08/29/2001          08/29/2001
Appraisal:             10/30/2000    Restructuring(s):                          11/01/2005
Approval:              03/22/2001    Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:               12/31/2005          12/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Significant
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings                Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory            Implementing           Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank            Moderately              Overall Borrower       Moderately
Performance:            Satisfactory            Performance:           Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators           (if any)                 Rating

Potential Problem Project No                   Quality at Entry
                                                                     None
at any time (Yes/No):                          (QEA):
Problem Project at any                         Quality of
                           Yes                                       None
time (Yes/No):                                 Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                4                  4
Railways                                                         1                  1
Roads and highways                                              95                 95


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Pollution management and environmental health                 Secondary        Secondary
Rural services and infrastructure                              Primary          Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:            James W. Adams                   Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:          David R. Dollar                  Ian C. Porter
Sector Manager:            Junhui Wu                        Jitendra N. Bajpai
Project Team Leader:       Moustafa Baher El-Hefnawy        Robin C. Carruthers
ICR Team Leader:           Moustafa Baher El-Hefnawy
ICR Primary Author:        Hernan Levy



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Improve the accessibility of the isolated and remote central and western regions of
Mongolia, increase transport capacity for rail-borne export trade and reduce the number
of fatalities resulting from road accidents.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




                                              ii

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally          Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value         Values (from         Revised          Achieved at
                                               approval            Target         Completion or
                                              documents)           Values          Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Increased number of days of road access to Khovd, Arvaikheer, Bayanhongor,
                Altai, Tosontsengel and Erdenesant.

Value                                      Days Open - 365

quantitative or Days open - 250 days       days                                 Days Open - 365

Qualitative)                                                                    days

Date achieved 09/15/2001                   12/31/2005                           12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %        Target met
achievement)
                Length of earth and gravel roads receiving one and two maintenance
Indicator 2 :   interventions (gradings) increased each year to reach 1500 km and 500 km,
                respectively
Value
quantitative or 165 km (gravel)            500 km (gravel)                      592 km (gravel)

Qualitative)                               1,500 km (earth)                     829 km (earth)

Date achieved 12/31/2001                   12/31/2005                           12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Target met for gravel roads; completion for earth roads was 55%. No baseline

achievement)    information could be established for earth roads.

Indicator 3 :   Reduce proportion of annual road fatalities attributable to vehicle conditions

Value           Not available

quantitative or Only data available are                                         Not available

Qualitative)    absolute number of road
                fatalities (all causes)
Date achieved 12/31/2001                                                        12/31/2006

Comments        This indicator was not measured due to the difficulty in determining the fatalities

(incl. %        caused by poor vehicle conditions. An alternative indicator, total road fatalities

achievement)    per 10,000 vehicles was monitored, and showed a 16 percent improvement from
                2001 to 2006.
Indicator 4 :   Increased volume of international and transit rail traffic (thousand ton)
Value
quantitative or International: 4,994                                            International: 8,007

Qualitative)    Transit: 3,086                                                  Transit: 5,388

Date achieved 12/31/2001                                                        12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %        Targets were not defined. Growth in international and transit rail traffic were

achievement)    60% and 75% respectively.




                                               iii

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target        Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from                          Achieved at
                                               approval            Revised       Completion or
                                              documents)       Target Values      Target Years

Indicator 1 :  At least 215 km of the roads reconstructed and at least 179 km of earth roads
               upgraded to gravel by end 2004
Value                                     215 km                               245 km
(quantitative  Not Applicable             reconstructed,                       reconstructed,
or Qualitative)                           179 km upgraded                      179 km upgraded
Date achieved                             12/31/2005                           12/12/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Targets met.
achievement)

Indicator 2 :  At least 200 man-months of training to staff of Departments of Roads and
               Transport completed by end 2003
Value
(quantitative  28 man-months              200 man-months                       145 man-months
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2001                  12/31/2003                           12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Completion was 72.5% of the target but the achieved level was more than five

achievement)   times the amount of training in 2001.

Indicator 3 :  Reduce national proportion of annual road fatalities attributable to vehicle
               condition
               Not available

Value          These data were to be      Overall 33%
(quantitative  collected by the           reduction; (50% in                   Not available
or Qualitative)government once the
               traffic safety study got   aimags)

               under way
Date achieved 12/31/2001                  12/31/2006                           12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)   See (a) PDO, Indicator 3 above.

Indicator 4 :  At least 3 stationary and 3 other vehicle testing stations are operational.

Value                                     3 stationary         24 stationary   24 stationary units:
(quantitative  None                       stations and 3       units: 3 in UB  3 in UB and 21
or Qualitative)                           mobile stations      and 21
                                                               elsewhere       elsewhere

Date achieved 12/31/2002                  12/31/2005           12/31/2005      12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %       The plan for three mobile units was replaced by one for 21 stationary units based

achievement)   on a cost effectiveness analysis. Revised targets were met.

Indicator 5 :  At least 40,000 vehicles tested and passed during 2003 and 60,000 during 2004.
Value          vehicles tested: 42,362                                         60,000 vehicles
(quantitative  vehicles failed: 679 (6%)  60,000 vehicles                      10% of which



                                               iv

or Qualitative)                                                                failed
Date achieved 12/31/2002                  12/31/2005                           12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %        Targets were met and exceeded. About 85% of the total vehicle fleet was tested

achievement)    in 2006 and is expected to reach 100% by 2008.

Indicator 6 :   Gravel roads included in the project receive at least one regrading in 2003, 2004
                and 2005
Value
(quantitative   89 km                     179 km                               179 km
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2002                  12/31/2005                           12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %        Targets were met.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :   Agreement on restructuring railway financial accounting system by 2004
Value
(quantitative   Not applicable            Agreement signed                     See comments
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2002                  12/31/2004                           12/31/2007

Comments        Mongolian Railways modernized its financial accounting system in accordance

(incl. %        with international accounting standards without Bank support and the component

achievement)    was cancelled.



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                          IP                 Disbursements
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     06/28/2001            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       0.00
  2     12/28/2001            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       3.66
  3     04/10/2002            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       4.39
  4     12/10/2002            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       9.31
  5     05/21/2003            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      12.11
  6     11/10/2003            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      19.14
  7     11/18/2003            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      19.70
  8     06/29/2004            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      23.72
  9     12/23/2004            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      28.62
  10    06/20/2005            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      29.20
  11    04/12/2006            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      30.68

  12    07/31/2006     Moderately Satisfactory          Moderately
                                                       Unsatisfactory                     30.68

  13    11/06/2006     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                    30.68
* Actual disbursements as of June 1, 2008 are US$39.89 million.




                                                v

H. Restructuring (if any)

                          ISR Ratings at  Amount

Restructuring    Board    Restructuring Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring &
   Date(s)     Approved                 Restructuring
              PDO Change                                Key Changes Made
                           DO     IP      in USD
                                          millions



I. Disbursement Profile




                                       vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design


1.1 Context at Appraisal

Poverty and growth.     The incidence of poverty in Mongolia increased substantially in the 1990s,
that is, in the early years since changes took place in the political system and the market economy
was introduced. About one third of the population lived below the national poverty line of $17
per month. In the provincial (aimags) centers, 48 percent of the population was officially poor.
Social services had degenerated, job opportunities limited and growth prospects constrained by
weak infrastructure, remote location and highly dispersed population. Employment rates,
numbers of unemployed and social indicators suggested that poverty was more widespread in the
western than in the eastern regions.

Rural accessibility. While overall the road network in Mongolia is small and in poor condition,
the situation was most critical in the western regions, which had no all weather-roads serving
them. This was one of the strongest barriers preventing its people, and particularly the herdsmen,
from entering the market economy, and thereby helping alleviate the chronic poverty of the
region. Road access constraints also posed a major barrier hampering access to social services,
particularly those related to health and education, which were available in the aimag capitals and
in Ulaanbaatar. Poor accessibility also directly affected the economic livelihood, as the prices of
consumer goods were higher in the rural centers than in the aimag centers.

Management of the road network. A low proportion of paved roads (13 percent of the national
network and three percent of the country's total road network), harsh climatic conditions, and,
above all, grossly inadequate funding allocated for road maintenance, combined to result in a road
network in poor condition. Due to the bad condition of earth and gravel roads, drivers preferred
to avoid them, preferring to create alternative tracks across steppes, leading to the degradation of
valuable pasture land. Slow progress with the privatization of the road maintenance industry,
inadequate road maintenance planning, and lack of maintenance equipment, further added to the
problems with road maintenance.

Road safety. The fatality rate in road accidents was about double of what would be expected for a
country of similar income. The proportion of accidents (and of fatalities) attributable to vehicle
condition was much higher than in most comparable countries, and in part stems from an old
vehicle fleet, with most vehicles imported to the country being second-hand, a lack of vehicle
maintenance industry, and a lack of spare parts and the means to pay for them.

International transport. Mongolia's ability to integrate with the global economy is dependent on
easy access and efficient transport links to seaports and gateways through China and Russia.
Such integration has been vital since the opening of the economy in the mid-1990s. The railway,
linking Mongolia's two big neighbors, is strategically located to provide transit services between
these two countries, in addition to carrying Mongolia's own foreign trade.

Country strategy. The project was designed to support the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
objectives to: (a) develop infrastructure to support private sector growth and market development,
contribute to increased foreign investment and global integration; and (b) promote equity in
development through direct poverty alleviation assistance to ensure continued support for the
most vulnerable groups. Among the vulnerable groups are the populations resident in the regions



                                                  1

of the country most remote from Ulaanbaatar and its services. These would benefit most from the
project. As well as supporting the CAS, the project was consistent with the IDA 1999 Transport
Strategy and the IDA 1998 Rural Development Strategy. The project also complemented actions
being taken under the then ongoing Transport Rehabilitation Project and Poverty Alleviation for
Vulnerable Groups Project, by putting a high priority on reducing the isolation of remote regions
and integrating them into the national economy.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The project development objectives were to improve the accessibility of the isolated and remote
central and western regions of Mongolia, increase transport capacity for rail-borne export trade
and reduce the number of fatalities resulting from road accidents.

Outcome Indicators

    · Increased number of days of road access (to the locations covered by the project).
    · Increase in length of earth and gravel roads receiving one and two maintenance
        interventions (gradings) per year.
    · Reduction in proportion of road fatalities attributable to vehicle condition.
    · Increased volume of international and transit rail traffic.

Output Indicators

    · Length (kilometers) of roads reconstructed and earth roads upgraded to gravel roads
    · Training of staff of Department of Roads (DoR) and Department of Road Transport
    · Vehicle inspection stations made operational
    · Number of vehicles tested
    · Agreement to restructure railway financing system

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The PDOs were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

The principal beneficiaries of the project comprise the population of the central and western
regions living within 100 kilometers of the roads to be improved. This population is about 30
percent of the total that lives outside of the national capital. The project would make their towns
accessible by road throughout the year and reduce transport costs and delivery times. About 60
percent of the people killed and injured in road accidents in Mongolia are either children or
pedestrians (often both) and these would form a large target population to benefit from the project
as the severe winter conditions make the effects of mechanical failure of a vehicle in rural
Mongolia potentially life threatening.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project included the components described below. The Nordic Development Bank
cofinanced the first three components.



                                                    2

(i) Reconstruction and improvement of roads (US$38.20 million). Improvement works for three
roads: (a) reconstruction of the paved road from Erdenesant to Arvaikheer (177 kilometers out of
a total length of about 240 kilometers) ; (b) 18 short section upgrading of the earth road from
Arvaikheer to Khovd (93 km out of the total length of about 1040 km) to provide an all weather
gravel surface, and (c) nine additional short section improvements of the road from Kharkorin to
Tosontsengel (86 km out of a total road length of about 450 km) with an all weather gravel
surface. The NDF allocated US$0.92 million to finance supervision of the road works.

(ii) Technical assistance and training (US$2.37 million). This component was intended to
finance consulting services and training in several areas, and to support activities initially
launched by other donors active in Mongolia's road sector. Areas to be covered included contract
management, environmental work related to civil works, maintenance management and finance.
The NDF allocated US$1.5 million to finance technical assistance, excluding support to the
project implementation unit.

(iii) Road safety (US$6.20 million). The main investment was supply and installation of vehicle
inspection facilities to allow testing of the vehicles' mechanical condition and emissions levels.
This investment would be complemented by safety-related consulting services and training. The
NDF allocated US$4.14 million for road safety, excluding civil works associated with the
inspection stations.

(iv) Road maintenance (US$2.31 million). Provision of six sets of road maintenance equipment
(each including a grader, a pneumatic roller and a backhoe loader) to ensure that the earth and
gravel networks can be adequately maintained.

(v) Railway financial accounting system (FAS) (US$0.46 million). Technical assistance to
Mongolian Railways for implementation of an off-the-shelf comprehensive FAS to be used
together with components of a railway management information system already in place.

1.6 Revised Components

Changes in project components/subcomponents were:

(i) two road sections were added, first 47 kilometers of road improvement were added to fill in
gaps between reconstructed sections of the Kharkorin ­ Tseterleg road, and then rehabilitation of
30 kilometers from Erdenesant eastwards towards Lun;

(ii) stationary vehicle inspection stations were provided for all 21 aimags, instead of the original
three mobile and three stationary inspection stations that were planned;

(iii) trial sections to test pavement structures were added in various locations, to help identify
pavement structures and specifications suitable for Mongolian environmental and traffic
conditions, since the prevailing designs that dated back to the Soviet era, were not adequate;

(iv) preparation of a Road Master Plan was added, expected to reinforce a transport strategy
being prepared with Asian Development Bank financing; and

 (v) the railway financial accounting system component was cancelled.




                                                   3

1.7 Other significant changes

Project schedule/closing date. The project closing date was extended twice, each time for one
year, the first through December 31, 2006 and the second through December 31, 2007. The first
extension was intended to allow completion of the remaining civil works that were added to the
project as a result of available, unallocated funds, and to give time to prepare and implement a
road master plan as well for the trial of roads section testing alternative technologies. The second
extension resulted from implementation delays due to the fact that the works to be carried out
during the first extension proved too small to attract international contractors, but too large to be
carried out by local contractors in one single season, thus a second year was necessary.

Road safety study. In addition to the changes described under 1.6 above, the Road Safety study,
expected to be financed by the NDF, was not carried out since the start of the study was
substantially delayed due to slow procurement. The study intended to strengthen road safety in
Mongolia by improving the management and legal environment for road safety and by helping
build capacity in the concerned ministries and departments. Moreover the study was to design an
improved system for collecting, and analyzing accident information. The study was finally ready
to be started about three months prior to the December 31, 2007 closing date, and it was judged
that it would not be possible to satisfactorily carry out such a study in the time remaining for the
project.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Lessons reflected in project design. The biggest problem experienced in infrastructure projects
supported by IDA and other donors in Mongolia had been delays in implementation, generally
caused by inexperience in the competitive bidding process or management deficiencies in the
implementing agencies. Most of the civil works' contractors expected to bid under the project
were expected to have learned from their experiences in the precedent Transport Rehabilitation
Project and from training on contract management provided under a SwedeRoad program. At the
same time, DoR was to receive training under the project's technical assistance training to be
better prepared to manage the contracts. In addition, institutional arrangements for project
implementation were kept simple, by the early establishment of a PIU with staff experienced in
project implementation, as the focal point for all project-related activities.

Risks. Several risks were acknowledged. They were considered to be modest, and risk mitigation
measures were identified. Risks impacting the achievement of the project's objectives were (i)
insufficient counterpart funding, (ii) lack of maintenance for roads improved under the project
and (iii) the continued use of small trucks hence reducing the potential benefits of road
improvements. The first risk would be mitigated through support under a parallel ADB project of
the Road Fund that would help finance the project investments. The Road Fund together with
project-financed maintenance equipment would mitigate the second risk by helping ensure proper
maintenance is carried out. Planned and ongoing road development, together with strong
competition in the trucking industry, would create incentives to use larger trucks. Risks
potentially endangering outputs were the performance of the PIU, quality of construction,
implementation delays, inadequate availability of resources and unsuccessful training. Mitigation
included, respectively, experienced staff in the PIU, selection of competent contractors coupled
with adequate supervision, close monitoring by MRTT (formerly Ministry of Infrastructure--MoI)
and the Bank, central and provincial government commitment to the project, and trainee selected



                                                   4

under strict criteria with the understanding that they would be given the opportunity to apply their
acquired skills.

2.2 Implementation

Early implementation. By the end of 2003, or two years after the project was declared effective,
all road contracts had been awarded, and works were underway, signaling good preparation of the
civil works procurement.

Capital investments. As noted in Section 1, as a result of unallocated funds (largely due to the
appreciation of the SDR), some subcomponents were added to the project during implementation.
The road sections added to the project were consistent with the project's objectives in that they
improve roads in poor condition that limited access to the areas served by the project roads. The
substitution of fixed vehicle inspection stations in the aimags for portable stations originally
included in the project was decided on the basis of cost effectiveness analysis, which showed that
it was more economically efficient to invest in fixed stations than to move around mobile stations
in a country with long distances and poor roads.

Contract price adjustment. Civil works contracts did not have a cost escalation clause as it was
expected that all contracts would be small enough that they could be completed during the
construction season in a single year. In practice, though, this did not happen as execution of the
works often needed more than one season to be completed. Contracts had to be amended since
rapid increases in the price of fuel and bitumen required corresponding adjustments under the
civil works' contracts.

MoF position. MoF was fully supportive during the initial stages of the project. This was
reflected in the award of road contracts during the first two years of the project's implementation.
This, however, changed with MoF refusing in some instances to approve new, or extend existing,
contracts of international consultants resulting in various delays in starting the civil works and
technical assistance. Specifically, MoF initially refused to renew the contract for the supervision
consultants for the new road sections. These were NDF financed contracts and consultants had to
be selected from NDF member countries. MoF believed the services were too expensive. The
delays in starting works resulted in some of the works not being completed in one construction
season and having to be completed in the following year's season. Delays in approving the road
safety study lead to its ultimate cancellation. In addition, delays in approving a grant from SIDA
(about US$700,000) to strengthen transport economics and maintenance management led to
SIDA's cancellation of the grant in 2007.

Quality of Contractors' work. Quality varied depending on the contractor. Initial construction,
ranged from very good for the work on the Erdenesant-Lun road to poor on some of the contract
sections in the Erdenesant-Arvaikheer road. Problems, however, were rectified by the
responsible contractors during the defects liability period.

Technical issues related to road design. Issues arose regarding the type of surface on three roads:
(i) Erdenesant-Arvaikheer, where the government requested to replace single surface dressing
with a slurry seal for a 35 kilometer section. This was agreed following a consultant report that
recommended the change; (ii) Arvaikheer-Khovd road: one section initially considered as a trial
to test penetration macadam was subsequently changed to test double surface treatment instead of
penetration macadam; and (iii) Kharkorin-Tsetserleg: the DoR initially requested that in view of
deterioration of gravel surface in neighboring road sections, the surface in the added road sections



                                                   5

be made of asphalt concrete. An economic analysis showed that vehicle operating costs savings
would justify the upgrading. However, the DoR later dropped the proposal to upgrade mainly on
grounds that there would not be enough domestic resources to complete the roads to the proposed
upgraded standards.

Vehicle inspection stations. Delivery of equipment was not well coordinated with the readiness of
buildings to receive such equipment. This complicated the installation and testing of equipment to
ensure that it was in good operating condition. However, the problems were resolved and did not
affect the proper operation of the inspection stations.

Road Maintenance Plan. A draft of this plan was received by the Bank in 2004, and was
commented on by the supervision team. While this Plan represented a significant progress for
planning road maintenance, it had a number of weaknesses, some of which were deemed easy to
fix, and others more difficult requiring more resources. One of the problems identified related to
the use of HDM4 (a computer-based highway development and management model), that does
not have a winter module, and therefore cannot accurately model deterioration progression caused
by traffic when a road is frozen, during a thaw period, or during severe climatic conditions.
Preparation and implementation of the Plan suffered from two main problems. The first was
underfunding, which hindered the conduct of the road condition survey, an essential input for the
plan, and made the survey take much longer than anticipated. The second was a drop in MRTT's
capacity, as key staff who could run the model left MRTT. The plan was completed in 2004.

Road Master Plan. Preparation of a roads master plan, which was an addition to the project's
original components, was complicated because this study originally was conceived as a mix of a
road master plan and a feasibility study of roads in Mongolia's Western region. The consultant's
initial draft focused on the analysis of individual roads rather than on the master plan part. This
was corrected in subsequent drafts and the master plan was completed.

Project at Risk Status. While at various times there were implementation delays or quality issues
that ultimately resulted in the classification of the project as a "problem project" in July 2006,
such issues were not of a magnitude to affect the overall project risk rating. For five months in
2006, implementation exceedingly slow and implementation progress was rated moderately
unsatisfactory before changing to being moderately satisfactory.

Railway financial accounting component. Changes in Mongolian Railway management and
regulatory oversight, and discussion about possible MR restructuring (which would have required
the component to be re-designed in the context of MR restructuring) delayed launching MR's
Financial Accounting System. Finally MR modernized its financial accounting system in
accordance with international accounting standards without Bank support and the component was
cancelled.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design. The outcome indicators for the road improvements, the largest component of the project,
were well selected and practical to monitor. Considering the poor condition of existing roads, the
country's harsh weather and the sparseness of the population in Mongolia, improving
accessibility is certainly the most significant outcome for the population using the roads. The
outcome measure related to road safety, "the proportion of road fatalities attributable to vehicle
conditions", was conceptually ideal, but it was too ambitious, given the level of development of



                                                    6

Mongolia's road accident statistics. Relating fatalities to vehicle condition is a complex
association that would have been difficult to establish, even taking into account that the project
intended to support an improvement of the country's road safety analysis and statistics. The
outcome measure related to the rail component, traffic increase caused by an improved financial
accounting, was based on the notion that with a better financial accounting system, the railway
management would have been in a better position to structure tariffs in a way that would provide
sufficient incentives to attract more traffic to the railways. While the hypothesis may be correct,
a direct association of traffic levels to the existence and utilization of a financial accounting
system is tenuous.

The outputs indicators were all appropriate, and simple to monitor.

Implementation and Utilization. Outcome and output indicators were monitored, and values
tracked as shown in the data sheet. As noted above, an exception was the outcome indicator for
road safety which could not be monitored. However, a simpler statistic, the number of road
fatalities, was monitored and annual values were published by Mongolia's traffic police
department. The outcome and outputs values were generally reported in a timely and satisfactory
manner by the PIU.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards. The project was category B and no major safeguards issues were encountered during
implementation. During the works on the Kharkhorin-Tsetserleg road, archaeological artifacts
were found. The PIU reported that when this happened, road works were immediately stopped,
the site was cleared, and construction resumed only after excavation was completed following
strict government procedures. In the case of the Erdenesant-Arvaikheer road, works were
expedited to prevent further damage due to multitracking (i.e. vehicles riding on adjacent earth
tracks along the road corridors). Overall, the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was
followed as expected. Compliance with the EMP was included in the supervision consultant's
Quarterly Report.

The financial management system during implementation had no significant changes from
appraisal. The project continued to maintain the financial management system that was
acceptable to the Bank and provided reasonable assurance that the proceeds of the loan were used
for the purposes for which the loan was granted. For audit compliance, the implementing agency
complied with the legal agreement to submit annual audit reports to the Bank before deadlines.
All the audit reports were reviewed by the Bank and were deemed to be acceptable. While some
financial management issues were noted during project implementation, the PIU implemented the
recommended measures to remedy any weaknesses.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Roads. The roads improved under the project are under the administrative responsibility of the
DoR of MRTT and therefore DoR will continue to be responsible for the roads' management and
maintenance. The roads' recurrent expenditures are approved by the MoF and financed from the
national budget. Allocations for road maintenance have increased significantly from MNT5.0
million in 2004 to MNT6.5 million in 2006. Despite the increase, the allocations remain short of
the level required to ensure adequate maintenance of the road assets (estimated at MNT10.0 for
2005).




                                                    7

Vehicle Inspection System. The VIS is the responsibility of the Transport Service Center (TSC)
of MRTT. Some of the inspection stations have been in operation for about three years.
According to TSC's financial statements, the inspection stations are financially self sustaining,
covering the operating costs from the fees charged for inspection.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Country and Bank assistance strategies have confirmed the relevance of the project's objectives,
especially the project's main objective, improving accessibility of the isolated and remote central
and western regions of Mongolia, which account for some three quarters of the project cost. Such
strategies emphasized the importance of reducing rural vulnerabilities and consolidating the
transition to a market economy. The rural roads improved under the project reduced the
economic distance between the isolated rural communities and the urban centers, thus improving
domestic trade prospects, while facilitating access to health and education services. On the road
safety side, the high rate of road accidents, the substantial growth over the last 5- 10 years in
Mongolia's vehicle fleet with most (over 90 percent) of the imported vehicles continuing to be
used, further confirms the relevance of the safety objective and of the importance of the vehicle
inspection stations to check the vehicles' mechanical and emission conditions.

Project design and implementation were well suited to achieve the accessibility and the road
safety objectives. The project's third objective, to increase rail capacity to carry export trade, was
also important because the railways played, and continues to play, an essential role in Mongolia's
external trade, by providing the key transport link to deep water ports in Russia and China. The
component supporting this objective, a financial accounting system, while no doubt facilitating
the use of financial and physical railway resources, especially the railways' traction and rolling
stock equipment, appeared, however, weaker than the other project components in helping
achieve the intended objective.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The project largely achieved its objectives, as described below.

Improve accessibility. The PAD's main indicator to assess the impact of the project in improving
accessibility of the isolated and remote central and western regions of Mongolia is an increase in
the number of days with accessibility to specified locations. The locations are Khovd, Arvaikeer,
Bayangoor, Altai, Tosontsengel and Erdenesant. Accessibility, measured by the number of days
per year that roads provided access to these locations, increased from 250 days (on average) at the
start of the project to year-round accessibility. Accessibility further improved as a result of the
rehabilitation of two additional road sections not originally included in the project. These are the
Kharkorin-Tsetserleg road section (47 kilometers), which filled in gaps between reconstructed
sections of Arvaikheer-Khovd road, and the rehabilitation of the 30 km stretch from Erdenesant
eastwards towards Lun.

A secondary indication of the improvement in accessibility is the length of non-paved roads
receiving one or two maintenance interventions (grading) per annum. The improvement was
substantial. Thanks to the project-financed maintenance equipment, the length of gravel roads
subject to at least one grading per year increased from 165 kilometers at the start of the project to
592 kilometers by project completion (against a target of 500 km). Also, 829 kilometers of earth



                                                   8

roads received maintenance in 2006 but this was well below the target of 1,500 km. No baseline
was established to measure progress against (see Section 3.5 (a)).

Improve safety. The indicator for measuring the improvement in road safety is the reduction in
annual road fatalities attributable to poor vehicle conditions. As discussed in the M&E section, it
was not possible to measure this indicator. However, an analysis of road safety statistics (Table
3.1) indicates a substantial improvement in road safety over the life of the project. Fatalities per
10,000 vehicles dropped from 27.3 in 2002 to 21.4 in 2006.

                           Table 3.1: Mongolia: Road fatalities 2000-2006
                               2000     2001     2002      2003      2004     2005     2006

 Total road accidents                   5325     5553      5296      4803     5042     5911
 Total fatalities                         335      327      391        385     355      378
 Total vehicles (000)            118      131      142      143        155     165      177
 Fatalities per 10,000
 vehicles                                25.6     23.0     27.3       24.8    21.5      21.4

Typically, one would attribute the reduction in fatalities per 10,000 vehicles to the 50 percent
increase in the country's vehicle fleet between 2000 and 2006. The additions to the fleet would
have been expected to be largely modern vehicles, in better condition and with more modern
safety equipment. Consequently, just the modernization of the fleet would have been expected to
play a major role in increasing road safety. However, this was not the case in Mongolia. Most of
the vehicles imported during the period were second hand vehicles, most of which were over 10-
to-15 years old. Since the installation and operation of vehicle inspection stations was one of the
most important safety interventions during that period, it is reasonable to believe that the project
contributed to the reduction in reducing road fatalities.

The project's contribution to road safety is also confirmed by the achievement of two output
indicators, (i) the number of vehicle inspection stations made operational (24 vehicle inspection
stations, 3 in Ulaanbaatar and 21 in the aimags); and (ii) the number of vehicles tested (85 percent
of the country's vehicle fleet was tested in 2006, expected to increase to 100 percent in 2008).

Increase rail capacity. The outcome indicator for this objective is an increase in the volume of
international and transit freight carried by the Mongolian railway. During the project period, such
railway traffic grew from about 3 million ton at the start to 8 million tons in 2005 to 11 million
tons in 2007. In addition, operational indices such as km/locomotive, km/wagon, km/coach,
traffic units per staff and passengers carried improved, showing that railways efficiency improved.
However, it is difficult to attribute much of the increase in traffic to the modernization of the
financial accounting system. The high rates of economic growth in Mongolia, China and Russia
were probably the main drivers of the large growth in international and transit freight traffic.



3.3 Efficiency

As explained in the PAD, a cost benefit analysis was carried out for all project components
except for technical assistance and training including the rail component. The methodology used
for appraising the viability of the different components was based on standard evaluation models
developed by the Bank. Ideally, the re-estimation of the economic returns for the ICR would be
based on the revised benefits based on updated traffic counts and actual costs. Due to lack of



                                                   9

resources, traffic was not measured after project implementation. The economic returns in Table
3.1 below are based on the same traffic data and projections used at the time of the project's
appraisal but on actual construction costs. Given that traffic projections have not been updated,
there is a large degree of uncertainty surrounding the projected returns. Nevertheless, the returns
are high enough to withstand significant drops in traffic volumes from what was projected.
Furthermore, Mongolia's vehicle fleet, which generally correlates with traffic levels, increased at
a rate of 6.2 percent per year during the project period. This rate is higher than the average
annual rate of increase in net benefits of 5 percent which had been estimated in the original
economic analysis. The increase in net benefits would not only reflect the increase in traffic
levels but also the increase in real incomes (used in estimating time savings.)

              Table 3.2: Economic Returns Pre-implementation and Post Completion1/
        Component                               Pre-implementation             Post-completion

                                                    ENPV          EIRR          ENPV          EIRR
                                                (US$ million)      (%)      (US$ million)      (%)
        Erdenesant to Arvaikheer                    23.5         29.3           24.32/        23.72/
        Erdenesant to Lun                           2.23         16.1
        Arvaikheer to Khovd                         36.6         48.9            36.8          49.8
        Kharkhorin to Tosontsengel                  17.8         32.4            17.1          30.1
        Vehicle Inspection System                   2.10         19.6             1.8          18.3
        Road Maintenance Equipment                  4.30         57.9            4.85         XX3/
    1/ Post-completion returns are based on pre-implementation traffic volumes and actual costs
    2/ The section from Erdenesant to Lun was added to the project at a later stage (see Section 1.6). As it
    was not possible to separate the costs for the two sections of the road, their economic returns were
    combined.
    3/ No annual resource flows were available to allow for the estimation of the EIRR.



3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

The outcome rating is based on the project objectives' relevance, the extent they were achieved,
their sustainability and the economic efficiency of the project's components. Cancellation of the
road safety study (see Section 3.5b), the risks associated with the sustainability of the
development outcome (see Section 4) and implementation delays are the reasons that the rating is
Moderately Satisfactory instead of Satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Because the road improvement under the project focused on the central and western aimags,
which had a high concentration of the country's poor, the improved rural accessibility made
possible by the better roads certainly has had an impact on the lives of the poor. Unfortunately,
survey information on the economic and social impact of road development in Mongolia,
expected to have been collected under a parallel ADB project was not available for this ICR,
since the survey report had not been issued.

The local population had access to work through the contractors carrying out the road
improvement activities. Those employed in the project-financed road works benefited from



                                                     10

contracts managed by MRTT through the PIU, and from the fact that such contracts obligated
contractors to comply with minimum wages and other labor law provisions.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

There were two areas where the project had an impact on institutional strengthening: road safety
and road maintenance.

Road safety. The VIS component was the trigger for important institutional improvements. The
most immediate outcome was the establishment of periodic and rigorous vehicle inspections
throughout the country, and the training of operational personnel to carry out the inspections and
maintain the inspection equipment in satisfactory condition. The VIS allowed the modernization
and regular updating of the condition of the country's vehicle fleet. Further, although it took
some time to develop, collaboration between the police and MRTT improved notably towards the
end of the project, allowing regular sharing of road safety information between the police and
MRTT. The project's impact on road safety could have been greater had the road safety study
been carried out as it was originally intended (see Section 1.7-Road safety study)

Road Maintenance. While the road maintenance plan fell short of expectations mainly because
of some weaknesses in road engineering concepts, it still represents a good basis for budget work
and overall road maintenance planning. The Plan represented the first time that road maintenance
requirements in Mongolia were quantified. MRTT has reported that the Maintenance Plan is
being used to provide an evidence-base for determining maintenance interventions, type and
location, and to prepare the corresponding maintenance budget. The database containing the road
network condition is being updated to reflect current conditions. The Maintenance Plan was also
a useful input for the Bank when it was preparing a document to support the Mongolian
Government in preparing an infrastructure strategy in 2006.

Environmental Guidebook. As intended, an environmental guidebook for civil works' contractors
was prepared under the project. The guidebook was approved by the Ministry of Environment
and its use is legally required in the preparation and execution of road works.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Environmental. A significant positive environmental impact of the project is the reduction of
multitracking along the rehabilitated road sections, which makes more land available for grazing.
Another positive impact, in view of the chronic poor urban air quality in Ulaanbaatar and other
cities, is the control of vehicle emissions as a result of the operation of the vehicle inspection
stations. Control of vehicle emissions has become more critical in the cities due to the increasing
urbanization and related increase in air pollution mainly caused by coal and wood-burning stoves
used to heat and cook, and by inefficient and antiquated energy generation methods.

Road design. The project helped improve knowledge about the type of pavement appropriate for
Mongolian conditions. While some piloting/testing was originally included in the project, during
implementation the amount of testing/piloting and useful knowledge for pavement design was
substantially increased.

Fuel efficiency. High vehicle emissions are generally a reflection of poor fuel efficiency. Thus,
the vehicle emission controls have had the added benefit of reducing fuel consumption, which is




                                                   11

important for the overall consumption of gasoline at the time that the long term price of gasoline
is likely to remain substantially higher than it was a the time the project was appraised.


3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Significant

Accessibility objective. The risk that the benefits of the roads improved under the project will be
reduced due to inadequate road maintenance is substantial. While the project provided a good
amount of road maintenance equipment, and there was a significant increase in the funding
allocation for road maintenance (see Section 2.5), the amounts allocated for road maintenance
remain insufficient. A strengthening of the Road Fund, with the creation of a Road Board, that
was expected to occur under a parallel ADB-financed project, did not happen as MoF continued
the current practice of using the Fund's resources as general tax revenues. Since at the time being,
there is no Bank project on-going or under preparation for the road sector, it will be difficult for
the Bank to influence the process in a way that would result in a larger allocation of domestic
budgetary resources to road maintenance.

Safety objective. There appears to be little risk with regards to the operation of the vehicle
inspection stations, since such facilities are self-financing and operating revenues cover not only
operating costs, but also include a margin to repay the capital cost.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Bank's role in assisting with project preparation and design was overall good, with well
selected major objectives and appropriate supporting components. There were however a few
shortcomings. One, is the objective relating to increasing rail capacity, where the supporting
component may have been weak. Also, base values were also not defined for all indicators.

In assessing the performance of the Bank through the lending phase, it is essential to take into
account the dearth of statistical data which made it very difficult to define objectives and
indicators that could be monitored. This applies especially to the monitoring of road accident
fatalities, and the causes of such accidents, which was the project's outcome indicator for the
vehicle inspection stations, the component that supported the road safety objective.

Due to the limited resources available to the project relative to the vast needs of the road network
in the western region, the selection of the road sections to be rehabilitated under the Project
resulted in a number of non-contiguous sections in order to maximize the economic returns. The
decision process, however, did not reflect the possibility that the structural failure in several non-
contiguous road sections was an indication of perhaps the imminent failure of the remaining
sections that were left out. This did prove to be the case in a number of other sections that were
later improved using unallocated funds from the Credit."



                                                   12

The fact that two years after the project was declared effective all the initial road contracts (i.e
excluding the sections that were added later-see Section 1.6(i)) had been awarded and road works,
representing close to 80 percent of the project cost at the time, were underway is a sign of good
project preparation.

A worthwhile idea under the project was the introduction of pilots to test road design alternatives,
which was appropriate given the special conditions in Mongolia (environment, soils, population
density, remote populations) and the fact that existing road design standards were old.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

Supervision Team. The project's supervision team had four different team leaders through the
project period. Despite this, the quality of supervision did not suffer, largely because two of the
former Task Team Managers remained involved in the project in some capacity providing advice
and clarification when requested. Both of these managers were accessible: one worked in the
East Asia and Pacific Transport Unit, and the other one worked for the project as a consultant. In
addition, continuity from the project's start to completion was provided by the project's senior
road engineer (a consultant, former Bank staff) whose first involvement in the project was as peer
reviewer. Another positive factor that prevented a breakdown in supervision was the good
quality of the supervision documentation (aide-memoires and related documentation) which
allowed the new teams to get rapidly acquainted with the project's progress and implementation
issues.

Supervision Frequency. On average, about two supervision missions per year were carried out
during project implementation, which was appropriate for the project.

Coordination with other donors. The supervision activity required periodic coordination and
consultation with other donors. While the project was formally co-financed with the NDF,
projects underway by the ADB and SIDA were closely related to the Bank's project, and required
the supervision team to liaise with them as well.

Quality of road works. The supervision teams paid close attention to the quality of works, and to
the selection of relevant pilots to help MRTT identify suitable road design standards. Supervision
reports show constant and detailed attention by the missions to: (i) ensuring that problems with
road construction were rectified and that the ultimate quality of road works is satisfactory and (ii)
recommending appropriate measures to improve quality as may be necessary.

Safeguards. The supervision missions were concerned with environmental and safety issues,
which are brought out in practically all supervision reports. Examples are missions'
recommendations to speed up construction of the Erdenesant-Arvaikhair road to prevent further
damage from multitracking and the adoption of additional measures, such as the use of durable
reflective paint, to increase the safety on paved roads. The missions were also concerned to
ensure that road work contractors, especially those working in the more remote areas, where the
population has less access to local authorities, complied with labor law provisions, including
those relating to minimum wages. Supervision missions followed the fiduciary aspects of the
project closely, noting weakness, making recommendations for measures to be taken and ensuring
they were implemented.




                                                  13

Comments on studies. While the road maintenance plan and the road master plan studies were
not financed by the Bank, the supervision team reviewed these studies carefully and presented
detailed comments for the revision of these documents.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The satisfactory rating results from the overall Bank performance results from the Bank's
satisfactory rating for supervision and the moderately satisfactory rating for ensuring quality at
entry.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

MoF. The government provided counterpart funding in a fairly satisfactory manner, which
allowed the project to proceed with most of the civil works with relatively little funding problems.
Yet, project implementation was negatively affected in the later stages of the project by the role
of MoF in the area of procurement, notably excessive intervention in the procurement of civil
works, delaying procurement of spare parts for the NDF-financed vehicle inspection stations, and
refusing or delaying extensions of new consultant contracts. The latter had an impact on the
preparation and implementation of road works (see Section 2.2--MoF position).

MoI/MRTT ­ civil works. Both MoI and MRTT provided strong support for the execution of the
road works, often seeking speedier resolution of issues resulting from MoF delays. MoI was also
effective in setting up the PIU, which became operational just a month after the project was
declared effective, although initially the PIU did not have a leader. And even before the PIU
became operational, MoI had made the necessary arrangements to have several of the civil works
contracts signed right after the loan was approved, but before loan effectiveness, which allowed
early start of the civil works.

Project studies. MRTT interest in the conduct of the project's studies was less than that in
completing the civil works. It took a relatively long time to secure internal approval for the Roads
Master Plan study and the Road Safety Study. The latter study was ultimately cancelled by MoF.

The Vehicle Inspection System. MRTT was diligent in securing appropriate buildings for
installing the vehicle inspection lines. There were some issues, however, especially in the aimags,
regarding the coordination between readiness of the buildings and delivery of the VIS equipment
but these were satisfactorily resolved. MRTT also took the necessary actions to ensure staff
training for the operations of the VIS and for the regular transmission of data from the aimags and
the Ulaanbaatar inspection stations to MRTT headquarters. Initial disagreements between the
police and the Transport Service Center, MRTT's unit in charge of the VIS, which complicated
data collection and use, were eventually resolved.

Monitoring and Evaluation. While monitoring indicators were tracked throughout the life of the
project, the government's own M&E report was only issued for the first time in 2004, or three
years after project implementation had started.




                                                  14

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The PIU's performance during the project was satisfactory despite three changes in PIU directors
over the life of the project in addition to changes in the government organization for the
management of roads and road transport. In effect, the Ministry of Infrastructure, in charge at the
time of project appraisal and initial implementation, was dissolved in 2004, when a new Ministry
of Roads, Transport and Tourism (MRTT) became responsible for the sector.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The moderately satisfactory rating of the Borrower's overall performance is largely due to the
weak support to the project from MoF and the substantial risk to the development outcome.

6. Lessons Learned

Use of trials and pilots in the case of countries facing severe climatic conditions is important.
During the project several pilots of alternative road surface designs were carried out. Pilots are
helpful to assist with the selection of proper technologies given the conditions of Mongolia: harsh
weather, long distances making it costly to carry road construction materials, sparse population
making it difficult to secure personnel to carry out road maintenance. Since Mongolia road
engineering standards were relatively old and inadequate, such trials and pilots were essential to
assess proposed new standards before they were adopted.

Strong buy in from MoF is essential for project success. Lack of buy in by MoF in certain project
subcomponents or certain technical assistance resulted in several delays and uncertainty
throughout the life of the project. It is essential to ensure that not only MRTT, but also MoF, is
fully committed to the entire project.

Maintaining the flexibility to redesign a project component during implementation can be helpful.
The original idea to establish a few mobile vehicle inspection units to save in investment costs
proved to be not economically efficient in Mongolia. Long distances and poor road conditions
were found to make the cost of transporting mobile VIS equipment from one aimag to the next
high, with the additional risk that poor road conditions could end up damaging the VIS equipment.
Thus, the most economic solution turned was to establish vehicle inspection stations for each one
of the aimags, with savings in transport and maintenance costs of equipment more than
compensating for the higher investment costs in VIS equipment.

The difficulty in data collection needs to be considered when defining outcome indicators. The
process of identifying objectives, components and outcome indicators is complex, often posing
difficult trade-offs between what is desirable; and what is feasible and directly related to the
project's activities.. Two situations in this project illustrate this issue. The first relates to the
railway objective, where improvements in financial management were expected to translate into a
better use of resources and an increase in profitability. While the assumption that the component
would result in increased ridership and efficiency is plausible, it was not possible to isolate the
increase in ridership resulting from an improved financial system. The second situation relates to
vehicle inspection stations. Since the stations would primarily help reduce the number of vehicles
circulating in poor mechanical conditions and consequently reduce the number of fatalities, an
outcome indicator measuring the number of road traffic fatalities saved by reducing the number



                                                   15

of vehicles in poor condition made sense. Yet, such an indicator requires sophisticated data
collection and processing, which is difficult to develop. A simpler but more indirect indicator,
such as the one used in this report (road fatalities per unit of vehicle fleet) is a more realistic
compromise between what is desirable and what is feasible.

Better-than-average project preparation is necessary in countries with short construction seasons.
Countries with long and harsh winter conditions such as Mongolia only have a few months when
conditions allow for carrying out road improvement works. Thus, better and more rigorous
planning and procurement compared to other countries is necessary to ensure that works can be
scheduled and implemented in a way that maximizes utilization of the short construction season,
thus minimizing the cost of road works and facilitating an early completion of the works.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The Borrower and the implementing agency did not provide any comments on this report.

(b) Cofinanciers
The Nordic Development Fund (NDF) corroborated the views of the Bank with respect to
MoF's delays hampering implementation, causing delays and ultimately resulting in the
cancellation of the road safety study (See Annex 8).

The comments mention a lapse in the coordination between the Bank and NDF which
resulted in the Bank's closing its Credit but NDF extending the closing date for its Credit
under the belief that the Bank would extend as well. Coordination between the two
institutions worked well throughout the project with the exception of this situation. This
happened mainly because NDF was winding down its operations and there was also a
change in the task management for NDF. In addition, the Bank's motivation for
potentially extending the Credit was to oversee the road safety study but once MoF
decided to cancel the study, there was no strong rationale for the Bank to extend its
Credit.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders




                                                  16

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                  Appraisal Estimate        Actual/Latest
           Components                                                            Percentage of
                                    (USD millions)         Estimate (USD
                                                              millions)            Appraisal

1. RECONSTRUCTION AND
IMPROVEMENTS OF ROADS                       38.20                 40.83              107.9

2. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE,
TRAINING PROGRAM                             2.37                   3.29             138.9

3. ROAD SAFETY/VEHICLE
INSPECTION SYSTEM                            6.20                   3.32             53.6

4. ROAD MAINTENANCE                          2.31                   2.20             95.2
5. RAILWAY FINANCIAL
ACCOUNTING SYSTEM (FAS)                      0.46                   0.00             0.00


             Total Baseline Cost            49.54                 49.64              100.2
             Total Project Costs            49.54                 49.64              100.2
     Total Financing Required               49.54                 49.64              100.2




(b) Financing
                                                        Appraisal Actual/Latest

           Source of Funds                Type of        Estimate       Estimate    Percentage of
                                      Cofinancing          (USD           (USD       Appraisal
                                                         millions)      millions)
Borrower                                              8.84           4.17           47.2
International Development
Association (IDA)*                                    34.00          39.9           117.4

Nordic Development Fund (NDF)         Parallel        6.70           5.57           83.1
* While the percentage in $US is greater than 100, the actual estimate as a percentage of that at
appraisal in SDR is 93.6%. The difference is a result of the appreciation in SDR against the $US.




                                               17

Annex 2. Outputs by Component


          Component            Output              Comments

Road Works

Erdenesant-Arvaikheer          177 km    Reconstruction of paved road
                                         (177 km out of total length of
                                         240 km)

Arvaikheer-Khovd               93 km     18 short sections upgraded to
                                         all-weather gravel surface (93
                                         km out of total length of 1,040
                                         km)
Kharkhorin-Tosontsengel        86 km     9 short sections upgraded to
                                         all weather-gravel surface (86
                                         km out of total length of 450
                                         km)
Kharkhorin-Tseterleg           47 km     5 short sections upgrading to
(addition)                               gravel road standards. Rate of
                                         completion on four sections
                                         was 100% and on the fifth
                                         section 84%.
Erdenesant- Lun                30 km     Rehabilitation of existing
(addition)                               asphalt road.

Road Maintenance Equipment
(i) Road maintenance sets      6 sets    Each set comprising a grader,
                                         backhoe loader, and roller.



(ii) Bulldozers                  2

Vehicle Inspection Stations
VIS Equipment and buildings     24       3 in Ulaanbaatar and 21 in the
                                         other aimags

Studies
(i) Road Maintenance Plan       Plan     Completed
(ii) Road Master Plan           Plan     Completed




                                18

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

As explained in the PAD, a cost benefit analysis was carried out for all project components
except for technical assistance and training including the rail component. The methodology used
for appraising the viability of the different components was based on standard evaluation models
developed by the Bank. Ideally, the re-estimation of the economic returns for the ICR would be
based on the revised benefits based on updated traffic counts and actual costs. Due to lack of
resources, traffic was not measured after project implementation. The economic returns in the
table below are based on the same traffic data and projections used at the time of the project's
appraisal by on actual construction costs. Given that traffic projections have not been updated,
there is a large degree of uncertainty surrounding the projected returns. Nevertheless, the returns
are high enough to withstand significant drops in traffic volumes from what was projected.

              Table 3.2: Economic Returns Pre-implementation and Post Completion1/
        Component                               Pre-implementation             Post-completion

                                                    ENPV          EIRR          ENPV          EIRR
                                                (US$ million)      (%)      (US$ million)      (%)
        Erdenesant to Arvaikheer                    23.5         29.3           24.32/        23.72/
        Erdenesant to Lun                           2.23         16.1
        Arvaikheer to Khovd                         36.6         48.9            36.8          49.8
        Kharkhorin to Tosontsengel                  17.8         32.4            17.1          30.1
        Vehicle Inspection System                   2.10         19.6             1.8          18.3
        Road Maintenance Equipment                  4.30         57.9            4.85         XX3/
    1/ Post-completion returns are based on pre-implementation traffic volumes and actual costs
    2/ The section from Erdenesant to Lun was added to the project at a later stage (see Section 1.6). As it
    was not possible to separate the costs for the two sections of the road, their economic returns were
    combined.
    3/ No annual resource flows were available to allow for the estimation of the EIRR.

About 80 the project's cost was upgrading roads. To assess the viability of the project's
investment in roads, the Highway Development and Management (HDM III) model was used to
analyze road upgrading to the asphalt and the Roads Economic Decision (RED) model was used
to assess the upgrading of roads to gravel. The post completion returns based on pre-
implementation traffic volumes and actual construction costs were high. Most of the benefits are
explained by the savings in vehicle operation costs which account for about 70% of total benefits.

Traffic growth rates used in the analysis were probably conservative. Annual traffic growth rates
between 1994 and 1999 on the road sections upgraded by the project varied between 19 and 27
percent. Future traffic growth was projected at 10 percent per annum between 2000 and 2005, 5-
6 percent between 2006 and 2010 and 3 percent thereafter.




                                                     19

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

Names                      Title                              Unit    Responsibility/
                                                                      Specialty
Lending

Robin C. Carruthers        Lead Transport Economist           EASTR   Task Team Leader
                                                                      to 03/03

Dan Gibson                 Resettlement Specialist            EASES   Resettlement
                                                                      Specialist
Alla Weinstein             Operations Officer                 EASTR Highway Engineer
R.I. Gopalkhrishnan        Senior Procurement Specialist      EAPCO Procurement
Hoi-Chan Nguyen            Senior Counsel                     LEGEA Legal
Carlos Escudero            Legal Counsel                      LEGEA Legal

Wijaya Wickrema            Financial Management Specialist    LOAFC   Financial
                                                                      Management
Anil Somani                Senior Environmental Specialist    EASEN Environment
Saraswathi Sundaram        Task Assistant                     EASTR Assistant

Behdad Nowroozi            Financial Management Specialist    EAPCO   Financial
                                                                      Management
Anders H.G. Bonde          Highway Engineer                   ECSIN   Peer Reviewer
Robin Mearns               Senior Economist                   EASRD Peer Reviewer

Supervision/ICR
Baher El-Hefnawy           Senior Transport Economist         EASTE Task Team Leader

Graham Smith               Transport Specialist               EASTR   Task Team Leader
                                                                      ­ to 06/06

Imogene Jensen             Senior Economist                   EASTR   Task Team Leader -
                                                                      to 09/05

Robin C. Carruthers        Lead Transport Economist           EASTR   Task Team Leader
                                                                      to 03/03
Anders H. G. Bonde         Consultant                         EASTE Highway Engineer
Xiaoping Li                Sr. Procurement Specialist.        EAPCO Procurement
Jinan Shi                  Sr. Procurement Specialist         EAPCO Procurement

Haixia Li                  Financial Management Specialist    EAPCO   Financial
                                                                      Management
Orgodol Sanjaasuren        Infrastructure Operations Officer. EASCS Operations

Anil H. Somani             Consultant                         EASTE   Environment
                                                                      Specialist
Hernan Levy                Consultant                         EASTE Transport Economist
Sally Burningham           Senior Engineer                    EASTR Transport Specialist
Sreypov Tep                Program Assistant                  EASTR Assistant
Melissa Sanchez            Program Assistant                  EASTE Assistant
R.I. Gopalkhrishnan        Procurement Specialist             EAPCO Procurement
Tumentsogt Tsevegemid      Infrastructure Operations Officer  EASCS Operations

Ochir Lkhagvasuren         Financial Management Specialist    EAPCO   Financial
                                                                      Management



                                           20

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                           No. of staff weeks          USD Thousands (including
                                                       travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY99                                                   20.13
FY00                       21                          105.44
FY01                       27                          144.14
FY02                                                   0.00
FY03                                                   0.00
FY04                                                   0.00
FY05                                                   0.00
FY06                                                   0.00
FY07                                                   0.00
Total:                     48                          269.71
Supervision/ICR
FY99                                                   0.00
FY00                                                   0.00
FY01                       2                           13.31
FY02                       9                           52.48
FY03                       15                          80.85
FY04                       14                          95.95
FY05                       13                          62.19
FY06                       20                          65.67
FY07 (estimated)           6                           65.00
Total:                     79                          435.45




                                      21

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable




                                    22

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable




                                  23

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

No comment




                                   24

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Nordic Development Fund (NDF)

The interference by Ministry of Finance in the day to day activities has very much
hampered implementation of important parts of the credit. Specifically the Road Safety
Study which in NDF's opinion is essential if Mongolia intends to reduce the fatalities on
the roads.

NDF extended the credit by one year last December. This was done with the
understanding that WB would do the same. However, through some information lapse we
never realized that WB would close its credit until it was too late. NDF's ambition was to
ensure that the highly relevant Road Safety Study would be implemented and that the
World Bank would be a supporter in this ambition.

NDF has tried on its own but with no success. The conclusion is NDF extended the credit
closing date too early and that NDF should have awaited WB's decision.

We are currently in the process of tendering for four (4) additional Vehicle Testing
Stations. The tendering process is not going smoothly. Documentation forwarded to us is
not up to the required standard. NDF's opinion is that the PIU of the MRTT is weak and
therefore the results have not been as expected.




                                            25

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1. The World Bank, Transport Development Project: Project Appraisal Document
(Report No. 21739-MOG), February 28, 2001.

2. The World Bank, Transport Development Project: Development Credit Agreement
(Credit No. 3478 MOG), between Mongolia and International Development Association,
April 30, 2001.

3. The World Bank, Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement No. 3478 MOG
between Mongolia and International Development Association, April 23, 2004.

4. The World Bank, Aide-Memoires of the Transport Development Project, from June
2001 to November 2006.

5. Ministry of Infrastructure Development, Department of Roads Mongolia, Transport
Rehabilitation Project Roads Sub-Project, - Feasibility Study of Selected Road
Maintenance Treatments and Short Section Improvement of Unpaved Road Final Report,
prepared by Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick, Transport Research Laboratory in association with
Intercontinental Consultants & Technocrats PVT Ltd., March 1997.

6. Ministry of Infrastructure Development Mongolia, Transport Rehabilitation Project,
Final Business Plan (Main Report/Tables and Figures) Consulting Services for
Mongolian Railways Subproject, prepared by Transurb Consult, Hickling, June 1997.

7. Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), Final Study Report of the Master
Plan Study on Improvement and Rehabilitation of Road Network in Ulaanbaatar in
Mongolia, March 1999.

8. Department of Roads of Mongolia, The Report of the Detailed Environmental
Assessment and Mitigation Plan for Selective Rehabilitation of Kharkhorin-Tsetserleg-
Tosontsengel Road prepared by ENCO CO. Ltd., December 1999.

9. Department of Roads of Mongolia, The Report of the Detailed Environmental
Assessment and Mitigation Plan of Erdenesant-Arvaikheer Road prepared by ENCO CO.
Ltd., January 2000.

10. Department of Roads of Mongolia, The Report of the Detailed Environmental
Assessment and Mitigation Plan for Selective Rehabilitation of Arvaikheeer
Bayankhongor-Altai-Khovd Road prepared by ENCO CO. Ltd., April 2000.

11. Department of Roads of Mongolia, Report of the Environmental Impact Assessment
and Mitigation Measures on Road Construction in the Region of Tsagaan Davaa
(Amendment to the Report of the Detailed Environmental Assessment and Mitigation
Plan for Selective Rehabilitation of Kharkhorin-Tsetserleg-Tosontsengel Road) by ENCO
CO. Ltd., February 2001.



                                           26

12. Department of Roads of Mongolia, The Report of the Environmental Impact
Assessment and Management Plan for Rehabilitation Project of the 30 KM Road Section
from Erdenesant to Ulaanbaatar prepared by ENCO CO., Ltd.

13. Department of Roads of Mongolia Feasibility Proposal for Rehabilitation of
Erdenesant-Lun 30 km Paved Road, July 2003.

14. Department of Transport, Final Completion Report, Legislation and Regulations,
prepared by Torbin Mikkelsen, Kampsax A/S in association with SBI and Master
Consulting and Trading, February 2004.

15. Ministry of Roads, Transport and Tourism, Inception Report, Road Master Plan and
Feasibility Study for Road Development in Western Aimags, prepared by SMEC
International Pty Ltd., May 2007.




                                          27

