                       Document of
                     The World Bank


                                                   Report No: 73630 v1




                  RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                          ON A

            PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                           OF
CAMBODIA PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND ACCOUNTABILITY
                     PROJECT, P087945

               GRANT NUMBER IDA H241-KH

                       June 27, 2006

                           TO

               THE KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA


                     November 1, 2012
                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AusAID          Australian Agency for International Development
CoAs            Chart of Accounts
Dfid            UK Department of International Development
EAP             External Advisory Panel
EU              European Union
FMIS            Financial Management Information System
IDA             International Development Association
IFAPER          Integrated Fiduciary and Public Expenditure Review
MBPI            Merit-Based Performance Incentive
MDTF            Multi Donor Trust Fund
MEF             Ministry of Economy and Finance
MTEF            Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
PDO             Project Development Objective
PFMAP           Public Financial Management and Accountability Project
PFMRP           Public Financial Management Reform Program
POC             Priority Operating Cost
SBDs            Standard Bidding Documents
SDG             Service Delivery Grant
SIDA            Swedish International Development Agency




          Regional Vice President:     Pamela Cox
                 Country Director:     Annette Dixon
         Sector Manager / Director:    Mathew A. Verghis
                Task Team Leader:      Leah April

                                       2
    CAMBODIA PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND ACCOUNTABILITY

                                              P087945
                                           [IDA H-241-KH]

                                         Restructuring Paper

        The closing date for Cambodia Public Financial Management and Accountability, [IDA H-241-
KH], P087945, will be extended from January 15, 2013 until November 15, 2013 with a 4-month
disbursement grace period.

1.       The PFMAP was approved by the Board on June 27, 2006 and effective on June 29, 2007 co-
financed by IDA Grant 241-KH of SDR 9.8 million (equivalent USD14.0 million), the MDTF
(currently closed), TF 054545 of US$ 14.7 million contributed by AusAID, Dfid, EU, and SIDA, as
well as Cambodian government’s counterpart fund of US$ 1.5 million.1 A new PFM Trust Fund
(TF071696) contributed by EU and SIDA has been set up and is expected to provide around US$13.3
million of additional financing in support of the program. We are currently setting up the RETF of the
TF071696. Cumulative disbursement as of September 2012 totals US$ 20.9 million of which US$ 12.3
million from the IDA grant, US$ 12.4 million from the closed MDTF, and US$ 0.4 million from the
counterpart fund. Currently, progress towards achievements of Project Development Objective (PDO)
is rated moderately satisfactory and overall implementation progress is satisfactory.

2.       Stage One (2005-2008) of the RGC’s long-term PFM strategy has resulted in a more credible
budget. Revenue administration and policy have improved as have cash and bank accounts
management; payment arrears have been eliminated; and progress made in debt management, budget
classification and chart of accounts harmonization. Policy based budgeting and integration have
improved. Stage Two focuses on financial accountability with the Financial Management Information
System (FMIS) implementation front and center of this stage of the reform. While the progress has been
slower than anticipated due to the complexity of the Stage Two, key achievements has been made in: (i)
establishing the six-segment Uniform Account Code Structure compliant with GFS/COFOG standards
and adopting IPSAS cash basis accounting standards; (ii) the deconcentration of financial management
with the budget entity reform framework set to be piloted for the 2013 budget; and (iii) strengthening
internal control which is a prerequisite for the implementation of the FMIS. These reforms have
contributed to greater transparency, more efficient use of resources, and increased accountability to
minimize opportunities for rent seeking and corruption.

3.       This extension is necessary to allow the Project to complete key activities being performed by
three working groups established to support the preparation and implementation of the FMIS that focus
on line accountability, accounting standards, and budget execution. Other activities include the
finalization of the uniform account code structure (posting rules); IPSAS cash basis implementation;
and budget entity implementation for the 2013 budget. While the extension period will not be long
enough to finance the FMIS contract (which will be financed under a new trust fund, Public Financial
Management Trust Fund, TF 071696), it will support all activities related to the system procurement.
These range from finalization of the FMIS implementation strategy, issuance of the bid, the evaluation
of the first and second stage bid submissions, and contract negotiation and award. The FMIS tender has
received a no objection from the Bank and an agreement with the MEF project team has been reached
allowing for the procurement stage to begin now and to be completed before the end of 2013.

4.       In addition, the requested extension will provide essential resources to undertake (i) on-the-job
training and capacity development, and (ii) change management and communications related activities
to support implementation of the reforms. These include (but not limited to) the uniform account code

1
 MDTF: US$14.7 million is mentioned in the PAD. However the actual contribution is US$17.5 million due to
exchange rates and interest income earned.
                                                     3
structure, the implementation of the budget entity reforms, and the implementation of newly
established district (and Khan) funds both at the central and provincial levels. Finally, the extension will
allow the completion of the contract for the services of the International Procurement Agent. The
borrower has in place an action plan to complete the project.

5.      There were no outstanding audit reports for the Project as of the date of this restructuring. All
received audits have been satisfactory.

3.      This will be the second extension of the project and a cumulative extension of 22 months.




                                                     4
