                                 butDocument of
                               The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR00003004



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-H2410)



                                    ON A

                                   GRANT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 9.8 MILLION
                       (USD 14 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                   TO THE

                          KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA

                                    FOR A

   PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND ACCOUNTABILITY PROJECT



                                 May 13, 2014




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Cambodia Country Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective April 29, 2014)

           Currency Unit = Cambodian Riel (CR)
                    USD 1 = CR 4,015

                      FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1 – December 31

          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ADB       Asian Development Bank
ASYCUDA   Automated System of Custom Data
AusAID    Australian Agency for International Development
CAP       Consolidated Action Plan
CAR       Council of Administrative Reform
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
COA       Chart of Account
COFOG     Classification of the Functions of the Government
CPIA      Country Policy and Institutional Assessment
DFID      British Department for International development
DIC       Department for Investment Cooperation
DPs       Development Partners
DMFAS     Debt Management and Financial Analysis System
EAP       External Advisory Panel
EC        European Commission
EITI      Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative
FM        Financial Management
FMIS      Financial Management Information System
FMWG      FMIS Project Management Working Group
GDNT      General Department of the National Treasury
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GFS       Government Financial Statistics
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA       International Development Association
ICM       Implementation Completion Memorandum
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IFAPER    Integrated Fiduciary Assessment and Public Expenditure Review
IMF       International Monetary Fund
INT       Integrity Vice Presidency
IPA       International Procurement Agent
IPSAS     International Public Sector Accounting Standards
ISRs      Implementation Status and Results Report
JICA      Japan International Cooperation Agency
MBPI      Merit Based Pay Initiative
MEF       Ministry of Economy and Finance
MDTF      Multi-Donor Trust Fund
MDGs      Millennium Development Goals
MTEF      Medium Term Expenditure Framework
NAA       National Audit Agency
NSDP      National Strategic Development Plan
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PDO     Project Development Objective
PEFA    Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability
PFM     Public Financial Management
PFMAP   Public Financial Management and Accountability Project
PFMMP   Public Financial Management Modernization Project
PFMRP   Public Financial Management Reform Program
PMF     Priority Mission Group
POC     Priority Operating Costs
PRSO    Poverty Reduction Support Operation
RCS     Reform Committee Secretariat
RGC     Royal Government of Cambodia
SCS     Steering Committee Secretariat
SIDA    Swedish International Development Agency
SWAp    Sector Wide Approach
TOFE    Table of State Financial Operations (in French)
TTL     Task Team Leader
TOR     Terms of Reference
TSA     Treasury Single Account
TWG     Technical Working Group
UNDP    United Nations Development Program




              Vice President: Axel van Trotsenburg
            Country Director: Ulrich Zachau
             Sector Director: Sudhir Shetty
             Sector Manager: Mathew A. Verghis
        Project Team Leader: Leah April
           ICR Team Leader: Tuan Minh Le
                                      CAMBODIA
                  Public Financial Management and Accountability Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 8
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 12
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 19
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 20
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 24
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 26
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 28
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 29
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 33
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 35
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 37
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 38
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 39
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 41
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 42
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                                      Cambodia Public
Country:                     Cambodia                    Project Name:                Financial Management
                                                                                      and Accountability
Project ID:                  P087945                     L/C/TF Number(s):            IDA-H2410,TF-545471
ICR Date:                    11/15/2013                  ICR Type:                    Core ICR
                                                                                      KINGDOM OF
Lending Instrument:          SIL                         Borrower:
                                                                                      CAMBODIA
Original Total
                             USD 14.00M                  Disbursed Amount:            USD 15.05M2
Commitment:
Revised Amount:              USD 13.96M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Economy and Finance, National Audit Authority
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: AusAID, DFID, EC, SIDA

B. Key Dates
                                                                                             Revised / Actual
        Process                Date                 Process            Original Date
                                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:             02/04/2005        Effectiveness:             06/29/2007              06/29/2007
                                                                                                07/20/2011
Appraisal:                  04/10/2006        Restructuring(s):                                 11/07/2011
                                                                                                11/01/2012
Approval:                   06/27/2006        Mid-term Review:           10/19/2009             10/19/2009
                                              Closing:                   01/15/2012             11/15/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                                Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                             Moderate
Bank Performance:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                    Moderately Satisfactory


1
    Implementation Completion Memorandum (ICM) was made separately for this TF.
2
  The original amount came from the exchange rate (SDR=USD) at the time of negotiation, where the actual
disbursement is the actual USD equivalence at the time of release of funds (replenishments/direct
payments/reimbursements). MDTF (RETF TF No. 54547) amount was USD 9.46M.
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank                 Ratings             Borrower                             Ratings
                                                                               Moderately
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory             Government:
                                                                               Satisfactory
                           Moderately               Implementing               Moderately
Quality of Supervision:
                           Satisfactory             Agency/Agencies:           Satisfactory
Overall Bank               Moderately               Overall Borrower           Moderately
Performance:               Satisfactory             Performance:               Satisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                          Yes                                                None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                            Yes                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                            Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      100                100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                                 20                    20
Law reform                                                              20                    20
Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                        40                    40
procurement
Tax policy and administration                                           20                    20

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                          At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:             Axel van Trotsenburg                  Jeffrey S. Gutman
Country Director:           Ulrich Zachau                         Ian C. Porter
Sector Manager:             Mathew A. Verghis                     Barbara Nunberg
Project Team Leader:        Leah April                            Robert R. Taliercio
ICR Team Leader:            Tuan Minh Le
ICR Primary Authors:        Tuan Minh Le/Miki Matsuura
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To strengthen public financial management by strengthening the: (1) mobilization of
public resources, (2) management of public resources, (3) management of human
resources, and (4) external audit.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

N.A.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                             Original Target
                                                                   Formally      Actual Value Achieved
                                              Values (from
       Indicator          Baseline Value                         Revised Target at Completion or Target
                                                approval
                                                                    Values               Years
                                              documents)
                                                                                       Achieved

                                                                               Total revenues in GDP
Strengthened                                                                   reached 14.9% in 2013 of
mobilization of public                                                         which Tax 11.7% and
resources as                               Growth in Revenue                   non-Tax 1.8%. The lower
measured by increases    2005 Revenue      over period to %                    percentage of non-tax
in tax and non-tax       as % GDP 10.3% GDP 11.9% of                           revenue to GDP reflects
revenues as a            of which Tax 7.6% which Tax %GDP                      the growing size of GDP.
percentage of GDP and    and Non Tax 2.2% 9.2% and Non Tax                     However, overall, the
accountable                                2.6%GDP                             revenue generation
stewardship of oil                                                             exceeds the target by 3%
revenue                                                                        of GDP. Oil revenue not
                                                                               applicable [no revenue
                                                                               generated from oil].)

                                                                                       Achieved

                       2001-2003Average                                        Targets for outturn of
                       quarterly outturn                                       non-salary expenditure
                       for non-salary                                          achieved. The outturn of
Strengthened
                       expenditures as      The end of each                    non-salary expenditure
management of public
                       percentage of        Quarter [Q1:15%;                   reached 104.8% by the
resources as
                       budget [Q1:7%; Q2:40%; Q3: 70%                          end of 2013. No specific
measured by more
                       Q2:18%; Q3: 45% and Q4:90%].                            data on reduction of price
credible budget
                       and Q4:70%].                                            differential obtained
formulation and
                                            Reduction in price                 through surveys. But the
implementation and
                       Weighted average differential to 15%                    elimination of payment
reduced fiduciary risk
                       of public            of market price.                   arrears contributes to the
                       procurement price                                       reduction of risks thereby
                       differential greater                                    creating incentive for
                       than 20%.                                               suppliers to reduce price
                                                                               for goods procured by the
                                                                               government.
                                                                                        Partially achieved

                                                                                   There were some progress
                                                                                   at the agency level, i.e. the
                                                                                   MEF in which the
                                                                                   HR Management system
                                                                                   is in place and functional
                                                                                   and the MBPI scheme had
                                                                                   been successfully piloted
Strengthened                                                                       and later replaced by
management of                                                                      donor funded POC, which
human resources as                                                                 ended in mid-2012.The
                        Low productivity,
measured by the                                                                    MEF continues to fund
                        high levels of       Pay levels increased POC designed
number of ministries                                                               the POC scheme for
                        absence, weak        to between           for MEF and
with civil servants                                                                certain civil servants
                        retention of skilled USD150-600 per       line ministries,
motivated by an                                                                    engaging in reform
                        staff due to         month for 510 skill POC
effective incentive                                                                program ranging from
                        inadequate           staff in MEF, using implementation,
levels and managed by                                                              USD180 to 600 per month
                        incentives (salaries Merit based Pay      review and
meritocratic procedures                                                            depending on position and
                        less than USD50 System                    evaluation
(improved productivity,                                                            type of work. Pay level
                        per month).
performance and                                                                    across government
conditions of service                                                              ministries slightly
for skilled personnel)                                                             improved comparing to
                                                                                   the baseline of less than
                                                                                   USD50 but continues to
                                                                                   be low at roughly
                                                                                   USD100 per month for
                                                                                   the lowest level of civil
                                                                                   servants due to slow
                                                                                   progress in compensation
                                                                                   reform.

                                                                                            Not rated.

                                                                                    The component was not
                                                                                    implemented under this
                                                                                    project as designed but
                                                                                    some improvements made
                                                                                    by the Government need
                                              Audit coverage of at                  to be recognized: Audit
Strengthened external
                                              least 50% of                          reports were submitted
audits as measured by Low level of audit
                                              government                            regularly to the National
the extent of audit      coverage of public
                                              expenditures.                         Assembly and contributed
coverage in line with entities and
                                                                                    to relatively speedy
international standards operations. No
                                              Government annual                     adoption of the budget
and number of audit      published audit
                                              financial statements                  settlement law within 12-
reports submitted to the reports to date.
                                              audit report                          18 months. Although the
National Assembly
                                              published.                            NAA did not use its
                                                                                    allocation under the
                                                                                    project to strengthen
                                                                                    capacity, the improvement
                                                                                    in the accounting system,
                                                                                    which enables speedier
                                                                                    closing of the
                                                                                    government’s accounts,
                                                                         contributes to this. The
                                                                         NAA’s audit covers
                                                                         government’s fund, which
                                                                         is approximately 66% of
                                                                         the total government
                                                                         budget. However,
                                                                         transparency remains an
                                                                         issue. The publication of
                                                                         audit reports has been
                                                                         slow. The last published
                                                                         audit report was for 2008




(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                          Original Target
                                                            Formally      Actual Value Achieved
                                            Values (from
      Indicator          Baseline Value                   Revised Target at Completion or Target
                                              approval
                                                             Values                 Years
                                            documents)
Policy agenda                           MEF produces GFS                          Achieved
                       Fragmented and
implemented through                     Classified,
                       partial budget
implementation of                       comprehensive                    A three year rolling
                       process for
MTBF and                                unitary budget         N.A.      MTEF developed;
                       example between
MTEF/Program                            oriented toward                  program budgeting
                       recurrent and
Budgeting in Line                       achieving                        implemented in 10
                       capital
Ministries                              programme results                ministries.
                                                                                  Achieved

                                                                         Budget Strategic Plan
                                                                         (BSP) integrating the
                                                                         government’s and donor’s
                                                                         fund developed in all line
                                                                         ministries. The BSP
                                                                         provides a framework for
                        The accountability                               program oriented and
MEF provides line
                        for and proportion Programme Oriented            accountable output
ministries with a
                        of budgets to be and Accountable                 /activities based budget by
framework for
                        allocated to       Output/Activity               linking input to
budgeting that                                                  N.A.
                        service unit       Based Budgets                 policy/priorities and
strengthens links
                        activities not     implemented across            missions of the ministries,
between resource inputs
                        identified in      all Ministries                and to the overall result.
and outputs/results
                        budget                                           In addition, program
                                                                         based budgeting has been
                                                                         implemented in 10 line
                                                                         ministries. Full program
                                                                         budgeting is planned for
                                                                         stage 3 of the platform
                                                                         approach. The PFM
                                                                         reform program is
                                                                         currently under stage 2.
                                                                                     Partially Achieved

                                                                                  Budget credibility
                         Weak legal
                                                                                  improved and contributed
More reliable and        framework for
                                                                                  to the elimination of
comprehensive Budget supply of some          Legal framework for Restructuring/
                                                                                  arrears and better budget
Monitoring and           forms of data to    supply of data to   refocusing
                                                                                  management and
Accounting data          MEF. Accounting     MEF established.    under PFMRP
                                                                                  disbursement; Issues in
reported. MEF's & LM data (Non Tax           FMIS implemented leading to FMIS
                                                                                  implementation of FMIS
management can use       Rev/DP Projects)    across Central      treasury centric
                                                                                  arose but key functional
data for better decision suffers from same   Ministries.         module
                                                                                  prerequisites for the FMIS
making.                  lack of
                                                                                  are in place; and the
                         completeness.
                                                                                  Treasury centric module is
                                                                                  under implementation.

                                                                                          Achieved
                         Substantial
                                                                                  The inconsistency
                         inconsistencies
                                                                                  between the final TOFE
Improved                 between final     Inconsistencies                        and the interim report at
accountability and       TOFE for the      between final TOFE                     the end of the final year
internal control systems year; and interim
                                           and interim report at                  remains in some years at
result in strengthened report produced at
                                                                       N.A.       slightly more than 5%.
compliance and           end of financial end of financial year
                                           reduced to no more                     The inconsistency is
transparency in the      year. Average
                                                                                  mainly due to the external
mobilization and use of delay in producing than 5% (of value).
                                                                                  financing portion of the
public resources.        in-year TOFE
                                                                                  budget which is not under
                         2001-2003 was 3-
                                                                                  the control of the
                         4 weeks.
                                                                                  Government.

                                                                                          Achieved

                                                                              The 2013 data suggest
                                                                              that internal audit
                                                                              departments have been
                                                                              established in 26
                                                                              ministries (23 functional)
                                                                              and 9 public enterprises.
                         Low levels of                                        Required trainings
                         regulatory        10 internal audit                  provided. Each internal
Strengthen the           compliance (less units established.                  audit department has
regulatory framework                                                          produced a Strategic
                         than 25           Each internal audit      Refers to
for internal audit and                                                        Audit Plan. Audit reports
                         Institutions) and unit produced at       PFMRP CAP2
build internal audit                                                          have been produced by
capacity.                capacity relating least 6 reports to the             the functional audit
                         to internal       responsible minister.              departments; however, the
                         auditing.                                            quality of the reports
                                                                              varies in different
                                                                              ministries’ internal audit
                                                                              departments. To address
                                                                              this, the MEF introduced
                                                                              internal audit standard and
                                                                              template to all internal
                                                                              audit departments at line
                                                                              ministries. The MEF is
                                                                               playing a leading role. Its
                                                                               internal audit department
                                                                               produces audit reports on
                                                                               approximately 90-100
                                                                               entities under its
                                                                               supervision per year.
                                                                                   Partially achieved
                                           MEF 'Merit Based
CAR and MEF provide                        Performance                         Payroll management and
                          Fragmented and
adequate policy options                    Indicator' Pilot                    resource are synchronized
                          undisciplined                              POC
to strengthen positive                     complete. MBPI                      and better coordinated.
                          remuneration                           restructuring
and negative incentives                    Strategy expanded to                However, incentive
                          system
for civil servants.                                                            structure continues to be
                                           support other sectors
                                                                               weak due to the delay in
                                                                               compensation reform.




G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                         Actual
          Date ISR
 No.                                 DO                           IP                 Disbursements
          Archived
                                                                                     (USD millions)
   1     06/29/2007             Satisfactory            Satisfactory                            0.00
   2     03/22/2008             Satisfactory            Satisfactory                            0.98
   3     08/07/2008             Satisfactory            Satisfactory                            1.28
   4     10/14/2009             Satisfactory            Satisfactory                            4.01
                                 Moderately
   5     02/26/2010                                 Moderately Satisfactory                       4.94
                               Unsatisfactory
   6     11/22/2010         Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                       6.00
   7     11/11/2011         Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                              8.31
   8     11/13/2012         Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                             12.74
   9     07/29/2013             Satisfactory            Satisfactory                             15.00


H. Restructuring (if any)

IDA H241-KH:
    July 20, 2011: IPA additional allocation and changes in financing percentage
    November 07, 2011: Closing date (extended from January 15, 2012 to January 15,
     2013)
    November 1, 2012: Closing date (extended from January 15, 2013 until
     November 15, 2013).
                      US $ Millions




                                 10
                                      12
                                           14
                                                16




          0
              2
                  4
                       6
                            8
2007 S1

2007 S2

2008 S1
                                                                     I. Disbursement Profile




2008 S2

2009 S1
                                                     Original(USD)




2009 S2

2010 S1

2010 S2

2011 S1
                                                     Revised(USD)




2011 S2

2012 S1

2012 S2

2013 S1

2013 S2
                                                     Actual(USD)




2014 S1

2014 S2

  Total
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country and Sector Background. Cambodia remained a post-conflict country at the
time of project preparation. Many important public sector institutions were destroyed
during the Khmer Rouge period and politico-military violence continued until 1997. The
conflict has resulted in weak governance and perceived high levels of corruption. Poor
governance was considered the primary constraint on development in general and on the
World Bank Group’s program in particular.

The Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) 2005-2008 aimed to remove the
governance constraints in order to attain the Cambodia MDGs. One of the core objectives
of pillar 1 of the CAS (Objective 3) is to improve the Royal Government of Cambodia
(RGC)’s public financial management (PFM), a critical foundation for better pro-poor
service delivery and reducing corruption. The CAS recognized weak governance as the
primary obstacle to poverty reduction and aid effectiveness in Cambodia. The joint RGC-
Bank focus on governance provided the primary filter that led to the selection of PFM as
an area of Bank support.

Despite profound development challenges, Cambodia made significant strides in
graduating from an isolated, low-growth, state-managed, and subsistence-oriented
economy to a market-based economy that was open to international flows of capital,
goods and labor. Since 1993 election, Cambodia has achieved substantial progress in
economic reconstruction. Economic growth averaged 7 percent a year from 1994 to 2004
driven largely by construction and tourism, and since the late 1990s, the very rapid
emergence of a garment sector. Economic growth drove significant poverty reduction
from 47 percent of population lived below the national poverty line in 1996 to 35 percent
in 2006.

PFMRP Background. Economic growth and poverty reduction however were
undermined by serious institutional weaknesses. The Cambodia’s public sector had low
capacity, resources, and accountability in delivering services to citizens. The bureaucracy
remained often inefficient and ineffective in meeting the needs of its population,
especially the poor. In order to implement its development agenda, the Government
recognized the need to make progress on fiscal, fiduciary, and institutional challenges.
To overcome the serious institutional weaknesses, the Government started reforms in
public expenditure policy and public finances recognizing the necessity to improve the
functioning of the core public management system. The Government embarked on a
comprehensive multi-staged Public Financial Management Reform Program (PFMRP) in
2004 with a focus on the budget credibility, accountability mechanisms, and enhanced
oversight functions.

PFMAP: Rationale and Financing. This Public Financial Management and
Accountability Project (PFMAP) was designed to support the Government’s broader



                                            1
PFMRP program. Its aim was to tackle the serious weakness of the public financial
management system in order to improve the accountability in the collection and use of
public monies and to enhance the quality of public services delivery. The project also
intended to remove development constraints and to foster good governance more broadly.
It was complemented by a Poverty Reduction Support Operation (PRSO), a development
policy lending instrument, which provided the Government with additional incentives to
undertake difficult policy reforms.

The Bank’s support was fully coordinated with that of other government agencies,
development partners (DPs) and stakeholders by introducing a sector-wide approach
around DP’s support in PFM program. This project was co-financed with Australian
Agency for International Development (AusAID), British Department for International
development (DFID), European Commission (EC), and Swedish International
Development Cooperation Agency (SIDA) through Multi-Donor Trust Fund (MDTF)
administered by the Bank. The DFID left the MDTF when it closed its Cambodia country
program in October, 2011.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The PDO set in the PAD was: “To strengthen public financial management by
strengthening: (1) the mobilization of public resources, (2) the management of public
resources, (3) the management of human resources, and (4) external audit capacity.” The
PDO was reiterated in the project description under Schedule 1 of the Financing
Agreement between the Kingdom of Cambodia and the International Development
Association dated February 13, 2007 “to strengthen the mobilization and management of
the Recipient’s public resources, its human resources, and its audit capacity in order to
improve service delivery and reduce corruption.”

For the assessment, the ICR team used the set of PDO indicators and intermediate
outcome indicators outlined in the Results Framework and Monitoring (Annex 3 of the
PAD) because of two reasons:

First, the set of results framework and monitoring was taken from the PFMRP and the
task team indicated that target values would be subject to assessment near the end of each
platform.

Second, the set of PDO indicators was updated during project implementation and
monitoring and reflected in the ISRs (Table 1). It mapped specifically baseline values to
respective PDO indicators and added the formally revised target values. Further, the task
team used these indicators to track the progress of PFM reforms and project
implementation.

  Table 1: PDO Indicators, Baselines and Target Values as presented in the ISRs




                                            2
            Indicator Name                             Baseline                    End-of Project Target Values
Strengthened mobilization of public
resources as measured by increases                                             Growth in Revenue over period to %
                                      2005 Revenue as % GDP 10.3% of
in tax and non-tax revenues as a                                               GDP 11.9% of which Tax %GDP
                                      which Tax 7.6% and Non Tax 2.2%
percentage of GDP and accountable                                              9.2% and Non Tax 2.6%GDP
stewardship of oil revenue
                                      2001-2003Average quarterly outturn for
Strengthened management of public
                                      non-salary expenditures as percentage of The end of each Quarter [Q1:15%;
resources as measured by more
                                      budget [Q1:7%; Q2:18%; Q3: 45% and Q2:40%; Q3: 70% and Q4:90%].
credible budget formulation and
                                      Q4:70%].
implementation and reduced fiduciary
                                                                               Reduction in price differential to 15%
risk
                                      Weighted average of public procurement of market price.
                                      price differential greater than 20%.
Strengthened management of
human resources as measured by the
number of ministries with civil
                                      Low productivity, high levels of         Pay levels increased to between
servants motivated by an effective
                                      absence, weak retention of skilled staff USD150-600 per month for 510 skill
incentive levels and managed by
                                      due to inadequate incentives (salaries   staff in MEF, using Merit based Pay
meritocratic procedures (improved
                                      less than USD50 per month).              System
productivity, performance and
conditions of service for skilled
personnel)
Strengthened external audits as                                                Audit coverage of at least 50% of
measured by the extent of audit       Low level of audit coverage of public    government expenditures.
coverage in line with international   entities and operations. No published
standards and number of audit reports audit reports to date.                   Government annual financial
submitted to the National Assembly                                             statements audit report published.



1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The project PDO was not formally revised throughout the project implementation.
However, substantive changes to the project components and sub-components as well as
timeline were made by way of Restructuring Papers as required under the Bank
procedures (see sub-sections 1.6 and 1.7).

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The project supported the Royal Government of Cambodia (RGC)’s PFMRP. The main
beneficiaries of the project were the RGC, particularly central financial ministry, sectors,
and sub-national government agencies responsible for public financial management,
including planning, budgeting, budget execution, auditing, civil service management, and
oversight and accountability functions. The main government agencies as intended direct
beneficiaries of this PFMAP included the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF), the
National Audit Authority (NAA), the National Assembly, the Ministry of Planning, and
line ministries and provinces subject to pilots within the framework of the project.
Ultimate beneficiaries in turn were the citizens of the Kingdom of Cambodia through the
improved PFM and enhanced quality of public service delivery.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)


                                                    3
The project had six components as follows.

Component 1: Revenue Management (USD3.1 million)

Sub-component 1.1: Modernization of Revenue Administration (USD0.7 million)

This subcomponent was designed to provide technical support to the Tax Department
including advising functional reorganization, strategic planning and capacity
development, strengthening of core tax administration functions, and improvement in
accountability arrangements. The support was planned to be extended to non-tax revenue
policy and administration in selected areas.

Sub-component 1.2: Oil Revenue Management (USD2.4 million)

This subcomponent was envisaged to provide technical support in developing policy and
strengthen institutional arrangements for transparent oil and gas revenue management,
including improving MEF operations in sequestration and smoothing of revenue flows to
the budget with a focus on the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI)
principles and engagement. It also planned to provide support to oil fund and taxation
policy, negotiations with oil companies including from a legal perspective, and revenue
management, as well as technical aspects of oil and gas extraction.

Component 2: Budget Formulation (USD1.4 million)

This component was to provide technical support to strengthen the Recipient’s capacity
to formulate and integrate its budget, including: (a) improving budget coverage by
capturing currently off-budget revenues and expenditures; (b) strengthening the control
over expenditures, especially the formulation of wage and capital budgets; (c) developing
a medium term macroeconomic-fiscal framework, including revenue forecasting
capacity; (d) strengthening debt forecasting, financing analysis, and payment
management; (e) redesigning the budget and accounts classification system; (f) piloting a
program-based budget structure; (g) redesigning the budget formulation process and
calendar; (h) budget policy formulation; (i) development of an integrated budget
formulation information system; and (j) expenditure tracking techniques.

Component 3: Budget Execution (USD10.6 million)

Sub-component 3.1: Financial Management Information System (USD8.4 million)

Specific activities proposed in this subcomponent include: (a) technical guidance on
quality assessment of Financial Management Information System (FMIS) framework and
procedures; (b) technical advice on appropriate policy, system design, and content, taking
into account capacity and technology constraints and including a program of phased roll-
out; (c) IT system software and hardware, including testing and quality assurance; (d)
building sustainable capacity in the MEF to operate the FMIS and use the reports that it



                                             4
will generate; and (e) training and capacity development in line agencies as appropriate to
allow use of system generated information. The coverage of the FMIS was designed to
include the central MEF, National Treasury, six provincial treasuries, and three pilot line
ministries.

Sub-component 3.2: Procurement (USD0.9 million)

This subcomponent was envisaged to provide technical support on the development of
improved arrangements for processing of procurement actions, in order to improve
transparency, economy, and efficiency, streamline spending processes, and enable greater
fiscal deconcentration. Specific measures include: (a) further developing the legal and
regulatory framework, including a new procurement law; (b) development and
dissemination of harmonized procurement procedures and documents; (c) further
devolving procurement to line ministries and provinces consistent with their capacity
while ensuring that adequate processes are in place, including effective oversight; (d)
carrying out a capacity building program for the MEF, procuring entities, and contractors;
and (e) developing an information and performance monitoring system in public
procurement.

Sub-component 3.3: Treasury Systems and Procedures (USD1.3 million)

Specific activities in this subcomponent include: (a) streamlining budget execution
processes; (b) increasing payments to and from Government through the banking system
in terms of tax collections and Government payments to civil servants and contractors;
(c) designing and implementing measures to improve budget discipline by limiting
accumulation of payment arrears.

Component 4: Capacity Development (USD5.9 million)

Sub-component 4.1: Internal Audit (USD0.2 million)

This subcomponent was aimed to provide technical support in strengthening the
Recipient’s capacity to carry out internal audits including establishing arrangements for
managing internal audit standards and reviews.

Sub-component 4.2: Performance and Organizational Management (USD0.5 million)

Technical support to strengthen the MEF’s overall capacity, including: (a) assessing and
reorganizing the MEF’s institutional structure; and (b) strengthening Reform Committee
Secretariat (RCS)’s capacity to implement the project, including the development and
implementation of a communications strategy. The RCS was renamed to Steering
Committee Secretariat (SCS).

Sub-component 4.3: Program Management (USD1.8 million)




                                            5
Technical support to the RCS in managing the PFMRP, including the cost of the Chief
Technical Advisor, office management, and annual retreats and workshops.

Sub-component 4.4: Training (USD3.3 million)

Specific activities included training, workshops, and study tours to support the PFMRP
and based on the agreed PFMRP Capacity Development Strategy under preparation by
the MEF. This subcomponent includes financing for training of a core group of staff in
the MEF and NAA to accelerate implementation of the PFMRP.

Component 5: Merit Based Pay Initiative (MBPI) (USD7.8 million)

This component was designed to assist the Government to carry out piloting a civil
service reform in the context of the PFMRP. The MBPI aimed to institutionalize an
accelerated pay enhancement program based on a number of key features including the
Government to pay an increasing share of the cost over time, selection of participants
based on merit according to agreed criteria, and establishing a mechanism to remove non-
performers according to agreed criteria.

Component 6: Building the Oversight Capacity of Cambodia’s National Audit
Authority (USD1.5 million)

Sub-component 6.1: Developing an Effective Organization (USD1.1m)

This subcomponent was envisaged to provide technical support to the National Audit
Authority (NAA) with appropriate and relevant knowledge and exposure to enhance their
ability to develop the NAA institution to effectively meet its audit mandate. To support
NAA in developing its institutional arrangements for publishing and making audit reports
widely available to the public in conjunction with enhanced budget information of the
Government, this sub-component was to provide technical assistance (USD0.6m),
training (USD0.15m), and operational expenditures (USD0.15m). Resourcing
requirements was also to cover the computerization of the audit function, involving
purchases of systems and hardware. Software was to be provided through bilateral
cooperation (Danida), while hardware was to be provided through this activity
(USD0.2m).

Sub-component 6.2: Enhancement and Development of Auditing Methodologies,
Standards, and Capacity (USD0.4m)

This sub-component was envisaged to provide the NAA with technical assistance and
training to continue the development of public sector auditing standards in conjunction
with the National Accounting Council of Cambodia and appropriate audit methodologies.
It was envisaged to provide technical assistance (USD0.2m) to develop a set of audit
methodologies for internal use by the management and staff of the audit office, together
with assistance to provide easy access to the audit methodologies and the support to
development of managerial and staff capacity (USD0.1m), and to develop audit personnel



                                           6
to provide effective audits in a wide range of ministries, agencies, entities, as well as to
work effectively with parliament including covering the cost of field work, publications,
and printing (USD0.1m).

1.6 Revised Components

The project underwent restructuring three times relating to extension of closing date and
revision of components and sub-components.

Component 5, Merit Based Pay Initiative (MBPI) was formally revised to the Priority
Operating Costs (POC). According to the Restructuring Paper dated June 6, 2011, it was
the Royal Government of Cambodia (RGC)’s decision to cancel the MBPI and Priority
Mission Group (PMG), and all other salary supplement and incentive schemes with effect
from January 1, 2010 regardless of the sources of financing. It was replaced with the
establishment of the Priority Operating Costs (POC), which was also terminated in 2012.
Reallocation of IDA grant was made and hence there were changes to the results
monitoring.

1.7 Other significant changes

Two significant changes were also made during project implementation:

Subcomponent 3.1: Financial Management Information System (FMIS)

Though this subcomponent was not formally revised, the scope of the support to FMIS
was large at the design stage and became substantially larger at the time of
implementation. The procurement began in 2005, though increased cost during the first
stage competitive bidding process resulted in the failure of the first tender. Failure of the
first bidding led to the program extensions but concluded with failed procurement in
January 2012. Accumulated undisbursed funds were reallocated to finance procurement
services provided by International Procurement Agent (IPA). The INT investigation in
2006 highlighted the importance of managing the fiduciary risks and required all the
Bank projects to use IPA. While the ICR cannot speak to whether or not corruption was
reduced in the Bank financed projects as a result of the IPA, the IPA was a set-back to the
development of a national procurement system because it simply carried out procurement
on behalf of the government without building procurement capacity. Some lessons could
be drawn from the IPA experience (Section 6).

Sub-component 3.2: Procurement

The scope and implementation arrangements of this subcomponent were modified due to
external factors unforeseen at the time of PFMAP design. The INT investigation and the
management decision to engage an IPA in reducing fiduciary risks for all Bank-supported
projects in Cambodia affected the implementation of this subcomponent. A decision was
made that the IPA would carry out all procurement under the project, except for the
following activities, which would be undertaken by the implementing agencies (IAs): (i)
Procurement of Supply and Instillation Financial Management Information System


                                             7
(FMIS) (Two stage bidding); (ii) Selection of Individual Consultants and hiring of NGOs;
(iii) Direct Contracting (for Goods and Works) and Single Source Selection (Consulting
Services); (iv) Procurement of Goods estimated to cost less than USD50,000; and (v)
Procurement of Works estimated to cost less than USD100,000. The use of IPA was not
compatible with the broader objective of strengthening a national procurement system
and institutional capacity.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The task team recognized the complexity and challenges of the operation to be
implemented in the context of a post conflict country where weak public sector
governance prevailed and even basic institutions were to be rebuilt after the Khmer
Rouge period. As such the PFMAP was prepared with sound background analysis,
comprehensive assessment of the Government commitment to reforms, lessons learned in
PFM operations elsewhere, and risks as well as possible risk mitigation measures. Some
key highlights are noted below and further analyzed in relevant sections 3-5.

PFMAP was structured to be fully consistent with the Government’s PFMRP. In
turn the PFMRP had been developed coming out of the Bank's Integrated Fiduciary
Assessment and Public Expenditure Review (IFAPER) and designed in such a way that
could ensure maximum ownership by the Government and understanding by key donors.
The PFMRP was very detailed, providing a broad vision, a sequenced strategy, and great
detail on which departments were to do what by when. The entire PFMRP was built on
four sequenced reform stages (or platforms), each of which would be expected to take
two and half years to complete (Table 2). The PFMRP was attached with a Consolidated
Action Plan (CAP) for each of the four platforms. The PFMRP also provided plans for
capacity building and reorganization of the MEF. This PFMRP was prepared over the
course of a year and launched by the Prime Minister. The project (PFMAP) then took this
as the starting point, and thus rested on a solid foundation.

On the other hand, because the project was directly linked to the PRMRP, its design
was, to certain extent, constrained by the very large scope and timeline of PFMRP.
The MEF wanted the project (PFMAP) to fully support all of the PFMRP, which was
designed as an overambitious 10-year program. Such an overambitious timeline was
supported by other donors, while on the Government side, the MEF felt the program was
realistic enough - and sufficiently rigorous - to motivate action and impress some sense of
urgency on the MEF departments.

At the time of project preparation, the Bank task team conducted an extensive risk
analysis. The task team candidly identified the critical risks and risk mitigation measures.
All the risks and their trends were classified into six groupings: ownership and
commitment, capacity building, performance management, MBPI, donor coordination
and the FMIS. In particular, the team recognized the high costs and complexity in




                                             8
implementation (both technical and political) and prepared a separate assessment on the
basis of the Bank and IMF tools (more details to be discussed in 3.1).

There were complexities in the co-financing arrangements. The project was designed
to support the RGC’s PFMRP with the IDA financing (USD 14 million equivalent) and a
multi-donor trust fund (MDTF) co-financed by AusAID, DFID, the EC, and Sida (total
USD17.55 million). The PAD outlined the areas of support provided by the MDTF,
though the actual financing was co-mingled in supporting the Government’s PFM
programs. It was estimated that the project and the MDTF would cover about eighty
percent of the total cost of phases I and II of the PFMRP. DFID withdrew their support in
Cambodia in October 2011 and the Bank refunded DFID it proportionate share of unused
funds. DFI’s withdrawal from the Trust Fund did not affect the quality of implementation.

                        Table 2: Platform Approach in PFMRP

                The budget is made credible as an instrument of strategic and operational
                management by ensuring that it delivers resources reliably and predictably to
Platform 1
                managers in line ministries (this provides the basis for accountability by
                improving budget execution)
                Initial improvements are made in internal control and thereby hold resource
Platform 2      manager accountable (this enables a focus on what is done with resources by
                providing better data, effective discipline, and greater internal transparency)
                Improvements are made in linking policy priorities and service delivery targets
Platform 3      to budget planning and implementation (this enables greater accountability for
                performance)
                Accountability and review processes for both finance and performance are
Platform 4      integrated (this would enable greater external transparency and provide a solid
                basis for deconcenration)

2.2 Implementation

Multiple challenges unfolded during project implementation that led to a series of
adaptive restructuring.

First, the 2008 national elections attributed to the slowdown in the implementation of
PFMRP in general and PFMAP in particular. A half year before and after elections the
Government had to shift their attention to the preparation for elections, the formation of a
new government and assuring political stability in the post-election period. The 2013
national elections also saw a similar pattern.

Second, the global financial crisis diverted the Government’s strategic priorities from
long-haul PFM reforms to containing the plunge of the economy.

Third, the INT investigation of misprocurement in other Bank-financed projects exerted
pressure on the project to finance IPA, which was beyond the risk calculation of the task
team at design stage.




                                              9
Fourth, slow market response leading to delayed procurement of key resident advisors,
and the trust funded staff turnover significantly affected the pace of project
implementation.

In addition, change of the Bank TTLs over the course of project implementation
particularly affected the approach to management of the FMIS and quality of supervision
(more to be discussed in 3.1 and 5.1).

The independent assessment, External Advisory Panel (EAP) report 2010 by PDP
Australia Pty Ltd, served as a Review for the project. The report noted progress made
against a number of established targets in revenue mobilization, budgeting, debt
management, commitments and payments system, cash management, arrears
management, strengthening of TSA, internal auditing, program budgeting pilot. The
panel highlighted the initial success in implementation of the MBPI and suggested action
after the MBPI was abruptly cancelled:

       “The MBPI was to have been expanded during 2009 to cover line ministries, bringing the
       total number of staff covered to 760 (250 for line ministries and 510 for the MEF) from
       the current 245 which were initially provided to only the MEF staff. In the view of EAP,
       the MBPI scheme is appearing to be having a significant positive impact on the success
       of PFM reform and supports its expansion to line ministries as critical for the success of
       the de-concentration of PFM to line ministries (LMs).

       However, EAP learned in late October that expansion to line ministries has not happened
       during 2009 and that the MBPI scheme is to be suspended for 2010, as part of a set of
       expenditure saving measures in response to the impact of the global financial crisis on
       revenues. Given the importance of MBPI to PFMRP, the EAP considers that the
       Government should put in place as soon as possible a sound alternative to MBPI.” (Page
       14)

The Panel assessed the slippage in FMIS procurement and highlighted major challenges
in Stage 2 PFMRP implementation:

       “The challenges confronting the Government under Stage 2 are in many ways more
       formidable than under Stage 1, posing institutional constraints as well as vested interest
       and capacity challenges. Implementation of FMIS and D&D is technically, managerially
       and politically demanding as institutional and business process change will be part of the
       process and strong coordination is required between the two.” (Page 17)

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E Design: The PDO indicators and targets as established in the PAD were
completely compatible to the Government’s approach and inputs from donors into PFM
reforms. They were taken directly from the PFMRP document and target values were
allowed to be adjusted during implementation. Such approach ensured the M&E
framework was grounded on reality evolving in the reform process.




                                              10
M&E Implementation: According to the PAD, the project was subject to supervision
missions that monitored progress through Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) and this
Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR). The task team during 2007-2010
corrected necessary data for the ISRs regularly against baselines and end targets but only
at the minimum level. Due to the change of TTL, the quality of ISRs improved during
2010-2013, and the task team collected detailed data, updated the current progress
precisely against baseline and end target, and provided background context and issues
needed to ask for management attention. In addition, regular external reviews of the
project and the overall PFMRP progress were conducted.

M&E Utilization: Data provided at the time of ISRs and other PFM missions, the EAP
reports, and the Government annual and quarterly progress reports were used to assess
progress on various areas of PFM reforms and to update ISRs. ISRs monitored and
evaluated the achievement of PDOs and other PFM missions, the EAP reports and
government progress reports monitored achievement of the Government reform progress
in detail, which essentially became M&E of the project implementation.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The Financial Management (FM) Specialist and Procurement Specialist were fully
involved in the project and monitored fiduciary and procurement issues. Fiduciary
compliance of PFMAP has consistently been Satisfactory for the following reasons:

1) The Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) 2003 concluded that the
   legislative and regulatory framework governing public financial sector in Cambodia
   were generally acceptable, except for the control functions. The CFAA assigned a
   high-level of risk concerning the reliability of public expenditure management. The
   project inherent risk from the country environment was assessed “high” due to the
   weak financial control environment and systems of the public sector. The mitigated
   measures were put in place with a good FM arrangement, strong internal controls, and
   motivated staff at the Steering Committee Secretariat (SCS)/MEF. The FM risk rating
   for this project was considered as Moderate.
2) The PFMAP maintained adequate FM staff, sound FM systems, policy and
   procedures. The SCS/MEF regularly submitted the quarterly interim unaudited
   financial reports to the Bank. The MEF appointed external auditors for the project,
   and the audit reports were submitted to the Bank on time.
3) The FM assessment for the SCS/MEF met the Bank’s requirement for the FM
   arrangements and found acceptable to the Bank OP/BP 10.02. It also met other FM
   requirements such as developing and implementing a project-specific FM Manual,
   and the Interim Unaudited Financial Reports (IFRs).
4) The SCS/MEF had a FM team with adequate numbers of staff in combination of
   Government staff and national consultants. This FM team was responsible for
   managing of the project’s financial transactions, facilitating of timely release and
   disbursement of funds, reviewing of claims for payments, and preparing and
   submitting Statement of Expenditures and Withdrawal Applications to the Bank; and
   submitting quarterly IFR Reports to the Bank on time.



                                           11
5) Almost all supervision missions including the Bank’s FM supervision were conducted
   by the Bank FM specialists. The findings and recommendations were fully
   implemented by the SCS/FM team. The Bank mission provided FM performance
   rating to the project’s FM implementation at satisfactory.
6) All audit reports were submitted to the Bank on time. The annual financial statements
   and the IFRs were disclosed publicly and they are available at the MEF’s website.
7) IDA grant of $14 million equivalent was fully disbursed from the Bank since
   September 2013. As of March 5, 2014, the cumulative expenditure was $15 million,
   which is 107% over the total grant financing. The spend rate of the project was high
   due to favorable gains from fluctuation of SDR versus the Dollar currency.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

To sustain the PDO achieved under PFMAP and overall progress made to date in the
broader PFMRP, the Bank completed the preparation of a successor project, the Public
Financial Management Modernization Project (PFMMP), which became effective on
November 15, 2013. The PFMMP will be financed by the MDTF with USD12 million.
The PFMMP was built on the successes and lessons learned of PFMAP and focuses on
improving financial accountability and the effective management of public finance
(Platform 2 of the PFM Reform Program). The PDO for PFMMP is more focused and
aims to enhance public financial management by strengthening: (a) revenue mobilization
and (b) budget execution processes through the implementation of the FMIS. Progress
will be measured by the contribution made to the overall PFMRP’s KPIs and targets set
forth under Platform 2. This PFMMP project uses the existing institutional arrangements
set up by the PFMAP.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Relevance of Objectives: Satisfactory

The Project Development Objective (PDO) of the project was fully relevant to the
Government policy and the Bank’s strategies at the time of design and implementation
and remained the cornerstone of the follow up PFMMP. The project PDO remained
highly relevant to the evolving Government’s development strategies reflecting its
commitments to successful implementation of the PFM reforms despite some short-term
interruption in momentum just before and after 2008 national election.

The project was intimately linked with the Government’s comprehensive, well-sequenced
PFMRP. The PFMRP Stage 1 was developed in December 2004 with the objective to
improve budget credibility. It continued with Stage 2 in December 2008 to achieve better
financial accountability by improving internal control and holding managers accountable.




                                           12
The National Strategic Development Plan (NSDP) 2009-2013 3 ’s key priorities and
actions are fully aligned with the “Rectangular Strategy.” The NSDP place the
importance on RGC’s continued governance reforms for the enhanced effectiveness in
implementation of policy and delivery and management of public goods, especially a
better public services delivery in order to respond to the aspirations of the people. The
“Rectangular Strategy (RS) - Phase I” was launched in July 2004 with a focus on the
central issues of building good governance. The “Rectangular Strategy (RS) - Phase III”
(strategy at the time of ICR) continues to raise good governance at the core of achieving
social justice and equitable socio-economic development.

The project’s focus on good governance through enhancement of PFM encompasses the
overarching objectives of the Bank’s corporate strategies. The Bank’s CAS 2005-2008
was formulated to implement the RGC’s “Rectangular Strategy” and focused on
improving governance and combating corruption as country’s central development
challenges. The CAS’s Pillar 1 is set as “removing the governance constraints to attaining
the Cambodia MDGs.” One of the core objectives of this pillar (Objective 3) was to
improve the Government’s public financial management, considered as a foundation for
reducing corruption and providing better pro-poor service delivery. The CAS was
extended after 2008 and Cambodia has not developed a new CAS at the time of ICR.

Relevance of Design: Satisfactory

The project design was highly relevant to the CAS 2005-2008, extended CAS 2005-2008,
and the current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies. The PDO and
components at entry were fully compatible with the Government’s strong commitments
and drive for the on-going PFMRP. It followed the following principles:

        The operation was directly linked to and supported the Government’s PFMRP.
        The preparation of PFMRP in turn was based on the collaboratively-produced
         IFAPER (2003) with involvement of both MEF senior leadership and technical
         department level staff and DPs.
        The project was designed to fund the PFMRP according to a sector wide approach
         (SWAp) in order to ensure maximum ownership and effective donor coordination.
        The operation was intended to support the first harmonization objective of the
         Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness - the use of common arrangements or
         procedures in terms of the percentage of aid provided through program-based
         approaches - endorsed by the Bank.

As mentioned in section 2.1, the PFMRP follows an innovative approach to sequence the
reforms in four stages of platforms. Given the progress of the PFMRP, the Government is
continuing to use sequential approach (platforms) laid out from the outset. This confirms



3
  The Government developed National Strategic Development Plan 2013-2018 but the English version was not
available at hand at the time of ICR.




                                                      13
the robustness of the sequencing activities in accordance with the reform stages and
institutional capacity. Building a project based on the Government’s existing program
(i.e., PRMRP) rather than a stand-alone project was also a good practice.

In addition, it is worth noting the innovative approach to the design of the MBPI. The
MBPI was considered as critical underpinning of the entire PFMRP. Experience indicates
that wholesale approach to civil service reforms tend to fail as it is prohibitively costly,
technically complicated, and highly politically charged. As analyzed in Nunberg and
Taliercio (2012), donors are also responsible when it has focused increasing resources on
raising civil service capacity through fragmented projectized aid infrastructure, but
‘sabotaged’ longer term capacity development. The MBPI was designed with the aim to
change such fundamental flaws – thus based on incremental introduction of merit-based
incentives in one ministry, the success of which then would be replicated to others. It was
prepared with Government in the driver’s seat, supported by donors in piloting in
departments of the MEF. The MBPI was also to anchor in official government pay
policy. The management of the MBPI was to be based on the MBPI Manual developed
by the MEF and agreed by Council of Administrative Reform (CAR) and DPs, and was
to be supervised by the Reform Committee’s Incentives and Recruitment Subcommittee.
In addition, it was envisaged to support the MEF to conduct complementary work on:
human resource management reform, including setting up an establishment register;
phasing out salary supplements; functional analysis leading to a strategy for
organizational change; fiscal sustainability analysis; and use of the payroll for the MBPI.
These activities were to be carried out in coordination with the overall civil service
reform program, which at the time of this ICR remained in the strategic focus of the
Government.

While the PFMAP rested on a solid foundation, with the benefits of hindsight, the project
design became overly ambitious at the time of implementation due to unforeseen
Cambodia’s political situation and external circumstances (Section 2.2). The project was
designed to support the “whole-of-government” and to strengthen all aspects of PFM
system in PFMRP, including revenue management, budget formation, budget execution,
capacity development, human resource management, and national audit capacity. The
issue was less about the scope itself but rather the timeline. While the government’s
PFMRP was designed for a 10 year period, it could take as long as 20 years considering
the scope of reforms and other external complexities. The delay in the implementation of
Stage 2 of the PFMRP was due in large part to this ‘whole-of-government’ approach.

To prepare the PFMAP, the task team conducted thorough assessment of risks while fully
recognizing the high risk-high return nature of the operation. Recognizing the ambitious
scope and technical complexity in FMIS (Sub-component 3.1), the team particularly
undertook a dedicated comprehensive risk review on the basis of two major IT-
investment documents, the World Bank’s “Six Pillars for Successful FMIS Reform” and
the IMF’s “Five Preconditions for Development of an FMIS.” These assessments
concluded that (i) the proposed FMIS was appropriate; but (ii) weak areas (low
ownership at mid-management and user levels; and uncertainty in the extent of delegation




                                            14
of responsibility and accountability to suppliers in implementation of FMIS) would need
to be closely monitored during supervision.

Some further light also should be shed on the design of the FMIS particularly on
sequencing of the FMIS preparation. The FMIS was not a part of Platform 1, but rather a
part of Platform 2. The plan was to undertake preparatory work during Platform 1 (i.e.,
not before project launch) for the implementation of the FMIS sometime during Platform
2. The preparatory work undertaken during project preparation was sufficient for the
FMIS implementation in Platform 2. There were various workshops conducted by the
team at the MEF to discuss IT system, accounting, and change management issues. These
workshops were intended to build the understanding of Government officials as to the
key concepts and changes that they would have to address. The team that provided
technical assistance had been involved with many other Bank FMIS projects and well
understood the issues needed to be addressed. However, the turnover of a TTL in late
2007 led to a change in approach that ultimately resulted in the need for revision of both
conceptual and bidding documents. The dynamics in approach and lessons learned from
the FMIS are presented in more detail in section 6 and became the foundation for the
MEF’s second FMIS procurement.

Relevance of Implementation: Satisfactory

Implementation of the project was highly relevant with the Government’s on-going PFM
reforms and the Bank’s CAS. At the time of the ICR, the Government was completing
the PFMRP Platform 2 and planned to enter into Platform 3. The overall progress,
particularly in revenue management, budget formation, and treasury modernization has
been significant as tracked in the project’s and PFMRP’s intermediate outcomes. Many
of these successes could not be achieved without this project. Although the components
and subcomponents of the MBPI, National Audit Authority, FMIS, and procurement
could not be implemented in full due to the unforeseen change in political momentum
and evolving external circumstances, such reform initiatives indeed served as impetus to
drive Government’s own reform efforts. For example, during our ICR mission, the MEF
management reaffirmed its strong commitment to continuing with the implementation of
FMIS and broader civil service reforms. Over the past couple of years, the TTL and the
task team had proactively engaged with the Government and DPs to restructure certain
project components and timeline which contributed to the achievement of PDO in
difficult environment.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Overall, the project had supported impressive progress to date in the on-going PFMRP.
Though some important reform activities (e.g., FMIS) did not meet the timeline
envisioned at the outset of the PFMRP, successes in PFM reforms - particularly in
expansion of fiscal space (both domestic revenue mobilization and public expenditures)
and enhancement of efficiency, efficacy, and fiduciary in public resource management -
within just five years, were notable: revenue increased by almost five percentage points


                                           15
of GDP; commitment control and cash management improved with complete turnaround
from uncontrollable level of arrears to its elimination and from mostly cash to a mostly
non-cash treasury system; the Treasury Single Account (TSA) was introduced;
commercial banks used for both collections and payments; and early stage of MTEF
introduced with new revenue forecasting and enhanced credibility of budgeting. Such
progress attained within relatively short period of time provided the impetus for further
reforms in the country still suffering from the worst destructive Khmer Rouge revolution
and would indeed become an envy of any other countries at similar income level running
full-scaled PFM reforms.

To track project performance, the ICR team used the set of outcome indicators in ISRs
(Annex 2) evolved over time of the project implementation. It is also worth noting that
there were no outcome indicators mapped specifically to project Components, neither in
the PAD nor in ISRs. To assess the extent to which the project PDO was achieved, it is
necessary to deconstruct the PDO into four components.

PDO (1): To strengthen the mobilization of public resources.

PDO 1 was achieved in terms of actual revenue collection at project completion
compared with the original target value. Revenue collection was enhanced due to
improved revenue administration and broadened base. The use of banking system for tax
payments was promoted. Circulars on measures to collect revenue information were
developed. Self-assessed regime on property tax, tax auditing, and collection of tax
arrears was initiated. In addition, non-tax revenue and property taxes and associated
decrees were introduced and the medium-term revenue mobilization strategy 2013-2018
was developed. These reform activities, collectively, contributed to the better
mobilization of public resources.

One PDO indicator outlined in the PAD, accountable stewardship of oil revenue, was
dropped from the first ISRs. During conceptualization of the project, the MEF and the
Petroleum Authority had a plausible assumption that oil revenues would flow during
implementation. On the contrary, oil extraction turned out to be very small, not
commercially viable, and thus the Government decided not to factor oil revenues into the
revised Revenue Mobilization Strategy. In addition, the Government was not strongly
committed to EITI. The EITI dialogue was handled through the first PRSO but did not
materialize due to both political sensitivity and broader relationship problems between
the Bank and the Government.

PDO (2): To strengthen the management of public resources.

PDO 2 was achieved and the ICR assessment was fully in line with the review by the
latest EAP (2012). A key achievement related to treasury modernization is the
development of the Uniform Account code Structure (Chart of Accounts, CoA),
comprised of six segments. The administrative, economic and functional classifications
segments of the CoA are in line with GFS/COFOG. The CoA is fully compliant with
International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) cash basis requirements and a



                                           16
road map has been developed by the General Department of the National Treasury
(GDNT) to fully comply with accounting and reporting requirements of the Standard.
This CoA forms the backbone of the FMIS system and lays the foundation for much
greater transparency in budgeting, accounting, and reporting. Elimination of arrears and
reduced fiduciary risks provided opportunity for the Government to extend the use of
commercial banks for FM transactions.

It should be emphasized that PDO 2 focused more on credible budget formulation and not
on the FMIS per se. As described, budget credibility, transparency and accountability
were mostly achieved under platform 1 (the elimination of payment arrears is one such
highlight). The FMIS was to be implemented under platform 2. While the FMIS
implementation did not proceed under the PFMAP due to the failed procurement, the
project did contribute to the development of many functional prerequisites (including
budget classification, Treasury Single Account (TSA), uniform account structure, chart of
account based on IPSA etc.) that lay the foundation for the FMIS successor project. The
Government, the MEF in particular, remained committed to ensuring organizational and
technical readiness for the implementation of FMIS (being redesigned to become treasury
centric FMIS under the technical support of the forthcoming PFMMP). The re-launch in
implementation of FMIS moved steadily and within the time line agreed between the
Bank and the MEF. As of the time of this ICR, stage 2 of the two-stage-competitive
bidding process was completed and contract was awarded.

PDO (3): To strengthen the management of human resources.

PDO 3 was partially achieved. Initially the MBPI was a success as confirmed in the two
External Advisory Panel Reports (2007, 2010). The panels’ reports also recommend for
its expansion and the program gained traction among top leadership. The Government
decided to roll out to the Ministries of Interior, Health, and Land Management as well as
the Council for Administrative Reform (CAR) in April 2009. However the expansion as
it turned out was premature (Numberg and Taliercio, 2012), and the Government cited
the need to avoid internal conflict in the public administration among civil servants
including military personnel at the height of Cambodian - Thai border disputes. The
cancellation of the MBPI was abrupt and surprised even the MEF. The MEF introduced
the new scheme the Priority Operating Costs (POC) in 2010. The POC, a fully donor
funded pay mechanism, retained MBPI’s approach to basic performance management.
Due to the unsustainable salary supplementation, the Government framed the POC as a
short-term mechanism until a substantial medium-term pay reform could be in place.
Ultimately, the POC was terminated in June 2012. The abrupt cancelation of the MBPI
and the long delay in getting a successor arrangement (POC) created disincentives for the
MEF staff and undermined implementation given the extremely low salaries (and
opportunities for moonlighting; e.g., many MEF staff reportedly went back to teaching in
EFI for high hourly rates after the MBPI cancelled).

Despite the cancelation of the initiative, the Government very much recognizes the
importance of merit-based pay and incentive mechanisms and some key reforms
introduced under the MBPI were retained and now form a part of the revived civil service



                                           17
reform agenda. It has recently regained momentum continues and the Government has
incorporated the reform in the PFMRP.

PDO (4): To strengthen external audit capacity.

PDO 4 was not rated. After the legal agreement was signed, the National Audit Authority
(NAA) decided to drop this component and withdrew from engaging with the Bank. The
withdrawal seemed to be affected by the INT investigation in 2006 and this decision was
made at the senior level of NAA. The task team decided not to implement the component
but to reallocate the funds to other areas. It should also be noted, as seen in Annex 2, the
reform effort by the Government continued, albeit slowly, outside the scope of PFMAP:
(i) Audit reports were submitted regularly to the National Assembly and contributed to
relatively speedy adoption of the budget settlement law within 12-18 months; (ii) For the
first time, the National Assembly published a user friendly "Citizens' Budget;" and (iii)
the MDTF component was used to help the National Assembly understand and ultimately
approve the customs law (prepared by the IMF TA with the MEF).

3.3 Efficiency

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The ex-post financial and economic analysis on the basis of core assumptions revised to
reflect enhancement in revenue collection and reduced leakage in the use of public
resources suggest that the project as a whole remain both financially and economically
beneficial. The project paid for itself by eliminating the supplier arrears problem. That is,
even if there were no other benefits (see Annex 2 for the outlines of the project
achievements in revenue collection, cash management, and enhancement in treasury
function), this project had a positive NPV on the basis of the arrears alone (See Annex 3
for more detailed discussion of cost-benefit analysis).

However the breakdown of original budget and actual expenditures by component
indicates that the project did not achieve the most value for money. Financing of the IPA
was a case in point. The IPA is a new activity that arose as part of the restructuring
package in response to the Bank’s fiduciary review and the INT investigation. Neither the
task team nor the MEF desired the addition of the IPA since it goes against the overall
objective of the Project to build country systems. While it fit somewhat into the PDO
specifically targeted at improving public resource management, it was costly and deemed
unsustainable in enhancing the quality of procurement and country processes. The
component cost amounted to approximately USD6.7 million or 44 percent of the total
IDA allocation. The IPA was in fact short-lived at the end of the project was cancelled as
the Government viewed it as non-vital for its long-term capacity building and it lacked
genuine ownership of the MEF. The team planned to apply for additional financing to
refinance the IPA as well as to fund planned important capacity building activities that
had been put on hold due to budget shortfalls (related to the IPA). Additional financing
could not be sought, however, due to the management decision to freeze all additional
financing across Cambodia portfolio.



                                             18
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The overall outcome was rated as Moderately Satisfactory. The rating was made on the
basis of individual rating of relevance of objectives (Satisfactory), relevance of design
(Satisfactory), relevance of implementation (Satisfactory), achievement of PDO
(Moderately Satisfactory), and Efficiency (Moderately Unsatisfactory).

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
 (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project was designed to specifically aim at enhancing the efficiency and effectiveness of
PFM. It could provide indirect positive impact on poverty reduction, gender equity, and social
development through improvements achieved in prioritization of public service programs and
service delivery to the citizens.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The impact of the project on long-term capacity and institutional development are
expected to be substantial. Capacity was built particularly in the MEF (the main executor
of the project) and in the ministries directly involved in PFM reforms. Various MEF
departments including Economic and Finance Policy Department, General Department of
Taxation, Non-tax Revenue Department, Custom and Excise Department, Budget
Department, General Department of National Treasury, Internal Audit Department,
Personnel Department, Public Procurement Department, IT Department and PFM Reform
Committees and technical working groups including the Economic and Finance
Committee, the PFM Steering Committee, the MEF Reform Committee, Reform
Secretariat, Reform Working Group in line ministries, and several PFM sub technical
working groups benefited from policy and technical advice, training, study visits,
hardware and software acquisition during project implementation. It is worth
emphasizing that the MEF structure was substantially simplified with the number of
general directorship reduced from 23 to 12 along with the PFM reforms and based on the
advice received by the project.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

N.A.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

N.A.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate




                                              19
Despite considerable strain in the relationship between the government and Bank,
the project has been sustained despite considerable strains in the Bank relationship.
Ownership by the Government was relatively high. However risks remain and there
are two areas of concern, which attributes to the assessment rating of Moderate. First,
there was some resistance in implementation as reflected in the dropped component of
NAA. The NAA senior leadership withdrew from engaging constructively with the Bank
and the component was dropped. Second, public sector governance and the external
environment tend to create more uncertainty and thus impact the project outcomes. The
task team could not envision the fiduciary and the INT investigation of other Bank-
financed projects. The Bank declared misprocurement in June 2006 and the
Government’s objections to the investigation process led to a period where dialogue with
the Government was severely constrained. While the PFMAP had to finance the cost of
IPA, all IDA additional financing for Cambodia portfolio was suspended thus the project
was not allowed to obtain compensatory funding for implementation. In addition, major
external factors to the project such as the rising tensions at the Thai-Cambodia border in
2010 that created a concern of possible resentment between the low paid armed personnel
stationed at the border and the civil servants benefiting from the MBPI scheme could not
be foreseen either by the Government or by the Bank. This resulted in the abrupt
cancelation of the MBPI in the middle of successful implementation.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

The overall quality of Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry was
Satisfactory. The project PDO was highly relevant to the Government and the Bank’s
development priorities. The project’s outcome indicators, baselines, and targets were
taken from the PFMRP document. Flexibility was also envisioned at the design stage -
targets were established for two years and supposed to be adjusted to realism during
project implementation.

Driven by the demand of the MEF senior management and with consensus by the entire
donor community, the project team went beyond the PFMRP in three specific areas: oil
revenue management, external audit, and the roll out of the MBPI. This ambitious
approach was to use the Project as a leverage to push into broader public sector
management reform and to strengthen the MEF’s hand in pushing the reform agenda
across government agencies. Section 2.1. presents a more detailed account of project
preparation and design.

The innovative approach to pay reform, framed in the MBPI, deserved some further
discussion (Nunberg and Taliercio 2012, and Taliercio 2009). One of the most significant
weaknesses in the enabling environment was the patronage-based civil service, in which
chronically low pay led to low performance, low attendance, and high corruption (the
civil service in the post-conflict period was used as a mechanism to integrate previously


                                           20
warring parties and to cement allegiance to the nascent CPP). The project realized that it
would not succeed without addressing this constraint, yet did not wish to address it by
means of traditional salary supplements, which actually erode capacity over the medium
term. Rather, the project took a highly innovative approach of developing an asymmetric
civil service reform pilot in the MEF. All reviews of the MBPI (two External Advisory
Panel reports and one specific external review of the MBPI) pointed to its positive impact
in motivating the MEF staff. The MBPI component also had important positive
externalities to other sectors: the MBPI was eventually expanded to eight additional
ministries and agencies before it was abruptly cancelled.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The quality of supervision was Moderately Satisfactory. The Bank’s full team
included the TTL, technical experts, FM and procurement specialists, and consultants.
They consistently engaged with the counterparts closely on regular basis, particularly
with the MEF, the Reform Committee (RC) and the Steering Committee Secretariat
(SCS). The team conducted regular supervision missions every six months to take stock
of progress being made and recorded it in the ISRs and a midterm review to provide an
assessment of progress, prospect of achieving the program target, and key issues that
need further action by the client. The task team responded appropriately and timely to the
management decision to finance IPA from this project and delays in the implementation
of activities by issuing restructuring papers and made changes to financing percentage
and closing dates.

It is worth highlighting the task team’s proactive and innovative approach to improving
the quality of project management. Such approach consisted the Bank support to (i) build
institutions and capacity to manage the overall PFMRP and the project, particularly the
Reform Committee and the SCS; and (ii) create a new forum for effective donor
coordination. The approach was both productive and sustainable and thus deserved more
detailed discussion (as described below).

The role of the RC and the SCS. At the start, the MEF did not have any form of internal
coordination mechanisms, regular meetings of reform management team, coordinating
secretariat, regular monitoring/reporting on reform progress, and retreats. All of that
changed radically and management capacity in the MEF was built up under the project. It
is worth highlighting that the task team from the outset did not set up a typical PMU but
rather focused on helping the MEF to build up the SCS. The SCS until the time of this
ICR remained in charge of donor support coordination. While this approach caused some
delays as SCS' capacity was initially very low, it was sustainable and currently the
institution is being seen as a training ground for promotions. Equally importantly, the
SCS prepared very detailed quarterly progress reports against the CAP, which were
shared with the donor community and reviewed jointly in the technical working group
regularly.



                                                   21
Development Partners Committee (DPC). The project was starting just after the
previous arrangement, Technical Cooperation Assistance Program (TCAP), had failed.
TCAP (supported by the IMF, ADB, UNDP, DFID and the Netherlands) took a long time,
spent a lot of money, and failed to deliver results. In this context, donors were allergic to
any more coordinated approaches and wished to go their own ways, there loomed an
imminent risk of further fragmentation in DPs support of the PFMRP. At the time, the
problem of uncoordinated donor support and sometimes contradictory advice persisted.
Setting up the DPC was a challenge, though it was necessary to create a new effective
form of donor coordination centered in DPC, which is still in operation today. As the
project became a cornerstone of the SWAp, the task team led the donor coordination
through DPC and established harmonized approach through developing Partnership
Principles, joint missions, pooled funding mechanism, and technical working groups. The
team led the monthly DPC and shared with them timely information on project and the
Government’s PFM reform implementation progress and issues. Within this DPC
framework, another important innovation was the use of periodic External Advisory
Panels (EAP), contracted according to the quality and cost-based selection method jointly
by a Bank-donor selection panel. The EAP reports over the project implementation
provided useful guidance and a quasi-independent view of where the program was
heading.

The quality of ISRs during June 2007- February 2010 could be rated as sub-standard as
they did not capture sufficient information of achievement and on-going challenge for
management attention. For example, in 2009, the Bank management held a series of
active discussions with the MEF management and the manager of Steering Committee
Secretariat to try to address the slow progress and sought independent advice from the
External Advisory Panel. However these facts were not fully captured in the ISRs.

Since 2010, the quality of ISRs had improved with the new incoming TTL. The team
paid closer attention to the on-going challenges and more proactively communicated with
the Government counterparts to detect new challenges affecting the pace of project
implementation. In addition to standard project supervision properly filed in the ISRs, the
team conducted several joint PFM missions with the other development partners to
discuss with the Government on the PFM reform progress and the results were all
recorded in the Aide Memoire. Other supervision mechanism includes independent EAPs,
and recommendations provided by the EAPs were well communicated with the
Government. Quality of FM reporting including audit reports to the Bank was high and
timely and rated as satisfactory.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The overall Bank performance was rated Moderately Satisfactory on the basis of the
rating of Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry (Satisfactory) and quality of
supervision (Moderately Satisfactory).



                                            22
5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Government ownership, particularly at the MEF senior management was high. The
MEF senior management were highly committed to the PFM reforms and showed strong
leadership in carrying out activities. The Government prioritized reforms and developed
the sequenced PFMRP with support by DPs. Commitment was strong in improving
revenue management, budget formation, treasury systems and internal control, and thus
significant achievements were made in these critical PFM areas. The MEF strongly
supported civil service pay reform and was surprised by the Prime Minister’s decision to
cancel the MBPI. The EAP report 2010 also highlighted that: “Government ownership,
exercised through the Steering Committee for PFMRP remains strong, and has
contributed to the progress made.”

However institutional commitments were not consistent in different parts of the
Government. In particular, the component of National Audit was dropped due to the
decision made at the top. The head of National Audit Authority (NAA) decided to
withdraw from the Bank’s assistance soon after legal agreement was signed.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The performance of implementing agency is rated as Moderately Satisfactory . The
PFM Reform Committee and Secretariat as well as various MEF departments in charge
of revenue, budget, treasury, IT, and internal audit performed well. The NAA, however,
failed to show continued commitment to implementing their oversight capacity
development component.

The implementing agencies could have improved the timeliness and quality of M&E
reports. Initially the Steering Committee Secretariat SCS (formally RCS) produced
progress reports regularly and submitted to the Bank in a timely manner. As the project
went on, the Secretariat reduced the frequency of these reports, from monthly to quarterly,
and the reports were prepared with fewer details. The task team received the last progress
report in 2012. The reorganization of the MEF after the 2013 election, appointment of
new personnel, and reconstitution of the Secretariat contributed to the relaxed M&E
performance from the Government side. The Government did not produce an ICR for this
particular project. Instead, the Government shared with the task team the Progress Report
on PFMRP as a whole, making it difficult to judge the Government’s perspective on the
project-specific impact on the achievement of the PDO.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


                                           23
The overall Borrower performance was rated Moderately Satisfactory on the basis of
the rating of the Government performance (Moderately Satisfactory) and performance of
implementing agency (Moderately Satisfactory).

6. Lessons Learned

Narrowing the project scope and managing expectation of both Government and
DPs in the face of mounting uncertainty in a post conflict country. The project was
well prepared with a strategic link to the overall PFMRP and remained consistent with
the country’s and the Bank’s development priorities. The original project PDO and
components completely resonated with the Government’s and DPs’ incentives and
commitments. The MEF leadership’s aspiration to motivate and exert some sense of
urgency on functional departments and sectors drove the setting of ambitious scope and
timeline for the project.

The broad scope intended to engage a wide spectrum of government stakeholders and
implementing agencies within a short period of time - even driven by the Government
demand, fully supported by the DPs community, and underpinned by the PFMRP - turned
out to be challenging for implementation. Given a series of political, public sector
governance issues, border crisis, natural disasters, and the global crisis - all emerged
during project implementation, beyond the scope of critical risks identified at the
inception - the project had to undergo multiple adaptive restructuring in order to attain the
PDO. As the team was actually working in an extremely difficult environment of a post
conflict country enduring the worst turbulence, the question - with the benefits of
hindsight - is whether the project could have been simplified for the proposed five-year
completion. In the context of Cambodia, this would lead to a challenge for the task team
to manage both Government’s and DPs’ expectations, even from the stage of PFMRP
design.

FMIS implementation. While the team did a thorough job of evaluating the risks,
drawing on major analytical tools and lessons learned from similar FMIS
implementations worldwide, the first FMIS procurement faced a number of design,
procurement and capacity constraints that ultimately led to a failed bidding process.

The FMIS was envisioned as the backbone of the reform that would provide the tool for
controlling aggregate spending and deficits, prioritizing expenditure across policies,
programs and projects; decentralizing the accounting system and achieving greater
transparency by as early as 2010. The MEF created the IT Department to implement what
was essentially viewed as an IT project. Hence, the FMIS was an IT led project with
nascent understanding of the need to build the ownership of system users. None of the
functional departments within the MEF – Treasury, Budget, Tax were engaged in the
design, let alone line ministries which also were planned to be connected to the system.
At the time of the issuance of the bid there was some ambiguity regarding requirements
(functionality, sequencing, numbers of users). Eventually there was a reasonable
quantification but the contract process became problematic and more costly with over



                                             24
ambitious scope adopting a “big bang” decentralized accounting system while
maintaining a centralized payment system. This redefinition of the scope was the result
of a difference of approach by the Bank TTL at the time (which speaks to the turnover of
Bank PFM TTLs and staff on the project) as well as a miscalculation on the difficulty and
the depth of resistance to business process streamlining and reorganization within the
MEF and line ministries, in particular the decentralization of financial control and
management to line ministries and program/budget managers. In hindsight the project
design was too ambitious and too quick to move toward decentralization of the
accounting system without first making sure that the existing (centralized) system was
modernized with full commitment controls and capacity to decentralization. Also,
important prerequisites including the finalization of the Uniform Account Code Structure
including the CoA and change management to promote an initial understanding of the
FMIS were not in place. Training to facilitate a successful implementation was
fragmented and not well sequenced.

The first procurement was hampered by a series of events contributing to the eventual
derailment of the project. As previously mentioned, the fiduciary review, the INT
investigation, and the subsequent establishment of the IPA in 2006 contributed to delays
in the procurement process. Eventually a joint decision was made between the MEF and
the Bank to exclude procurements currently underway which exempted the FMIS
procurement from being procured by the IPA and the process proceeded. When the
additional funds needed to finance the system did not materialize in 2010/2011, the
contract award became further complicated leaving the MEF to award the contract in
several parts to coincide with available funding. This had to be negotiated with the
selected contractor and when agreement could not be reached the contract award
collapsed. In addition, the ability for the IT Department to undertake this complex 2-
stage procurement process on its own was overestimated.

These challenges and lessons learned informed the MEF’s second FMIS procurement.
The General Department of National Treasury (GDNT) has increasingly taken a
leadership role in the process. The scope of the system was scaled back to simplify
system implementation; accelerate the development and go-live of the treasury centric
system; reduce risks in the introduction of budget execution, cash management and fiscal
reporting functionalities; and build a strong foundation for adding other modules. All key
functional departments were engaged in the revised concept and design stage and
participated in the procurement, evaluation and award processes.

The MBPI. The MBPI, the agency based civil service pay reform, was an innovative
approach It was successfully piloted at the MEF but failed to be expanded beyond the
Ministry as anticipated. This asymmetric approach to public administration reform was
not successful in the Cambodian context for two reasons. First it caused resentment
among those not directly benefiting from the scheme that eventually left it to its abrupt
cancellation by the Prime Minister. The MBPI provided an important lesson on parity
(and the sensitivity around parity issues) that arose between civil servants benefiting from
the MBPI and military personnel who at the time were involved in a border conflict with
Thailand and faced sporadic military clashes. Second, the MPBI was risky and designed



                                            25
to be disruptive – disruptive enough to force some real change (which it did). However it
turned out to be too destabilizing. The asymmetric approach is risky – even careful
attention to political economy and during preparation cannot fully mitigate these risks.
The political dynamics that led to the cancellation are still unclear and worth further
study to draw on additional lessons to be learned from such an approach. Nevertheless,
the MBPI represents an approach that is incremental and political economically relevant
to Cambodia. Some key reforms and practices introduced under the MBPI were retained
and now form part of the revived civil service reform agenda that recently has regained
momentum.

The IPA. The IPA was not anticipated at the time of project design, and emerged from
the decision to manage the fiduciary risks highlighted by the INT investigation. However,
it was a set-back to the development of a national procurement system because it was a
procurement mechanism that bypassed the national system. Its focus was to simply carry
out procurements on behalf of the government. The IPA represents a missed opportunity
to build procurement capacity within the government and strengthen and transform the
existing government procurement system.

Adaptive adjustments to project’s scope and timeline based on proactive
engagement and effective communication of the task team with the Government
counterparts. The experience in implementation of the PFMAP reconfirms the lessons
learned elsewhere in the world that PFM reforms, inherently, are technically and
politically complex, long-term, and non-linear. Modifications to the scope and timeline of
PFM reforms should be regarded as an integral part of project implementation and
monitoring in public investment management (Rajaram et al., 2010). In the case of
PFMAP, at the design, no one could reasonably have predicted the INT investigation and
the need to institute the IPA to support procurement of Bank – financed projects (yet
alone fully finance it under the project). Neither the Bank/DPs nor the MEF management
expected the Government’s abrupt decision to cancel the MBPI while the initial benefits
were being realized. A series of project restructuring adapted to emerging risks and
challenges in such context were critical to attaining the PDO. What we could learn from
the experience of the task team is that for effective restructuring, it would be essential
that (i) the task team maintain timely and effective communication with the Government
and the donor community to collectively detect and find the best approach to deal with
evolving risks and changing realism; and (ii) the Bank proactively conduct, in parallel,
programmatic TAs to support the project implementation. A case in point - as
highlighted by the MEF management during the ICR mission - such critical proactive
Bank supervision indeed contributed to the successful transformation of the Treasury and
related reforms such as moving from three sets of COAs to a single COA based on
internationally accepted international accounting standards.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies




                                           26
The government was invited to conduct their own ICR on the project. They instead chose
to prepare their own evaluation of the PFMRP, given that the project does not cover the
entire government’s reform program.

The government’s review is provided as an attachment to the ICR in WB Docs and
summary of the ICR team’s comments on the evaluation is provided below.


The ICR team concurred with the Government’s assessment on the outcomes of the
implementation of the PFMRP (February 2014). In this report, the Government
reaffirmed its commitment to successful PFM reforms. The Government highlighted
critical success in instituting budget credibility and introducing elements of program-
based budgeting. The slowdown in implementation of PFMRP since 2008/2009 was
acknowledged with candor and partly attributed to the negative impacts of major
challenges unforeseen at the outset: the global economic and financial crisis; the
Cambodian-Thai border crisis; and natural disasters (massive floods). In addition, the
Government noted the evolving risks that need to be monitored and mitigated in order to
ensure continued success and sustainability of the PFMRP: (i) Leadership-related risks
(policy, principle or directing); (ii) Management-related risks (identification of activities,
task assignments); (iii) Technical/lack of institutional capacity- related risks; and (iv)
Coordination and cross-department information sharing.

(b) Cofinanciers

N/A. The task team prepared a dedicated ICM for the MDTF portion of the project.




                                             27
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest4
                                Appraisal Estimate                                             Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                                                Appraisal
                                                       millions)

            Total Baseline Cost                      30.28                     24.51               80.95
Physical Contingencies                                0.00                      0.00               0.00
Price Contingencies                                   0.00                      0.00               0.00
             Total Project Costs                     30.28                     24.51               80.95
Front-end fee PPF                                     0.00                      0.00               0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                    0.00                      0.00               0.00
      Total Financing Required                       14.00                     15.05              107.50


(b) Financing5
                                                                  Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                                  Type of         Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
              Source of Funds
                                                Cofinancing        (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                                  millions)   millions)
 AUSTRALIA: Australian Agency for
                                                   MDTF                2.25             1.6            71.11
International Development
                                                Counterpart
Borrower                                                               1.50            0.13             8.70
                                                  Fund
 UK: British Department for
                                                   MDTF                8.40             5.5            65.48
International Development (DFID)
 EC: European Commission                           MDTF                 3.90            4.01           102.82
 IDA Grant                                         Grant               14.00           15.05           107.50
 SWEDEN: Swedish Intl. Dev.
                                                   MDTF                3.00            2.86            95.33
Cooperation Agency (SIDA)




4
    Note: The actual estimate contains IDA ($15.05) and MDTF ($9.46)
5
    Note:
AusAID: contribution paid $2.54 - $0.94 (refunded), equal to $1.6 actual disbursement
DFID: contribution paid $7.61-$2.9 (refunded), equal to $5.5 actual disbursement
SIDA: contribution paid $3 – $0.139 (refunded), equal to$2.86 actual disbursement
EC and IDA portions have been overspent against the financing grants because of exchange rate gained


                                                         28
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

(b) PDO Indicator(s)
                                              Original Target
                                                                      Formally      Actual Value Achieved
                                               Values (from
       Indicator          Baseline Value                            Revised Target at Completion or Target
                                                 approval
                                                                       Values               Years
                                               documents)
                                                                                             Achieved

                                                                                    Total revenues in GDP
Strengthened                                                                        reached 14.9% in 2013 of
mobilization of public                                                              which Tax 11.7% and
resources as                               Growth in Revenue                        non-Tax 1.8%. The lower
measured by increases    2005 Revenue      over period to %                         percentage of non-tax
in tax and non-tax       as % GDP 10.3% GDP 11.9% of                                revenue to GDP reflects
revenues as a            of which Tax 7.6% which Tax %GDP                           the growing size of GDP.
percentage of GDP and    and Non Tax 2.2% 9.2% and Non Tax                          However, overall, the
accountable                                2.6%GDP                                  revenue generation
stewardship of oil                                                                  exceeds the target by 3%
revenue                                                                             of GDP. Oil revenue not
                                                                                    applicable [no revenue
                                                                                    generated from oil].)

                                                                                             Achieved

                       2001-2003Average                                             Targets for outturn of
                       quarterly outturn                                            non-salary expenditure
                       for non-salary                                               achieved. The outturn of
Strengthened
                       expenditures as      The end of each                         non-salary expenditure
management of public
                       percentage of        Quarter [Q1:15%;                        reached 104.8% by the
resources as
                       budget [Q1:7%; Q2:40%; Q3: 70%                               end of 2013. No specific
measured by more
                       Q2:18%; Q3: 45% and Q4:90%].                                 data on reduction of price
credible budget
                       and Q4:70%].                                                 differential obtained
formulation and
                                            Reduction in price                      through surveys. But the
implementation and
                       Weighted average differential to 15%                         elimination of payment
reduced fiduciary risk
                       of public            of market price.                        arrears contributes to the
                       procurement price                                            reduction of risks and thus
                       differential greater                                         creating incentive for the
                       than 20%.                                                    suppliers to reduce price
                                                                                    for goods procured by the
                                                                                    government.
Strengthened                                                                            Partially achieved
management of
human resources as                                                                   There were some progress
                        Low productivity,
measured by the                                                     POC designed at the agency level, i.e. the
                        high levels of       Pay levels increased
number of ministries                                                for MEF and      MEF in which the
                        absence, weak        to between
with civil servants                                                 line ministries, HR Management system
                        retention of skilled USD150-600 per
motivated by an                                                     POC              is in place and functional
                        staff due to         month for 510 skill
effective incentive                                                 implementation, and the MBPI scheme had
                        inadequate           staff in MEF, using
levels and managed by                                               implementation been successfully piloted
                        incentives (salaries Merit based Pay
meritocratic procedures                                             review and       and later replaced by
                        less than USD50 System
(improved productivity,                                             evaluation       donor funded POC, which
                        per month).
performance and                                                                      ended in mid-2012.The
conditions of service                                                                MEF continues to fund
for skilled personnel)                                                               the POC scheme for


                                                     29
                                                                     certain civil servants
                                                                     engaging in reform
                                                                     program ranging from
                                                                     USD180 to 600 per month
                                                                     depending on position and
                                                                     type of work. Pay level
                                                                     across government
                                                                     ministries slightly
                                                                     improved comparing to
                                                                     the baseline of less than
                                                                     USD50 but continues to
                                                                     be low at roughly
                                                                     USD100 per month for
                                                                     the lowest level of civil
                                                                     servants due to slow
                                                                     progress in compensation
                                                                     reform.
                                                                             Not rated.

                                                                     The component was not
                                                                     implemented under this
                                                                     project as designed but
                                                                     some improvements made
                                                                     by the Government need
                                                                     to be recognized: Audit
                                                                     reports were submitted
                                                                     regularly to the National
                                                                     Assembly and contributed
                                                                     to relatively speedy
                                                                     adoption of the budget
                                              Audit coverage of at
Strengthened external                                                settlement law within 12-
                                              least 50% of
audits as measured by Low level of audit                             18 months. Although the
                                              government
the extent of audit      coverage of public                          NAA did not use its
                                              expenditures.
coverage in line with entities and                                   allocation under the
international standards operations. No                               project to strengthen
                                              Government annual
and number of audit      published audit                             capacity, the improvement
                                              financial statements
reports submitted to the reports to date.                            in accounting system,
                                              audit report
National Assembly                                                    which enables speedier
                                              published.
                                                                     closing of the
                                                                     government’s account,
                                                                     contributes to this. The
                                                                     NAA’s audit covers
                                                                     government’s fund, which
                                                                     is approximately 66% of
                                                                     the total government
                                                                     budget. However,
                                                                     transparency remains an
                                                                     issue. The publication of
                                                                     audit reports has been
                                                                     slow. The last published
                                                                     audit report was for 2008

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)




                                                      30
                                           Original Target
                                                             Formally      Actual Value Achieved
                                             Values (from
       Indicator          Baseline Value                   Revised Target at Completion or Target
                                               approval
                                                              Values                 Years
                                             documents)
Policy agenda                            MEF produces GFS                          Achieved
                        Fragmented and
implemented through                      Classified,
                        partial budget
implementation of                        comprehensive                    A three year rolling
                        process for
MTBF and                                 unitary budget                   MTEF developed;
                        example between
MTEF/Program                             oriented toward                  program budgeting
                        recurrent and
Budgeting in Line                        achieving                        implemented in 10
                        capital
Ministries                               programme results                ministries.
                                                                                   Achieved

                                                                          Budget Strategic Plan
                                                                          (BSP) integrating the
                                                                          government’s and donor’s
                                                                          fund developed in all line
                                                                          ministries. The BSP
                                                                          provides a framework for
                                                                          program oriented and
                        The accountability
MEF provides line                                                         accountable output
                        for and proportion Programme Oriented
ministries with a                                                         /activities based budget by
                        of budgets to be and Accountable
framework for                                                             linking input to
                        allocated to       Output/Activity
budgeting that                                                            policy/priorities and
                        service unit       Based Budgets
strengthens links                                                         missions of the ministries,
                        activities not     implemented across
between resource inputs                                                   and to the overall result.
                        identified in      all Ministries
and outputs/results                                                       In addition, program
                        budget
                                                                          based budgeting has been
                                                                          implemented in 10 line
                                                                          ministries. Full program
                                                                          budgeting is planned for
                                                                          stage 3 of the platform
                                                                          approach. The PFM
                                                                          reform program is
                                                                          currently still under stage
                                                                          2.
                                                                              Partially Achieved

                                                                          Budget credibility
                         Weak legal
                                                                          improved and contributed
More reliable and        framework for
                                                                          to the elimination of
comprehensive Budget supply of some          Legal framework for
                                                                          arrears and better budget
Monitoring and           forms of data to    supply of data to
                                                                          management and
Accounting data          MEF. Accounting     MEF established.
                                                                          disbursement; Issues in
reported. MEF's & LM data (Non Tax           FMIS implemented
                                                                          implementation of FMIS
management can use       Rev/DP Projects)    across Central
                                                                          arose but key functional
data for better decision suffers from same   Ministries.
                                                                          prerequisites for the FMIS
making.                  lack of
                                                                          are in place; and the
                         completeness.
                                                                          Treasury centric module is
                                                                          under implementation.




                                                     31
                                                                                          Achieved
                         Substantial
                                                                                  The inconsistency
                         inconsistencies
                                                                                  between the final TOFE
Improved                 between final     Inconsistencies                        and the interim report at
accountability and       TOFE for the      between final TOFE                     the end of the final year
internal control systems year; and interim
                                           and interim report at                  remains in some years at
result in strengthened report produced at
                                                                                  slightly more than 5%.
compliance and           end of financial end of financial year
                                           reduced to no more                     The inconsistency is
transparency in the      year. Average
                                                                                  mainly due to the external
mobilization and use of delay in producing than 5% (of value).
                                                                                  financing portion of the
public resources.        in-year TOFE
                                                                                  budget which is not under
                         2001-2003 was 3-
                                                                                  the control of the
                         4 weeks.
                                                                                  Government.

                                                                                          Achieved

                                                                                  The 2013 data suggest
                                                                                  that internal audit
                                                                                  departments have been
                                                                                  established in 26
                                                                                  ministries (23 functional)
                                                                                  and 9 public enterprises.
                                                                                  Required trainings
                                                                                  provided. Each internal
                                                                                  audit already has
                          Low levels of                                           produced Strategic Audit
                          regulatory          10 internal audit                   Plan. Audit reports have
Strengthen the            compliance (less    units established.                  been produced by the
regulatory framework                                                              functional audit
                          than 25             Each internal audit
for internal audit and                                                            departments; however, the
build internal audit      Institutions) and   unit produced at                    quality of the reports
capacity.                 capacity relating   least 6 reports to the              varies in different
                          to internal         responsible minister.               ministries’ internal audit
                          auditing.                                               departments. To address
                                                                                  this, the MEF introduced
                                                                                  internal audit standard and
                                                                                  template to all internal
                                                                                  audit departments at line
                                                                                  ministries. The MEF is
                                                                                  playing a leading role. Its
                                                                                  internal audit department
                                                                                  produces audit reports on
                                                                                  approximately 90-100
                                                                                  entities under its
                                                                                  supervision per year.
                                                                                      Partially achieved
                                              MEF 'Merit Based
CAR and MEF provide                           Performance                         Payroll management and
                          Fragmented and
adequate policy options                       Indicator' Pilot                    resource are synchronized
                          undisciplined                                 POC
to strengthen positive                        complete. MBPI                      and better coordinated.
                          remuneration                              restructuring
and negative incentives                       Strategy expanded to                However, incentive
                          system
for civil servants.                                                               structure continues to be
                                              support other sectors
                                                                                  weak due to the delay in
                                                                                  compensation reform.



                                                       32
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The PDOs of the projects focus on enhancing the efficiency of the public sector through
better PFM which in turn exert important and positive - both financial and economic-
impact on private sector development, both in terms of economic and financial impacts.

The ex-post review of the economic and financial analysis done at design stage confirms
that the project is both economically and financially feasible. This is due to the largely
achieved targets that fit into the underlying assumptions and parameters used at entry.
The elimination of the supplier arrears problem, among others, contributed significantly
to the national system strengthening. The project also successfully supported a complete
turnaround from a mostly cash to a mostly non-cash system for payments to suppliers and
civil servants, and collection of tax and customs revenues in 5 years. Other key
achievements include better ability of budget holders to commit expenditure in line with
budget and cash flow forecast; an increase of domestic revenue as a percentage of GDP;
and an improved budgetary process with the smooth implementation of the budget
formulation cycle. All of these have important fiscal and economic benefits to the country.

Economic Analysis. As appropriately identified in the PAD, the main economic benefit
is the cost savings resulting from lower supplier coping costs due to a reduction in
payment times to suppliers. The Government’s opaque procedures leading to significant
delays in payment to suppliers have improved at the end of the project. Most important
was the strengthened commitment controls and areas management, and the result was that
arrears reduced from around 18 percent of total public expenditures to zero percent. The
outstanding clearance of arrears ultimately clears one of the major roadblock in cost
containment the Government, particularly making the procurement more competitive and
provide disincentives for suppliers to build into the contract price the cost of delayed
payment (in terms of opportunity cost of capital), time costs in terms of efforts made in
dealing with inefficient and non-transparent public sector processes and procedures, and
some level of uncertainty over possible forfeiture of payment (a risk premium). The
assumption used in the PAD of 10 percentage points of the average price difference
between the costs of the government contracts and market prices attribute to real
economic costs (or economic savings when such difference disappears) seems plausible.
Combined with robust result of the cost benefit estimates of USD165 million economic
NPV (at the discount rate of 10 percent) in the PAD, it is concluded in our ex-post
analysis that the project is economically viable.

Financial Analysis. The ex-post financial analysis takes into account the increase in tax
revenue resulting from greater compliance due to enhanced tax administration and the
reduction in the leakage of expenditure as the two major financial benefits. The data in
the PFMRP Progress Report of 2012 indicate that (i) revenue outturn increasingly close
to targeted level in approved budget (within +/- 5 percent of the forecast used in the
budget, and (ii) progressive improvement in revenue yield compared to GDP was attained
by 0.5 percent of GDP per annum. Also, the introduction of single treasury account and
significant in cash management imply the level of leakage should be achieved at
minimum 0.5 percent of total annual public expenditures. With these parameters on



                                           33
progress in both revenue collection and expenditure management, the estimated NPV
(real) at 10 percent discount rate is significant, at USD227 million.




                                       34
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                           Responsibility/
             Names                           Title                Unit
                                                                             Specialty
Lending
Ahsan Ali                   Lead Procurement Specialist        EASR1 Procurement
Ali Hashim                  Consultant                         AFTMW Procurement
Anand Rajaram               Practice Leader                    AFTPM Public Sector
                                                               EASRP-
Chinnakorn Chantra          Procurement Specialist                    Procurement
                                                               HIS
Frederick Stapenhurst       Consultant                         WBISG Public Sector
James Seward                Lead Financial Sector Specialist   EASFP Financial Sector
Jennifer K. Thomson         Chief Financial Management Officer OPSOR FM
Kannathee Danaisawat        Financial Management Specialist    EASFM Financial Sector
L.S. Christine Wong Shui
                            Operations Officer                  EASPW Operations
Wan
                            Senior Social Development
Laila Al-Hamad                                                  MNSSU -
                            Specialist
M. Helen Sutch              Consultant                          ECSPE -
Maria Lourdes Pardo De La
                            Senior Counsel                      LEGCF Legal Counsel
Pena
May Cabilas Olalia          Senior Operations Officer           LCSPS Operations
                            Senior Private Sector Development
Michael Engelschalk                                             CICTI    Private Sector
                            Specialist
Peter Reed                  Consultant                          EASPR    -
Robert Taliercio            Lead Economist                      EASPR    TTL
Roch Levesque               Senior Counsel                      LEGAM    Legal Counsel
Ronald Points               Consultant                          MNSSU    Public Sector
Rosa E. Muleta              Consultant                          CTRLA    -
Stephane Guimbert           Adviser                             BPSSP    Economist

Supervision/ICR
Anna Wielogorska            Senior Procurement Specialist       EASR1 Procurement
Casey Barnett               Consultant                          EASPT Public Sector
Daryoush Kianpour           Consultant                          MNSPS -
                            Lead Financial Management
Donald Herrings Mphande                                         AFTMW Financial Sector
                            Specialist
Enrique Aldaz-Carroll       Senior Economist                    EASPT Economist
Latharo Lor                 Procurement Specialist              EASR2 Procurement
                            Senior Public Sector Mgmt.
Leah April                                                      EASPT TTL
                            Specialist
Linna Ky                    Team Assistant                      EACSF Team Assistant
Mathew Verghis              Sector Manager                      EASP3 Sector Manager
                            Public Sector Management
Miki Matsuura                                                   EASPW ICR Author
                            Specialist



                                             35
                                                                    Responsibility/
          Names                         Title                 Unit
                                                                      Specialty
Naomi Halewood            ICT Policy Specialist             TWICT ICT
                          Senior Public Sector Management
Peter Murphy                                                EASPR TTL
                          Specialist
Seida Heng                Financial Management Specialist   EASTS    FM
Sodeth Ly                 Economist                         EASPT    Economist
Sokbunthoeun So           Public Sector Specialist          EASPT    Public Sector
Sophear Khiev             Financial Management Analyst      EASFM    FM
Sophorn Kith              Program Assistant                 LEGJR    Program Assistant
Sreng Sok                 Procurement Specialist            EASR2    Procurement
Than Lwin                 Consultant                        EASPT    -
Tuan Minh Le              Senior Economist                  AFTP1    ICR TTL
Vannara Sok               Operations Officer                EASPT    Operations


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                     USD Thousands (including
                                    No. of staff weeks
                                                           travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                        16.01                   125.68
  FY06                                        22.14                    88.87
  FY07                                         0.00                    81.55
                          Total:              38.15                   296.10
Supervision/ICR
  FY07                                     16.21                       70.85
  FY08                                      7.07                       45.33
  FY09                                     39.90                       69.67
  FY10                                     36.22                      134.39
  FY11                                     35.17                      161.55
  FY12                                     24.31                      113.21
  FY13                                     36.93                       69.43
  FY14                                      8.57                       92.65
                          Total:          204.38                      757.08




                                         36
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

N.A.




                                      37
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

N.A.




                                   38
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1) The Royal Government of the Kingdom of Cambodia is committed to a step-by-step
   reform of the public financial management towards the international standard, known
   as “a step-by-step reform from centralized input-oriented public financial
   management system to decentralized achievement-oriented or output-oriented
   public financial management system” through the implementation of
   comprehensive longstanding public financial management reform program and four
   platform or/and four-phase strategies including (1) Strengthened Budget
   Credibility, (2) Improved Financial Credibility, (3) Linking the Budget to Policy
   and (4) Improved Achievement Accountability.

2) The improved budget credibility which is the primary goal of Stage 1 was introduced
   at the end of 2004, fully implemented in 2005 and successfully ended with the
   introduction of Stage 2 at the end of 2008 which was fully implemented at the
   beginning of 2009. The budget credibility was truly enhanced and this was reflected
   by the improved effectiveness of budget implementation. As a result, it helped narrow
   the gaps of the income-expense implementation of the national budget against the
   approved budget law, making the income-expense flow smoother and more practical
   on monthly and quarterly basis and payment more punctual. Also, it reduced nearly
   [reeducate?] the chronic debt problem. Given these plausible outcomes, the Royal
   Government of Cambodia can draw a firm conclusion that essential budget credibility
   was successfully established, which formed a solid basis for further strengthening
   Stage 2, gearing mainly toward improving financial accountability and introducing
   information technology to the public financial management.

3) It is true that despite good planning and preparedness, unexpected risks are
   unavoidable. When the reform yield fruition of the budget credibility (When the
   income is high, the Government can save up every year), the Government shall
   continue to improve financial accountability so as to increase clarity, integrity and
   punctuality of accounting and financial recording and reporting system which is an
   important basis for evaluation and analysis in order to increase transparency,
   feasibility and effectiveness of the policy through the introduction of Consolidated
   Action Plan Stage 2 at the beginning of 2009, and unexpected challenges might occur
   consequently. The first challenge is the complexity of the preparation for introducing
   new and sophisticated information technology which involves modification of the
   whole working system which affects the improvement of institutional structure,
   change management and human resource development for the new system. The
   second challenge is global economic and financial crisis which affects the income
   expense implementation and Cambodia’s budget policy. Especially, it hurts the
   budget credibility. The third challenge is Cambodian-Thai border crisis and flood
   which has impacts on the expense and expense policy, affecting some key expense
   indicators. The last challenge is budget shortfalls to support the operationalization of
   information technology project resulting in reduction of the FMIS completed modules
   to treasury centric module.




                                            39
4) However, the outcomes of this four-year reform of budget credibility gave important
   experience and enhanced capacity for Cambodia to address the above-mentioned
   challenges which occurred repeatedly and continually during 2009, 2010 and 2011.
   Especially, it minimized the impact of global financial and economic crisis and
   refrained from borrowing international loan which could make Cambodia fall into the
   trap of debt crisis. Meanwhile, despites consuming a great deal of time, spending 5
   years preparing for the implementation of the information technology for public
   financial management also gave us time to absorb, learn and gain more experience,
   increase credibility and trust as well as helped us be more prepared for the launch of
   the information technology which would be eventually introduced at the beginning of
   2015.

5) In 2014 which is the sixth year of the implementation of Stage 2, there will be
   continued efforts to implement the Consolidated Action Plan 2 (CAP2) which
   consists of 14 objectives, 73 activities divided into 3 sections. Section for
   enhancement of budget credibility has 4 objectives and 19 activities. Section 2 for
   improvement of financial accountability has 8 objectives and 49 activities and Section
   3 for preparation for the next platform has 2 objectives and 5 activities, focusing on
   pilot program budget implementation and integration improvement and budget
   comprehensiveness. Additionally, 2014 is the final year to finalize the 3 plus 2
   strategy implementation which focuses on preparing the information technology for
   treasury centric module and shall be put into operations at the beginning of 2015.

6) Therefore, besides further strengthening the budget credibility towards a strong and
   stable system, essential financial accountability improvement shall be achieved to be
   able to go to Stage 3, which focuses mainly on Platform 3 or increased budget link to
   the policy. To what extent the essential financial accountability shall be determined
   by which indicators and how to do it is what to answer through the outcome of the
   review of the implementation of public financial management reform and Cambodia’s
   public financial management system evaluation by PEFA.

7) As indicated above, Stage 3 shall be launched when the basic budget credibility
   system is stable and the financial accountability is achieved supposedly at the end of
   2014 or the end of 2015 after the implementation of the information technology for
   treasury centric module, implementation of new budget contents and new accounting
   map which can increase clarity, integrity and punctuality of the accounting and
   financial record and statement system and which responds to IPSAS at a reasonable
   level as well as the implementation of new budget transaction system (expense
   guarantee, procurement and payment) which can guarantee the improvement of the
   efficiency, effectiveness and transparency of budget implementation. Moreover,
   Stage 3 shall be launched with the rolling out of Platform 1 of the budget system
   reform (The beginning of 2015 or 2016). Stage 3 can be phased out at the end of 2019
   or 2020 with the implementation of Stage 4 and hopefully the four objectives of the
   whole public financial management reform program will be successfully concluded
   by 2025.




                                           40
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N.A.




                                    41
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


Deloitte. August 31, 2012. Public Financial Management Reform Program 2012 External
Advisory Panel Report

General Secretariat. Steering Committee of the Public Financial Management Reform
Program. February 2014. Report on the Review Outcomes of the Implementation of
Public Financial Management Reform Program.

Implementation Completion Memorandum (ICM). Public Financial Management Reform
Program in Cambodia. TF054545.

Implementation Status and Results Report (ISRs) for Investment Projects. Cambodia
Public Financial Management Accountability (P087945). #1-9

Kingdom of Cambodia. Ministry of Economy and Finance. February 05, 2014. FMIS
Project Progress and Lessons Learnt; fall and rise. Power Point Presentation.

Nunberg, B. and Taliercio, R. 2012. “Sabotaging Civil Service Reform in Aid-Dependent
Countries: Are Donors to Blame?” World Development Vol. 40. No. 10

PDP Australia Pty Ltd. April 20, 2017. Public Financial Management Reform Program
2007 External Advisory Panel Report

PDP Australia Pty Ltd. February 2010. Public Financial Management Reform Program
2009 External Advisory Panel Report

Rajaram, Anand, Tuan Minh Le, Jim Brumby and Nataliya Biletska (2010), “A
Diagnostic Framework for Assessing Public Investment Management”, World Bank
Policy Research Working Paper No. 5397, Washington D.C.

Royal Government of Cambodia, 2008. The Rectangular Strategy for Growth,
Employment, Efficiency, and Equity Phase II.

Royal Government of Cambodia, September 2013. The Rectangular Strategy for Growth,
Employment, Efficiency, and Equity Phase III.

Royal Government of Cambodia, December 2004. Public Financial Management Reform
Program: Strengthening Governance through Enhanced Public Financial Management.

Royal Government of Cambodia, December 2008. Public Financial Management Reform
Program Stage 2: Building on Improved Budget Credibility toward Achieving Better
Financial Accountability.




                                         42
Royal Government of Cambodia, 2006. National Strategic Development Plan (NSDP)
2006-2010.

Taliercio, R. 2009. Unlocking Capacity and Revisiting Political Will: Cambodia’s Public
Financial Management Reforms, 2002-2007. Chapter 8 of the Many Faces of Public
Management Reform in the Asia-Pacific Region Research in Public Policy Analysis and
Management, Volume 18, 175-206.

World Bank. May 2011. Integrated Fiduciary Assessment and Public Expenditure
Review (IFAPER) Cambodia More Efficient Government Spending for Strong and
Inclusive Growth

World Bank. September 2013. Policy Note. Public Financial Management Reforms. The
Future of Public Financial Management in Cambodia: Automation.

World Bank. September 2013. Policy Note. Public Financial Management Reforms.
Public Sector Accounting: Why Standards Matter to Cambodia.

World Bank. May 31, 2016. Project Appraisal Document (PAD). Public Financial
Management and Accountability Project. Report No: 35966-KH

World Bank. November 4, 2013. Project Appraisal Document (PAD). Public Financial
Management Modernization Project (Treasury Modernization and Revenue Mobilization).
Report No: 76854-KH

World Bank. April 18, 2005. IDA and IFC Country Assistance Strategy the Kingdom of
Cambodia.

World Bank. April 17, 2008. IDA Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report for the
Kingdom of Cambodia for the Period FY05-08.

World Bank. May 2011. Integrated Fiduciary Assessment and Public Expenditure
Review (IFAPER); Cambodia More Efficient Government Spending for Strong and
Inclusive Growth. Poverty Reduction and Economic

World Bank. OPCS. August, 2006. Implementation Completion And Results Report
Guidelines.

World Bank Aide Memoires:

      August 12 – 16, 2013. Supervisory Mission for Implementation Support to the
       PFMRP Program Stage 2; Platform 2: Preparations for the FMIS implementations.

      May 24, 2012. Aide Memoire for Implementation Support to the PFMRP
       Program Stage 2; Platform 2: Further Development of the Integrated Treasury
       Information System.



                                          43
      September, 2009. World Bank Management            Report.   Public   Financial
       Management Reform Program (PFMRP).

      September 1, 2004. Cambodia Third/Final Joint Public Financial Management
       Preparation mission July 2004.

      February 6, 2004. Cambodia Joint public Financial Management Preparation
       Mission January-February 2004 Mission.

World Bank Progress Reports by Steering Committee Secretariat for PFM:

      Progress Report of 2012. Public Financial Management Reform Program. (Power
       Point Presentation)
      Progress Report of 2012. Public Financial Management Reform Program.
      Progress Report of 2011. Public Financial Management Reform Program.
      Progress Report of 2010. Public Financial Management Reform Program.

World Bank Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of Cambodia
Public Financial Management and Accountability Project, P087945:

      June 27, 2006 to the Kingdom of Cambodia June 6, 2011
      June 27, 2006 to the Kingdom of Cambodia July 19, 2011
      June 27, 2006 to the Kingdom of Cambodia July 20, 2011
      June 27, 2006 to the Kingdom of Cambodia November 07, 2011
      June 27, 2006 to the Kingdom of Cambodia November 1, 2012




                                        44
Annex 10: MAP OF CAMBODIA




           45
