Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7254-PE
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Accountability for Decentralization in the Social Sectors Technical Assistance 
Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF PERU 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated December 16, 2004 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7254-PE 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 16, 2004, between REPUBLIC OF PERU (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) “CAR” 
means 
‘Convenio de Administración por Resultados’
,
any or all 
of the result agreements referred to in paragraph 2 of Part A of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; 
(b) 
“CND” means ‘
Consejo Nacional de Descentralización
’, the Borrower’s 
national council for decentralization, established and operating pursuant to the 
Borrower’s Law No. 27783 (‘
Ley de Bases de la Descentralización’) 
published on July 
20, 2002, as amended; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(c) 
“DNPP” means 
‘Dirección Nacional del Presuspuesto Público’
,
the 
Borrower’s office within MEF in charge of the national public budget; 
(d) 
“FMR” means each report prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of 
this Agreement; 
(e) 
“General Procurement Plan” means the plan dated June 4, 2004, referred 
to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, outlining procurement arrangements 
for goods and services to be procured under the Project; 
(f) 
“INEI” means ‘
Instituto Nacional de Estadística e Informática
’
,
the 
Borrower’s national institute for statistics; 
(g) 
“Implementation Agreements” means any or all of the agreements 
referred to in paragraph 1 (b) (ii) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement between the MEF on 
one hand and each of the following entities: INEI; MIMDES; MINSA; and MINEDU; 
(h) 
“MEF” means ‘
Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas
’, the Borrower’s 
ministry in charge of economy and finance; 
(i) 
“MIMDES” means ‘
Ministerio de la Mujer y Desarrollo Social
’, the 
Borrower’s ministry in charge of women and social development; 
 (j) 
“MINEDU” means ‘
Ministerio de Educación
’, the Borrower’s ministry 
in charge of education; 
(k) “MINSA” 
means 
‘
Ministerio de Salud
’, the Borrower’s ministry in 
charge of health; 
(l) 
“Project Operational Manual” means the manual acceptable in form and 
substance to the Bank, referred to in paragraph 1 (a) (i) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement 
and outlining policies and implementation procedures including institutional 
strengthening plans as well as monitoring guidelines for the Project and other related 
documents, as said manual may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
any schedules to the Project Operation Manual; 
(m) “PSP” 
means 
‘Programa Social Prioritario’
,
any or all of the priority 
social programs referred to in paragraph 1 of Part A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(n) 
“SIAF” means ‘
Sistema Integrado de Administración Financiera
’, the 
Borrower’s integrated financial administration system, established and operating pursuant 
to viceministerial Decree No. 005-97-EF/11 dated January 11, 1997; 
(o) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on behalf of 
the Bank on September 3, 2002 and on behalf of the Borrower on November 22, 2002; 
(p) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
 (q) 
“UCPS” means ‘
Unidad de Coordinación de Préstamos Sectoriales
’, the 
Project implementation unit within MEF (as defined above) in charge of the day-to-day 
management and execution of the Project. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to seven 
million eight hundred thousand Dollars ($7,800,000), as such amount may be converted 
from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. 
(a)  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar 
payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions. 
(b) 
The Borrower, through UCPS, may, for the purposes of the Project, open 
and maintain in Dollars, a separate special deposit account in a commercial bank on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
Page  5
-
4
-
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2007, or such later date 
as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (a) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (b) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. 
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided that, upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. 
Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually 
in arrears on January 15 and July 15 of each year. 
Section 2.08. 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. 
(a)   The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
Page  6
-
5
-
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.10. 
The Borrower’s Minister at the time responsible for finance, or 
the Borrower’s Director General at the time responsible for public credit, and any person 
or persons whom he or she shall designate in writing, is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken 
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. 
(a)    The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project, and to this end, shall carry out the Project through MEF and UCPS with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, social, 
financial, cultural, and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower through UCPS and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Page  7
-
6
-
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. 
(a)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultant
s’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the General Procurement 
Plan.  
(b) 
The Borrower through UCPS shall update the General Procurement Plan 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower through UCPS shall: 
(a) 
prepare through UCPS, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later 
date, as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower through UCPS and the 
Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower through UCPS on said plan. 
Section 3.04. 
The Borrower, through UCPS, shall furnish to the Bank, (i) no 
later than three months after the Effective Date, evidence that it has executed the final 
Implementation Agreement between MEF and MIMDES; and (ii) no later than twelve 
months after the Effective Date, evidence that it has executed the final Implementation 
Agreements between MEF on one hand, and each of INEI, MINSA, and MINEDU, on 
the other hand, all above documents in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. 
(a)   The Borrower through UCPS shall establish and maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the 
Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
(b) 
The Borrower through UCPS shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), commencing with the fiscal year in which the first 
withdrawal under the Project Preparation Advance was made, 
audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis statements of expenditure, the Borrower, through UCPS, 
shall:  
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02. 
(a)  Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower, through 
Page  9
-
8
-
UCPS, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report (FMR), in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar semester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover such calendar semester.  
ARTICLE V 
 Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. 
The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the General 
Conditions: 
(a) 
the Borrower, through UCPS, has adopted the annual operations plan for 
the first year of the Project and the Project Operational Manual; both in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank;  
(b) 
the general coordinator for the Project has been appointed, under terms 
of reference, qualification and experience satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with 
the pertinent provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the Borrower, through UCPS, has adopted a financial and procurement 
management system, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, including the 
capacity to produce FMRs. 
Page  10
-
9
-
Section 5.02. 
The date March 16, 2005 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.10, the Borrower’s Minister at 
the time in charge of economy and finance is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
 
Jr. Junín 319 
 
Lima, Peru 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(511) 426-8500 or  
(511) 426-9822 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  11
-
10
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF PERU 
 
By /s/ Pedro Pablo Kuczynski 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Marcelo Giugale 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amount of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be financed
(1) 
Goods and  
1,100,000 
 
80 %  
 Equipment 
 
 
 
(2) Consultants' 
4,100,000 
 
80 
% 
 
Services and Audits 
 
(3) 
Operating 
Costs 
1,022,000 
  80% 
 
(4) 
Refunding of  
 
Amounts due  
 
Project Prepara- 
 
pursuant to  
 
tion Advance 
1,500,000 
Section 2.02 (c) 
 
of
this Agreement 
 
(5) 
Front-end fee 
78,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(6) 
Premium for Interest  
0 
Amount due under 
 
Rate Caps and Collars 
 
Section 2.09 (c) of this 
 
Agreement 
 
___________ 
 
TOTAL 7,800,000 
 
========== 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “Operating Costs” means the 
incremental and reasonable recurrent expenditures on account of Project implementation, 
management and monitoring, that would not have been incurred by the Borrower absent 
the Project, including office supplies, utilities expenses, rental expenses, insurances, 
facilities and materials for workshops, vehicles and equipment operation, bank charges 
Page  13
-
12
-
on the Special Account, transport, travel, per diem, supervision costs and local 
contractual staff salaries, but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower’s civil 
service, at the national and at the local levels. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.  
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing 
less than $350,000 equivalent per contract; (b) services of individual consultants costing 
less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; (c) services of consulting firms under contracts 
costing less than $200,000 equivalent per contract; and (d) Operating Costs, as set forth 
in Category (3) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule; all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE  2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to improve the quality and delivery of social 
policies and programs in the context of decentralization in the Borrower’s territory. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
Part A
:
Improving the Quality of Social Policies and Programs
1. 
Design social policy frameworks in a decentralized context in order to protect 
expenditures for the priority social programs, improve coverage and efficiency of the 
pension system, and enhance the decentralization of MINEDU and MINSA. 
2. 
Develop the Borrower’s capacity in result-oriented social planning, including 
sectoral strategic plans, program results frameworks and result agreements between MEF 
and social programs. 
Part B
:
Implementing Performance Agreements and Accreditation of Social Sectors
1. 
Design and implement the tools that will contribute to an accreditation process 
for MIMDES social programs, including the definition of benchmarks and the 
establishment of an assessment mechanism. 
2. 
Implement performance or management agreements as well as capacity-building 
initiatives at the local level in the Borrower’s territory through technical assistance, 
training and dissemination programs. 
3. 
Monitor and evaluate the Borrower’s budget transfers for social programs to 
subnational governments. 
Part C
:
Improving Monitoring and Evaluation in Social Sectors
1. 
Strengthen SIAF in terms of its budget and its physical target modules, and the 
student monitoring system in the MINEDU. 
2. 
Implement a monitoring system for the social programs within MIMDES. 
Page  15
-
14
-
3. 
Strengthen the Borrower’s evaluation instruments and capacities through the 
improvement of home surveys and training of social sector staff on monitoring and 
evaluation. 
4. 
Carry out independent intermediate and impact evaluations of the social 
programs. 
5. 
Support the Borrower’s transparency and participatory monitoring mechanisms 
including independent budget analysis, participatory evaluation and establishment of 
feedback mechanisms. 
Part D
:
Project Management
1. 
Support Project implementation, monitoring and evaluation by UCPS. 
2. 
Strengthen UCPS capacity in terms of procurement and financial management 
processes. 
3. 
Carry out audits for the Project. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2007. 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
Payment Date
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a %)
On each July 15 and January 15 
Beginning on January 15, 2013 through 
January 15, 2018 
 
8.33% 
On July 15, 2018 
8.37% 
 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
 
Page  17
-
16
-
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  18
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
A. 
All goods and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.   
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Section I, 
paragraphs 3.15 through 3.20, and Section IV of, and Appendix 2 to, the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” dated May 2004 
(the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Services (other than 
Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding. The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. National 
Competitive 
Bidding
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 but 
more than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of National Competitive Bidding.  
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent per contract or less, may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality and Cost-based Selection. For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Page  19
-
18
-
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $350,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Quality-based 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1,  3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraph 5.4, subject to prior approval of the Bank. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
A. Prior 
Review
.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the 
Borrower, the following prior review procedures shall apply: 
1. 
Goods and Services (other than Consultants’ Services)
.
(a) 
The prior review procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 
1
to the Procurement Guidelines shall apply to: (i) each contract for goods and services 
(other than consultants’ services)
 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $350,000 or more; 
and (ii) the first contract awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding and 
Shopping irrespective of the contract amount.  
(b) 
The following prior review procedures shall apply to each contract to be 
procured on the basis of Direct Contracting:  (i) prior to the execution of the contract, the 
Borrower through UCPS shall provide to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the 
draft contract for its approval; (ii) the contract shall be awarded only after the Bank’s 
Page  20
-
19
-
approval shall have been given; and (iii) the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (h) and 
3
of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
2. Consult
ants’ Services Provided by Firms
.
(a) 
The prior review procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 
1
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply to each contract for consultants’ services 
provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more.   
(b) 
The following prior review procedures shall apply to each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by a firm to be procured on the basis of sole source 
selection: (i) the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and conditions of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval; (ii) the contract shall be awarded only after the Bank’s approval shall have been 
given; and (iii) the provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply to the contract. 
3. 
Consultants’ Services Provided by Individuals
.
(a) 
The prior review procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 
1
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply to each contract for consultants’ services 
provided by an individual estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more.   
(b) 
The following prior review procedures shall apply to each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by an individual to be procured on the basis of sole source 
selection: (i) the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and conditions of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval; (ii) the contract shall be awarded only after the Bank’s approval shall have been 
given; and (iii) the provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply to the contract. 
B. Post 
Review
.
1. 
With respect to each contract for goods or services (other than consultants’ 
services) not governed by Part A of this Section, the post review procedures set forth in 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to the Procurement Guidelines shall apply. 
2. 
With respect to each contract for consultants’ services not governed by Part A of 
this Section, the post review procedures set forth in paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  21
-
20
-
Section V
.
Special Provisions
A. 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provision set forth in 
this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern all procurement of 
goods under Section II of this Schedule: 
1. 
No reference value shall be required for publication in the bidding documents. 
2.         Award of contracts shall be based exclusively on price and, whenever appropriate, 
shall take into account factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for 
such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid. 
3. 
The Borrower through UCPS shall utilize standard bidding documents satisfactory 
to the Bank. 
B. 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provision set forth in 
this Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern all 
employment of consultants referred to in Section III of this Schedule: 
1. 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be locally registered as a condition of 
participation in the selection process. 
2. 
No reference value shall be required for publication in the proposal documents. 
3. 
No minimum number of responsive proposals shall be required prior to awarding 
a
contract for consulting services. 
4. 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to legalize their proposals or any 
documentation related to such proposals with either Peruvian consulates, the Ministry of 
Foreign Affairs, or any Peruvian authorities, as a pre-condition to participating in the 
selection process. 
Page  22
-
21
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
1. General
(a)  
The Borrower through UCPS shall: 
(i) 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Project Operational 
Manual, the General Procurement Plan  and the Implementation 
Agreements and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall 
not amend or waive any provision of these documents without 
the Bank’s prior written approval. In case of any conflict 
between the terms of said documents and those of this 
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail; and 
(ii) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
indicators set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
operate and maintain until the completion of the execution of the 
Project, the UCPS with functions and responsibilities acceptable 
to the Bank and with competent staff in adequate numbers, all 
said staff with terms of reference, qualification, experience and 
terms of employment satisfactory to the Bank;  
(ii) 
enter into and thereafter implement in a manner satisfactory to 
the Bank and until the completion of the execution of the Project, 
the Implementation Agreements, and except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, shall not amend, terminate, abrogate, fail to 
implement or waive any said Agreement or any substantive 
provision thereof without the Bank’s prior written approval. In 
case of any conflict among the terms of any Implementation 
Agreement and those of this Agreement, the terms of this 
Agreement shall prevail; and 
(iii) 
participate until the completion of the execution of the Project, in 
at least yearly consultation meetings with UCPS, MIMDES, 
Page  23
-
22
-
MINEDU, MINSA and INEI for the purpose of ensuring 
appropriate implementation of the respective Implementation 
Agreement and report on said consultation meetings to the Bank;  
2. 
Semi-Annual Progress Reports, Annual Operations Plan and Mid-Term Review
The Borrower through UCPS shall: 
(a) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about January 31, and July 31 of each year, starting on the first such date 
after the Effective Date, a progress report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 1 (a) (ii) of this Schedule, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the calendar semester 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date;  
(b) 
review with the Bank, by February 28 and August 31
 
of each year, 
starting on the month following the presentation of the first semi-annual progress report, 
or such later date as the Bank shall request, the pertinent report referred to in 
subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said pertinent report and the 
Bank’s views on the matter;  
(c) 
(i) prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about  November 31 of each year, starting on the first such date after 
the Effective Date, an annual operations plan setting out the activities to be achieved 
during the calendar year following the presentation of said plan to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
calendar year following such date; and (ii) thereafter carry out each said plan in 
accordance with its terms; 
(d) 
review with the Bank, by December 15
 
of each year, starting on the 
month following the presentation of the second annual operations plan, or such later date 
as the Bank shall request, the plan referred to in subparagraph (c) of this paragraph; 
 
(e) 
by December 31, 2005, or such other date as the Bank shall agree upon, 
carry out jointly with the Bank a mid-term review of the implementation of operations 
under the Project (Midterm Review).  The Midterm Review shall cover the progress 
achieved in the implementation of the Project; and 
Page  24
-
23
-
(f) 
following such Midterm Review, act promptly and diligently to take any 
corrective action as shall be recommended by the Bank.  
3. 
Annual Procurement Audits 
The Borrower through UCPS shall: 
 
(a) 
have all the procurement records and documentation for each fiscal year 
of the Project audited, in accordance with appropriate procurement auditing principles 
acceptable to the Bank, by independent procurement auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such fiscal year, the procurement audit report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said procurement 
records and documentation and the procurement audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably request. 
4. 
General Procurement Plan
The Borrower through UCPS shall: 
(a) 
update and furnish to the Bank, on or about January 31 of each year, 
starting on the first such date after the Effective Date, the General Procurement Plan, 
satisfactory to the Bank, detailing all procurement activities under the Project for the 
following twelve months; 
(b) 
review with the Bank, by February 28
 
of each year, starting on the first 
such date after the Effective Date, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the plan 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, and thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the effic
ient completion of the plan based on its recommendations and the Bank’s 
views on the matter; and 
(c) 
in case of any conflict between the terms of the General Procurement 
Plan and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Page  25
-
24
-
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$700,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent 
to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account for the 
categories specified in paragraph 1 (a) of this Schedule plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower, through 
UCPS, shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account 
of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower through UCPS, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower through UCPS shall have requested. 
 
(b)    
(i)  
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower through                          
UCPS shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
Page  26
-
25
-
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower, 
through UCPS, shall furnish to the Bank the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment 
is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, through UCPS, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount 
as the Borrower through UCPS shall have requested and as shall 
have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have 
been paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower through UCPS out of the Special 
Account, the Borrower, through UCPS, shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower through UCPS directly from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower, through UCPS, shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Page  27
-
26
-
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
Page  28
-
27
-
SCHEDULE 7 
Performance Indicators
The performance indicators for the Project shall include the following, said 
indicators being subject to modifications by agreement between the Borrower and the 
Bank: 
Target Dates 
Performance Indicators 
 
Mid Term 
 
End of Project 
 
1.  Percent of budget linked to performance 
agreements on food programs and rural 
infrastructure programs 
10% 40% 
2.  Number of results agreements (CARs) 
signed between DNPP and sectors 
including incentives 
1
3
3.  Number of municipalities and regional 
governments with monitoring reports of 
budget execution and physical goals of 
PSPs 
50 municipalities 
and 20 regions 
500 municipalities 
and 25 regions 
4. Number of impact and qualitative 
evaluations of social programs 
2
contracts signed 
with independent 
consultants to 
carry out such 
8
evaluations 
published and 
discussed in public 
