                       PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                                       APPRAISAL STAGE
                                                                              Report No.: AB813
                                 ACCOUNTABILITY FOR DECENTRALIZATION IN THE
 Project Name                    SOCIAL SECTORS

 Region                          LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN
 Sector                          Other social services (100%)
 Project ID                      P078953
 Borrower(s)                     REPUBLIC OF PERU
 Implementing Agency
                                 Government of Peru
                                 Peru

                                 Ministry of Economy and Finance
                                 Peru

 Environment Category            [ ] A [ ] B [X] C [ ] FI [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 Safeguard Classification        [ ] S1 [ ] S2 [X] S3 [ ] SF [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 Date PID Prepared               April 2, 2004
 Date of Appraisal               April 6, 2004
 Authorization
 Date of Board Approval          June 29, 2004

1. Country and Sector Background

Peru has made significant progress since the early nineties in reforming its economy and has
successfully avoided contagion from major financial crisis in the region.        The economy's
resilience can be attributed to sound fundamentals, including high official reserves, a well
capitalized banking system, low inflation and a stable exchange rate, bolstered by a rising trade
surplus and a declining current account deficit. Public finances have also improved, supported by
the fiscal consolidation effort started mid-2001 with the new administration.

In spite of favorable economic developments, poverty has remained difficult to reduce. The
poverty rate, after dropping form 57 percent to 51 percent between 1991 to 1997, increased to 54
percent until 2000, in the context of economic crisis. Economic recovery, until 2002, had lead to
an only small drop in the poverty rates. One of the explanations of this bad performance on
poverty has been the low effectiveness of anti-poverty social programs, due to bad targeting,
superposition and lack of coordination, components and activities inadequate to achieve
objectives and lack of monitoring and evaluation.

After a decade of the Fujimori regime and a short transitional government, President Toledo was
elected to office amidst an economic recession. His government prioritized poverty reduction as
a key objective, and proposed to do this through a collective effort that led to the National
Agreement (Acuerdo Nacional), which was signed by the major political parties, religious groups
and civil society. The Acuerdo Nacional establishes the general principles and policies to
accomplish, among other objectives, Equity and Social Justice. A more precise policy framework

has been approved as part of the Estrategia para la Superación de la Pobreza y Oportunidades
Económicas para los Pobres" ("Guidelines for a Poverty Alleviation Strategy and Economic
Opportunities for the Poor"--hereafter Estrategia), that comprise three pillars:
        ·   Dignity pillar, where the objective is to accelerate economic recovery, achieve
            sustainable growth and generate worthy and sustainable jobs, as well as to establish a
            social protection network and budget protection for priority social programs.
        ·   Equity pillar, where the objective is the development of human abilities that permit
            social development and the access of poor people to quality social services, such as
            health, education and culture.
        ·   Institutionality pillar where the objective is to improve resource allocation
            transparency and bolster citizen involvement in its oversight.

Decentralization is envisioned as a critical strategy in order to ensure effectiveness and equity in
the effort to alleviate poverty. The decentralization process, which was launched with the
election of regional and municipal governments in November 2001, are underscored by a set of
three guiding principles: fiscal neutrality, gradualism, and focus on competitiveness
enhancement.      In this respect, Peru faces a dual challenge of pursuing a fiscally neutral
decentralization program while ensuring that adequate social service delivery at all levels of
government, including social provisions for the poor, are in place.

Significant progress has been made since 2001 in the creation of the legal framework for
decentralization. The Decentralization Framework Law sets out the principles for: (i) the
assignment of services and competencies (shared, exclusive and delegated) to different levels of
government; (ii) the development of fiscal rules and transfer mechanisms; (iii) the sequencing of
decentralization, starting with anti-poverty social programs, to be followed by other sectoral
transfers. This law also states that education and health sectors will be decentralized last, during
the fourth stage of decentralization. Other key laws have also been passed, including one for
regional governments and another for municipal governments, broadly defining their institutions,
roles and resources. A fiscal decentralization law has also been approved. The implementation of
the institutional framework for decentralization has also substantially advanced, with the creation
of the National Decentralization Council to coordinate the decentralization process and the
setting-up of regional and local government institutions, including new consultative bodies with
civil society representation.

While the Government has achieved progress in passing legislation that established the overall
principles for decentralization and the organization of the regional and municipal governments,
much of the legal framework still remains to be implemented. In particular, significant
challenges still lie ahead in relation to establishing and implementing the rules that will govern
the social sectors and the anti-poverty programs in a decentralized context. For the social anti-
poverty programs, a draft "Programmatic Transfers" law (i.e. conditional, earmarked transfers
for social programs subject to procedures and targets to be set by national programs) has been
submitted to Congress. Another challenge is to define the role of the sector ministries vis-a-vis
regional and municipal governments in health and education.            The existing legislation is
ambiguous about the roles of the different actors in these sectors, yet de facto the
decentralization of these sectors has already begun as more than 50 percent of education and
more than 44 percent of health expenditures will be managed by the newly elected regional

authorities in 2004 (mostly for salaries).1             A clear legal basis for the decentralization of
MIMDES' social programs, education and health remains indispensable and will be supported by
the Bank through the fourth Programmatic Social Reform Loan. This legislation should build on
international lessons suggesting that the decentralization of health and education must clearly
establish the responsibilities to be undertaken by the regions and municipalities and establish the
policy and regulatory role of the sectoral ministries providing the ministries with financial and
other incentives to help them enforce their role.


2. Objectives

The objective of the Project is to strengthen results-oriented and participatory planning,
monitoring and evaluation, with emphasis on decentralized social programs of The Ministry of
Women and Social Development (MIMDES). Specific objectives for the project are to: (i)
improve the quality of social policies and programs in the context of decentralization; (ii)
implement the Performance Agreements and Accreditation Systems for the social programs (this
would involve mainly the two decentralized social protection programs under MIMDES --food
aid and targeted small scale infrastructure); and (iii) improvement of the M&E system in a
decentralized context.

This Project aims at reducing the risk of deterioration in the targeting and efficiency of social
programs throughout the decentralization process. Thus, if the Project is successful, one would
expect that targeting and efficiency of social programs in MIMDES, initially, remain the same as
and, subsequently, show relative improvement. In the case of the Education and Health Sectors,
which are expected to be decentralized in 2006, a clear decentralization framework is expected,
with each government level being ready to take on their responsibilities and functions and with
an accountability system installed to monitor this transfer.


The government strategy, reflected in the 2002 CAS, spells out three main priorities to reduce
poverty: (i) increasing competitiveness and employment generation; (ii) improving access to
health, education and basic services; and (iii) strengthening a public administration that serves
the people. The proposed Project supports the latter two objectives by contributing to the design
and implementation of key measures that will ensure that decentralization, particularly in the
social sectors, contribute to improving, and not deteriorating, the quality in the provision of
public services. By focusing on results, such as access of the poor to social services, it
strengthens several mechanisms such as performance agreements and accreditation that aim
towards achieving the MDGs. The Program also contributes to the modernization and
accountability of the public sector by supporting several reforms to improve M&E, results-based
planning and management as well as improvements in the public budgeting system including
promoting greater transparency through broader civil society participation and monitoring.


1. While the Framework Law mandates that Health and Education are to be transferred at the final stage of the
    process, as of 2003 the Regional Directors of Health and Education ceased to be appointed by the sectoral
    ministries and become officials of the Regional Authorities (with technical accountability to the sectoral
    ministries). Also, against the letter of the law, a Supreme Decree of August 2003 transferred the teacher
    payrolls of Callao to the Regional Authorities and opens the door to do the same in Lima during 2004.

The Program will support the goal of reducing poverty also by (i) empowering poor
communities, allowing them to participate in social policies and have a pro-active stance in
monitoring and surveillance of programs; (ii) improving the quality and targeting of social
programs; and (iii) improving transparency and monitoring of pro-poor social expenditures
included in the 6 Priority Social Programs (PSPs).



3. Rationale for Bank Involvement

While substantial steps have been taken towards a decentralized system, a large reform agenda
lies ahead. Fiscal, institutional and social reforms remain key to support sustained and increased
economic growth and progress towards MDGs. The Bank is currently assisting the Government
of Peru in the design and implementation of reforms related to the decentralization of its public
functions and resources, primarily through two Programmatic Adjustment Loans. The social
reforms, within the decentralization process, are being supported by the Programmatic Social
Reform Loans (PSRLs ­ currently the fourth of these loans is under preparation), while the
broader decentralization process, including fiscal sustainability, institutional reforms and
regional competitiveness is supported by the Decentralization and Competitiveness Structural
Adjustment Loans, (DECSAL, the second of which is currently under preparation).

The proposed Project will finance activities needed to support preparation and sustainability of
policy reforms linked to the development of accountability mechanisms as agreed in the PSRL
Program. This Project will support the adequate implementation of social sector policies during
the most challenging phase of decentralization, as the basic fiscal decentralization framework is
being designed and public sector functions and resources are gradually transferred to regional
and local governments.

The World Bank is currently financing other complementary loans including the
Decentralization and Competitiveness TAL (under preparation), the Health Sector Reform
Project, the Rural Education Project and the Trade Facilitation and Productivity Improvement
Technical Assistance Loan. Also, a JSDF Grant "Giving Voice to the Poor in Influencing, Planning,
and Evaluating Service Delivery", which complements activities financed by the proposed project is
under implementation. In addition other organizations are financing various aspects of the
decentralization process (see Annex 2). The design of this Project has involved careful mapping
of all these Projects in order to avoid overlaps and to seek synergies.

Of particular relevance to this Project is the Institutional Capacity for Sustainable Fiscal
Decentralization TAL. This loan focuses on supporting reforms aiming at fiscal neutrality as
well as key institutional reforms to strengthen the institutional environment for more efficient
and sustainable service-delivery. In particular, within the overall objectives of strengthening
fiscal sustainability and improved institutional effectiveness for result-oriented service delivery,
it would strengthen (i) selected fiscal reforms aiming at fiscal neutrality by enhancing capacity to
meet and monitor the medium-term macroeconomic targets at subnational level, and control and
prudent management of subnational (floating and contingent) debt; (ii) as related to (i) selected

institutional reforms to enhance capacity in public investment, civil service, accreditation, and
procurement.


4. Description

Component 1: Improving the quality of social policies and programs

The objective of this first component is to improve the quality of social policies and programs in
a decentralized context, by focusing on (i) the design of social policies in a decentralized context
and, (ii) on developing capacity in results-oriented planning. The first subcomponent will
contribute to: the development of a social policy framework consistent with the multi-annual
macroeconomic framework which should lead to improving policies related to protecting
expenditures for the priority social programs; the development of policies leading to improved
coverage and efficiency of the pension system; and the design of the policy frameworks for
decentralization of Ministry of Education and Ministry of Health. A second subcomponent will
include the strengthening of existing instruments for results-oriented planning and accountability
at the national level. These instruments include the sectoral strategic plans (PESEM) and
program results framework, as well as the results agreements signed between MEF and the social
programs.     This component will finance national and international consultancies, studies,
workshops and consultations with stakeholders.

Component 2: Implementation of Performance Agreements and Accreditation of social
sectors

The second component will support the implementation of the decentralization process of the
social programs through: (i) design of pending regulations for the MIMDES programs, including
improvement of procurement rules. Although the MIMDES programs are already in the process
of being decentralized, there are a number of critical regulations needed to ensure that
municipalities can take on the responsibility of purchasing and distributing food, as well as
executing small works; (ii) implementation of the accreditation processes. The Project will
contribute to the design of the specific accreditation for social programs, including the definition
of benchmarks, and establishing an assessment mechanism; and, (iii) implementation of
performance or management agreements (PAs) and capacity-building at the local level through
training and dissemination programs. The component will finance national and international
consultancies, workshops, training, dissemination and equipment.

Component 3: Improvement of Monitoring and Evaluation in the Social Sectors

The component builds on several instruments and initiatives launched by the government, CSO
and independent think-tanks during the last years, as well on international best practice. The
purpose is to build M&E capacity through the strengthening of existing monitoring instruments,
constructing new ones where necessary, and developing analytical capacity of different actors
engaged in the process. The component will have the following subcomponents: (i) expansion
and strengthening of SIAF, both in terms of geographical coverage to the local government level,
and in terms of modules that will integrate the budget to the system and that will allow users to

monitor inputs and outputs of the social programs; (ii) development of a monitoring system for
the social programs with emphasis on the MIMDES programs; (iii) support to transparency and
participatory monitoring mechanisms including independent budget analysis, participatory
evaluation and establishment of feedback mechanisms; and (iv) independent intermediate and
impact evaluations, including the improvement of household surveys and measurement of user
satisfaction.

Component 4. Project Management

The purpose of this component is to support project implementation, monitoring and evaluation.
The UCPS (Unidad de Coordinación de Préstamos Sectoriales) in MEF will operate according to
the structure and management procedures agreed with the Bank. A capacity assessment was
carried out to evaluate procurement and financial management processes under the responsibility
of the UCPS, and they were deemed satisfactory. The UCPS will be responsible for coordinating
and monitoring the yearly Operations Plan, financial management of the project, and procuring
goods and services.


5. Financing
Source:                                                                                    ($m.)
BORROWER                                                                                      1.5
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND                                                     6.5
DEVELOPMENT
                                                                             Total            8.0

6. Implementation


Overall Project Coordination. The Ministry of Economy and Finance will be responsible for
overall Project implementation. Within MEF, responsibilities will be split into two. The
Coordination Unit for Sectoral Loans (UCPS) will be responsible for all administrative and
fiduciary aspects of the Project. The Economic and Social Affairs Directorate (DGAES) will
lead all technical aspects of the Project. A coordinating committee including MIMDES, CND,
regional governments and municipalities will be established.

The UCPS has been the Bank's main counterpart throughout the PSRL and DECSAL program.
It has also been responsible for the implementation of this Project's Preparation Facility (PPF).
Upon Project approval, this unit would act as the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) for the loan.
The UCPS will be the day-to-day counter part to the Bank and will be responsible for financial
management, procurement and contracting procedures, and ensuring compliance with Bank
standards.

The DGAES       2 will be responsible for the technical coordination of the Project. The DGAES
will have at least one full time professional appointed to carry out the overall technical

2DGAES is the area of MEF responsible for proposing, evaluating macro-economic and social policies, and
monitoring financial and social indicators to assess policy performance.

coordination of the Project. The DGAES will prepare and monitor the annual operations plan
and adjust it as necessary, prepare and /or assist partners in the preparation of TORs, maintain a
project monitoring system to assess progress and, jointly with the UCPS prepare implementation
reports. The DGAES will also be responsible for the coordination with implementation partners
to ensure timely execution of activities and for ensuring integration of various stakeholders
linked to the Project.

Implementation Partnerships. MIMDES will be the key technical partner, in the
implementation of this Project. MIMDES will be mainly responsible for the implementation of
Component 2, as well as some activities under the other components. Given the relatively large
work load allocated to this sector, a full time technical coordinator will be hired, to be stationed
in MIMDES. This coordinator will be responsible for preparing and monitoring the annual
operations plan for the sector, ensuring consistency with project design, coordination with
DGAES for the inclusion of activities in the Project Annual Operations Plan, preparing relevant
TOR, carrying out overall consultant supervision, where relevant, and reporting to DGAES any
critical issues relevant to the Project.

The Project also involves other important partners in the implementation of the Project, including
PCM, CND, INEI, Ministries of Education (MOE) and Health (MOH), as well as, regional and
local governments. The DGAES will coordinate directly with these sectors, ensuring that the
relevant activities for these institutions are appropriately reflected in the Plan of Activities.



7. Sustainability

Financial

Financial sustainability of the project is ensured by the fact that project costs will be more than
compensated by improved managerial capacity reflected in fiscal savings and efficiency gains.
The fiscal savings would arise from the areas of improved budget and public investment
management, enhanced allocation to social priorities, reduced leaks and corruption in the flows
of public spending, reduced prices of e-procured goods, and reduced payroll costs.

Institutional Sustainability
The institutional sustainability of the project will be supported by the political drive for
decentralization that has a big consensus around all main political and social actors. The
decentralization laws already establish that social programs will be transferred to municipalities,
and the programmatic transfers' law will ensure that central government continues to play a
critical role, that includes the Performance Agreements (PAs) and accreditation that this project
supports and to which the M&E will serve. The budget 2004 law also gives MEF the
responsibility to evaluate and monitor government programs and establishes the accreditation
and PA framework.

Besides this legal framework approving the processes (accreditation, PAs, M&E) that the project
will support, the Government is committed to nominate a multisectoral directory for an M&E

system (a trigger for PSRL IV). This directory, including MEF, MIMDES, CND, regional
governments and municipalities' representatives will serve also as steering committee for this
project. In this way, a coordinated strategy with participation from the different stakeholders will
be established and the continuity of a M&E strategy ensured.

For the evaluation component, the project will operate through a private sector -research center,
universities, consultancy firms in Peru. By this means, the project will support building national
capacity for impact and qualitative evaluations in the private sector. The private sector will also
be responsible for the dissemination of results, so isolating the project and the public sector from
criticism providing by "bad news" that the evaluations may deliver.

Social
Social sustainability in the implementation of the project will be addressed through a coherent
participatory approach which cuts across all its components and covers all its implementation
levels. This participatory approach will enhance the ownership of the project by all involved
stakeholders, including civil society organizations. Multistakeholder participation ensures the
sustainability of the activities supported by the project during and beyond the implementation
period of the project. Appropriation and use of products and results of the M&E system by
stakeholders, which are external to the Government, set up a stable demand for accountability,
which counterbalances political cycles and clientelistic uses of traditional public accountability
mechanisms. Once a stable demand for accountability had been established, social pressure
would support the continuity of the system, despite unfavorable political will from new or
uneasy government officials. A set of indicators will help to monitor the performance of
participatory implementation arrangements and the level of ownership achieved by different
stakeholders, particularly by those facing heavy social and economic constrains, like indigenous
peoples, afrodescendents and rural women.



8. Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector

The Bank's long experience with adjustment loans shows that, in addition to the political
commitment to go ahead with the reforms, technical and financial support is also needed in some
critical areas. The PSRL program has been supported by technical assistance provided mainly by
existing sector investment loans, such as the Health Sector Reform Project. However, PSRL IV
occurs under the decentralization framework, posing a number of challenges that do not have an
available source for financing. This TAL finances the design and implementation of social
policies and supports the development of the appropriate institutional framework to ensure
sustainability beyond the PSRL Program.

A key lesson derived from the implementation of PSRLs I-III is that policy reform is better
implemented when supported by a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of social sectors. Policy
reforms designed and implemented to improve pro-poor expenditure have forced changes in
inter- and intra-sectoral priorities, have led to the construction of a safety net, and to the design
of a complementary and fiscally sound intergovernmental framework. Still, little is known about
which are the real constraints that affect the implementation of priority programs, what is the

actual targeting and efficiency levels in the use of outlays to specific priorities (or to deviated
goals), and what is the impact on beneficiaries. This project aims at filling this gap.

The WDR 2004 argues that, in order to achieve the MDGs, it is necessary to improve
accountability of the social sectors to the public. On the other hand, if decentralization is
implemented in a haphazard manner, even the existing accountability systems will be of little use
as they were designed for a centralized state. This project intends to support the development of
an accountability system, within a decentralized context, that reinforces accountability from
national and local governments to the public.

International experience3 shows that monitoring systems are efficient and effective only when
they are used in the policy and management decision-making processes. The GOP has decided to
decentralize social program once local governments have been subject to the accreditation
system and have signed performance agreements, thus ensuring the connection between the
monitoring system and the decision-making process.

National and international experience shows that participation of stakeholders and civil society is
critical in order to ensure sustainability of the monitoring system and a true accountability
system.     In particular, involvement of civil society and primary stakeholders in planning,
tracking and evaluating the use of public resources and performance of social services has a
positive impact on development and governance which is twofold: (i) it increases credibility of
national and local governments, and improves governance arrangements which support the
investment climate and political stability of the country; (ii) it enhances coverage, quality,
efficiency, targeting and effectiveness of service delivery, and reduces leakages, misallocations
and other inappropriate uses of public money.

Previous experience in Peru and other countries with impact evaluations shows that: (i) usually
project managers are reluctant or do not give importance to impact evaluations, (ii) evaluations
made or contracted by the subject project tend to minimize errors and overemphasize impacts.
Following the experience of FondoEmpleo in Peru, the design of a competitive fund, managed
by external parties, will reduce this problem and improve political sustainability by isolating the
project from criticism exerted by bureaucrats affected by evaluations.


9. Safeguard Policies (including public consultation)

The project does not trigger any of the safeguard policies.

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                      Yes                 No
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                         [ ]                [X]
  Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                    [ ]                [ X]
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                        [ ]                [X]
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                          [ ]                [X]
  Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                            [ ]                [X]

3"Guía para el diagnóstico y marco para la acción ", Fortalecimiento de la capacidad de evaluación ­ documento
Nro. 6, Keith McKay, OED, January 1999.

  Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                                     [ ]                    [X]
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                       [ ]                    [X]
  Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                                [ ]                    [X]
  Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                                [ ]                    [X]
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                        [ ]                    [X]


10. List of Factual Technical Documents
   DOCPROPERTY PROJECTNAME \* MERGEFORMAT |ACCOUNTABILITY FOR
                       DECENTRALIZATION IN THE SOCIAL SECTOR}S


11. Contact point
Contact: Livia M. Benavides
Title: Sr Social Sector Spec.
Tel: 5357+302
Fax:
Email: Lbenavides@worldbank.org
Location: Lima, Peru (IBRD)

12. For more information contact:
         The InfoShop
         The World Bank
         1818 H Street, NW
         Washington, D.C. 20433
         Telephone: (202) 458-5454
         Fax: (202) 522-1500
         Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop




*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the
disputed areas

