                                           Document of
                                      TheWorldBank

                              FOR OFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                           ReportNo: 27924-PE




                            PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                              ONA

                                      PROPOSEDLOAN

                           INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$7.8MILLION

                                            TO THE

                                     REPUBLICOF PERU

                                            FOR AN

       ACCOUNTABILITY FORDECENTRALIZATION INTHE SOCIAL SECTORS

                           TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT

                                         JUNE 18,2004




HumanDevelopment Department
Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



 This documenthas a restricteddistribution andmay be usedby recipientsonly inthe
 performanceof their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwisedisclosedwithout World
 Bank authorization.

                                                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                                                      (ExchangeRateEffective 04/19/04)

                                                        Currency Unit = Nuevo Sol
                                                                     3.5  = US$1
                                                             US$O.28      =   1NuevoSol

                                                                 FISCAL YEAR
                                                           January 1      - December31

                                                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAA     Analytical andAdvisory Activities                                     MINSA      Ministry of Health
ANC     National Association of Centers (Asociacidn Nacional de Centros)      MMM        MultiannualMacroeconomic Framework (Marco Macroecondmico
                                                                                         Multianual)
APRA    American PopularRevolutionary Alliance (Alianza Popular               NGO        NongovemmentalOrganization
        Revolucionaria Americana)
ATPDEA  AndeanTrade Promotionand Drug Eradication Act                         NPV        Net present value
CAR     Results-basedManagementAgreement (ConveniodeAdministracidn por        OED        Operations Evaluation Department
        Resultados)
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy                                           PA         PerformanceAgreement
CCL     LocalCoordination Council (Consejode Coordinacidn Local)              PCM        PrimeMinister's Office (Presidencia del Consejode Ministros)
CCR     Regional Coordination Council (Consejode Coordinacidn Regional)       PCU        Project CoordinationUnit
CFAA    Country FinancialAccountability Assessment                            PDO        Project Development Objectives
CLAS    LocalHealthManagementCommittee (Comite'Local de Administracidn        PESEM      MultiannualSectoralStrategicPlans (PlanesEstrate'gicos
        de Salud)                                                                        SectorialesMultianuales)
CND     National Decentralization Council (ConsejoNacional de                 PFT        Programmatic FiscalTransfers
        Descentralizacidn)
cso     Civil Society Organization                                            PIC        Public Information Center
DGAES   GeneralDirectorate for Economic and Social Affairs (Direccidn General PID        Project Information Document
        de Asuntos Econdmicos y Sociales)
DGPM    GeneralDirectorate of MultiannualProgramming(Direcci6n Generalde      POA        Annual OperationsPlan (Plan OperarivoAnual)
        ProgramaciirnMultianual)
DNPP    National BudgetOffice (Direccidn Nacional de PresupuestoPliblico)     PPF        Project PreparationFacility
ENAHO   National Household Survey (EncuestaNacional de Hogares)               PRONAA     NationalFood Assistance Program (ProgramaNacional de
                                                                                         AsistenciaAlimentaria)
ENDES   National Healthand Demographic Survey (EncuestaNacionalde             PSP        Priority SocialPrograms
        Demografa y Salud)
E N "   National LivingStandardsSurvey (EncuestaNacional sobreNiveles de      PSR        Project Status Report
        Vida)
ERR     EstimatedRate of Retum                                                PSRL       Programmatic SocialReformLoan
FMR     Financial Monitoring Report                                           RFP        Requestfor Proposals
FONCOD  Social Development and CompensationFund(FondoNacional de              RG         RegionalGovernment
ES      Compensacidny Desarrollo Social)
GDP     Gross Domestic Product                                                RVP        RegionalVice Presidency
GOP     Governmentof Peru                                                     SAFI       Integrated FinancialAdministration System Law (Sistemade
                                                                                         Administracidn Financiera Integrado)
IDB     Inter-American Development Bank                                       SIAF       Integrated FinancialAdministration System(SisremaIntegrado de
                                                                                         Administracidn Financiera)
IBRD    Intemational Bank for Reconstructionand Development                   SIL        Sector Investment Loan
IDA     Intemational Development Agency                                       SOE        Statementof Expenditures
IMF     Intemational Monetary Fund                                            ST-CIAS    Social Affairs InterministerialCommittee -Technical Secretariat
                                                                                         (Secretaria Te'cnica-Comite'Interministerialde Asuntos Sociales)
JSDF    Japan Social Development Fund                                         TAL        TechnicalAssistance Loan
LG      Local Government                                                      TOR        Terms of Reference
LIL     Learningand InnovationLoan                                            USAID      US Agency for IntemationalDevelopment
M&E     Monitoringand Evaluation                                              UCPS       Sectoral Loans CoordinationUnit (Unidad de Coordinacidnde
                                                                                         PrkstarnosSectoriales)
MDG's   Millennium Development Goals                                          WDR        World Development Report
MEF     Ministry of Economy and Finance(Ministeriode Economiay Finanzas)      MMM        MultiannualMacroeconomic Framework (Marco Macroecondmico
                                                                                         Multianual)
MIMDES  Ministry of Women and Social Development (Ministerio de la Mujer y    NGO        Nongovernmental Organization
        Desarrollo Social)
MINEDU  Ministry of Education                                                 NPV        Net presentvalue


                                                      Vice President:         David de Ferranti
                                                    Country Director:         Marcel0 M.Giugale
                                                        Sector Leader:        Daniel Cotlear
                                                  Task Team Leader:           Livia M.Benavides

                                                                                           FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
                                                                                  PERU

                  ACCOUNTABILITY FORDECENTRALIZATION INTHE SOCIAL SECTORS
                                                TECHNICAL ASSISTANCEPROJECT

                                                                               CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                                                   Page

              A.   STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                                          ..............................................................               1
                1. .Countryand sector issues................................................................................................................                             1
                2. Rationale for Bank involvement...................................................................................................... 2
                3.  Higher level objectives to which the project contributes.................................................................                                            4

              B.    PROJECT DESCRIPTION                               ............................................................................................                       4
                1.  Lending instrument...................................                                      ...............................................................           4
                2.  Projectdevelopment objective and key indicators ..........................................................................                                           5
                3.  Projectcomponents.................................                                         ........................                    ..........................    5
                4.  Lessons leamed and reflected in the proj
                5.  Alternatives consideredand reasonsfor rejection....
                                         t                                                                   ..................................................................          8

              C.    IMPLEMENTATION...                         ....................................................................................................                       8
                1.  Institutional and implementation arrangements
                2.  Monitoring and evaluation of o
                3.  Sustainability .............
                4.  Critical risks and mitigating actions..............................................................................................                                  11
                5.  Loadcredit conditions and covenants                                     .....

              D.    APPRAISAL SUMMARY                              .......................................................................                .......................       12
                1.  Economic and financial analyses............
                2.  Technical ....            ..................................                                                                           .........................     13
                3.  Fiduciary...............................................................................................................
                4.  Social.............................................................................................................................................                  14
                5.  Environment                         ..............             ..........................                     ....                                              .....15
                6.  Safeguardpolicies..........................................................................................................................                          15
                7.  Policy Exceptions and Readiness............                                                                        ...........................................       16

               Annex 1:Country and Sector or Program Background                                                .........................................................                 17

               Annex 2: Major RelatedProjects Financedby the Bank and/or other Agencies                                                                            .................21
               Annex 3: ResultsFramework andMonitoring                                      .........................................................................                    27

               Annex 4: DetailedProject Description                           ......................................................................................                     33

This document has a restricted distribution andmay beused by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties, I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
lwithout World Bank authorization.

Annex 5: Project Costs
                     ................................................................................................................        40

Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements                  .................................................................................      41

Annex 7: FinancialManagement and Disbursement Arrangements                                             .....................................  44

Annex 8: Procurement ................................................................................................................         47

Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis                 ..............................................................................       54

Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues         ............................................................................................        56

Annex 11:Project Preparation and Supervision                      ......................................................................      57

Annex 12: Documents inthe Project File               ..................................................................................       58

Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits                 ..............................................................................       59

Annex 14: Country at a Glance      ..................................................................................................         61


Map: BRDNo 26572R1
             .

                                             PERU
         ACCOUNTABILITY FOR DECENTRALIZATION INTHE SOCIAL SECTORS
                             TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT

                             PROJECT APPRAISAL       DOCUMENT

                             LATINAMERICA AND CARIBBEAN
                                          LCSHH-DPT

 Date: June 18,2004                              Team Leader: Benavides LiviaM.
  Country Director: Marcel0 Giugale              Sectors: Other social services (100%)
  Sector Director: Ana-Maria Arriagada           Themes: Other social protection andrisk
                                                 management (P)
 Project ID: PO78953                             Environmental screening category: Not
                                                 Required
 Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance        Safeguardscreeningcategory: No impact




 For Loans/Credits/Others:
 Total Bank financing (US$m.): 7.80




I INTERNATIONAL       BANKFOR                       6.85               0.95            7.80
 RECONSTRUCTION AND
  DEVELOPMENT
  Total:                                            8.56               1.14            9.70

  Borrower: Governmentof Peru

 ResponsibleAgency: Ministry ofEconomy andFinance

I                                                                                              J




ICumulativeI      1.56 I   3.90 I  6.63 I    7.80 I
  Project implementation period: Start: August 31 2004. End:July 31,2007
 Expected effectiveness date: August 31 2004
 Expected closing date: December 31 2007
 Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?
 ReJ PADA.3                                                                      [ ]Yes [XINO
 Does the Droiect reauire any excedons from Bank Dolicies?

Re$ PAD D.7                                                                     [ ]Yes [XINO
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                    [ ]Yes E   IN0
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                    [ ]Yes [ IN0
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
Re$ PAD C.5                                                                     [XIYes [ ]No
Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readinessfor implementation?
Re$ PAD D.7                                                                     [XIYes [ ]No

Project development objective Re$ PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3
Strengthenedresults-oriented andparticipatory planning, andmonitoringand evaluation, with
emphasis on decentralized MIMDES' social programs.

Project description :Re$ PAD B.3.a, TechnicalAnnex 4
Component 1:Improving the quality of socialpolicies andprograms. The objective of this first
component i s to improvethe quality of social policies and programs, takinginto accountthat
they are beingdecentralizedor will be subjectto decentralization inthe future.
Component 2: Implementation of Performance Agreements andAccreditation of social sectors.
The secondcomponent will helpensure adequatedecentralization ofthe social programsthrough
the designand implementation of the instrumentsfor the accreditation process, particularly for
social programs; the implementation of perfonnance or managementagreements(PAS); and,
monitoring and evaluation of budget transfers to subnational governments.
Component 3: Improvement of Monitoring and Evaluation in the Social Sectors. The purpose of
this component isto buildM&Ecapacity throughthe strengtheningofexisting monitoring
instruments, constructing new ones where necessary, and strengthening analytical capacity of
differentactors engagedinthe process.
Which safeguardpolicies are triggered, ifany? Re$ PAD D.6, TechnicalAnnex 10
No safeguardpoliciesare triggered.

Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Re$ PAD C.7
Boardpresentation: None

Loadcredit effectiveness:
(a) adoption ofthe Operations Manual and the annual operations plan for the first year ofthe
     Project, satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) the generalcoordinator for the Project has beenappointed underterms ofreference,
     qualification and experience satisfactory to the Bank; and,
(c) adoption of financial andprocurement management systems, satisfactory to the Bank.

Covenants applicable to project implementation:

The Borrower shall furnishto the Bankno later thanthree months after the Effective Date,
evidence that it has: (iii) executedthe Implementation Agreement betweenMEF andMIMDES;
and(iv) no later thantwelvemonths after the Effective Date, evidencethat ithas executedthe
final Implementation Agreements betweenMEF on one hand, and each o f INEI; MINSA; and
MINEDU, onthe other hand, all abovedocuments infor andsubstancesatisfactory to the Bank.

A. STRATEGICCONTEXTAND RATIONALE

1. Countryandsector issues

Peru has made significant progress since the early nineties in reforming its economy and has
successfully avoided contagion from major financial crisis in the region. The strength of the
economy can be attributed to sound fundamentals, including high official reserves, a well
capitalized banking system, low inflation and a stable exchange rate, bolstered b y a rising trade
surplus and a declining current account deficit. Public finances have also improved, supported
by the fiscal consolidationeffort begun inmid-2001 under the new administration.

In spite of favorable economic developments, poverty has remained intractable. The poverty
rate, after dropping from 57 percent to 51 percent between 1991 and 1997, increased to 54
percent by 2000, a trend exacerbated by the economic crisis during the same period. Economic
recovery, until 2002, led to only a slight drop in poverty rates. The limited effectiveness of anti-
poverty social programs reflects weak targeting, limited coordination, and widespread
duplication, as well as interventions illsuited to achieve objectives and insufficient monitoring
and evaluation.

After a decade o f the Fujimori regime and a short transitional government, President Toledo was
elected to office amidst an economic recession. H i s government prioritized poverty reduction as
a key objective.    Thanks to a collective effort that led to the National Agreement (Acuerdo
Nacional), that goal was to be backed by the major political parties, religious groups and civil
society. The Acuerdo Nacional establishes the general principles and policies to be pursued in
the medium and long term, including equity and social justice. A more precise policy framework
has been approved as part of the "Estrategia para la Superacidnde la Pobreza y Oportunidades
Econdmicas para 10s Pobres" ("Guidelines for a Poverty Alleviation Strategy and Economic
Opportunities for the Poor"-hereafter       Estrategia), that is based on three pillars related to
dignity, equity, and institutionality. More recently, through a Supreme Decree (DS 029-2004-
PCM), the government established three priority criteria to guide public expenditure aimed at
poverty alleviation: (a) human capacity development, including improved access to health,
education, housing and basic sanitation services; (b) promotion of employment opportunities for
the poor; and (c) establishment of a social protection network for vulnerable populations.

In 2002, the Toledo government embarked on a gradual process of decentralization of public
functions and resources to regional and municipal governments and a number of reforms are now
underway. The guiding principles of this process of decentralization can be summarized under
three headings: fiscal neutrality, gradualism, and a focus on competitiveness enhancement. In
this respect, Peru faces a dual challenge of pursuing a fiscally neutral decentralization program
while ensuring that adequate social provisions for the poor are in place. While Peru should
continue to promote private participation in productive and infrastructure sectors, the
government still has a critical role to play in achieving its long-term poverty reduction goals.

Significant progress has been made in the development of the legal framework for
decentralization.   The Decentralization Framework Law sets out the principles for: (i)         the
assignment of services and competencies (shared, exclusive and delegated) to different levels of
government; complemented by specific laws on regional and local governments; (ii)the

development of fiscal rules and transfer mechanisms, embodied in more detail in the fiscal
decentralization law; and (iii)       the sequencing of decentralization, starting with anti-poverty social
programs, to be followed by other sectoral transfers.                  Education and health sectors will be
decentralized last, i.e. during the fourth stage of decentralization. The implementation of the
institutional framework for decentralization has also substantially advanced, with the creation of
the National Decentralization Council to coordinate the decentralization process and the setting-
up of regional and local government institutions, including new consultative bodies, including
Coordination Councils with civil society representation.

While the government has succeeded in having legislation passed establishing the overall
principles for decentralization, much o f the broad legal framework still remains to be
implemented.        In particular, significant challenges lie ahead in relation to establishing and
implementing the rules that will govern the social sectors and the anti-poverty programs in a
decentralized context. For the social anti-poverty programs, a draft "Programmatic Transfers"
law (i.e. conditional, earmarked transfers for social programs subject to procedures and targets to
be set by national programs) has been submitted to Congress. Another challenge is to define the
accreditation process of sub-national governments.                   The role of sector ministries vis-&vis
regional and municipal governments in health and education also needs to be defined. The
existing legislation i s ambiguous about the roles of the different actors in these sectors, yet de
facto the decentralization of these sectors has already begun as more than 50 percent of
education and more than 44 percent of health expenditures will be managed b y the newly elected
regional authorities in 2004 (mostly for salaries).' A clear legal basis for the decentralization of
Ministry of Women and Social Development (MMDES) social programs, as well as for the
education and health sectors, remains indispensable and will be supported by the Bank through
the Fourth Programmatic Social Reform Loan. This legislation should build on international
lessons suggesting that the decentralization of health and education must clearly establish the
responsibilities to be undertaken by the regions and municipalities and establish the policy and
regulatory role of the sectoral ministries providing the ministries with financial and other
incentives to help them enforce their role.

2. Rationalefor Bank involvement

While substantial steps have been taken towards a decentralized system, a large reform agenda
lies ahead. Fiscal, institutional and social reforms remain key to support sustained and increased
economic growth and progress towards Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The Bank i s
currently assisting the Government of Peru in the design and implementation of reforms related
to decentralization, primarily through two Programmatic Adjustment Loans. The social reforms,
within the decentralization process, are being supported by the Programmatic Social R e f o m
Loans (PSRLs - currently the fourth of these loans i s in preparation), while the broader
decentralization process, including fiscal sustainability, institutional reforms and regional



  While the Framework Law mandates that Health and Education are to be transferred at the final stage of the
process, as of 2004 the Regional Directors of Health and Education will cease to be appointed by the sectoral
ministries and will become officials of the Regional Authorities (with technical accountability to the sectoral
ministries). Also, against the letter of the law, a Supreme Decree o f August 2003 transferred the teacher payrolls of
Callao to the Regional Authorities and paved the way for a similar move inLima during 2004.


                                                           2

competitiveness i s supported by the Decentralization and Competitiveness Structural Adjustment
Loans, (DECSAL, the second of which i s currently inpreparation).

The World Bank i s presently financing other complementary loans, including the Institutional
Capacity for Sustainable Fiscal Decentralization Technical Assistance Loan (TAL) (in
preparation) the Health Sector Reform Project, the Rural Education Project and the Trade
Facilitation and Productivity Improvement Technical Assistance Loan. Also, a Japan Social
Development Fund (JSDF) grant for "Giving Voice to the Poor in Influencing, Planning, and
Evaluating Service Delivery," which complements activities financed by the proposed project, i s
currently being implemented. In addition, other organizations are financing various aspects of
the decentralization process (see Annex 2). The design of this project has involved careful
mapping of all these projects in order to avoid overlaps and seek synergies.

Of particular relevance to this project is the Znstitutional Capacity for Sustainable Fiscal
Decentralization TAL. This loan focuses on supporting reforms aiming at fiscal neutrality as
well as key institutional reforms to strengthen the institutional environment for more efficient
and sustainable service delivery. In particular, within the overall objectives o f strengthening
fiscal sustainability and improved institutional effectiveness for result-oriented service delivery,
it will support (i)the design, application and monitoring of the fiscal decentralization legal
framework at both the regional and local level; (ii)       consolidation of sub-national financial
management systems, including budget formulation and monitoring under a medium-term
framework, development of a sub-national public investment system, and prudent management
of sub-national debt; and (iii)expansion and consolidation of the Integrated Financial
Administration System (SIAF) and other selected institutional reforms - public assets
management, procurement, civil service -at the sub-national level. Henceforth, supported by
the Integrated Financial Administration System Law ("Ley SAFI"), and financed b y the parallel
Fiscal Decentralization TAL, SIAF will rapidly expand its adoption b y regional and local
governments; develop a monitoring and evaluation system for sub-national accounts covering
budget formulation, revenue collection and accounting; support preparation of participatory
multi-annual budgeting by sub-national governments; introduce a sub-national payroll system;
and manage debt by sub-national governments in keeping with the recently approved Fiscal
Decentralization Law. These parallel efforts will complement other SIAF activities under this
project aimed at building a results-oriented system for monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of
social programs.

This strong involvement of the Bank inthe area of decentralization, together with its leadingrole
in key areas of the policy dialogue, underlines the contributions that the Bank can make, both as
a knowledge Bank, offering best practices and lessons learned from around the globe, and as a
catalyst for leveraging resources from other projects and other donors to assist the GOP most
effectively in its efforts to decentralize the social sectors. Bank involvement i s also crucial to
help ensure the effective implementation of key measures agreed to under the PSRL. The
proposed project will finance activities needed to support preparation and sustainability of policy
reforms linked to the development of accountability mechanisms agreed to inthe PSRLProgram.
This project will support the adequate implementation of social sector policies during the most
challenging phase of decentralization, as the basic fiscal decentralization framework i s being




                                                 3

designed and public sector functions and resources are gradually transferred to regional and local
governments.

3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes

The government strategy, reflected in the 2002 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), spells out
three main priorities to reduce poverty: (i)increasing competitiveness and employment
generation; (ii) improving access to health, education and basic services; and (iii)
                                                                                   strengthening a
public administration that serves the people. The proposed project was programmed in the CAS
for FY03 (Social Reform TAL) to support the policy reforms contained in the Programmatic
Social Reform Loans (PSRL). Following extensive consultations with stakeholders, policy
reforms, under the new decentralization framework, were adopted and PRSL I11was approved in
November 2003. As inPSRL I11and PSRL IV (under preparation), the proposed project aims to
contribute to policies and key measures that will ensure that decentralization, particularly in the
social sectors, lead to the improvement, and not deterioration, of the quality of social service
delivery. The timing i s critical as the decentralization framework has been defined, but measures
are still to be implemented. By focusing on results, such as access of the poor to social services,
it strengthens several mechanisms such as performance agreements and accreditation that help
achieve the MDGs. The program also contributes to the modernization and accountability of the
public sector by supporting several reforms to improve M&E, results-based planning and
management as well as improvements in the public budgeting system including promoting
greater transparency through broader civil society participation andmonitoring.

The program will also support the goal of reducing poverty by (i)   empowering poor communities
by increasing their active participation in social policy design and implementation and
monitoring; (ii)  improving the quality and targeting of social programs; and (iii) enhancing the
transparency and monitoring of the pro-poor social expenditures included in the six Priority
Social Programs (PSPs).

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

1. Lendinginstrument

The proposed lending instrument i s a Technical Assistance Loan (TAL). This instrument was
selected as it was considered the most appropriate to assist the Government in implementing
decentralization policies agreed upon under the Programmatic Social Reform Loan.               The
Government has requested financing of technical assistance to support design and
implementation of critical policies that will lead to achieving accountability in the
decentralization process. A Sector Investment Loan (SIL) was considered but discarded because
of the strong focus on capacity-strengthening and institution-building in this project. A Learning
and Innovation Loan (LIL)was also considered, but it would not have allowed the broader focus
nor the total amount of financing requested. The Government selected a fixed spread loan as the
financial instrument.




                                                   4

2. Project development objective and key indicators

The objective o f the Project i s to strengthen results-oriented and participatory planning,
 monitoring and evaluation in the social sectors, with an emphasis on decentralized social
programs of the Ministry of Women and Social Development (MIMDES). Specific objectives
for the project are to: (i)     improve the quality of social policies and programs in the context of
 decentralization; (ii)    implement the performance agreements and accreditation systems for social
programs to improve service delivery outcomes (this would involve mainly the two decentralized
 social protection programs under MIMDES: food aid and targeted small scale infrastructure);
 and (iii) improve the M&E system in a decentralized context.

This project aims at reducing the risk of deterioration in the targeting and efficiency of social
programs throughout the decentralization process, especially during the transition from
centralized to decentralized management, where service delivery is most at risk. Thus, the
project would contribute to ensure that targeting and efficiency of social programs inMIMDES,
initially, are maintained and, subsequently, show relative improvement.                    In the case of the
education and health sectors, which are expected to be decentralized subsequently, the project
would contribute to a clear decentralization framework, with each government level being ready
to take on its responsibilities and functions, including a functioning accountability system to
monitor this transfer.

3. Project components

This section provides a summary description of project components. A detailed description can
be found inAnnex 4.

 Component 1:Improvingthe quality of social policies and programs (US$1.43 total cost,
US$1.14 loan)

The objective of this first component i s to improve the quality of social policies and programs,
taking into account that they are being decentralized or will be subject to decentralization in the
future. The component will have two subcomponents. The first subcomponent will focus on the
design of social policies through the development of a social policy framework consistent with
the multi-annual macroeconomic framework that should lead to improving policies related to
protecting expenditures for the Priority Social Programs (PSPS);~the development of studies
leading to improved coverage and efficiency of the pension system in order to ensure that
databases are appropriately managed inthe decentralization process; and, the design of the policy
frameworks for decentralization of the education and health sectors. A second subcomponent
will contribute to the strengthening of existing instruments for results-oriented planning and
accountability at the national level.             These instruments include the sectoral strategic plans
(PESEM) and program results framework, as well as the results agreements (known as
Convenios de Administracidn por Resultados - CARS) signed between the Ministry of Economy
and Finance (MEF) and the social programs.                    This component will finance national and
international consultancies, studies, workshops and consultations with stakeholders.

~




 Priority Social Programs, supported by the PSRL include initial, primary, and secondary education, individual and
collective health, and the decentralized social programs of MIMDES.


                                                          5

Component 2: Implementation of performance agreements and accreditation of social
sectors (US$0.71 total, US$0.57 loan)

The second component will help ensure an adequate decentralization of the social programs
through: (i) design and implementation of instruments in support of the accreditation process,
particularly for social programs. The proposed project will contribute to the design of the
accreditation systems by helping to shape and implement the legal framework, institutional
arrangements, indicators, and M&E arrangements and by providing capacity-strengthening to
sub-national governments to bolster their management capacity prior to and following
accreditation; (ii)implementation of performance or management agreements (PAS) and
capacity-building at the local level through training and dissemination programs; and (iii)
monitoring and evaluation of budget transfers to sub-national governments through the review o f
the formulas used to distribute budget to sub-national governments and monitoring of financial
transfers to social programs and sectors. The component will finance national and international
consultancies, workshops, training, dissemination and equipment.

Component 3: Improvementof monitoringand evaluation inthe social sectors (US$5.03
total, US$4.02 loan)

The component builds on several instruments and initiatives launched b y the government, civil
society organizations (CSOs) and independent think-tanks in recent years, as well as on
international best practice. The purpose i s to buildM&E capacity through the strengthening of
existing monitoring instruments, constructing new ones where necessary, and strengthening the
analytical capacity of different actors engaged in the process. The component will have the
following subcomponents: (i)   development of an expenditure tracking system through the design
and implementation of modules that will link financial indicators, from SIAF, to physical
indicators from the social programs, with special reference to priority social programs (PSPs).
This subcomponent will also finance upgrading and expansion of the Consulta Amigable
website, as well as the pilot implementation of the student monitoring system in two regions of
Peru; (ii) development of a monitoring system for the MIMDES programs. This monitoring
system i s envisioned as critical for the accreditation system, for the implementation of
performance agreements and for participatory monitoring activities; (iii)strengthening o f
evaluation capacities and instruments, including improvement of National Household (ENAHO)
and other surveys and evaluation capacity building in the sectors; (iv) a fund that will finance
independent evaluation studies awarded through competitive processes and participatory
monitoring initiatives; and (v) improvement of transparency and participatory monitoring
mechanisms through capacity buildingfor CSOs.

Component 4. Project Management (US$0.61 total, US$0.49 loan)

The purpose of this component i s to support project implementation, monitoring and evaluation.
The UCPS (Unidad de Coordinacidn de Pre'stamosSectoriales) in MEF will operate according
to the structure and management procedures agreed upon with the Bank. A capacity assessment
was carried out to evaluate procurement and financial 'management processes under the
responsibility of the UCPS, and they were deemed satisfactory. The UCPS will be responsible
for coordinating and monitoring the yearly Operations Plan, financial management of the project,



                                                6

andprocuring goods and services. Performance audits will be carried out to ensure the quality o f
project management.

4. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design

The Bank's long experience with adjustment loans shows that, in addition to the political
commitment to go ahead with the reforms, technical and financial support i s also needed in some
critical areas. The PSRL program has been supported by technical assistance provided mainly
by existing sector investment loans, such as the Health Sector Reform Project. However, PSRL
IV is being prepared under the decentralization framework, posing a number of key challenges
that imply fundamental changes to the design and implementation of social policies that lack
funding. This TAL finances the design and implementation of social policies and supports the
development of the appropriate institutional framework to ensure sustainability beyond the PSRL
Program.

A key lesson derived from the implementation of PSRLs 1-111 is that policy reform is
implemented more effectively when supported by a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of social
sectors. Policy reforms designed and implemented to improve pro-poor expenditure have forced
changes in inter- and intra-sectoral priorities, have led to the construction of a safety net, and to
the design o f a complementary and fiscally sound intergovernmental framework. International
experience also indicates that, the risk of a deterioration in social service delivery i s greatest in
the first transition phase of decentralization when specific support to avoid a negative impact on
poverty reduction i s needed. Despite the rapid progress in decentralization design inPeru, little
i s known about the real constraints that affect the implementation o f priority programs, the actual
targeting and efficiency levels in the use of funds allocated to specific priorities (or to deviated
goals), or the impact on beneficiaries. This project aims to fill this gap by providing the support
needed to ensure adequate implementation of the complex reforms agreed to under the
Programmatic Social Reform Loan (PSRL) and by providing the analytical support for the
design and implementation o f specific identified areas.

The 2004 World Development Report (WDR) argues that, in order to achieve the MDGs, it i s
necessary to improve accountability o f the social sectors to the public. On the other hand, if
decentralization i s implemented in a haphazard manner, even the existing accountability systems
will be of little use as they were designed for a centralized state. This project intends to support
the development of an accountability system, with a focus on the decentralized levels, that
reinforces the accountability o f national and local governments to the public.

International experience3 shows that monitoring systems are efficient and effective only when
their results are effectively fed into policy and management decision-making processes. The
Government of Peru (GOP) has decided to decentralize social program once local governments
are subject to the accreditation system and have signed performance agreements, thus ensuring
the connection between the monitoring system and the decision-making process.




  "Guia para el diagn6stico y marco para la acci6n," Fortalecimiento de la capacidad de evaluaci6n - Keith McKay,
OED, January 1999.


                                                         7

National and international experience shows that participation of stakeholders and civil society i s
critical in order to ensure sustainability of the monitoring system and a true accountability
system.    In particular, involvement of civil society and primary stakeholders in planning,
tracking and evaluating the use of public resources and performance of social services has a
positive impact on development and governance which i s threefold: (i)  it increases credibility of
national and local governments, and improves governance arrangements which support the
investment climate and political stability of the country; (ii)it enhances coverage, quality,
efficiency, targeting and effectiveness of service delivery, and reduces leakages, misallocations
and other inappropriate uses of public money; and (iii)   it ensures ownership and reduces risks,
thus enhancing the sustainability of,reforms.

Previous experience in Peru and other countries with impact evaluations shows that: (i)   usually
project managers are reluctant or do not give importance to impact evaluations; and (ii)
evaluations made or contracted by the subject project tend to minimize errors and overemphasize
impacts. Following the experience of FondoEmpZeo in Peru, the design of a competitive fund,
managed by external parties, will reduce this problem and improve institutional sustainability by
isolating the project from criticism exerted by bureaucrats affectedby evaluations.

5. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection

A number of options were considered -both in terms of instruments and in terms of scope -
for achieving the project's objective. Three alternatives were considered: (a) an Analytical and
Advisory Activities (AAA) approach; (b) one TAL supporting both adjustment programs (PSRL
and DECSAL); and (c) a programmatic technical assistance loan. The AAA alternative was
considered as an option that would allow a rapid response to the technical assistance needs of the
GOP. However, the technical tasks required for sustaining the PSRL I11policies and achieving
the triggers for PSRL IV are complex and costly. In addition, they require a significant amount
of hands-on assistance to design and implement the accountability instruments. The alternative
of a broad-scope TAL was also explored, given that the Bank i s also supporting fiscal and
institutional decentralization. This way, only one TAL would provide technical assistance to
support policies for both adjustment programs. This option was discarded as an initial design led
to a wide range of activities, under an objective that lacked focus and clarity.        Finally, a
programmatic technical assistance loan was considered. This option allowed the Bank to furnish
technical assistance to the government through a coordinated effort while, at the same time,
having clear and focused objectives.       However, as both TAL were being prepared almost
simultaneously, it was difficult to design clear triggers that would lead from one project to the
other.

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Institutionaland implementationarrangements

Overall Project Coordination.        The Coordination Unit for Sectoral Loans (UCPS) in the
Ministry of Economy and Finance will be responsible for overall project implementation, under
the guidance of the Vice Minister of Economy. The UCPS will be responsible for coordinating
with beneficiary areas within MEF as well as with other sectors. Within MEF, key actors will



                                                 8

include DGPM, DGAES, SIAF and DGPP. Of these, DGPMwill have a critical role as the unit
responsible for the coordination and supervision of the Social Sector M&E system. The roles of
the UCPS andDGPMare describedbelow in greater detail.

The UCPS has been the Bank's maincounterpart throughout the PSRL and DECSAL program.
It has also been responsible for the implementation of this project's Preparation Facility (PPF).
Upon Project approval, this unit would act as the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) for the loan.
The UCPS will be the day-to-day counterpart to the Bank and will be responsible for operations
planning and monitoring financial management, procurement and contracting procedures, and
ensuring compliance with Bank standards, including annual audits.

The DGPM will be responsible for the coordination and supervision of the Social Sector M&E
system. The DGPM will: (i)assist UCPS in the preparation and monitoring of the annual
operations plan in order to ensure that the overall vision of the M&E system i s kept; (ii)prepare
and/or assist partners in the preparation of terms of reference (TOR) in relation to the M&E
system; and (iii)maintain a project monitoring system to assess progress and provide the
necessaryinformation to the UCPS for the preparationof the implementation reports.

Implementation Partnerships. The UCPS, through the Vice Minister of Economy, will enter
into Management Agreements with all four implementation partners: MIMDES, MINEDU,
MINSA, and INEI(See Table below). The Management Agreements will assign responsibilities
and establish the means of coordination and conflict resolution.

Of all outside partners, MIMDES will be critical as it i s responsible for the implementation of a
significant part of Component 2, as well as part of Component 3. Given the relativelylarge work
load allocated to this sector, a full time technical coordinator will be hired, to be stationed in
MIMDES. This coordinator will be responsible for monitoring the MIMDES components and
activities, ensuring consistency with project design, and coordinating all day to day tasks with
UCPS, and when necessary with DGPM. MIMDES will not be responsible for any activities
relatedto financial managementof the project.

2. Monitoring and evaluation of outcomeshesults

The DGPM (MEF) will be responsible for overall project monitoring and evaluation. It is
expected that periodic monitoring of output and results indicators will be obtained through the
relevant SIAF module to be financed by this loan. In addition, where the SIAF data are not
relevant, it i s expected that the monitoring system being developed in MIMDES will provide
relevant information for project monitoring. DGPM will consolidate all this information and
transfer it to the UCPS, which will be responsible for producing the quarterly Financial
Monitoring Reports (FMRs). Project evaluation will be carried out through the evaluation fund
(Component 3.4), based on terms of reference drafted by DGPM, under coordination with UCPS
and all other agencies involved.




                                                 9

3. Sustainability

Financial

Financial sustainability of the project i s ensured by the fact that project costs will be more than
compensated by long-lasting improved managerial capacity reflected in fiscal savings and
efficiency gains. The fiscal savings would arise from the areas of improved budget and public
investment management, enhancedallocation to social priorities, reduced leaks and conuption in
the flows of public spending, elimination of ineffective investment, proper M&E of social
expenditure and increasedinvolvement of civil society inthe social auditing of public projects.

InstitutionalSustainability

The institutionalsustainability of the project will be supportedby the consensus among all main
political and social actors regarding the need to decentralize. The legal framework for
decentralization i s already quite advanced. Based on a firm legal basis expressed in several
instruments providing the legal and functional framework, social programs are already being
transferred to municipalities. The Programmatic Transfers Law submitted to Congress will
ensure that central government continues to play a critical role, that includes the Performance
Agreements (PAS)and accreditation that this project supports and which the M&E will serve.
The 2004 Budget Law also assigns the MEF the responsibility to evaluate and monitor
government programs and establishes the accreditation andPA framework.

Besides this legal framework, which approves the processes (accreditation, PAS,M&E) to be
supportedby the project, the Government has committedto nominatinga multisectoral oversight
Committee for the oversight of an M&E system (a trigger for PSRL IV). In this way, a
coordinated strategy with participation by the different stakeholders will be established and the
continuity of an M&E strategy ensured. The project will promote ongoing dialogue to enhance
ownership and coordination between different actors engagedinthe decentralization process and
will specifically support some activities for outreach, communication, dissemination and
consensus-building around key social reforms promoted by this project. Such a strategy-for-
change management will help reduce risks and ultimately ensure greater sustainability of the
projects.

Evaluations of social sector programs and projects will be carried out through a
nongovernmental agency selected through a competitive process. The project will seek to ensure
that this initial contract becomes a seed for a fiduciary fund to which other agencies can
contribute. This fundwould allow for sustainability of independent evaluation processes.

Social

Social sustainability in the implementation of the project will be addressed through a coherent
participatory approach that cuts across all its components and covers all its implementation
levels. This participatory approach will enhance the ownership of the project by all involved
stakeholders, including civil society organizations. Multistakeholder participation ensures the
sustainability of the activities supported by the project during and beyond its implementation.



                                                 10

Appropriation and use o f products and results of the M&E system by stakeholders external to the
Government set up a stable demand for accountability, which counterbalances political cycles
and clientelistic uses of traditional public accountability mechanisms. Once a stable demand for
accountability had been established, social pressure would support the continuity of the system,
despite possible reluctance on the part of new or uneasy government officials.                                A set of
indicators will help to monitor the performance of participatory implementation arrangements
and the level of ownership achieved by different stakeholders, particularly b y those facing heavy
social and economic constrains, like indigenous peoples, Afrodescendants, andrural women.

4. Critical risksand mitigatingactions

Risk                                                     Risk Rating      RiskMitigation Measure
FromOutputsto Objective                                        -
                                                               H          The country has strongdemands for
Political: Lack of central, regionalor municipal                          transparencyandaccountability of tight public
govemment commitmentto budget andsocialreform                             expenditure. Severalcentral administrations
andits new transparency (reportingandmonitoring),                         have supportedcore elements of apoverty
andparticipation(socialauditing) standards.                               reductionagendaandit is now widely accepted
                                                                          by key stakeholders. The projectintendsto
                                                                          buildfurther strongregionalandlocal
                                                                          ownership, developlocal capacity by expanding
                                                                          training at the sub-nationallevel, andrapidly
                                                                          makeuser-friendlyreportsavailable onthe
                                                                          ConsultaAmigable website, so as to forge
                                                                          socialconsensus.
FromComponentsto Output                                         -S        Strongpositive experience has been acquiredby
Limited Implementation Capacity: Low technical                            the MEF, andespecially SIAF to manageand
                                                                          support capacity building by sub-national
                                                                          govemments. This will becomplementedby
                                                                          proper accreditationmechanisms,CARs and
                                                                          capacitybuilding at the sub-nationallevel with
                                                                          respect to inputting and reportingdata. The
                                                                          ideais to guaranteeclosemonitoring,through
                                                                          the M&Esystem, of institutional support for
                                                                          the decentralizationof socialprograms at every
                                                                          stage.
FromComponentsto Output                                         -
                                                                H         Some local govemmentsalreadypractice
Anti-Performance Based Culture:                                           "certification" mechanismsfor infrastructure
Oppositionby Congress to approve the Law of                                andsocialprojects. The 2004 BudgetLaw
ConditionedTransfersor resistanceby regionalor                             authorizes the use of CARs andconditioned
localgovemmentto accept themor the signing of                             transfers to MIMDES' decentralizedprograms.
performanceagreements in socialprogramsunder                               The project considers special consensus-
decentralization.                                                         building activitiesreachingmembers of
                                                                           Congress. Two laws havebeensubmitted to
                                                                           Congress,one on conditionedtransfers, and
                                                                           another on the accreditationof sub-national
                                                                           govemments. A new legalframework
                                                    I                     regulatingtransfers ineducation andhealthis
                                                                           expectedto beput inplace soon.
FromComponentsto Output                                         -S         The Govemment has approvedthe core
Low Leadership and Coordination Capacity: Weak                             elements of apovertyreductionagendathat has
andineffectivelinkbetweenMEF andthe social                                 survivedseveralchanges of administration.
ministries to approveandguide the policy reform                            The approvedfiscal decentralizationframework
agendafor the socialsectors under aresults-oriented                        strengthens the needfor awell coordinated
approach.                                                                  effort to developthe now decentralized social
                                                    I                      agenda.
OverallRisk Ratin                                               S
Risk Rating:H( H i hRisk); S (SubstantialRisk); M (MbdestRisk);N  (Negligi e or Low Risk)




                                                         11

5. Loadcredit conditionsand covenants

Conditions for effectiveness:

    (a) adoption of the Operations Manual and the annual operations plan for the first year of the
        Project, satisfactory to the Bank;
    (b) the general coordinator for the Projecthasbeen appointedunder terms of reference,
        qualification and experience satisfactory to the Bank; and,
    (c) adoption of financial and procurement management systems, satisfactory to the Bank.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economic andfinancial analyses

Net Present Value (NPV)=Not Available; Estimated Rate of Return (ERR) =Not Available (see
Annex 9).

o Cost benefit
0   Cost effectiveness
o Other (specify)

The project's economic impact has been broadly analyzed and it will mainly be reflected in
effectiveness gains. These will result from (i)    widespread implementation of an upgraded and
timely financial management system-SIAF-by            sub-national governments, which will permit
better budget allocation decisions and more effective monitoring, control and social auditing of
financial flows; (ii)sounder social policy management, and decentralization of social programs,
resultingin reduced fiscal vulnerability; (iii) a revised targeted and improved social and fiduciary
framework, which will reduce public misallocations and leakages of public resources; (iv) a new
performance-based management system of social programs, which will raise accountability by
public servants; (v) strengthened strategic planning and inter-ministerial policy design
capabilities; and (vi) closer scrutiny o f public performance from civil society groups resulting in
a more transparent andresults-oriented management of public resources.

The project's financial impact has also been analyzed and considered sustainable. It i s estimated
that the project costs will be more than offset by improved managerial capacity, reflected in
fiscal savings and efficiency gains. A well functioning monitoring and evaluation system will
allow greater accountability of government agencies. A broad assessment of the efficiency and
social gains is attached in Annex 9.

Fiscal Imuact: See Annex 9.

Proiect costs: Total project costs are estimated at US$lO.O million, of which US$S.O million
would be financed b y the Bank and US$2.0 million would be financed b y the Government.

Project Benefits: The project will have immediate, long lasting, and irreversible economic and
financial impacts.     In addition, it is expected that new monitoring and accountability



                                                   12

mechanisms, supported by SIAF-related modules, will lead to a more efficient, effective and
transparent public sector, with positive effects on improved targeting, monitoring and efficiency
of social expenditure; higher effectiveness in terms of achieving social outcomes; enhanced
ethical behavior by public servants; and a higher commitment to public service, closely
monitored by civil society. The public policy reforms supported by the project will also
contribute to a gradual and well-sequenced decentralization of social investment and to
enhancedimplementation of key priority social programs at all levels of government.

2. Technical

Technical aspects of the project revolve around the use of the latest information and
communications technology. The MEF already has extensive expertise regarding the expanded
design, use of and trainingin SIAF technology. The expertise acquired with SIAF is expectedto
quicken the learning curve in MIMDES with respect to the use of technology for that Ministry's
monitoring system. In addition, the project will require inputs from the Bank's team, regarding
best practices in M&E and their link to IT systems. Furthermore, close interaction with national
consultants will be provided during project implementation, particularly with respect to the
MIMDESmonitoringsystem.

3. Fiduciary

Financial Management issues

A Financial Management (FM) Assessment was performed in order to evaluate the proposed
financial management arrangements and the implementingentity's capacity to provide the Bank
with accurate and timely information regarding resources and expenditures. The assessment
(performed jointly with the Procurement Capacity Assessment) was conducted in accordance
with OP/BP 10.02 and the Guidelines for Assessment of Financial Management Arrangements in
World Bank Financed Projects and the key findings are includedin Annex 7 of this report. The
UCPS has maintained a satisfactory record during the implementation of the PPF and, overall,
the proposed project's financial management arrangements are satisfactory to the Bank. The
Financial Management risk (a combination of inherent and control risks) i s rated "Medium," in
order to reflect the following strengths and capacity constraints: The UCPS i s adequately staffed
with key professional personnel; accounting and financial reporting functions will follow
national norms; and there are adequate arrangements for internal audits to be performed by staff
of the Controller General's Office. The key constraints include the lack of: i)an integrated
informationsystem to support adequatemonitoring and control duringimplementation; and ii)an
Operations Manual with procedures that include the Bank's financial management requirements.
As a result of the assessment, a consolidated time-bound Financial Management (FM) and
Procurement Action plan has been agreedupon.

Procurement issues

Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits," dated May 2004; and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers," dated May



                                                 13

2004, and the provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement. The general descriptions of various
items under different expenditure categories are described in greater detail in Annex 8. The
UCPS will be responsible for procurement activities under the project as defined in the
Operations Manual. The procurement section of the Operations Manual will include, in addition
to the procurement procedures, the standard bidding documents to be used in each case, as well
as contracts to be awarded on the basis of quotations. Where no relevant standard contracts
exist, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.

A procurement capacity assessment was carried out for the UCPS aimed at reviewing its current
capacity and assigning a level of risk to administer procurement functions and other
administrative tasks. The overall procurement risk assessment level was deemed as average for
the UCPS. Two procurement supervision missions per year will be carried out including one
special procurement supervision for ex-post review/audit.

4. Social

Key social issues and social developmentoutcomes

Provisions concerning social inclusion in the implementation of the project are key to its
sustainability. Peru i s a highly polarized society. As in other Latin American countries, the
lowest levels of income and human development are mostly found among indigenous peoples
and Afrodescendants. This situation worsens when gender is added as a variable. Indigenous
and Afrodescendant women hit the lowest income and human development levels. Prevailing
mechanisms of social exclusion like racism and discrimination largely explain the scant social
mobility affecting those ethnic groups, women in particular. In order to meet its objectives and
sustain its results in the medium and long term, the project will pay special attention to
identifying and addressing the prevailing social constraints to an equitable participation of those
groups as active actors of the M&E system. To do so, the project encourages the use, when
necessary, of vernacular languages in training activities supported by the operation and use of
community radios and other local media to disseminate information of the M&E system.
Organized expressions of those groups will receive special consideration when local civil society
organizations are called upon to be active partners of the participatory M&E system. It will also
include distinctive indicators across the different M&E mechanisms to measure differentiated
access to and the impact of the social programs affectedb y the process of decentralization.

Participatory Approach

A participatory approach cuts across all components of the project. In the M&E system for
Peru's priority social programs (PSPs), participation i s not a separate component. It is rather a
cross-cutting perspective which i s present at all stages of the M&E cycle. Local governments
and their multistakeholder councils (CCR and CCL), users, local, regional and national civil
society organizations participate in the identification o f indicators, production and gathering of
data, analysis of information and sharing of results. Also, a dialogue with key national civil
society organizations has been part of the preparation phase of the project. The project concept
was consulted with national leaders of the Multistakeholder Roundtables Against Poverty (Mesas
de Concertacidn de Lucha Contra la Pobreza), the National NGO Network (ANC) and



                                                 14

Propuesta Ciudadana,a national consortium of NGOs which has beenmonitoringthe process of
decentralization. Their feedback has beenincorporatedinto the proposal.

Social Development Outcomes

The project involves a series of social development outcomes. A system of accountability to
monitor and evaluate results and the implications of decentralization upon priority social
programs and their impacts on the population will have major repercussions on social inclusion
and equity, empowerment of the poor, the promotion of social capital, the organization of local
civil society, and the strengthening of more responsive social institutions. Access to reliable and
timely information about existing social services and access rights, social expenditures, the
performance of social programs, and their impacts on the population at the national, regional and
municipal level will empower local groups to become informed and vocal participants in
decision making and improve their access to existing services and control over their quality. In
the long term, a system of accountability, such as the one supported by the project, will help to
transform current values and the bureaucratic practices of public entities and officials into more
responsive, transparent and inclusive institutional cultures within national and sub-national
governments.

5. Environment

The Project is rated as Category "C" as no environmental impacts are expected.

6. Safeguard policies

The project does not trigger any of the safeguardpolicies.

  Safeguard PoliciesTriggeredby the Project                                               Yes                     No
~




  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                                 [ I                    [XI
  NaturalHabitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                             [ I                   [ XI
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                                [ I                    [XI
  CulturalProperty (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                                   11                     [XI
  InvoluntaryResettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                                     [ I                    [XI
  Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                                   [ I                    [XI
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                     [ I                    [XI
  Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                              [I                     [XI
  Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                                [ I                    [XI
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                      [ I                    [XI




* By supporting theproposed project, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determination of theparties ' claims to the
disputed areas.



                                                              15

7. Policy ExceptionsandReadiness

The proposed Project i s not expected to require any exceptions from Bank policies and should
comply with all applicable Bank policies throughout implementation. All necessary readiness
criteria have been assessed and complied with, save those which have been identified as
conditions for effectiveness.




                                              16

                      Annex 1: CountryandSector or ProgramBackground
     ACCOUNTABILITYFORDECENTRALIZATIONINTHE SOCIALSECTORS
                              TECHNICALASSISTANCEPROJECT


A. PoliticalContext

After a decade of the Fujimori regime and a short transitional government, President Toledo was
elected to office amidst an economic recession. Beginning its term in July 2001, the new
government received support from the international community at the Madrid Consultative
Group Meeting in October 2001 and signed a two-year Stand-By Agreement with the JMF in
February 2002. The current government has successfully stabilized the economy.

Though the economy is indeed stable and growing, the government continues to face difficult
political challenges. It lacks a majority in Congress and there have been five cabinets in less
than three years, including a recent reshuffling of half of the ministers in February 2004, with
Carlos Ferrero continuing as Prime Minister and Pedro Pablo Kuczynski once again heading the
Ministry of Economy and Finance. Social sector ministries have also undergone frequent
changes since the beginning of this Government. Each social sector has had four ministers since
July 2001. A National Agreement ("Acuerdo Nacional") to catalyze consensus between the
major political parties, unions and civil society was signedin July 2002. The document contains
29 policies aimed at accomplishing four objectives: (i)   democracy and the rule of law; (ii) equity
and social justice; (iii) competitiveness; and (iv) efficiency, transparency and decentralization.
After a period in which the activity and force of the Acuerdo Nacional, as a forum for consensus
buildingdwindled ,the new Ferrero cabinet has refocused on it andthe main opposition political
party, APRA, i s once again participating inthe discussions.

A more precise policy framework has been approved as part of the Estrategia para la
Superacidn de la Pobreza y Oportunidades Econdmicas para 10s Pobres ("Guidelines for a
Poverty Alleviation Strategy and Economic Opportunities for the Poor"-hereafter           Estrategia),
that i s basedon three pillars:

         Dignity, to accelerate economic recovery, achieve sustainable growth and generate
         sustainablejobs, as well as to establish a social protection network and budget protection
         for priority social programs.

    e    Equity, for the development of human abilities that permit social development and the
         access of the poor to quality social services, such as health, education and culture.

         Institutionality, to improve resource allocation transparency and promote citizen
         involvement inpolicy oversight.




                                                   17

More recently, through Supreme Decree (DS 029-2004-PCM), the government established three
priority criteria to guide public expenditures aimed at poverty alleviation: (a) human capacity
development, including improved access to health, education, housing and basic sanitation
services; (b) promotion of employment opportunities for the poor; and (c) establishment of a
social protection network for vulnerable populations. This decree i s being implemented under
the leadership o f MEF.

B. CountryEconomicBackground

Peru has made significant progress since the early nineties in reforming its economy and it has
successfully avoided contagion from major financial crises in the region.          The economy's
resilience can be attributed to sound fundamentals, including high official reserves, a well
capitalized banking system, low inflation and a stable exchange rate, bolstered by a rising trade
surplus and a declining current account deficit. Public finances have also improved, supported
by the fiscal consolidation effort beguninmid-2001 under the new administration.

After a slowdown in 2001, growth resumed swiftly to 4.9 percent in 2002, a year of deep
recession for some countries inLatin America. The economy remained strong in 2003 and the 4
percent GDP growth target established by the government will most likely be met. Growth has
been led mainly b y miningand construction, the two most dynamic sectors. On the demand side,
growth was driven by exports, which increased by over 25 percent in 2003. Supported by
increasing prices for gold and copper, Peru's main exports, the trade surplus reached a record
US$644 million in 2003. As a result, the current account deficit narrowed to an estimated 1.9
percent of GDP.

The economic program, supported b y the IMF Stand-by arrangement, has been consistently on
track and international markets have reacted favorably to Peru's economic stability. Inflation
was kept low during 2003, and ended at 2.5 percent: well in line with the target established by
the Central Bank. Similarly, interest rates were low, supporting rapid growth in consumption.
Investment has gradually recovered, but at 17 percent of GDP, it i s still far from the 1999 level.
Private investment grew strongly in 2003, but it has not been broad-based, concentrating mainly
inminingandhydrocarbons.

Sustained economic growth and fiscal consolidation helped narrow the fiscal deficit moderately
to 1.9 percent of GDP in 2003. The improvement of fiscal balances over the past year was based
on two pillars: tax reform and austere fiscal policies. The gradual tax reform aims to increase
revenue collection, widen the tax base and give the tax collection agency strengthened powers to
reduce tax evasion. The reform efforts have led to an improved tax ratio: tax revenue collection
rose to 12.9 percent of GDP in 2003 from 12.1 percent in 2002. As a result, a small fiscal
surplus was achieved in2003 for the first time since 1998.

Despite all these achievements, the Peruvian economy i s exposed to some vulnerabilities. Key
vulnerabilities are the still high level of dollarization in the banking system, a moderate to high
public debt to GDP ratio (47 percent), and an unstable political environment. In addition, the
sustained growth experienced in the last two years has not yet translated into lower



                                                   18

unemployment. Despite economic growth of 4 percent per year and macroeconomic stability,
the estimatedjob loss for 2003 was as highas 40,000.

Prospects for the coming years are good, on the basis of a favorable external environment and
the continuation of sound economic policies. The expansion of the Camisea natural gas project
plannedfor 2004 should support investment, along with the potential free trade arrangement with
the United States that would make existing preferential access through the ATPDEA benefits
permanent. The pace of economic growth will most likely continue in 2004, with GDP growth
again projected at 4 percent. The rapid expansion of exports will continue in 2004 as a result of
the improving prospects for world growth andrising prices for gold and copper.

Intandem with a swift recovery after the slowdown of 2001, Peru has been going through some
important reforms over the past two and a half years. In2002, the Toledo government embarked
on a gradual process of decentralization of public functions and resources to regional and
municipal governments and a number of reforms are now underway. The guiding principles of
this process of decentralization can be summarized under three headings: fiscal neutrality,
gradualism, and a focus on competitiveness enhancement. In this respect, Peru faces a dual
challenge of pursuing a fiscally neutral decentralization program while ensuring that adequate
social provisions for the poor are in place. While Peru should continue to promote private
participation in productive and infrastructure sectors, the government still has a critical role to
play in achieving its long-term poverty reduction goals.

C. The decentralization process and reform of the social sectors

Early on, the Toledo administration stated that decentralization would be one of its main policy
reforms. As part of a broader focus on democratization and state modernization, decentralization
i s envisioned as a critical strategy to promote greater effectiveness and equity in poverty
reduction. The decentralization process, which was launched with the election o f regional and
municipal governments in November 2001, i s shaped by a set of seven guiding principles that
state that decentralization is: permanent; dynamic; irreversible; democratic; has nationwide
coverage; subsidiary inasmuch as efficiency, efficacy, and participation can be optimized; and i s
gradual in time.

Significant progress has been made since 2001 in the creation o f the legal framework for
decentralization.   The Decentralization Framework Law sets out the principles for: (i)the
assignment of services and competencies (shared, exclusive and delegated) to different levels of
government; (ii)the development of fiscal rules and transfer mechanisms; and (iii)the
sequencing of decentralization, starting with anti-poverty programs, to be followed b y other
sectoral transfers. The implementation of the institutional framework for decentralization has
also substantially advanced, with the creation of the National Decentralization Council to
coordinate the decentralization process and the setting-up of regional and local government
institutions, including the consultative bodies with civil society representation.      Other key
decentralization laws have also been passed, including one for regional governments and another
for municipal governments, broadly defining their institutions, roles and resources. Progress has
also been made in drawing up the fiscal decentralization framework, with a law on fiscal




                                               19

decentralization that has already been passed and a bill on Programmatic Fiscal Transfers (PTF)
presented to Congress.

While the Government successfully had legislation passed that establishes the overall principles
for decentralization and the organization of regional governments andmunicipalities, it still faces
significant challenges ahead with respect to establishing the rules that will govern the social
sectors and the anti-poverty programs in a decentralized context. The PFT draft law contains a
chapter on "Programmatic Transfers" (i.e. transfers subject to achieving targets to be set by
national programs), but this has not been approved yet and establishes only broad principles that
will need much more detailedregulations to be implemented.

With respect to anti-poverty programs, a large number of programs involving food aid,
infrastructure for poor areas, and social assistance for the elderly, orphans and disabled have
been grouped under the institutional umbrella of the Ministry of Women and Development
(MIMDES).         To further reorganize and improve the targeting and efficiency of these social
protection programs, in the context of decentralization, the government strategy4 proposed a
reform in their structure. Social protection i s to be implemented by local governments and
consist of three integrated programs financed by conditional transfers regulated by MIMDES.
These programs would transfer resources to the local governments according to agreed upon
procedures, objectives andtargets. The proposed programs are: (i)                a local development program,
that will transfer resources for creating infrastructure and economic opportunities for the poor;
(ii)solidarityprogram, thatwilltransfertheresourcescurrentlyusedforfoodaidtoimprove
    a
the quality of life of vulnerable groups; and (iii)          a family assistance program, that will transfer
resources to assist people at physical and moral risk, and families living in dire poverty. The
reforms leading to the new structure will be put in place by the 2004 Budget Law andb y the Law
of Programmatic Fiscal Transfers (PFT).

Another challenge i s to define the role of the sector ministries vis-&vis the regional governments
in health and education. The existing legislation is ambiguous about the roles of the different
actors in these sectors, yet de facto the decentralization of these sectors has already begun as
more than 50 percent of education and more than 44 percent of health expenditure will be
managed by the newly elected regional authorities in 2004 (mostly for ~alaries).~A clear legal
basis for the decentralization o f education andhealth remains indispensable.




 As set out inthe "Bases para laEstrategia de Superaci6n de laPobreza y Oportunidades Econ6micas para 10s
Pobres" ("Guidelines for a Poverty Overcoming Strategy and Economic Opportunities for the Poor), January 2003.
 While the Framework Law mandates that Health and Education are to be transferred inthe final stage of the
process, as of 2004 the Regional Directors of Health and Education will cease to be appointedby the sectoral
ministries and will become officials of the Regional Authorities (with technical accountability to the sectoral
ministries). Also, against the letter of the law, a Supreme Decree of August 2003 transferred the teacher payrolls of
Callao to the Regional Authorities and paved the way for a similar move inLima during 2004.


                                                          20

       Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bankand/or other Agencies
     ACCOUNTABILITYFORDECENTRALIZATIONINTHE SOCIALSECTORS
                            TECHNICALASSISTANCEPROJECT


Background

International cooperation agencies are focusing a significant proportion o f their agenda on the
modernization and decentralization processes inPeru. This i s sending a clear message of support
to the government in its effort to decentralize a traditionally highly centralized system. On the
other hand, the large number of cooperation activities i s posing a challenge to all agencies in
terms of coordination of actions in order to ensure that the government's needs are covered,
while, at the same time, avoiding potential overlaps.         This annex describes the various
cooperation efforts under way in Peru, and i s divided into two sections.        The first section
addresses the World Bank lending program in Peru, while the second section provides a
summary of the work being carried out by other agencies inthe country.

The WorldBankPrograminPeru

The Bank i s currently assisting the Government of Peru in the design and implementation of
reforms related to decentralization, primarily through two Programmatic Adjustment Loans. The
social reforms, within the decentralization process, are being supported by the Programmatic
Social Reform Loans (PSRLs - currently the fourth of these loans i s in preparation), while the
broader decentralization process, including fiscal sustainability, institutional reforms and
regional competitiveness i s supported by the Decentralization and Competitiveness Structural
Adjustment Loans, (DECSAL, the second of which i s currently inpreparation).

Other complementary loans include the Decentralization and Competitiveness TAL (in
preparation), the Health Sector Reform Project, the Rural Education Project and the Trade
Facilitation and Productivity Improvement Technical Assistance Loan. Also, a JSDF Grant
"Giving Voice to the Poor in Influencing, Planning, and Evaluating Service Delivery", which
supports strengthening the capacity of national and local governments and civil society
organizations to effectively engage in processes o f social accountability, improve public
planning and budgeting, enhance the transparency and integrity of social spending, and increase
quality of service delivery. Table A1 summarizes the relevant Bank operations.




                                                21

                                            Table A1

              Bank Operations linked to Decentralization and the Social Sectors
                                                                             LatestSupervision
                                                                               (PSR) Ratings
                                 Project                                 Implementatio Development

                                                                         nProgress(IP)   Objective
                                                                                          @O)




Of particular relevance to this proposed loan is the Institutional Capacityfor SustainableFiscal
Decentralization TAL. This loan focuses on supporting reforms aiming at fiscal neutrality as
well as key institutional reforms to strengthen the institutional environment for more efficient
and sustainable service-delivery. In particular, within the overall objectives of strengthening
fiscal sustainability and improved institutionaleffectiveness for result-oriented service delivery,
it will support: (i) design, application and monitoring of the fiscal decentralization legal
                     the
framework at both the regional and local level; (ii)      consolidation of sub-national financial
management systems, including budget formulation and monitoring under a medium-term
framework, development of a sub-national public investment system, and prudent management
of sub-national debt; and (iii)expansion and consolidation of SIAF and other selected
institutional - public assets management, procurement, civil service - reforms at the sub-
national level. Henceforth, supported by the Ley SAFI, and financed by the parallel Fiscal
Decentralization TAL, SIAF will rapidly expand its adoption by regional and local governments;
develop a monitoring and evaluation system for sub-national accounts covering budget
formulation, revenue collection and accounting; support preparation of participatory multi-
annual budgeting by sub-national governments; introduce a sub-national payroll system; and
manage debt by sub-national governments in keeping with the recently approved Fiscal
Decentralization Law. These parallel efforts will complement other SIAF activities under this
project aimed to build a results-oriented system for M&E of social programs.             Table A2
summarizes the complementarities between the Institutional Capacity for Sustainable Fiscal
Decentralization TALand the Accountability for Decentralization in the Social Sectors TAL.




                                                22

                                                       Table A2

                    Complementarities between the DecentralizationTALs inPeru

                     InstitutionalCaDacitvfor SustainableFiscal     Accountability for Decentralizationinthe Social
                                  DecekraGzation TAL                                   Sectors TAL
Planningand         Supports multiannualbudgetingat the sub-        Provides support for socialpolicy designand
Monitoring of       nationallevel andthe developmentof aninitial    evaluation.
PublicSpending      set of institutionalperformancemanagement
                    indicatorsfor projectsand activities. Supports
                    ex-anteandex-post evaluationof sub-national
                    overallexpenditures.
Public Investment   Support the extensionof the existingpublic      Supportsthe monitoringandevaluationof social
System(SNIP)        investment systemto regionalandlocal            investment underdecentralization.
                    govemments andprovidescapacitybuilding for
                    the use of the system.
IntegratedFinancial Supportsexpansionof SIAF coverage.              StrengthensSIAF throughthe development of
Management          StrengthenslinkagesbetweenSIAF, SNIP, and       budget andreportingmodules to carry out budget
System(SIAF)        Budget. Supportsthe implementationof aSIAF      formulation,execution, and monitoringof the
                    debt moduleandaconsolidatednationalpayroll      Prionty SocialPrograms.
                    system.
Accreditation       Support for financial accreditation is ensured  Supportsthe development andimplementationof
                    throughassistance inthe applicationof the       accreditationcriteria for the MIMDESprograms,
                    existinglegalframework for decentralization     andtraining for regionalandlocal govemmentsto
                    (LFTandLFRT).                                   get and stay accredited.
Performance         Provides support for the implementationof       Provides support for the implementationof CARs
Management          CARs betweenthe MEF andprogramsreceiving        betweenthe MEF andspecific socialprogramsand
Agreements (CAR     public resources. Supportsproceduresfor         of PASbetweenMIMDES andregionalandlocal
andPAS)             improving andsimplifying existingManagement     govemmentsfor the decentralizationof food
                    ResultAgreements.                               assistance and smallinfrastmctureprojects.
Participationand    Supports the developmentof the participatory    Supportsthe improvementof the "Consulta
socialauditing      budgetingprocessandcivil society monitoring     Amigable" website, which allowsfor virtual public
                    of overalldecentralizationpolicies.             access to SIAF andfinances trainingof CSOs in
                                                                    participatoryM&Eprocedures.



Other Development Agencies

International agency cooperation i s addressing key constraints to social and democratic
development in Peru, including: the absence of citizen participation in the decision-making
process, the lack of accountability o f state authorities, the weakness of mechanisms for
channeling citizen demands, inefficient social services delivery to the poor, and the lack of
simplified administrative rules for local governments, among others. Table A3 summarizes the
most relevant cooperation projects inPeru.




                                                            23

                                                  Table A3

                InternationalCooperationProjects linkedto Decentralization

 Agency     I            ProjectName               _ _                         Objectives

   IDB      DecentralizationProgram             decentralizationprocess according to the preceptsandstrategydefined
            US$40million                        by the DecentralizationFrameworkLaw.
   CAF      Multi-sector Public Investment      Implementationof SIAF-GL (equipment), developmentof cadastre and
Development Program                             implementationof income andexpenses modules.
Corporation)US$ 10million
                                                Management,plans andparticipatorybudget, civil society participation

                      (Pro-Decentralization)    at sub nationallevel, infrastructureandcommunalnecessities (sub
            US$20.million                       nationallevel andcommunities),civil vigilanceandinstitutional
            (2003-2007)                         strengthening(NGOs, communityorganizations),developmentof
                                                policiesand systems to manage competitivenesstransfer andresources
                                                for the sub-national governments(CND, PCM, Congress).
            Transition      for Decentralization
            US$0.43million                      Designof nationalnetworkinformation,training andincentives (CND,
            (closed)                            PCM, sub-national level).
            I                                   I
            Transparencyandcontrolof the
            decentralizationprocess             Audits of Transitory Councilfor RegionalAdministration (CTARs) and
            US$1.3 million                      recommendationsto regionalgovernments regardinginternalcontrol
            (closed)                            systems (CGR, CTARs, regionalgovemments).

            PARTICIPA PERUUS$3.0million         Social accountability,dissemination, andpromotion of participatory
            (2003-2005)                         mechanisms(Congress,CND, PCM, civil society, local organizations).
                                                Institutional strengthening, communalhealth,ruraleducation, promotiox
            BorderProgram                       of rights, management of naturalresources,food production,and
            US$12.2million                      marketing(Municipalities,round-tables-mesas de concertacidn,
            (2001-2004)                         community groups, indigenous federations, communityleaders, school
                                                teachers, healthpromoters, farmers).
            APODER
 COSUDE     US$0.68million                      Debate/participationandsocialcontrolleconomicpromotion(Local

            (2002/2006)                          associations andNGOs).

            HumanRightsfor the Poor
            US$10million                         Participationandinclusionof poor communitiesinlocal government
            (2002/2007)                          (Civil Society, local govemments, and agriculturalcommunities).

            "A Trabajar" Rural                   LinkingFONCODESinvestmentswithjointly negotiatedlocal
  DFID      US$0.50million                       government plans, and strengtheningmanagementcapacities
            (closed)                             (FONCODES, local governments, andruralcommunities).
            ElectionandLocal Government
            Program                              Inclusionof poor communities inlocal govemments (NGOs,
            US$1.O million                       OmbudsmanOffice, RGandLG).
            (closed)
            Citizenexpectationsandreformof the
            State                                Civil participationindecision-makingprocesses (PCM, CND, andsub-
            US$0.08million                       nationalauthorities).
            (in preparation)
            CUCHARAS ENALTO
  CIDA      US$0.07million                       Socialfood policy to supportthe comedorespopulares (SunJuan de
            (2003-2004)                          Lurigancho district).

            RegionalPlansfor similar
            opportunities
            US$0.07million                       RegionalPlans for similar opportunities(RegionalGovemments).
            (2003-2004)




                                                        24

              Municipal Strengthening
              US$23million                        Infrastructureandlocal services(Local governments).
              (under preparation)
     KFW      Peru- GermanyCounterpart Fund       Support for strategic planninganddemocratic management. Small
              US$14.7 million                     projects insanitation andeconomicinfrastructurefor livestock
              (2003-2007)                         production(LG, NGOs, civil associations).

                                                  Strengtheningof local management, elaborationof district development
                      (Program to         Food    plans,planningof localdevelopment, strategic management of
 luropeanUnionSecurity)
              Us$somillion                        departmentalplans, economicinfrastructure,promotionof small

              (1997-2006)                         productiveprojects, etc. (MINDES, FONCODES,andsub-national
                                                  level).
              Promotionof Indigenouspeoplein the Socialinclusion, empowerment, institutional strengthening,promotion
              PeruvianAmazon                      of women andtrainingof leaders (AIDESEPICONAPA).
              EUR 2 million
              (2003-2005)
              Strengthening of dialogue between   Strengtheningand adaptationof participationmechanisms,consensus-
              civil society andthe State          building and socialinclusion (PCM/GrupoPropuestaCiudadana).
              EUR 0.002 million
     GTZ      (2003-2006)
              Strengtheningof the NationalAudit   Adaptationof selectedaudit methodsinregionsandmunicipalities
              System                              (SupremeAudit Institution - Contraloria Generalde la Reptiblica).
              EUR 2 million
              (inpreparation)
              Strengtheningof capacities for
              servicesdelivery                    Trainingfor transfer of competencies (LambayequeRegional
              EUR 0.002 million                   GovemmentandCND).




The State Modernization and Decentralization Program (IDB)
This project aims to support an effective process-for modernizing and decentralizing public
administration in Peru. The decentralization subprogram (US$ 19.9 million) consists of four
components: (i)legal framework; (ii)          strengthening of supervisory bodies; (iii)            support for the
installation of regional governments; and (iv) creation of a training and a technical assistance
system for municipal governments.

Particularly, the IDB project will assist the Government in: (i)              developing the intergovernmental
information system and implementation of a technical services center for regional and local
SIAFs; (ii)  creating administrative and management systems, and providing assistance for the
transfer o f competencies; (iii)      reviewing and implementing administrative processes associated
with the new competencies; and (iv) designing and implementing a training plan for regional and
local governments in the transferred sectors.        .



PRODES (USAID)
This US$25 million project is part of a USAID 2002-2007 decentralization program.                                  The
program as a whole aims to support central, regional and local governments in seven areas
(Ayacucho, Cusco, Junin, Huiinuco, San Martin, Pasco and Ucayali) b y promoting an efficient
and sustainable decentralization process, best practices with respect to institutionalization, and
civil society capacity to participate in decision making. As a part o f this program, PRODES
aims to increase the ability of the RG and LG to respond to the demands of the population, as




                                                         25

well as the ability of social organisms to propose initiatives for ensuring the achievement of
institutional, social, economic and sustainable development.

The main components o f this project are: (i)    technical assistance to design and implement the
political and normative reform; (ii)   strengthening and institutionalization of civil participation
mechanisms; (iii)   strengthening of the management capacity of regional and local governments;
(iv) strengthening the capacity of social organizations; and (v) promotion of government best
practices and experiences of co-management among the regional or local government and social
organizations.

PARTICIPA PERU (USAID)
This project aims to strengthen the role and capacities of civil society in the decentralization
process, as well as to promote the right to citizen participation through: (i)information about the
decentralization process; (ii)initiatives for establishing the'legal framework for decentralization;
(iii)participation in consensus-building entities at the regional and local levels; and (iv) civil
vigilance of national, regional and local authorities' performance.

Border Program (USAID)
This project plans to achieve the integral development of the Peru-Ecuador border inthe context
of the Peace Agreement between Peru and Ecuador.              Among its principal objectives, this
program aims to increase local capacities in border communities, through local management,
democracy andMesas de Concertacibn.

A PODER Program (COSUDE)
This program is concentrated in the departments of Cusco, Apurimac and Cajamarca, and i s
oriented to strengthening the decentralization process at local levels; promoting a more
empowered civil society and efficient, democratic and transparent rural local governments; and
waging the battle against poverty. Its principal lines of action are: (i)  facilitating dissemination
of information and promoting a shared vision of decentralization; (ii)   strengthening participation,
especially o f women, in political decisions and citizen control; and, (iii)strengthening the
capacity of municipalities to promote the local economy with an emphasis on economic sectors
inwhich women play an important role.

Human Rightsfor the Poor (DFZD)
This program aims to: (i)    promote institutionalization of civil society participation, especially
among the poorest; (ii)     promote .an accountability culture and equity in central and local
governments, as well as international cooperation; (iii)  contribute to integration of the poorest in
public policies; and (iv) develop capacities in people and social organisms to ensure their
participation in public decisions. This project i s under way in Piura, Cajamarca, Ayacucho,
Huancavelica, Cusco, and Puno.




                                                  26

                               Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring
     ACCOUNTABILITYFORDECENTRALIZATIONINTHE SOCIALSECTORS
                                  TECHNICALASSISTANCEPROJECT

                                                  ResultsFramework

                                                    Outcome Indicators                                     Information
Strengthened results-oriented and          Percentage of priority social             Evaluate social expenditures policy
participatory planning, and                programs6expenditures on human
monitoring and evaluation, with            capital
emphasis on decentralized MIMDES
social programs.                           Targeting improved: proportion of
                                           budget on 1'' quintile increased from
                                           XX%to YY% ininfant nutrition
                                           programs and from 22%to WW%               Evaluate improvement incoverage
                                           inSIS.'                                   and effectiveness of social programs
                                                                                     andfeedback to policy.
                                           Percentage of budget linkedto
                                           performance agreementsreached
                                           40% infood programs and 40% in
                                           rural infrastructureprograms.

                                           Number of grassroots organizations        Evaluate effectiveness inincreasing
                                           that voice opinion on social policy       participation inmonitoringand
                                           and quality o f programs in               evaluation, track differentiated
                                           participatory evaluations, ingeneral      participation inevaluation of social
                                           and in 1"quintile districts.              programs.



Component One:                             Component One:                            Component One:

Improved quality of social policies
and programs:

(i) optionsanalyzedand
   Policy                                  MacroSocial framework approved            Monitor improvement of consistency
social policy framework approved.          and published annually as part of         between social sectors' annual
                                           MMM.                                      budget and multi-annual
                                                                                     macroeconomic framework.

(ii)Strengthened results-oriented          Number of Results Agreements              Monitor improvement o f
planning and accountability at the         (CARS)signed between DNPPand              effectiveness of planning insocial
national level.                            sectors.                                   sectors.

                                           Number of programs with improved
                                           logical or results frameworks.




 Includes initialeducation, primary education, secondaryeducation, individualhealth, collectivehealth, andsocial and
community assistance.
'Numbersto   be determined when ENAHO 2003 is available. Surveys of ENAHO2003 are fromMay 2003 to April 2004 and
the dataare expectedinJuly 2004.


                                                             27

Component Two:                          Component Two:                       Component Two:

Performance Agreements and
Accreditation System implemented
for MIMDES programs:

(i)Accreditation system specific for    Number of applications submitted     Monitor advance in accreditation in
social programs implemented.            by municipalities for accreditation  social programs and review policy
                                        revised and with feedback to         following experience.
                                        municipalities.
                                                                             Adjust accreditationbenchmarks and
                                        Annual evaluation of accreditation   procedures.
                                        system.

(ii)Performance agreements              Number of PASsigned between          Monitor advance on application of
implemented, including quantitative     MIMDES and municipalities            PASanddetermining magnitudeof
targets, adequateincentives and         including participation benchmarks.  annual scaling-up.
accountability.
                                        Number of monitoring reports of      Introduce improvements inPAS
                                        PAS.                                 design and monitoring.

                                        Number of municipalities with        Establish priority indicators for
                                        increased social program             M&Esystem.
                                        management capacities, and number
                                        pertaining to Istquintile.

                                        Results of annual evaluation of PA
                                        used for improvement of indicators
                                        and incentives.

                                        Incentives framework linked to PA
                                        compliance.

(iii)Transfers to sub-national          Improvedgeographical targeting o f    Monitor capacity of MEFfor
governments monitored and with          transfers to sub-national             managing programmatic and fiscal
improved geographical distribution.     governments,' with 25% of             transfers to municipalities.
                                        additional budget going to 1''
                                        quintile districts.
Component Three:                        Component Three:                      Component Three:

Improved M&Ein social sectors:

(i) informationsystems
   Basic                                Budget module included inSIAF.        Continuous improvement of SIAF.
strengthened.

(ii)MIMDES programs with                Number of municipalities and          Adjustinstruments for municipal
monitoring system improved.             regional governments with             capacity-building with respect to
                                        monitoringof budget execution         monitoring social programs.
                                        reports and physical goals o f PSPs,
                                        and number of them in 1" quintile
                                        districts.

                                        Number of municipalities with         Monitor advance inimproving


* IncludingFONCOMUN,     Vaso de Leche, anddecentralized MIMDES socialprograms,excluding ComedoresPopulares


                                                           28

                                    Iimproved monitoring indicators,         monitoring system.
                                     including: (i)targeting indicators for
                                     nutritional programs; (ii) knowledge,
                                     attitudes andpractices of mothers for
                                     infant nutrition programs; and (iii)
                                     maintenance and management
                                     capacities for rural infrastructure
                                     programs.
(iii)Strengthened capacity for
evaluation and use o f evaluation.                                           Monitor advance inevaluations
(iv) External and intermediate       Number of impact and qualitative        subcomponent, including quality of
evaluations produced and household   evaluations of social programs          evaluations. Identify critical issues
surveys improved.                    published and discussed inpublic.       for implementation of
                                                                             recommendations.

(v) Transparency and participatory
monitoring mechanisms                Number of Comitksde Gestidn             Continuous improvement of
implemented.                         (management committees)                 ConsultaAmigable website,
                                     established for social programs.        including budget and expenditure
                                                                             information.
                                     Number of hits on the Consulta
                                     Amigable website.                       Identify critical gaps and actions for
                                                                             improved participation in
                                     Number of participatory workshops       monitoring.
                                     held to review monitoring reports in
                                     municipalities o f lst 2nd
                                                           and
                                     quintiles.

                                     Number of participatory workshops
                                     that allow full participation of native
                                     language speakers.




                                                       29

                  m

             m+




              m   3   m




8m    0   0 0     3 0

I




                          -
                          I
                          4




I o  0 0  0 0  0  0
                  0   0   0    0

lo 'ii
   8
       0  0

                              Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
 ACCOUNTABILITY FOR DECENTRALIZATIONINTHE SOCIAL SECTORS
                           TECHNICAL ASSISTANCEPROJECT

Component1:Improvingthe qualityof socialpoliciesandprograms(US$1.43total
cost, US$1.14 loan)

The GOP has made significant progress in developing social policy guidelines and
strengthening planning capacity in the social sectors. The Technical Secretariat of the
Interministerial Committee on Social Affairs (ST-CIAS) has been responsible for
developing social policies, albeit with varying degrees of success over time. One of the
products of the ST-CIAS was the approval of the Guidelines for a National Poverty
Alleviation Strategy (Lineamientos para una Estrategia para la Superacio'n de la
Pobreza). The social sectors have drawn up strategic plans. Still, the complete Poverty
Alleviation Strategy has not been approved and social sectors multi-annualplans are not
coordinated with the macroeconomic framework. Evaluations are rare and have no
feedback to policy-making.             Furthermore, there i s no accountability system, nor
incentives for the social sectorsto follow their strategic plans.

This first component will focus on improving the quality of social policies and programs
through two broad subcomponents: (i) policy design and results-oriented planning
                                                social
in a decentralized context; and (ii)implementation of results-oriented management
agreements at the national level. This component will finance national and international
consultancies, studies, workshops and consultations with stakeholders.

Social policy design in a decentralized context

This subcomponentwill focus on contributing to the development of social policy options
and results-oriented planning in a decentralized context. The following activities are
included: (i)  development and evaluation of a social policy framework that i s consistent
with the multi-annual macroeconomic framework; (ii)               technical assistance for improving
the social sector strategic plans (PESEMs and PEIs), and capacity-building for strategic
and operations planning; (iii)       studies defining responsibilities and reviewing analyses of
social sector decentralization; and (iv) studies leading to the increase in coverage and
efficiency of pension systems.

Implementation of results-oriented management agreements at the national level

This subcomponent will support the implementation of management agreements at the
national level (Convenios de Administracih por Resultados - CARS), to be signed
between the budget office (DNPP) and the social programs, some of the PSPs13 and
selected projects or activities associated to them. This will proceed through: (i)
improvement of the results frameworks or the logical frameworks of the programs and
projects in the social sectors, especially the PSPs; and (ii)design, monitoring and


l3PSPshave been designed with support of PSRLs and include: initial, primary and secondary education,
individual and collective health, and social and community assistance.

                                                    33

evaluation o f CARs, reviewing experience in other sectors and countries. These CARs
will be designed based on the improved plans and logical frameworks, and their
monitoring will be supported by SIAF (see below).

Component 2: Implementation of performance agreements and accreditation of
social sectors (US$0.71 total, US$0.57 loan)

The decentralization of social programs began in the last quarter of calendar year 2003,
albeit at a slow pace and under short-leash control by central government agencies. The
draft Programmatic Transfers Law (PTL) and the 2004 National Budget Law establish
that the decentralized social programs must be implemented by accredited municipalities
and be subject to performance agreements signed between MIMDES and these local
governments. However, the budget transfers to municipalities made in late 2003 were
subject to a simplified certification system because the accreditation system had not been
designed. Furthermore, a detailed project-cycle, specifying the functions of each level of
government for these programs, has yet to be approved. In this context, a significant
effort must be made so that accreditation and performance agreements do not become
token processes or lead to rigid bureaucratic procedures, but allow flexibility and
promote efficiency at the local level.

The second component will support the implementation of the social programs
decentralization process through: (i)   support to the implementation of the accreditation
process; (ii) implementation of performance agreements (PAS)and capacity-building at
the local level; and (iii) monitoring and evaluation of the transfer of social programs to
local and regional governments.        It will operate through national and international
consultancies, workshops, training, dissemination and equipment.

Implementation of the accreditationprocess

Part of the principle of gradualism that i s inherent to the Peruvian vision of
decentralization i s the requirement to accredit the sub-national governments prior to the
transfer o f responsibilities and transfers to them. After more than a year o f discussions,
the Executive i s expected to send a draft Accreditation Law to Congress in June.
Congress has also prepared some draft versions that are under discussion. The draft Law,
expected to be approved during the second semester of 2004, will most likely set broad
principles for the establishment of the system and include some criteria for the selection
of institutional, fiscal and sectoral indicators and their monitoring.      The proposed
accreditation system will most likely consist of a general and a specific sectoral
accreditation.   The general accreditation would focus on fiscal and institutional
management capacity, which would verify that sub-national governments have the
minimum management capacities needed in budgeting, reporting, financial management
and procurement, including the use of the SIAF. The specific accreditation would refer
to specific sectoral requirements and would verify that sub-national governments have
the capacity to manage the specific social program for which accreditation i s requested.

Accreditation will not only require detailed regulations subsequent to its approval, but
also support for the specific design of the cross-sectoral and specific sectoral
accreditation system.      It will also require substantial capacity-strengthening of the

                                               34

 management capacity of sub-national governments to achieve the accreditation process
 and to enhance their management capacity beyond the accreditationprocess.

This Project will finance activities in support of the accreditation process for the social
programs, including the following activities: (i)dissemination o f the social program
transfers policy and of the accreditation system; (ii)design of manuals and other
instruments for accreditation; and (iii)training and capacity buildingfor accreditation.

Design and implementation of performance agreements

The GOP i s interested in developing Performance Agreements (PA), including
quantitative indicators, accountability and participatory mechanisms and incentives.
Municipalities, especially poor and rural ones, have little capacity to manage the scant
amounts o f funds that are already being transferred to them, let alone the future transfers
from the decentralization process. Thus, training and a communication strategy are key
elements to achieve an orderly decentralization process. Municipalities will need to learn
and understand the rules of the game regarding accreditation and PAS. The project will
develop basic instruments, such as guidelines, manuals and learning materials,
disseminate them and provide basic training for municipalities.          To date, there are
approximately 300 municipalities that have been accredited (under the simplified
procedure) and signed PASin 2003, but this number i s expected to grow in the next two
years. The training program i s expected to focus on basic management capacity in order
to be and stay accredited and to comply with performance agreements. This will require
the development of basic management instruments that can be easily delivered to
municipalities, such as manuals or guidelines. Inorder to address the issue of the uneven
level of institutional development of local governments, rural and poor municipalities
will receive special consideration.

This subcomponent will finance: (i) anddissemination of the experience of PASin
                                     review
health; (ii) tours and studies for improvement of performance agreements; (iii)
             study
technical assistance and capacity building for the implementation of performance
agreements; and (iv)monitoring and evaluation of performance agreements.

Monitoring and evaluation of the budget transfers to sub-national govemments

The GOP i s committed to ongoing evaluation of the results of the decentralization
process and to adjusting its policies accordingly. The MEF i s in charge of establishing
the budget ceilings and procedures for the transfer o f financial resources to municipalities
and regional governments, particularly in respect of budgets transferred for social
programs. This subcomponent will give support to reviewing the formulas for budget
allocation and the mechanisms for the transfer of funds and monitoring of their
implementation.

The subcomponent will finance the following activities: (i)    evaluation and review of the
formula used to distribute budget to sub-national governments; and (ii)       monitoring of
financial transfers for social programs and sectors.



                                             35

Component 3: Improvement of monitoring and evaluation inthe socialsectors
(US$5.03 total, US$4.02 loan)

Sound monitoring and evaluation systems are critical for successful decentralization and
for the implementation of accreditation systems and performance agreements.
Monitoring systems must be in place in order to verify compliance with accreditation
benchmarks and with PA indicators. In addition, continuous improvement of program
and project design must be basedon evidence provided by evaluations. However, M&E
systems inPeru suffer from considerable shortcomings. They are more focused on inputs
than results and many critical indicators are not monitored. There i s little quality control
of information sources and processing and information systems are underdeveloped. The
level of involvement of users of social programs and civil society i s very low and no
effective and systematic methodological approaches are adopted. This component thus
focuses on improving the M&E systems and providing critical support to components 1
and 2, in order to guarantee the use and effectiveness of monitoring and evaluation
results.

The component builds on several instruments andinitiatives launchedby the government,
civil society organizations and independent think-tanks over the past few years and will
finance the following subcomponents: (i)      strengthening of basic information systems
such as SIAF and a student information system; (ii)   development of a monitoring system
for the social programs; (iii) strengthening evaluation capacity and instruments; (iv) an
independent fund for intermediate and impact evaluations; and (v) support to
transparency and participatory monitoring mechanisms. Financing will be provided for
equipment, consultancies, dissemination, training and workshops.

Strengthening of the basic information systems

Peruhas developed a well-performing integratedfinancial management system known as
SIAF, which has the potential to support a results-orientedM&Esystem. SIAFcovers all
Central Government and most decentralized entities. SIAF was institutionalized through
the recently approved Ley SAFZ,which formally integrated it into the MEF organizational
structure. SIAF already contains pilot sub-modules for monitoring three selected social
programs (A Trabajar Urbano, PRONAA and SIS - the public health insurance scheme)
that provide information on their budgets, expenditure, financial and physical indicators;
their services and benefits provided, and their main suppliers.          SIAF has become
instrumental to the overall budget decentralization process. Supported by the Ley SAFI,
and financed by the parallel Fiscal Decentralization TAL, SIAF i s rapidly expanding its
adoption by regional and local governments; developing a monitoring and evaluation
system for sub-national accounts containing budget formulation, revenue collection and
accounting; supporting preparation of participatory multi-annual budgeting by sub-
national governments; introducing a sub-national payroll system; and managing debt by
sub-national governments in consistency with the recently                  approved Fiscal
Decentralization Law.

Under a complementary and more focused approach, this Project will finance a SIAF-
basedresults-oriented M&E system of the social programs. Therefore, it will strengthen
SIAF support to budget formulation, execution, monitoring and evaluation tools for the

                                             36

social programs     in the process of decentralization.     Specific SIAF-related activities
included in the project can be grouped as follows: (i)    design and inclusion of a budget
module linked to SIAF; (ii)    design and inclusion of a special icon within SIAF for
monitoring financial and physical results indicators (intermediate and final) in the social
programs--especially the CARs of the PSPs--and in selected projects or activities
associated to them; and (iii) enhancement of budget transparency and participatory tools
through an improved ConsultaAmigable (see below).                      ',


While it i s expected that SIAF will be a significant tool for capturing monitoring data for
social programs, there are certain types of information that are not captured by this
system and are crucial for the monitoring of social sector programs. This i s particularly
true for the Education Sector where the basic measurement unit i s the school and not the
student. School-based statistics do not allow for adequate followkp of students, causing
significant errors in monitoring enrollment and desertion rates at the regional level. This
subcomponent will finance the refurbishment of an existing student monitoring system
and its implementation in two regions. The Ministry of Education will assess lessons
learned and draw up a plan for national implementation of the system.

Implementation of a monitoring systemfor social programs

Monitoring o f social programs i s now limited mainly to inputs. For example, in the case
of food programs, logistical aspects of food purchasing and distribution are monitored
carefully (tons acquired and distributed), but there i s no reliable administrative
information system that records the number of beneficiaries, targeting levels or impact on
nutrition.   In the case of the small infrastructure projects financed by FONCODES,
financial progress i s monitored, while, at a decentralized level, physical progress of
works i s followed-up. Critical issues, such as community participation, organizational
capacity for management and maintenance of public works, or health practices in the use
of water, are not included inits monitoring system.

Implementation of the accreditation system and the performance agreements for the
MIMDES programs requires timely, reliable and useful information.              Participatory
monitoring will also need hard quantitative data, while providing the system with
qualitative information. This subcomponent will finance the following activities: (i)
design and inclusion of a special icon within SIAF for monitoring financial and physical
results indicators (intermediate and final) in the social programs -especially the CARs
of the PSPs -and in selected projects or activities associated with them; (ii)  re-design of
the MIMDES monitoring system; (iii)implementation of the MIMDES monitoring
system, including hardware and software; and (iv) capacity-building of municipal and
regional authorities and local operators o f the MIMDES monitoring system.

Strengthening of evaluation capacities and instruments

Social programs are rarely evaluated in Peru. A study revealed that less than a quarter of
all social programs had M&E systems, and most were limited to projects financed by
international agencies (Ortiz de Zevallos and Wachtenteim, 2000). More recently, some
independent think tanks have carried out interesting impact evaluations using advanced
statistical methodologies, such as propensity score matching.         In addition, there are

                                              37

interesting experiences, such as that of FondoEmpleo, a public autonomous agency in
charge of employment programs that has contracted impact evaluations for most of its
projects (monitoring was also contracted out by FondoEmpleo, with mixed results that
led them to re-assume some internal monitoringresponsibilities). Household surveys are
regularly collected and produce valuable information, but some improvements are
necessary.

Support for evaluation of social programs will come through two subcomponents, one
dedicated to strengthening capacities and instrumentsto evaluate and use evaluations and
the other funding independent evaluations. This subcomponent will finance: (i)      training
of public officials in the use of information coming from the M & E systems; (ii)
improvement of ENAHO and support to INEI; (iii)       evaluation and improvement of user
satisfaction surveys, user complaints and other mechanismsto gather users' opinions; and
(iv) evaluation of information coming from new instruments being implemented in the
education sector, such as the new payroll system and the Consejos Educativos
Institucionales.

Impact and intermediate evaluations

This subcomponent will finance impact, qualitative and mid-term evaluations of social
programs and projects, providing critical feedback to the previous one. The evaluations
will serve as the basis for decisions on policy options and for improvement of the
strategic plans and logical frameworks.

A challenge fund will be established. The studies will be awarded through a competitive
process to think tanks, universities and consulting agencies. The contracts will include
consultative workshops with experts and dissemination of results, to ensure transparency
and enhance its quality and impact on policies. The fund will be managed by an
independent administration selected in a competitive process. Funding criteria, projects
to be evaluated and the main issues to address in the evaluations, will be set by the MEF
and the three social sectors. Feedback will be sought from CSOs. The fund will have a
special window, which focuses on supporting participatory monitoring initiatives led by
civil society and user organizations. The advisability of converting it into a trust fund for
the purpose of endowing the fund with a more sustainable legal and financial framework,
and inviting other donors to contribute, will be explored.

The activities in this subcomponent will be: (i)establishment and definition of
management arrangements for the challenge fund, and the funding criteria linked to the
participatory monitoring window; (ii)management and monitoring of the fund; (iii)
baseline of municipal capacities for the transfer of social programs; and (iv) baseline and
evaluation of nutritional and food programs, rural infrastructure projects, strategic and
operational health plans, as well as other evaluation studies encompassing all three social
sectors.

Improvement of transparency andparticipatory monitoring mechanisms

This subcomponent will finance technical assistance to improve the involvement of
multiple stakeholders in monitoring social expenditure and its results at local, regional

                                             38

and national levels.    Enhancing transparency i s a critical input for this process.
Improving the MEF's Internet portal called "Consulta Amigable," which presently
contains timely and reliable information on expenditures coming from SIAF, will
enhance transparency. Consulta Amigable will be complemented by similar Internet
portals linked to respective SIAF-GLs, thus providing user-friendly and useful
information about budgets, expenditures, services and the performance of social
programs at the municipal level.     Similarly, the institutionalization of participatory
processes as an integral part of the M&E system and of performance agreements will be
supportedby the project, through capacity strengthening activities aimed at improving the
level, quality and sustainability of engagement by local governments, users of social
programs and civil society organizations in monitoring and evaluation processes.
Affirmative action measures and differentiated methodological approaches will be
adoptedto ensure access to training and technical assistanceby the poorest municipalities
and by grassroots-organizations representing socially excluded groups, such as
indigenous people, Afrodescendants, rural women and youth. The establishment of a
special window in the challenge fund mechanism i s envisioned for funding and
channeling project resources to independent training agencies and pilot proposals for
delivering andimplementing the above-mentioned capacity strengthening initiativesto be
supportedby the project.

Activities to improve transparent and participatory monitoring mechanisms will include:
(i) ofparticipatorymonitoringexperiences;(ii)specialwindowofthechallenge
   review                                              a
fund for capacity-strengthening of excluded groups for participatory monitoring; (iii)
capacity building activities for Comite`s de Gesti6n (local participatory bodies for the
management of social programs); (iv) participatory evaluation and improvement of the
Consulta Amigable portal from the point of view of users; and (v) training of grassroots,
indigenous peoples and civil society organizations, including members of the
Consultative Regional and Local Councils (CCRs and CCLs), and local management
councils to be able to track social expenditures, outputs and results of social programs
andprojects, and monitor performance agreements.

Component 4. Project Management (US$0.61 total, US$0.49 loan)

The purpose of this component is to support project implementation, monitoring and
evaluation. The UCPS (Unidad de Coordinacih de Prestamos Sectoriales) in MEF will
operate according to the structure and management procedures agreed upon with the
Bank. A capacity assessment was carried out to evaluate procurement and financial
management processes under the responsibility of the UCPS, and was deemed
satisfactory. The UCPS will be responsible for coordinating and monitoring the yearly
Operations Plan, financial management of the project, and procuring goods and services
(see Annex 6 for organization and functionof the PCU).

This component will finance operating costs including: (i)travel and per diem of
executing agencies personnel for project implementation purposes; (ii)salaries of PCU
staff and consultants; and (iii)project monitoring and evaluation. Some cost sharing is
expectedwith the Fiscal TAL.



                                           39

                                        Annex 5: ProjectCosts
 ACCOUNTABILITYFORDECENTRALIZATIONINTHE SOCIALSECTORS
                            TECHNICALASSISTANCEPROJECT

                                                               Local             Foreign          Total
ProjectCostBy Componentand/or Activity                          us                 us              us
                                                             $million            $million       $million
1.Improving the qualityof socialpoliciesand
programs                                                        1.40               0.03            1.43
   1.1Social Policy Designina decentralized
context                                                         1.14               0.02            1.16
   1.2Implementation of results-oriented
management agreements at the national level                     0.26               0.01            0.27
2. Implementationof PerformanceAgreements
and Accreditation of social sectors                             0.71               0.00            0.71
   2.1Implementation of accreditation process                   0.16               0.00            0.16
   2.2 Design and Implementationof Performance
Agreements                                                      0.35               0.00            0.35
   2.3 Monitoringand Evaluationof Budget
Transfers to Sub-national Governments                           0.20               0.00            0.20
3. Improvement of Monitoring and Evaluation
inthe Social Sectors                                            3.92               1.11            5.03
   3.1 Strengthening of Basic Information Systems               0.42               0.61            1.03
   3.2 Implementation of a Monitoring System for
MlMDESSocialPrograms                                            0.91               0.46            1.37
   3.3 Strengthening of Evaluation Capacities and
Instruments                                                     0.68               0.04            0.72
   3.4 Impact and Intermediate Evaluations                      1.53               0.00            1.53
   3.5 Improvement of Transparency and
Participatory MonitoringMechanisms                              0.38               0.00            0.38
4. Project Management                                           0.61               0.00            0.61

Total Baseline Cost                                             6.64                1.14           7.78
  Physical Contingencies
  Price Contingencies
                                TotalPrqjectCosts'              6.61               1.14            7.78
                        Project Preparation Facility             1.84                              1.84
                                         Front-end Fee                                             0.08
                        TotalFinancingRequired                                                     9.70




'Identifiable taxes and duties are US$m1.47, and the total project cost, net of taxes, is US$m8.23.
Therefore, the share of project cost net of taxes is 84.83%.




                                                      40

                        Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
  ACCOUNTABILITYFORDECENTRALIZATIONINTHE SOCIAL SECTOR
                        TECHNICALASSISTANCEPROJECT

Background

As part of the PSRL Program, the GOP and the Bank discussed the need to ensure that
the decentralization processwould not leadto a deterioration in the performance of social
programs in Peru, but to an improvement in efficiency and targeting. Inorder to address
this issue, it was agreed that an accountability system was critical.             The main
characteristics of this system were discussed and a number of criteria were identified,
including: results orientation, integration, to the extent possible, of the social sectors in
order to avoid overlaps andensure cross-fertilization among them; and the use of existing
platforms, again to the extent possible. Leadership of this process would be critical and
required an institution that regularly coordinates with the sectors. Both the Presidency of
the Council of Ministers (PCM) and the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF)
discussed this issue and formally communicated to the Bank that the MEF would be
responsible for leading the accountability system, in coordination with PCM, the social
sector ministries and other stakeholders. In addition, the MEF has been designated,
through the 2004 National Budget Law, as responsible for monitoring public expenditure
and evaluating the quality of it. Within the MEF, the General Directorate for Multiannual
Planning (Direccidn General de Planificacidn Multianual -DGPM) has been designated
as responsible for the coordination and supervision of the public sector M&E system,
which includes the Social Sectors. It is important to note that, while Perui s in the initial
stages of creating a strategic planning agency, the MEF has a number of attributions
normally characteristic of aplanning ministry inother countries.

Projectimplementationarrangements

OverallProjectCoordination. The Coordination Unitfor Sectoral Loans (UCPS) inthe
Ministry of Economy andFinance will be responsible for overall Project implementation,
underthe guidance of the Vice Minister of Economy. The UCPS will be responsible for
coordinating with beneficiary areas within the MEFas well as with other sectors. Within
the MEF, key actors will include DGPM, DGAES, SIAF and DGPP (see Table below).
Of these, DGPM will have a critical role as responsible for the coordination and
supervision of the Social Sector M&E system. The roles of the UCPS and DGPM are
describedbelow in greater detail.

The UCPS has been the Bank's main counterpart throughout the PSRL and DECSAL
program. It has also beenresponsible for the implementation of this Project's Preparation
Facility (PPF). Upon Project approval, this unit would act as the Project Coordination
Unit(PCU) for the loan. The UCPS will carry out the following activities:

   a   Under the leadership of a full-time Project Coordinator, day-to-day oversight of
       overall operations, control of financial management, compliance with procedures,
       andrelations and coordination with the Bank.


                                             41

    0   With the support of a small technical and administrative group, carry out bidding
        procedures; process contracts; manage accounts; prepare FMRs; supervise project
        execution; provide general logistic support and ensure that project activities are
        consistent with Bank guidelines.
        Under consultation with beneficiary agencies within and outside the MEF,
        prepareand monitor the Annual OperationsPlan.

The DGPMwill be responsible for the coordination and supervision of the Social Sector
M&E system, as part of its responsibilities for implementing the public sector M&E
system. The DGPMwill carry out the following activities:


    0   Assist UCPS in the preparation and monitoring of the annual operations plan in
        order to ensurethat the overall vision of the M&E system i s kept.
    0   Prepare and /or assist partners in the preparation of TORSin relation to the M&E
        system.
        Maintain a project monitoring system to assess progress and provide the
        necessary informationto the UCPS for the preparation of implementation reports.

ImplementationPartnerships.The UCPS, through the Vice Minister of Economy, will
enter into Management Agreements with all four implementation partners: MIMDES,
MINEDU, MINSA, and INEI(See Table below). The Management Agreements will
assignresponsibilities and establish the coordination and conflict resolution procedures.

Of all the outside partners, MIMDES will be the most crucial as it i s responsible for the
implementation of Component 2, as well as part of Component 3. Given the relatively
large work load allocated to this sector, a full time technical coordinator will be hired, to
be stationed in MIMDES. MIMDES will not be responsible for any financial
management activities related to the project. This coordinator will be responsible for the
following activities:


    0   Preparing and monitoring the annual plan for the sector, ensuring consistency
        with project design.
    0   Coordinating with UCPS, and when necessary with DGPM, the inclusion of
        activities inthe project's Annual Plan.
        Preparing relevant TOR for the sector's activities.
        Carrying out overall consultant supervision, where relevant.
    0   Report to UCPS any critical issues relevant to the Project.




                                             42

                    Institutional Responsibilitiesby Sub-component



                                 Component                                        Primary Responsible
                                                                                        Institution

1.Improving the qualityofsocialpoliciesandprograms

._____________________________________
    1.1SocialPolicy_________-- a decentralized context
                    Design in
                         --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------._
                                                                                     DGAESDGPM
    1.2Implementationof results-oriented managementagreements at the
  national level                                                                          DNPP




    3.5 Improvement of Transparency and Participatory Monitoring
  Mechanisms                                                                              Multiple




                                              43

          Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
 ACCOUNTABILITYFORDECENTRALIZATIONINTHE SOCIALSECTORS
                         TECHNICALASSISTANCEPROJECT

Summaryof FinancialManagementAssessment

A Financial Management (FM) Assessment was performed in order to evaluate the
proposed financial management arrangements and the implementing entity's capacity to
provide the Bank with accurate and timely information regarding resources and
expenditures.     The assessment (performed jointly with the Procurement Capacity
Assessment) was conducted on March 26, 2004 in accordance with OPBP 10.02 and the
Guidelines for Assessment of Financial Management Arrangements in World Bank
Financed Projects. The full text of the assessment i s available in the project files. The
assessment encompassed a review of the organizational structure and staffing of the
UCPS, flow of funds arrangements, accounting policies and procedures, budgeting,
information systems, internal controls, internal audit, reporting and monitoring, external
audit andthe impact of procurement arrangements.

OverallSummary and Conclusion

The UCPS has maintained a satisfactory record during the implementation of the PPF
and, overall, the proposed project's financial management arrangements are satisfactory
to the Bank. The Financial Management risk (a combination of inherent and control
risks) i s rated "Medium," in order to reflect the following strengths and capacity
constraints: the UCPS i s adequately staffed with key professional personnel; accounting
and financial reporting functions will follow national norms and there are adequate
arrangements for internal audits to be performed by staff of the Controller General's
Office. The key constraints include the lack o f i)an integrated information system to
support adequate monitoring and control during implementation; and ii)an Operations
Manual with proceduresthat include the Bank's financial managementrequirements.

CountryFinancialManagementCapacity

The Government has been committed to improving transparency and access to
information and to promoting better governance and administration of public finances.
The Country FinancialAccountability Assessment (CFAA) conducted in2001concluded
that the financial tools at the disposal of the Congress and Executive Branch comprised
o f (a) robust financial administration laws; (b) highly dedicated staff; and (c) an effective
integrated financial management system (SIAF). The major recommendations of the
CFAA, related to: (a) more effective oversight by Congress of the budget process and
review of the allocations of available funding; (b) more detailed and frequent reporting
on expenditures to Congress; and (c) unfettered surveillance and reporting by the
Controller General of the acts andreports of the executive.

Three (3) indispensable elements of a sound fiduciary framework were built into the
CAS and policy framework for the PSRL 11: (1) strengthening of the congressional
oversight of the use of public funds; (2) increased independence of the Controller

                                             44

General; and (3) expansion of the scope and coverage of the integrated financial
management system SIAF.

Reliance on Country Systems

SIAF was implementedin 1998 as a mandatory internet-based system for recording data
related to expenditures and revenues for the national budget.         SIAF i s a powerful
repository of details on financial transactions. At Central Government level, there are
four modules Treasury/Budget Execution, Accounting, Financial Statements Generation
and Debt Management. Budget Classifications are integrated into the Chart of Accounts.
Information generated i s put to good use by the MEF and spending agencies. The
implementation of the systemhas promoted effective control, optimum cash management
and informed decision malung.

SIAF has included a loan module for use by projects which manage funds from
multilateral institutions, however the module in its present form has some constraints.
The Financial Management Team has been working with the Ministry of Economy and
Finance Information Systems Team to recommend enhancements to the SIAF which
would provide more complete and integrated information on the use of project and
counterpart funds and would obviate the use of parallel and duplicate information
systems. The project has been advised to contact the MEF IT Team in order to initiate
the process of implementation, within the UCPS.

Mitigationof Capacity Constraints

In order to mitigate the identified risks the following activities were considered crucial
prior to negotiations: (1) submission of pro-formaFinancial Monitoring Reports (FMRs)
which would facilitate monitoring and project execution; and (2) submission of Draft
Outline of the Operations Manualfor review by the Bank.

In addition, the following activities were identified as conditions for effectiveness: (a)
adoption of the Operations Manual and the annual operations planfor the first year of the
Project, once reviewed by the Bank; (b) the general coordinator for the Project has been
appointed under terms of reference, qualification and experience satisfactory to the Bank;
and, (c) the UCPS has adopted financial and procurement management systems,
satisfactory to the Bank.

Supervision during implementation: The project should be monitored on a semi-
annual basis in the first two (2) years of implementation and thereafter through at least
one supervision visit each year. Furthermore, the audit reports will be relied upon and
the Annual Audit Report Review will highlight the adequacy of internal controls,
integrity of financial reporting andefficiency in the use of projects funds. Desk Reviews
will also be performed on the semi-annual FMRs, prepared -in form and in substance
-totheBank'ssatisfaction. Theywouldbesubmittednolaterthan45daysafterthe
endof each six- monthperiod.

Audit Arrangements: The annual audit reports, covering the project's financial
statements shall be prepared in accordancewith terms of reference acceptableto the Bank

                                            45

and would be furnishedto the Bank not later than six months after the end of each year.
The terms of reference shall be prepared in accordance with current regional guidelines.
The process of selection and contracting shall be overseen by the Controller General of
the State, who will coordinate to ensure selection of eligible audit firms, delivery of
acceptable reports within the time frames set out in the legal agreement and adequate
quality control.

Disbursement Arrangements

Disbursements will be transaction-based(i.e,, against statements of expenditure (SOEs),
full documentation, direct paymentsor special commitments). The Special Account will
be maintained and operated by the project in the Banco de la Nacidn in United States
dollars. Deposits into the Special Account and replenishments up to the authorized
allocation set out in the legal agreement would be made on the basis of applications for
withdrawals prepared by the project and accompanied by the supporting documentation
inaccordancewith Bankdisbursementprocedures.

Special Account

As described previously, the project will have access to funds advanced by the Bank to
the Special Account for processing disbursements to beneficiaries for those eligible
expenditures under the project activities.    The Bank will deposit, upon borrower's
request, an amount of $700,000 as authorized allocation. This amount should be limited
to the amount of $500,000 until the disbursements from the loan account exceed
$2,000,000.

Use of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs)

Withdrawal from the loan account couldbe made on the basis of SOEs for the following
expenditures: (a) goods undercontracts not exceeding $500,000 equivalent; (b)
consulting services from individuals and firms under contracts not exceeding $50,000 and
$100,000 equivalent respectively; and (c) operating costs. All supporting documents for
which withdrawal applications from the loan account are made on the basis of SOEs, the
borrower will retain full documentation (includingcontracts, purchase orders, invoices,
receipts and any other documents evidencing such expenditures) and make them
available for review and examination by Bank staff in supervision missions andby the
external auditors when performingthe audit of the project accounts.

                               Allocation of Loan Proceeds
   Expenditure Category          Amount inUS$ million           Financing Percentage
Goods                                        1.10                          80%
Consultant Services                          4.10                          80%
Operational Costs                            1.02                          80%
        Total Project Costs                  6.22
Project Preparation Facility                 1.50                          80%
              Front-endFee                   0.08                         100%
                       Total                 7.80

                                            46

                                  Annex 8: Procurement
 ACCOUNTABILITYFORDECENTRALIZATIONINTHE SOCIALSECTORS
                        TECHNICALASSISTANCEPROJECT

A. General

Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with the World
Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRDLoans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004;
and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers"
dated May 2004, and the provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement. The general
description of various items under different expenditure categories are described below.
For each contract to be financed by the Loan, the different procurement methods or
consultant selection methods, the needfor pre-qualification, estimated costs, prior review
requirements, and time frame are agreed between the Borrower and the Bank project
team inthe ProcurementPlan. The ProcurementPlanwill be updated at least annually or
as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements in
institutionalcapacity.

Procurementof Works:The project will not finance works.

Procurement of Goods: Goods will be procured for the provision of computer
equipment, software and small office equipment as part of the strengthening of the
monitoring and evaluation capacity of MEF, MIMDES, MINEDU and INEI at a total
estimated cost of $1.35 million equivalent.      The UCPS in coordination with these
agencies will be responsible for procurement activities.

To the extent possible, contracts will be grouped in packages with values of $500,000
equivalent or more and procured using Bank standard procurement documents under
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures.       In procuring goods with this
method, a domestic preference to goods manufactured in the country of the Borrower
underconditions to be agreedinthe LA andto be set forth inthe bidding documents may
be provided in the evaluation of bids. Contracts for goods costing less than $500,000
equivalent but more than $100,000 equivalent will be procured and awarded with the use
of National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures, based on standard documents
acceptable to the Bank. Small contracts for procurement of goods and services estimated
to cost $100,000 or less equivalent, as provided in the Procurement Plan agreed upon
with the Bank, will be awarded following Price Comparison (Shopping) procedures of at
least three quotations obtained from qualified domestic suppliers, and standard project
documents previously agreedupon with the Bank.

Selection of Consultants: Consulting services for employment of firms and individuals
will be procured under this project in the following areas of expertise: design of social
policy frameworks; improve coverage and efficiency of the pension system; develop
capacity in result-oriented social planning and sectoral strategic plans; design the
instruments necessary for the accreditation process of MIMDES programs; implement
performance agreements with the sub-national governments; strengthen SIAF interms of
its budget and its physical target modules; implement a monitoring system and evaluation

                                             47

of the social programs within MIMDES; strengthenevaluation instruments and capacities
through the improvement of home surveys; train social sector staff on monitoring and
evaluation; and, support project implementation, monitoring and evaluation by UCPS.
Total cost of consulting services is estimated at $4.5 million equivalent.

(i) Finns. Allcontractsforemploymentofconsultantfirmswillbeprocuredusing
QCBS, except for small-value and simple contracts estimated to cost less than
US$lOO,OOO equivalent that will be procured using, in addition to QCBS, the CQ and
LCS methods, as agreedupon inthe selection plan. Regardless of their cost, contracts for
employment of firms will be procured with the use of Bank Standard Request for
Proposals.

(ii) Individuals. Individualconsultantsfor specialized advisory, suchastechnical
assistance and training services, shall be selected through comparison of qualifications
and CVs obtained from at least three qualified individuals, in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. Consultants will
be selected and contracted in accordance with standarddocuments and forms of contracts
acceptableto the Bank.

Short lists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per
contract may be comprised entirely of national consultants in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.

Operating Costs: Recurrent costs to be incurred through procurement of services and
goods will be those needed for the operation of the PCU, organization of seminars and
workshops, such as materials, rental of facilities, foods, per diem and transportation,
totaling US$O.9 million equivalent. Whenever possible, and except for per diem and
transportation costs, they will be procured following Price Comparison (Shopping)
procedures, as provided upon in the agreed Procurement Plan. Contracts for Operating
Costs requiring the use of procurement methods were agreed upon in the Procurement
Plan.

B. Assessment of the agency's capacity to implement procurement

Procurement activities will be carried out by the UCPS (the Spanish acronym for Unidud
de Coordinacidn de Pre'stumos Sectoriales), the Project Unit designated by MEF to be
responsible for implementation and overall project coordination.

The Project Unit i s staffed with 17 professionals and procurement functions will be
performed by the UCPS's Sector Specialists assignedto the project, in coordination with
project beneficiary agencies.

In addition to describe implementation and institutional arrangements, administrative
procedures for preparation of POAs, budget, procurement arrangements and Procurement
Plan that will govern project implementation, the Manual will incorporate standard
procurement documents, as agreed upon with the Bank, as an Annex to it. A draft POM
will be submitted to the Bank for review and comments prior to loan negotiations, and a
final version submitted and agreednot later than loan effectiveness.

                                             48

An assessment of the capacity of MEF's UCPS to implementprocurement actions for the
project was carried out by Keisgner Alfaro, Sr. Procurement Specialist, on September 2,
2002, and updated later on March 24, 2004. The assessment reviewed the organizational
structure for implementing the project and the interaction between the project's sector
specialists in charge of project procurement functions and tasks and project beneficiary
agencies.

Among relevant risks identified at the UCPS are the lack of an integrated Management
and Information System (MIS) which could be otherwise helpful in monitoring and
controlproject performance, decision making and progress reporting.

In order to manage this shortcoming, the UCPS will submit a plan to the Bank team for
adoption, adjustment, and gradual incorporation of a procurement information module
developed already within the integrated financial administration system (SIAF) that will
enable recording, monitoring and reporting of procurement transactions/actions even at
the contract execution stage. Integration of both information modules within SIAF i s
expected to strengthen the UCPS's capacity to manage procurement and FM tasks. In
addition to building national capacity, successful implementation use of SIAF as an
integrated management tool in these two project fiduciary areas i s expected to provide a
good ground for the use of local country systems.

The Bank fiduciary team met with the MEF's IT team and got its confirmationinorder to
start implementing the procurement module developed within SIAF for the UCPS team.
In order to mitigate the above-identified risk the following activities are considered
crucial:

Prior to Negotiations: (1) UCPS will submit to the Bank before loan negotiations an
action plan to gradually incorporate the SIAF system into the project as official
monitoring and reporting tool. The action plan will provide an estimated date to start
submitting project progress reports on Procurement and FM with SIAF; and (2)
Submission of Draft Outline Operations Manual for review by the Bank.

Prior to effectiveness: The Procurement Specialist will continue to work with the project
unit to ensure: (1) implementation of the procurement module into SIAF; and (2)
completion of and Bank approval to the Operations Manuals. This latter tasks will be
considered a conditionfor loan effectiveness.

The overall project riskfor procurement is AVERAGE.

C.Procurement Plan

The Borrower, at appraisal, developed a Procurement Plan for project implementation
which provides the basis for the procurement methods. As part of the negotiation
process, this plan was agreed between the Borrower and the Project Team and i s
available at the UCPS offices located at MEF, and in the offices of the World Bank in
Lima, Peru. The Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement with the Project Team


                                           49

annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and
improvements in institutional capacity.

D.Prior ReviewThresholds

Thresholds for Bank prior review are indicated in Table B below. They correspond to
those assigned to highrisk agencies, consistent with thresholds issued by the RPA Office
for L A C Countries, per e-mail dated as of 12127/2002.

                                                      Table B

                    Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'

 Expenditure              Contract Value                     Procurement                       Contracts Subject to
   Category                 Threshold                           Method                              Prior Review
                          (US$ thousands)                                                         (US$ thousands)
1. Goods.
                           Contract =>500                         ICB                                     All


                         500>Contract > 100                      NCB                     Prior review: => $350 or more; first
                                                                                            contract and annual review of
                                                                                                   Procurement Plan



                          Contract = < 100                  NationalShopping                Prior review: first contract; and
                                                                                          annual review of Procurement Plan
                                                                                            Post review: random sample of
                                                                                                 procurement contracts
2. Services
2.1 Firms                  Contract =>IO0                        QCBS                      All TOR, RFP, shortlist of firms,
                                                                                           full review of technical and final
                                                                                             evaluation reports, and final
                                                                                           negotiatedcontract for contracts
                                                                                                       =>$200


                           Contract < 100                     QCBS and CQ                 Prior review: TORs; annual review
                                                                                                   of selectionplan.
                                                                                            Post review: randomsample of
                                                                                                       contracts



2.2 Individuals
                           Contract =>50                           IC                        All TOR, CVs and Formof
                                                                                             Contract for contracts =>$50


                            Contract <50                           IC                       Prior review: TORs and annual
                                                                                                review of selection plan
                                                                                            Post review: random sample of
                                                                                                       contracts
               Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    1.95 million
                       Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:         Average
          Frequency of procurement supervisionmissions proposed:    One every 6 months
                                                                    (includes special procurement supervision for post-
                                                                    reviewlaudits)

                                                          50

E.Frequency ofProcurement Supervision


As providedin the reports of findings and actions concerning the performance of Agency
Capacity Assessment exercises at PCU, each agency has been assigned a risk level to
administer procurement functions indicated as follows. The Bank supervision team shall
conduct two procurement supervision missions per year, including a special procurement
supervision for ex-post review/audits, pursuant to the risk level assignedto each agency.




                                           51

  .I

     c)
     i
     B8
  .I Y


4
ik   CI
     Q

4E.I
     c)
      Q

B     EW
c)   c)

     .H
      E

W     2
L    .I
5     *
      2
     c(



a
e    .H

     P

    U1


  I
  ,            ru
               8
  1       0 0
            k




.E
8

0
Y
Y

b"
8
2 I




  I

                              Annex 9: Economic and FinancialAnalysis
     ACCOUNTABILITYFORDECENTRALIZATIONINTHE SOCIAL SECTORS
                               TECHNICALASSISTANCEPROJECT


                                  PresentValue of Flowsi4           FiscalImpact
                                  Economic        I Financial       Taxes          I Subsidies
                                  Analysis          Analysis
Project Costs: US$9.7 M.          NA                NA              NA               NA

Summaryof benefitsandcosts:

The proposed operation will focus on capacity building and it i s therefore difficult to quantify
project outputs and benefits. In the same vein, its cost effectiveness, measured through the
economic and financial impacts of the TAL, i s associated with improvements in financial and
administrative management and measured through fiscal savings, effectiveness and efficiency
gains.    However, these are difficult to quantify, for direct fiscal savings only completely
materialize to a significant degree in the mediumterm; effectiveness gains are hardly the isolated
result of a single action, but a combination of reforms; and efficiency gains linking specific
outputs to inputs, some of which cannot be measured, can barely be gauged by broad estimates
of the reduction of administrative costs per unit of output. Most of these will obviously be
derived from SIAF-related enhancements.

The most noteworthy economic impact are effectiveness gains. These are perceived operational
achievements reflected inthe prompt attainment of key goals (outcomes). These will result from
(i) widespread implementation of an upgraded and timely financial management system-
SIAF-by      sub-national governments, which will permit better budget allocation decisions and
more effective monitoring, control and social auditing of financial flows; (ii)             sounder social
policy management and decentralization of social programs, resulting in reduced fiscal
vulnerability; (iii) a revised targeted and improved social and fiduciary framework, which will
reduce public misallocations and leakages of public resources; (iv) a new performance-based
management system of social programs, which will raise accountability by public servants; (v)
strengthened strategic planning and inter-ministerial policy design capabilities; and (vi) closer
scrutiny of public'performance from civil society groups, resulting in a more transparent and
results-oriented managementof public resources.

The financial impact can be measured through a mix of fiscal savings and efficiency gains.
Efficiency gains are reduced administrative costs incurred in obtaining a given unit of output.
Most of these are also related to the upgrading of SIAF and its adoption by sub-national
governments. The financial impact i s discussed in the following table, which also conveniently
includes the social gains of the project per subcomponent.



l4The difference between the present value of financial and economic flows cannot be estimated, and much less
explained by taxes and subsidies.


                                                     54

    Financial Impact of the TAL-Accountability for Decentralization inthe Social Sectors

      Subcomponents                  Fiscal Impact                 Efficiency Gains                  Social Gains
1.1.Improving socialpolicy  Elimination of unproductive      Reductioninthe amount of       Soundexpenditure
design in a decentralized   investment, reducedwaste         cash shortages of counterpart  nanagementandbetter
context                     andimprovedbudget                funds to investmentprojects    :overage of public
                            allocations to social priorities                                :xpenditure allocations to
                                                                                            xiority functions and areas
1.2.Implementing results    Streamlined administrative       Improvedperformance and        Better linkage among
oriented management         costs, once the Central          decreasedoperational costs     :xpenditure inputsand social
agreements at the national  govemment sign performance       per unit of output as aresult  iutputs, andenhanced
level                       agreements and standardize       of contract-based              iccountability andimproved
                            outputs                          management                     ielivery of social service
2.1. lmplementing the       Reducedrisk of diverting         Improvedproductivity of        3rderly process of
accreditationprocess        funds to asub-national           social expenditure managed     iecentralization that only
                            govemment that i s not ready     by sub-national govemments      :akes place when the sub-
                            to assume new competencies       once they comply with          national govemments are
                                                             minimumaccreditation           ready to take on new
                                                             requirements                   responsibilities
2.2 Designing and           Streamlined administrative       Improvedperformance and        Enhanced accountability and
implementingperformance     costs originating from the       decreasedoperational costs     improveddelivery of social
agreements at the sub-      reorganization of personnel,     per unit of output as aresult  service
national level              once the sub-national            of contract-based
                            govemment adopt                  management
                            performanceagreements
2.3 M&E of budget transfers Reductionof the average time     Reducedoperational and         Significant improvement of
                            of project execution andrisks    administrative costs inservice the overall quality of social
                            of overlapping or ineffective    delivery                       expenditure and social service
                            projects, eliminationof                                         delivery
                             corruption fees, and sanctions
                            for detectedirregularitiesin
                            the use of public resources
3.1 Strengthening basic     Potentialsavings from an         Enhancedproductivity-gains      Prompt follow-up of social
information systems          enhancedcapacity to detect      from the adoption of a          investment andtimely
                            ghost workers, allocate scarce   modem management                adoptionof corrective
                            budget resources and virtually   technology tool andtimely       measures
                             monitor their prompt            access to decision-making
                            execution, while reassigning     information
                            theminthe event of under-
                            execution
3.2 Implementing a M&E      Reductionof the average time     Reducedoperational and          Significant improvement of
systemfor MIMDES            of project execution andrisks    administrative costs in service the overall quality of
                            of overlappingor ineffective     delivery                        MIMDES's expenditure and
                            projects, elimination of                                         service delivery
                            corruption fees, and sanctions
                            for detectedirregularities in
                            the use of public resources
3.3 Strengtheningevaluation Reducedcosts from the            Enhancedretumson                Sound public investment and
capacities                  elimination or downsizing of     investment programs             social programs inpriority
                            ineffective on-going public                                      areas that will eventually lead
                            investment projects, or non-                                     to greater selectivity
                            approval of potentially costly
                            "white elephant" projects
3.4 Improving transparency  Improvedunderstanding of         Reducedoperational costs        Increasedcivil society
and participatory            fiscal constraints to           arising from the surveillance   engagement, access to
mechanisms                  implement development            of local groups over social     information indecision-
                            programs                         investment andprojects          making processes, consensus
                                                                                              and ownershipof the reform




                                                            55

                                  Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues
    ACCOUNTABILITY FORDECENTRALIZATIONINTHE SOCIAL SECTORS
                              TECHNICAL ASSISTANCEPROJECT

As a technical assistance loan, the objectives and products it supports do not trigger any of the
safeguards.     Therefore, the project does not propose measures leading to addressing or
minimizing adverse environmental or social impacts. On the contrary, it includes objectives and
activities that would contribute to improving the situation of indigenous peoples and ethnical
minorities. The establishment of a monitoring and evaluation system, which i s participatory,
transparent and focused on results, and the promotion of measures leading to an accountable
process of decentralization of the social programs, offer an excellent opportunity for addressing
issues of social inclusion and develop a public sector culture which looks at social and
environmental impacts ina systematic way.
  /

There are three aspects of the proposal which address social inclusionissues:

    1. A set of indicators leading to monitoring of the coverage and quality of social services
        would help to track exclusion or discrimination of indigenous people or Afrodescendants,
        when the information i s co-related with indicators of ethnic identity. For instance, the
        loan supports the addition of questions to the Household Survey (ENAHO) that will
        generate timely information about access of the poor to public social services and the
        quality of their deliverables, based on their level of satisfaction. With the inclusion of
        questions about the mother tongue and cultural self-identification of the households, the
        information will helpto track processesof social exclusion.

    2. A set of provisions in the proposal to encourage participation of indigenous people and
        Afrodescendants in activities for M&E of the social programs for which the project aims
        to provide technical support. These provisions are complemented by the "TF051333
        JSDF Grant Peru: Giving Voice to the Poor to Influence Decision Making," which is
        linkedto the PSRLIV and the TAL. The Grant inthe process of implementation will be
        providingtechnical support and resources to civil society organizations to enable them to
        play an active part in the M&E system. It will attach priority to buildingthe capacity of
        indigenous and Afrodescendant organizations to participate in planning and monitoring
        activities at the district and municipallevel.

    3. Support for communications and information about social programs that are accessible to
        indigenous communities. The project and the grant encouragelinks between information
        portals of the social programs and the MEF's Consulta Amigable website, with
        community radios and other grassroots media to disseminate information about the social
        programs (access rights, eligibility criteria and availability of services) in vernacular
        languages.




                                                  56

                       Annex 11:ProjectPreparationandSupervision
     ACCOUNTABILITYFORDECENTRALIZATIONINTHE SOCIAL SECTORS
                           TECHNICALASSISTANCEPROJECT

                                                  Planned                  Actual
PCNreview                                      July 3,2003            December 10,2003
Initial PID to PIC                             April 9,2003             April 8,2003
InitialISDS to PIC                           March 13,2003             March 13,2003
Appraisal                                    March 15,2004              April 6,2004
Negotiations                                   April 8,2004             June 9,2004
Board/RVP approval                          October 28,2005             July 15,2004
Planneddate of effectiveness                                          November 30,2004
Planneddate of mid-termreview                                          March 30,2005
Plannedclosing date                                                   December 31,2007
Key institutions responsiblefor preparationof the project:
    0   MEF-Ministry of EconomyandFinance
    0   MIMDES-Ministry of Women andDevelopmentAffairs

Bankstaff andconsultantswho worked on the projectincluded:
Name                                             Title                        Unit
LiviaBenavides                  Task TeamLeader                             LCSHE
William Reuben                  Senior Social Scientist                     LCSEO
Ana KarinaRozas                 Junior ProfessionalAssociate                LCSHD
PatriciaM c Kenzie              Senior FinancialManagement Specialist      LCOAA
KeisgnerAlfaro                  Senior ProcurementSpecialist                LCOPR
Xiomara Morel                   Senior Finance Officer                      LOAG3
Kathrin Plangemann              Public Sector Specialist                    LCSPS
JosC RobertoLdpez Cilix         Senior Economist                            LCSPE
Rodrigo Serrano                 LocalDevelopment Specialist                 HDNSP
RossanaPolastri                 Country Economist                           LCSPE
Gillette Hall                   Former Co-TaskTeamLeader                    LCSHS
Karla M c Evoy                  Former Co-Task TeamLeader                   LCSHS
Luisa YesquCn                   LanguageTeamAssistant                       LCSHD
PatriciaM.Bernedo               LanguageProgramAssistant                    LCSHD
PedroFrancke                    Consultant                                     --
EnriqueVisquez                  Consultant
Aldo Ortiz                      Consultant                                     --

Bankfunds expendedto date onprojectpreparation:
    1. Bankresources:        $171,000
    2. Trust funds:          $0
    3. Total:                $171,000

EstimatedApproval andSupervisioncosts:
    1. Remainingcosts to approval:         $2,000
    2. Estimatedannual supervisioncost: $ 88,000


                                               57

                            Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile
      ACCOUNTABILITYFORDECENTRALIZATIONINTHE SOCIALSECTORS
                            TECHNICALASSISTANCEPROJECT


ProjectPreparationDocuments

ST-CIAS, Presidencia del Consejo de Ministros. 2004. "Plan Nacional de Superacih de la
Pobreza 2004-2006." February.
MIMDES. 2004. "Programa de Capacitacih para la Gesti6n Descentralizada de 10s Programas
-.Sociales."
        2004. "Politicas Sociales, Macroprocesos y Estrategias."
World Bank. 2004. "Agency Capacity Assessment to Administer Procurement Setting of Prior
Review Thresholds -Procurement Supervision Plan." March.
MEF,2004. General Procurement Plan.




                                                58

                                            Annex 13: Statement of Loansand Credits
                  ACCOUNTABILITY FOR DECENTRALIZATION INTHE SOCIAL SECTORS
                                             TECHNICAL ASSISTANCEPROJECT


                                                                                                                   Difference Between
                                                                                                                   Expectedand Actual
 Active Proiects                                                    Original Amount inUS$ Millions                  Disbursements  ''

Project ID Fiscal Year                  Project Name           IBRD        I D A     GRANT       Cancel.  Undisb.  Orig.      FrmRev'd

PO35740       2004    LIMA TRANSPORT PROJECT                   45.00       0.00       0.00        0.00    45.00     0.00        0.00
PO65200       2001    GEFPE IndigenousManagementProt.Areas      0.00       0.00       10.00       0.00     7.98     1.49        0.00
PO68250       2003    GEFPE PARTICIPATORYMGMT PROT AREA:        0.00       0.00       14.80       0.00    11.77     1.47        0.00
PO81834       2003    LimaWaterRehabAdd1Financing              20.00       0.00       0.00        0.00    20.00     2.64        0.00
PO08037       1997    PE IRRIGATIONSUBSECTOR PROJECT            85.00      0.00       0.00        0.00     4.23     4.23        4.23
PO60499       2000    PE IndigenousPeoplesDevelopment(LIL)      5.00       0.00       0.00        0.00     3.88     3.88         3.37
PO73438       2004    PE Justice ServicesImprovement            12.00      0.00       0.00        0.00    12.00     1.23         0.00
PO65256       2003    PE NATIONAL RURALWATER SUPPLY AND        50.00       0.00       0.00        0.00    48.98     8.81         0.00
PO47690       2000    PE RES. & EXTENSION                       9.60       0.00       0.00        0.00     1.95     -7.65        1.95
PO44601       2001    PE SECONDRURALROADSPROJECT                50.00      0.00       0.00        0.00    27.69     6.79         0.00
PO77788       2003    PETrade Facil. andProd. Improv.T. A.      20.00      0.00       0.00        0.00    19.80     2.58         0.00
PO39086       1999    PEURBAN PROPERTY RIGHT                    38.00      0.00       0.00        0.00     2.99     2.99         0.00
PO55232       2003    PE- RuralEducation                        52.50      0.00       0.00        0.00    51.98     1.31         0.00
PO62932       2000    PE-HEALTHREFORMPROGRAM                    27.00      0.00       0.00        0.00     17.77    -9.23       -9.23
Overall Result                                                 414.10      0.00       24.80       0.00    276.02    20.55        0.32

As Of Date 04/27/2004




                                                              59

                                           PERU
                                   STATEMENTOF IFCs
                                Heldand Disbursed Portfolio
                                  InMillions of US Dollars



                                            Held                            Disbursed


FY Approval      Company      Loan     Equity    Quasi   Partic   Loan    Equity    Quasi  Partic
   2003     Norvial S.A.      18.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00   0.00
    1998    Paramonga         13.01     0.00     0.00    10.98    13.01   0.00      0.00   10.98
   2001     PeruOEH           10.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    6.00    0.00      0.00   0.00
    1994    Peru Prvtzn Fund  0.00      8.32     0.00     0.00    0.00    8.32      0.00   0.00
1993196100101Quellaveco       0.00      0.75     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.72      0.00   0.00
    1999    RANSA             7.50      0.00     0.00     0.00    7.50    0.00      0.00   0.00
   2003     TIMPeru           70.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    70.00   0.00      0.00   0.00
   2001     Tecnofil S.A.     4.95      2.00     0.00     0.00    4.95    2.00      0.00   0.00
   2001      UPC              6.50      0.00     0.00     0.00    6.50    0.00      0.00   0.00
  1993199    Yanacocha        20.00     0.00     0.00    30.00    10.00   0.00       0.00  30.00
   2000      Agrokasa         4.20      0.00     0.00     0.00    4.20    0.00       0.00  0.00
    1999     Alicorp          14.67     0.00     20.00    8.57    14.67   0.00      20.00  8.57
   2002      FTSA             7.50      0.00     1s o     0.00    7.50    0.00       1.50  0.00
   2002      Gloria           25.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00       0.00  0.00
  2002103    ISA Peru, SA     0.20      0.00     0.00     0.00    0.12    0.00       0.00  0.00
   2001      Inka Terra       5.00      0.00     0.00     0.00    5.00     0.00      0.00  0.00
  2002103    Interseguro      0.00      0.59     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.59      0.00  0.00
   2000      Laredo           7.86      0.00     5.00     0.00    7.86     0.00      5.oo  0.00
    1998     Latino Leasing   6.04      0.00     0.00     0.00    6.04     0.00      0.00  0.00
   2002      MIBANCO          2.00      0.00     0.00     0.00    2.00     0.00      0.00  0.00
    1999     Milkito          5.50      0.00     3.50     0.00    3.50     0.00      3.50  0.00
    1984     Minera Regina    0.17      0.00     0.00     0.00    0.17     0.00      0.00  0.00
       TotalPortfolio:       228.10     11.66    30.00    49.55   169.02  11.63     30.00  49.55



                  ApprovalsPendingCommitment
                              Loan     Equity    Quasi   Partic
   2002      Inka Terra Swap      0.25      0.00    0.00     0.00
   2004      UPCII                1.oo      0.00    0.00     0.00


 TotalPendingCommitment:          1.25      0.00    0.00     0.00




                                             60

                                           Annex 14: Countryat a Glance
ACCOUNTABILITYFORDECENTRALIZATIONINTHE SOCIALSECTORS
                                    TECHNICALASSISTANCEPROJECT


                                             Peru at a dance                                                                           8/20/03


                                                                         Latin      Lower-                                                    II
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                    America      middle-
                                                              Peru    &Carib.      Income       Developmentdiamond'
2002
Population,mid-year (millions)                                 26 7         527      2,411                      Lifeexpectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                            2,060      3,280        1,390
GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                                55 1      1,727       3,352                             T
Average annual growth,199602
Population (%)                                                  16           1 5        1 0
Laborforce ("A)                                                 2 6          2 2        1 2     GNi                                   Gross
                                                                                                per       +                   *+     primary
Most recentestlmate(latestyear available, 1996-02)                                              capita                            enrollment
Poverty(% ofpopulationbelownationalpovertyline)                  49
Urbanpopulation (% of fofalpopulation)                           73          76         49
Lifeexpectancyat birth(years)                                    70          71         69                             1
Infantmortality(per 1,000livebirths)                             30          27         30
Childmalnutrition PA of children under5)                          7            9         11             Access to improvedwater source
Accessto an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)                80          86          81
                                                                                                                                              I
Illiteracy (% ofpopulationage 15+)                                9          11          13
Gross primaryenrollment ("A of school-agepopulation)            128         130         111          e>##A.  Peru
    Male                                                        128         131         111                  Lower-middle-incomeomuD
    Female                                                      127         126         110

KEY ECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                   1982       1992        2001        2002
GDP (US$billions)                                                                                Economlcratlos'
                                                    24 8       36 1        54 2        56 9
Grossdomestic investmenffGDP                        33 6       173         183
Exportsof goods and setvicedGDP                     165        125         158                                       Trade
Grossdomestic savingsfGDP                           30 5       144         169
Gross national savings/GDP                          26 4       124         165

Current account balancdGDP                           -65        -5 2        -2 0
interest paymentdGDP                                  2 4                                       Domestic
                                                                 09          2 1        2 2                                       Investment
Total debffGDP                                      43 2       58 4        51 0        49 0     savings

Totaldebtservicdexports                             48 6       20 3        22 0        28 7
Presentvalue of debffGDP                                                   51 9
Presentvalue of debffexports                                             282 7
                                                                                                                   Indebtedness
                                       1982-92  1992-02       2001        2002     2002-06
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                       -06         4 0        0 6         5 2        4 0            -   -Peru
GDP per capita                            -29         2 2       -1 0         3 7        2 4                   Lower-middle-incomeorouo
                                                                                                       ~
Exportsof goodsand services               -0 1        8 9        69


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                   1982       1992        2001        2002
(% of GDP)
Agnculture                                          102          8 5         85
Industry                                            420        279         29 7
   Manufacturing                                    362        177          153
Services                                            478        636         61 7

Privateconsumption                                  584        777         72 0
Generalgovernmentconsumption                        110          7 9        11 1
Importsof goodsand Setvices                         195        155          172



(average annualgrowih)
Agriculture                                           1.7        6.4        -0.6          .     " T                                           I
                                                                             ~~

industry                                             -0.1        4.8         0.7
   Manufacturing                                     -0.3        3.4        -1.1
Services                                             -1.5        3.7         0.1
Privateconsumption                                   -0.5        3.7         1.3
Generalgovemmentconsumption                          -2.1        5.1        -0.5
Grossdomestic investment                             -1 1        4.2        -8.0                          -`-Exports        -O'lmports
Importsof goods and services

Note:2002 data are preliminaryestimates.
This table was producedfrom the Development Economicscentraldatabase.
*The diamondsshow four key indicatorsin the country (in bold)compared with its income-groupaverage. If dataare missing,the diamondwill
    be incomplete.                                                  .-

PRICESand GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                                1982    1992         2001   2002
Domesticprices                                                                        Inflation (X)

(77 change)
Consumer prices                                  64.8    73.5          2.0    0.4
Implicit GDPdeflator                             65.2    69.2          1.2    0.0
Government finance                                                                                                                      "I
I"/.ofGDP, includescurrentgrants)
Currentrevenue                                           13.5         14.1   13.7               97       98      99       w     01

Currentbudget balance                                     -0.8        -0.6   -0.5                -'--GDP      deflator -0-CPI
Overallsurplus/deficit                                    -3.9        -2.8   -2.3

TRADE
                                                1982    1992         2001   2002
(US$millions)                                                                         ExportandImportlevels(US$ mill.)
Totalexports(fob)                                       3,661       7,108   7,751     0 , m,
  Copper                                                  756         987   1,110
  Fishmeal                                                427         835     939
  Manufactures                                            966       2,181   2,209
Totalimports(cif)                                       4,001        7,198  7,374
  Food                                                    480          530    543
  Fuelandenergy                                           396         907     929
  Capitalgoods                                          1,063        1,911  1,962
Exportpriceindex (1995=100)                                85          79      80             96      97     98     99    00   01     02

importpriceindex (1995=100)                                89          98      99                     Exports         mImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                  96          80      81

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                                1982    1992         2001   2002
(US$ millions)                                                                       1Currentaccountbalanceto GDP (Oh)
Exporh of goods and services                   4,077    4,497       8,597   9,308
Importsof goodsand services                    4,436    5,412       9,487   9,619
Resourcebalance                                 -359     -915        -890   -512
Net income                                      -989   -1,635       -1,203 -1,506
Netcurrenttransfers                                0     460          999     907
Currentaccount balance                         -1,609  -1,886       -1,098
Financing items (net)                          1,525    2,455        1,546
Changesin net reserves                            84     -569        -448   -340
Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$millions)                     3,365       8,930   9,102
Conversionrate (DEC, iocal/US$)              8.98E-7       1.2         3.5    3.5

EXTERNAL DEBTand RESOURCEFLOWS
                                                1982    1992         2001   2002
(US$ millions)                                                                        Compositionof 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed           10,709   20,343      27,645  27,867
  IBRD                                           478     956        2,626   2,609
  IDA                                              0        0           0       0                         2335        2609

Total debt service                             2,036    1,004       2,190   2,755
  IBRD                                            56      194         300     304
  IDA                                              0        0            0      0
Compositionof net resourceflows
  Ofticid grants                                  53     238          201
  Official creditors                             150     306          744     297
  Privatecreditors                             1,178      -97         294   1,436
  Foreigndirect investment                        48      -79       1,064
  Portfolioequity                                  0        0          42
World Bank program
  Commitments                                    378    1,150         230     100                                             -
  Disbursements                                   85                                  A - IBRD
                                                            0                                                                E Bilateral
                                                                      149     146     B IDA          D -Other muitilaterai   F- Private
  Principal repayments                            22       94         114     163     C iMF
                                                                                        --                                   G- Short-tern
  Net flows                                       62      -94          35     -17
  Interestpayments                                33     100          186     142
  Net transfers                                   29    -194         -151   -158

Note:This tablewas producedfrom the DevelopmentEconomicscentral database.                                                          8/20/03




                                                                 62

MAP SECTION


