                                 Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                          Report No: ICR00001517



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IBRD-72540)

                                    ON A

                                    LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$7.8 MILLION

                                   TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF PERU

                                   FOR AN

  ACCOUNTABILITY FOR DECENTRALIZATION IN THE SOCIAL SECTORS

                    TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT




                                June 18, 2010




Human Development and Social Protection Management Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                    (Exchange Rate Effective June 18, 2010)

                  Currency Unit = Peruvian Nuevo Sol (PEN)
                            PEN 1.00 = US$ 0.35
                            US$ 1.00 = PEN 2.84

                                FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1 – 31 December

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CIAS         Inter-ministerial Commission for Social Affairs (Comisión Interministerial de
             Asuntos Sociales)
             Infant Nutrition Articulated Program (Programa Articulado de Nutrición
CRECER
             Infantil)
             Directorate for Economic and Social Affairs (Dirección General de Asuntos
DGAES
             Económicos y Sociales)
             National Public Budget Directorate (Dirección Nacional de Presupuesto
DNPP
             Público).
             General Directorate for Multiannnual Programming (Dirección General de
DGPM
             Programación Multianual)
ENAHO        National Household Survey (Encuesta Nacional de Hogares)
Fiscal TAL   Institutional Capacity for Sustainable Fiscal Decentalization TAL Project
GOP          Government of Peru (Gobierno del Perú)
INEI         National Statistical Institute (Instituto Nacional de Estadística e Informática)
             Conditional Cash Transfer Program, Juntos (Programa Nacional de Apoyo
JUNTOS
             Directo a los más Pobres - Programa Juntos)
MEF          Ministry of Economy and Finance (Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas)
             Ministry of Women and Social Development (Ministerio de la Mujer y
MIMDES
             Desarrollo Social)
MMM          Multiannual Macroeconomic Framework (Marco Macroeconómico Multianual)
MINEDU       Ministry of Education (Ministerio de Educación)
MINSA        Ministry of Health (Ministerio de Salud)
PA           Performance Agreements
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
             Participatory Budgeting and Monitoring (Presupuesto y Monitoreo
PBM
             Participativo)
PDO          Project Development Objective
PESEM        Sectoral Multiannual Strategic Plan (Plan Estratégico Sectorial Multianual)
             External Pillar of the Mid-term Action Plan for Development Effectiveness
PRODEV       (Pilar Externo del Plan de Acción a Mediano Plazo para la Efectividad del
             Desarrollo)
             National Program of Food Assistance (Programa Nacional de Asistencia
PRONAA
             Alimentaria)
PRONAMA      National Literacy Program (Programa Nacional de Movilización por la



                                                                                         2
           Alfabetización)
           National Project for Management of Water Sheds Basin and Soil Conservation
PRONAMACHS (Proyecto Nacional de Manejo de Mantenimiento de Cuencas Hidrográficas y
           Conservación de Suelos)
           National Project for Rural Water and Sanitation Services (Programa Nacional de
PRONASAR
           Agua y Saneamiento Rural)
PSP        Priority Social Programs
PSRL       Programmatic Social Reform Development Policy Loans
RBB        Results-based budgeting (Presupuesto por Resultados)
REACT DPL  Results and Accountability Development Polity Loan
           National Registry for Identification and Civil Status (Registro Nacional de
RENIEC
           Identificación y Estado Civil)
           Integrated Financial Administration System (Sistema Integrado de
SIAF
           Administración Financiera)
           Integrated System for Administrative Management (Sistema Integrado de
SIGA
           Gestión Administrativa)
           Sectoral Evaluation and Monitoring System (Sistema de Monitoreo y Evaluación
SIMES
           Sectorial)
SIS        Integrated Health Insurance (Seguro Integral de Salud)

Social TAL      Accountability and Decentralization in the Social Sectors Technical Assistance
                Project
                Public Expenditure Monitoring and Evaluation System (Sistema de Seguimiento
SSEGP
                y Evaluación del Gasto Público)
                Sectoral Loan Coordination Unit (Unidad Coordinadora de Préstamos
UCPS
                Sectoriales)




                             Vice President:   Pamela Cox
                           Country Director:   Carlos Felipe Jaramillo
                            Sector Director:   Evangeline Javier
                            Sector Manager:    Helena Ribe
                       Project Team Leader:    Alessandra Marini
                          ICR Team Leader:     Alessandra Marini
                       ICR Primary Author:     Silvana Vargas




                                                                                          3
                          PERU
 ACCOUNTABILITY FOR DECENTRALIZATION IN THE SOCIAL SECTORS
         TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (Social TAL)

                                                         CONTENTS


DATA SHEET………………………………………………………………………..……..……i
   A. Basic Information……………………………………………………………..……..……i
   B. Key Dates…………………………………………………………………………....……i
   C. Ratings Summary………………………………………………………………...……….i
   D. Sector and Theme Codes………………………………………………………..………..ii
   E. Bank Staff……………………………………………………………………..……….....ii
   F. Results Framework Analysis………………………………………….………………....iii




 1. Project Context, Development Objective and Design ................................................ 7 
 1.1 Context at Appraisal ................................................................................................. 7 
 1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)9 
 1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
 reasons/justification ...................................................................................................... 10 
 1.4 Main beneficiaries .................................................................................................. 10 
 1.5 Original Components (as approved) ....................................................................... 11 
 The Project, as originally approved, comprised the following components: ............... 11 
 1.6 Revised Components .............................................................................................. 12 
 1.7 Other significant changes ....................................................................................... 13 
 2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry ................................................... 14 
 2.2 Implementation ....................................................................................................... 16 
 2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization ........ 17 
 2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance ..................................................................... 18 
 2.5 Post-completion Operation ..................................................................................... 19 
 3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 20 
 3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation ........................................... 20 
 3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objective ................................................... 21 
 3.3 Efficiency ................................................................................................................ 24 
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 26 
 5.1 Bank Performance .................................................................................................. 26 
   Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry ................................................... 26 
   Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance .......................................... 27 
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 29 
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by the Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .... 33 
 Annexes ........................................................................................................................ 34 
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ......................................................................... 35 
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................ 36 
 Annex 3. Economic and financial analysis .................................................................. 41 
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 42 
 Annex 5. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .................... 44 
  



                                                                                                                                4
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 50 
MAP .............................................................................................................................. 51 




                                                                                                                                 5
A. Basic Information
                                                                          ACCOUNTABILITY
                                                                          FOR
                                                                          DECENTRALIZATIO
Country:                Peru                    Project Name:             N IN THE SOCIAL
                                                                          SECTORS (Previous
                                                                          Programmatic Social
                                                                          Reform TAL)
Project ID:             P078953                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-72540
ICR Date:               06/28/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     TAL                     Borrower:                 REPUBLIC OF PERU
Original Total
                        USD 7.8M                Disbursed Amount:         USD 6.6M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 6.6M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:       03/07/2003     Effectiveness:          01/05/2005          01/05/2005
                                                                                 12/28/2007
Appraisal:            04/13/2004     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                 03/12/2009
Approval:             07/15/2004     Mid-term Review:        09/25/2006          11/09/2006
                                     Closing:                12/31/2007          12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower            Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                          Government:         Moderately Satisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory       Implementing        Moderately Satisfactory



                                                i
                                                   Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                       Overall Borrower
                           Moderately Satisfactory                            Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                       Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                            No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                            Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      85                  85
Other social services                                                  15                  15


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Decentralization                                                       29                  29
Participation and civic engagement                                     14                  14
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                       29                  29
procurement
Social analysis and monitoring                                         28                  28

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                          At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:             Pamela Cox                           David de Ferranti
Country Director:           Carlos Felipe Jaramillo              Marcelo Giugale
Sector Manager:             Helena G. Ribe                       Helena G. Ribe
Project Team Leader:        Alessandra Marini                    Livia M. Benavides
ICR Team Leader:            Alessandra Marini
ICR Primary Author:         Silvana Vargas




                                                 ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the Project is to strengthen results-oriented and participatory planning,
monitoring and evaluation in the social sectors, with an emphasis on decentralized social
programs of the Ministry of Women and Social Development (MIMDES). Specific
objectives for the project are to: (i) improve the quality of social policies and programs in
the context of decentralization; (ii) implement the performance agreements and
accreditation systems for social programs in order to improve service delivery outcomes;
and (iii) improve the M&E system in a decentralized context.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The objective of the Project is to support the Government in developing institutional
capacities for strengthening results-oriented and participatory planning, monitoring and
evaluation with emphasis on decentralized social programs. Specifically, the Project
aims to support improvement in: (i) the quality of social policies and programs, and (ii)
monitoring and evaluation systems in the social sectors.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target     Formally        Actual Value
                                             Values (from       Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator       Baseline Value
                                               approval          Target        Completion or
                                              documents)         Values        Target Years
                Number of national strategic social programs with an increased budget (under the
Indicator 1 :
                RBB framework)
Value
quantitative or 0                                                           4
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/10/2007                                                    12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        (note indicators as revised after restructuring)
achievement)
                Percentage of regional governments that have implemented and monitored the
Indicator 2 :
                four national strategic social programs (under the RBB framework)
Value
quantitative or 0                                                           100
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/10/2007                                                    12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        note indicators as revised after restructuring)
achievement)
                On-going monitoring and evaluation system for prioritized national strategic
Indicator 3 :
                social programs operating
Value
quantitative or 0
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/10/2007                                                    12/31/2009


                                              iii
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                  Monitoring and evaluation system for prioritized national strategic social
Indicator 4 :
                  programs operating
Value
quantitative or 0                           100%                                100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/10/2007                                                        12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        note indicators as revised after restructuring)
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                               Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                  approval                         Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                                documents)                         Target Years
                  Percentage increase in the social sectors# budget allocation to RBB (as compared
Indicator 1 :
                  to FY2007)
Value
(quantitative     0                          10                                 12
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/10/2007                                                    12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Number of strategic programs with improved logical or results frameworks
Value
(quantitative     0                          9                                  9
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/10/2007                                                    12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %          note indicators as revised after restructuring)
achievement)
                  Percentage of regional governments whose relevant staff have received the
Indicator 3 :
                  complete RBB training package
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                                  12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        note indicators as revised after restructuring)
achievement)
                Percentage of regional governments that utilize targeting criteria (geographical
Indicator 4 :
                and/or individual) in the RBB implementation
Value



                                                   iv
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                               12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        note indicators as revised after restructuring)
achievement)
                Number of participatory monitoring experiences of budget implementation at the
Indicator 5 :
                local level (under the RBB framework)
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                               12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        note indicators as revised after restructuring)
achievement)
                Number of external evaluations of social programs# performance conducted and
Indicator 6 :
                discussed (with social sectors)
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                               12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        note indicators as revised after restructuring)
achievement)
                Number of output-related monitoring reports on selected interventions
Indicator 7 :
                conducted, discussed and disseminated
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                               12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        note indicators as revised after restructuring)
achievement)
                Number of outcome-related monitoring reports for each national strategic social
Indicator 8 :
                program conducted, discussed and disseminated
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                               12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        note indicators as revised after restructuring)
achievement)




                                               v
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                              IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1    11/17/2004       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.00
  2    04/27/2005       Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory              1.58
  3    08/04/2005       Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory              1.57
  4    06/12/2006       Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory              2.25
  5    12/27/2006   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              2.38
                         Moderately                     Moderately
  6    05/18/2007                                                                      2.48
                       Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
  7    12/17/2007   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory             2.99
  8    04/09/2008   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory             3.55
  9    12/16/2008   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory             4.67
 10    03/18/2009   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory             4.67
 11    04/06/2009   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory             4.95
 12    12/09/2009       Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory             6.50


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
 12/28/2007               MS     MS           2.99
 03/12/2009               MS     MS           4.67




                                              vi
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vii
    1. Project Context, Development Objective and Design

    1.1 Context at Appraisal

    A US$7.8 million loan to finance the Accountability for Decentralization in the
    Social Sectors Technical Assistance Project (Social TAL, the Project) was approved
    on July 15, 2004 and became effective on January 5, 2005. The Social TAL was
    designed to provide complementary support to key aspects addressed by
    Programmatic Social Reform Development Policy Loans (PSRL) in Peru1. The
    PSRL supported the Peruvian government’s medium-term social reform program
    through: (i) improving the anti-poverty focus of public expenditures, (ii) improving
    the access of the poor to quality health and education services and (iii) improving
    the transparency of social programs and empowering their beneficiaries in the
    design and implementation of these programs. Moreover, the PSRL promoted
    actions directly associated to the reform of social programs jointly with investment
    loans in the health and education sectors.

    Four major lessons were derived from the PSRL series:
    (i)   Reforms that tend to realign public expenditure and programs, as well as
          increase transparency and broaden participation in government decision-
          making, often require profound changes in social attitudes and behaviors.
          Therefore, preparation costs are likely to be high, the process is likely to take
          long, and confidence in the sustainability of the reforms initiated may need
          continued financial and technical support.
    (ii)  The PSRL proved to be an effective instrument for maintaining a dynamic
          dialogue and supporting a focused policy agenda. It bridged two
          Governments and several changes of Cabinet. It also allowed the flexibility
          needed to respond to new initiatives (e.g., the workfare program and pension
          reform), to adapt to a changing political context (i.e., decentralization) and to
          develop and refine targets and performance indicators.
    (iii) The central role of the Ministry of Economic and Finance in the negotiation
          of the social agenda and in its implementation pushed the reforms forward.
          However, centering program design, coordination and loan negotiations in
          the Finance Ministry weakens the social sector ministries’ capacities and
          their commitment.
    (iv)  Sound monitoring and evaluation systems are essential for the effective
          implementation and readjustment of social policy.

    Although the Social TAL was conceptually based on most of these principles, it
    faced some operational shortcomings related to their compliance.

    At the time of project design, the country was showing increasing commitment
    towards improving social programs’ information systems in order to focus
    interventions, reduce filtration and increase accountability. Peru had made
    significant progress since the early nineties in reforming its economy and had
    successfully avoided the effects of major financial crisis in the region. The strength
    of the economy could be attributed to sound fundamentals, including high official
1
 There were four PSRL between 2001 and 2004. Their approval dates were as follows: PSRL I (ID
P071234) - June 19, 2001; PSRL II (P073817) - September 17, 2002; PSRL III (P078951) - November
11, 2003; and PSRL IV (P083968) - December 7, 2004.


                                                                                             7
   reserves, a well capitalized banking system, low inflation and a stable exchange rate,
   bolstered by a rising trade surplus and a declining current account deficit. Public
   finances had also improved, supported by the fiscal consolidation effort begun in
   mid-2001 under the new administration of President Toledo.

In spite of favorable economic developments, poverty levels had remained high. The
poverty rate, after dropping from 57 percent to 51 percent between 1991 and 1997,
increased to 54 percent by 2000, a trend exacerbated by the economic crisis during the
same period. Economic recovery, until 2002, led to only a slight drop in poverty rates.
The limited effectiveness of antipoverty social programs reflected weak targeting,
limited coordination and widespread effort duplication, as well as input-focused
interventions and insufficient monitoring and evaluation mechanisms. In this context,
as a complementary effort to the PSRLs, the Government of Peru (GOP) requested
further support from the World Bank through the Social TAL to enhance accountability,
especially within a decentralized context, with an emphasis on building capacities for
planning, monitoring and evaluation capacities in the social sectors.

   In practice, although the Social TAL had specific objectives it did not operate alone.
   Since the Project aimed at supporting the development of institutional capacity to
   monitor key indicators for the social sectors, it was intertwined to several of the
   Bank’s operations in Peru that supported decentralization. On the one hand, the
   Project provided complementary technical assistance to the social sector ministries
   responsible for the implementation of the Rural Education Project and the First
   Phase of the Health Reform Program (PARSalud). Furthermore, in November
   2006, the Bank approved a Fiscal Management and Competitiveness Development
   Policy Loan, the first of a series of DPLs which supported, among others, the
   Government’s policy for the gradual implementation of Results-Based Budgeting
   (RBB) throughout the public sector, including sub-national governments. In
   addition, the Institutional Capacity for Sustainable Fiscal Decentralization TAL
   (Fiscal TAL), which contributes to the implementation of the DPL policies, financed
   the institutional strengthening of MEF and sub-national governments to increase
   capacity in results based management. The JSDF Grant “Voices of the Poor? was
   under implementation from December 2003 to June 2008. This Grant complemented
   the Social TAL by supporting a series of local participation activities, including the
   implementation of Participatory Budgeting and Participatory Monitoring pilots in
   the poorest municipalities of Peru.

   Further to this, the Bank approved in June 2007 the Results and Accountability
   Development Policy Loan (REACT-DPL) as a first of three planned operations to
   support the Government in strengthening accountability and improving results in
   health, nutrition and education through the development of standards, accountability
   mechanisms and capacity in the social sectors, where RBB came out as an important
   instrument. In addition, the Second Phase of the Health Reform Program
   (PARSalud) aimed at maintaining the momentum of the health reforms
   implemented during the first phase. Its primary objectives were to continue to
   support the decrease infant and maternal mortality rates, as well as to improve
   nutritional status for children under 3 years. Finally, the Juntos for Nutrition Non-
   lending Technical Assistance Project (NLTA) supported the strengthening of
   institutional capacity of the conditional cash transfer Juntos Program to improve its




                                                                                       8
    nutritional impact and became the platform for the design of the Juntos Results for
    Nutrition SWAp which is currently under preparation.

    The favorable context that was in place at appraisal, however, did not hold for long.
    Decentralization of social programs – which was at the core of the Social TAL –
    faced several shortcomings in terms of its implementation strategy, institutional
    arrangements and external risks. In addition, the project heavily focused on
    MIMDES, optimistically assuming that it could play a leading role in the country’s
    social agenda. These factors had a negative effect on Project implementation. Thus,
    in 2007 the Project was restructured to overcome these difficulties and to reflect the
    Government’s new priorities.

    In practice, the Social TAL resulted in the implementation of two projects: a first
    one that was overambitious in its design, heavily focused on the role of MIMDES
    and several others sub-executors, and which represented only 38% of the total
    disbursement. This project ended in 2007 (with Project restructuring). The second
    project (i.e. the restructured Social TAL) narrowed its objectives, concentrated its
    support around RBB and supported only one sub-executor based in MEF. The
    restructured project represented around 60% of the disbursement (post Project
    restructuring).


    1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
    approved)

    The original Project Development Objective (PDO), as stated in the Project
    Appraisal Document (PAD), was to strengthen results-oriented and participatory
    planning and monitoring and evaluation with emphasis on decentralized social
    programs of the Ministry of Women and Social Development (MIMDES). To
    achieve the PDO, the Project aimed to (i) improve the quality of social policies and
    programs in the context of decentralization, (ii) implement performance agreements
    and accreditation systems for social programs to improve service delivery outcomes
    (emphasizing two of MIMDES decentralized social assistance programs – food aid
    and small scale infrastructure), and (iii) improve the monitoring and evaluation
    system in the social sectors within a decentralized context.

    The Key Indicators related to the Project’s PDO were:

       Percentage of priority social programs expenditure on human capital2 (Target:
        93% -95%);

     Proportion of budget on 1st quintile increased (Target: 25% to 32% on infant
      nutrition programs and from 20% to 26% in SIS);

     Percentage of budget linked to performance agreements (Target: 40% in food
      programs and 40 % in rural infrastructure programs); and


2
 Human capital definition included initial education, primary education, secondary education, individual
health, collective health, nutritional programs and investments of Foncodes in health, education, water
and sewage.


                                                                                                      9
     Number of grassroots organizations that voice opinion on social policy and
      quality of programs in participatory evaluations, in 1st and 2nd quintile districts
      (Target: 300).


    1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key
    Indicators, and reasons/justification

Project restructuring aimed to respond to the Government’s new vision of improving
results and accountability in the provision of social sector services (education, health
and nutrition). As part of this effort, MEF took a leading role through the creation and
consolidation of the Results-based Budgeting technical team in 20073. Institutionally,
the RBB technical team belongs to the National Public Budget Directorate. The team
was actively involved in the Project restructuring process.

The revised PDO, as stated in the Restructured Project Paper approved by the Board on
December 28, 2007, was to support the Government in developing institutional
capacities for strengthening results-oriented and participatory planning and monitoring
and evaluation with emphasis on decentralized social programs.

The Key Indicators associated to the Project’s revised PDO were:

   Number of national strategic social programs with an increased budget (under the
    RBB framework)4 (Target: 4);

   Proportion of regional governments that have implemented and monitored the four
    national strategic social programs (under the RBB framework) (Target: 100%);

   Correlation coefficient value between the marginal per capita expenditure of the
    “Crecer? strategy and the gap of incidence of chronic malnutrition in 36 months-old
    in targeted areas; and

   An on-going monitoring and evaluation system for prioritized national strategic
    social programs operating


    1.4 Main beneficiaries

The ultimate beneficiaries of this Project were the target population of governmental
social programs – especially those in poverty and extreme poverty – as well as local
governments. As a result of Project-related activities, it was expected they would count
on better targeted and more efficient, equitable and quality social services based on an
improved planning, monitoring and evaluation.

Operationally, as a technical assistance loan, the Project supported several ministries’
by strengthening their social programs and implementation capacity. In particular, the

3
  For further details please refer to the Public Sector Budget Law for Fiscal Year 2007 (Law 28927)
which, under Chapter IV, included a section on “Implementation of Results-based Budgeting?.
4
  The theoretical assumption is that, prior to a budget increase, the program must have complied with
methodological criteria (i.e., logical framework available, monitoring instruments designed).


                                                                                                  10
Social TAL worked directly with the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF),
Ministry of Women and Social Development (MIMDES), Ministry of Health (MINSA),
Ministry of Education (MINEDU) and the National Statistical Institute (INEI). Within
MEF, there were four sub-executing units which directly benefitted from the project:
General Directorate for Economic and Social Affairs (DGAES), National Public Budget
Directorate (DNPP), General Directorate for Multiannual Programming (DGPM) and
Integrated Financial Administration System (SIAF).

    1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The Project, as originally approved, comprised the following components:

   Component 1: Improving the quality of social policies and programs (US$1.43
    total cost, US$1.14 loan)

    The first component aimed to improve the quality of social policies and programs
    considering they were in the process of being decentralized. It had two
    subcomponents: (i) Design of social policies in a decentralized context through the
    development and evaluation of a social policy framework consistent with the multi-
    annual macroeconomic framework, technical assistance for improving social sector
    strategic plans (PESEM and PEI) and capacity-building for strategic and operations
    planning, studies defining the institutional arrangements of social sector
    decentralization and studies leading to the increase in coverage and efficiency of
    pension systems. In addition, (ii) the second subcomponent contributed to
    strengthening existing instruments for results-oriented planning and accountability
    at the national level. These instruments included the sectoral strategic plans
    (PESEM) and program results and/or logical frameworks, as well as the results-
    oriented agreements (known as Convenios de Administracidn por Resultados -
    CARS) signed between the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) and the social
    programs, especially the priority social programs (PSP). This component financed
    national and international consultancies, studies, workshops and stakeholders’
    consultations.

   Component 2: Implementation of performance agreements and accreditation
    of social sectors (US$0.71 total, US$0.57 loan)

    The second component helped ensuring an adequate decentralization of the social
    programs through: (i) design and implementation of instruments in support of the
    accreditation process for decentralization. The Project contributed to the design of
    the accreditation systems by helping to implement the legal framework, institutional
    arrangements, indicators and M&E arrangements and by providing capacity-
    strengthening to sub-national governments to increase their managerial capacity
    prior to and following accreditation; (ii) implementation of performance agreements
    and capacity-building at the local level through training and dissemination programs
    to ensure that Municipalities – especially poor and rural ones – were able to manage
    their funds and the ones to come as a result of the decentralization process; and (iii)
    monitoring and evaluation of budget transfers to sub-national governments through
    the review of the formulas used to distribute budget to sub-national governments
    and monitoring of financial transfers to social programs and sectors. The component




                                                                                        11
    financed national and international        consultancies,   workshops,    training,
    dissemination and equipment.

   Component 3: Improvement of monitoring and evaluation in the social sectors
    (US$5.03 total, US$4.02 loan)

    The purpose of the third component was to build M&E capacity through the
    strengthening of existing monitoring instruments, designing new ones where
    necessary, and strengthening the analytical capacity of different actors engaged in
    the process. This component was designed based on several initiatives launched by
    the government, civil society organizations (CSOs) and independent think-tanks in
    recent years, as well as on international best practices.

     The component had five subcomponents: (i) Development of a public social
    expenditure tracking system through the design and implementation of modules that
    would link financial indicators, from SIAF, to physical indicators from the social
    programs, with special reference to PSP. This subcomponent also financed
    upgrading and expansion of the Consulta Amigable website, as well as the pilot
    implementation of the student monitoring system in two regions of Peru; (ii)
    development of a monitoring system for MIMDES’s social programs. This
    monitoring system was envisioned as critical for the accreditation system, the
    implementation of performance agreements and participatory monitoring activities;
    (iii) strengthening of evaluation capacities and instruments, including improvement
    of National Household Survey (ENAHO) and evaluation capacity-building in the
    social sectors; (iv) generating a fund for independent evaluation studies awarded
    through competitive processes and participatory monitoring initiatives; and (v)
    improvement of transparency and participatory monitoring mechanisms through
    capacity-building for CSOs.

   Component 4. Project Management (US$0.61 total, US$0.49 loan)

    The Project’s fourth component was to support project implementation, monitoring
    and evaluation. The UCPS (Unidad de Coordinación de Préstamos Sectoriales) in
    MEF agreed to operate according to the structure and management procedures
    recommended by the Bank. A capacity assessment was carried out to evaluate
    procurement and financial management processes under the responsibility of UCPS
    and they were deemed satisfactory. The UCPS was responsible for coordinating and
    monitoring the yearly Operations Plan, financial management of the Project and
    procuring goods and services.


    1.6 Revised Components

As explained in section 1.3, the Project was restructured to efficiently support the
Government in developing institutional capacities related to results-oriented and
participatory planning and monitoring and evaluation. Moreover, the restructuring
aimed at adequately capturing the Government’s institutional arrangements for timely
implementation and effective delivery of outcomes. Thus, components were readjusted
accordingly to reflect these new priorities, as well as the revised PDO. These changes
were included in the Project Paper as follows:


                                                                                    12
   Component 1. Improve the quality of social policies and programs in the
    context of decentralization (US$2.58 total, US$2.07 loan)

    Given that RBB became one of the major reforms the Government embarked on, the
    revised first component would finance: (i) training nationwide for social sector staff
    on the key strategic programs under RBB and on planning and budgeting for results;
    (ii) training on monitoring of budget implementation and key indicators for regional
    staff; and (iii) capacity development in CIAS to plan and monitor achievement of
    nutrition objectives.

   Component 2. Implement performance agreements and accreditation systems
    for social programs (US$0.11 total, US$0.09 loan)

    No further activities would be financed under this component.

   Component 3. Improve monitoring and evaluation systems in the social sectors
    within a decentralized context (US$3.40 total, US$2.72 loan)

    Given progress made by SIAF, as well as by INEI, this component focused on the
    following activities: (i) development of the public expenditure tracking system in
    order to develop capacity to monitor key outcomes and process indicators relevant
    to the RBB, including work with the social sectors to improve administrative
    systems and with INEI to increase coverage of the Demographic and Health Survey
    (in order to obtain nutrition and health indicators at the regional level) as well as the
    inclusion of a first round of a module on users’ perceptions and awareness of
    standards in basic health, nutrition and education in the National Household Survey
    (ENAHO); (ii) external outcome process evaluations of sector programs under the
    RBB framework; and (iii) development of transparency mechanisms linked to
    budgeting and execution.

   Component 4. Project Management (US$0.86 total, US$0.68 loan)

    The purpose of this component continued to be the provision of support for project
    implementation, monitoring and evaluation.


    1.7 Other significant changes

Given the implementation, institutional and external shortcomings related to the
consolidation of social program decentralization, the Project was restructured. As part
of Project’s formal restructuring conducted in 2007, the following changes were also
introduced: (i) streamlining of the Project design to focus on the implementation of the
RBB initiative with emphasis on the priority social programs (i.e., Nutrition, Maternal
Health and Education) as compared to the original broad support to social policy
reform; (ii) changes to the institutional arrangements reducing the number of sub-
executing units to one (i.e., National Public Budget Directorate); and (iii) updating costs
of project activities with a reduction in the overall cost of the Project and a cancellation
of the loan by US$900 thousand.



                                                                                          13
Moreover, given the Project’s emphasis on strengthening monitoring and evaluation
capacities, the Social TAL focused on the consolidation of the public social expenditure
tracking system (i.e., monitoring). This consolidation stressed the nationwide
implementation of the Integrated System of Administrative Management (SIGA) which
was initially developed under PARSalud I.

In addition, in order to promote efficiency and consistency, the evaluation component
was transferred to the Fiscal TAL given that this operation already considered
supporting a series of program assessments.

The loan’s original closing date (December 31, 2007) was extended twice (to June 30,
2009 and December 31, 2009) resulting in an overall project life span of almost six
years between appraisal and closing.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes


    2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The design of the original Project was characterized by several opportunities and, at the
same time, various shortcomings. Among them are the following:

   Project’s purpose was aligned to Government’s social policy agenda. At the
    time of its design, the Project was meant to support the achievement of
    governmental goals and be complementary to PSRL. In particular, it aimed at
    serving as a linkage between the national and regional levels (i.e., with emphasis on
    performance measurement of social programs-related outcomes) and reducing the
    risk of failure associated to the targeting of social programs throughout the
    decentralization process, especially during the transition from a centralized to a
    decentralized management. This was a critical issue in the political agenda of the
    Toledo administration5.

   Project’s design incorporated previous lessons and research findings. The
    design of the Social TAL departed from a sound background analysis of Bank’s
    previous operations, especially of the lessons associated to the implementation of
    the PSRL series. As explained in section 1.1, the Bank highlighted the importance
    of three aspects that were incorporated as part of the Project: (i) Capacity building,
    (ii) measurement tools and dissemination instruments and (iii) inter-institutional
    coordination (i.e., both vertical – national, regional and local levels, and horizontal –
    between MEF and social sectors). Later on, when a decision was made about
    Project restructuring, the research findings provided by RECURSO (Rendición de
    Cuentas para la Reforma Social) were critical. In particular, these studies rendered
    evidence about the limited technical and institutional capacities of MIMDES and
    CIAS, as well as the serious limitations of food-aid programs in terms of their
    contribution to actually addressing child malnutrition. Moreover, the findings
    placed importance on the potential of RBB as an innovative reform of public
    budget.

5
  For further details, please refer to the Law of Decentralization (promulgated on July 17, 2002) and the
Organic Law of Regional Governments (promulgated on November 19, 2002).


                                                                                                      14
   Project’s design was aligned to CAS. The Country Assistance Strategy for Peru is
    built upon three strategic pillars to support the country’s efforts to increase
    economic growth and competitiveness, reduce poverty and inequality, and
    strengthen the country’s public institutions. In general, PSRLs supported the key
    policy changes needed to develop these results’ orientation in the social sectors and
    to support the announced decentralization to the regional governments. The Social
    TAL, as well as the Fiscal TAL, was conceived as a complementary operation that
    was expected to instill greater results orientation and leverage on the support to
    Government’s priorities around results and accountability.

   Project’s design was based on preliminary policy documents, institutional plans
    and staff perceptions on how the decentralization process was to be
    implemented. Prior to its design, Bank staff – in close collaboration with MEF
    professionals – discussed with social sector representatives the principles,
    procedures and potential effects of decentralization at the regional and local levels.
    At the time, President Toledo was explicitly enthusiastic about the success that the
    decentralization reforms (i.e., specially those with emphasis on social programs)
    were about to bring. Thus, the Bank overestimated the fact that the Government had
    a timely and clear operational strategy. Later there was evidence this was not the
    case and that decentralization was being discussed only at a theoretical level. In
    sum, the Bank misjudged the Government’s operational capacity to timely and
    effectively implement the decentralization process of social programs.

   Project’s assessment of risks. As part of the initial design, four major risks were
    identified (i.e., political, limited technical capacity, anti-performance based culture,
    low leadership and limited coordination capacity). The overall risk rating
    considered in the PAD was “substantial?. However, both technical and coordination
    capacities (i.e., originally rated as “substantial?) were quite limited and therefore
    should have been rated “high?. In addition, the highest risk faced by the Project was
    not properly identified – Lack of a governmental strategy and operational plan to
    implement the decentralization of social programs. As a result, the Bank took time
    to identify and implement the necessary mitigation measures which, at the end, led
    to Project restructuring in 2007.

   Project’s strong emphasis on MIMDES. As part of its design, Component 2 (i.e.,
    implementation of Performance Agreements and Accreditation of social sectors) and
    a major activity under Component 3 (i.e., implementation of a Monitoring System of
    MIMDES’ social programs) were direct responsibility of MIMDES. However, the
    design overestimated the Ministry’s institutional capacity and assumed there was
    going to be relative staff stability. At that time, as explained above, the strategies
    and guidelines for decentralization were still under a validation process. Thus,
    before working towards accountability of social programs, MIMDES needed to
    become accountable itself, especially in the dialogue with Regional and Local
    Governments.

   Project’s institutional arrangements were ambitious. The PDO aimed at
    strengthening results-oriented and participatory planning, monitoring and evaluation
    in the social sectors. Thus, given that this was a platform to be mainstreamed into
    MEF and social sectors, the design identified nine direct counterparts (i.e., UCPS-


                                                                                         15
    MEF, DGAES-MEF, DNPP-MEF, SIAF-MEF, DGPM-MEF, MIMDES, INEI,
    MINSA and MINEDU). Although these arrangements were aligned to the PDO, the
    operational coordination capacities of each and among were overestimated during
    project design.

    2.2 Implementation

Prior to restructuring, the Project had a slow implementation rate and key counterparts
had difficulty in focusing on critical actions. Underlying reasons for this included:

   Delay in project’s initial public budget allocation. When Project implementation
    began, there were legal constraints that caused delay in the initial disbursement (i.e.,
    among others, the signature of Management Agreements among MEF and the social
    sectors – MIMDES, MINSA and MINEDU). Moreover, the National Congress was
    about to approve a supplementary budget which included, among others, the funds
    to be allocated as national counterpart for the implementation of this project. This
    decision, however, took several months before it became effective. Thus, this
    resulted in a considerable delay of the initial actions (i.e., during its first year of
    implementation, the Project only spent USD 420.000).

   Lack of an operational strategy for effective decentralization implementation at
    the regional level. Although decentralization actually materialized through the
    transferal of food-aid and social infrastructure programs to the Regions, the process
    was far from being effective. On the one hand, Regions were formally responsible
    for funding allocation, however, major decisions were still being made at the
    national level. On the other hand, managerial and coordination capacities were not
    sufficiently consolidated prior to program transferal. The Fiscal TAL confronted
    these challenges as well.

   Readjustment and reorientation of political strategies in the social and
    economic fronts. The Project witnessed the beginning of two new policies related
    to the country’s new focus on achieving results and accountability in the social
    sectors: Crecer strategy and RBB. The former is a comprehensive coordination
    strategy involving the main social programs (Juntos, PRONAA, PRONAMA,
    PRONAMACHS, PRONASAR, RENIEC and SIS) under the leadership of CIAS.
    Crecer operationalized the Government’s commitment to reducing 5-points-in-5-
    years chronic malnutrition in children under 5 years old. The latter, RBB, was
    promoted as a planning tool geared towards increasing efficiency and improving
    quality of public expenditure, especially relevant to prioritize results and
    accountability for all social sector outcomes. Though both reforms were aligned to
    the PDO of this TAL, the initial definition associated to their implementation
    affected the Project, as follows: (i) institutional arrangements were in the process of
    being established which generated initial tensions between MEF and social sector
    ministries, and (ii) delivery of project-related activities suffered postponements and
    delays.

   Systematic changes in managerial positions and limited technical capacities.
    Because of the political changes occurring at high level, the Project faced high
    managerial and technical staff rotation, particularly in MIMDES. In addition, the
    Project had to deal with several readjustments of normative and organizational


                                                                                         16
    frameworks of sub-executing counterparts that led to limited technical capacities.
    Once the Project was restructured, the main counterpart became the RBB team
    based at DNPP. However, although technical capacities were sound and in place,
    the team experimented excessive pressure to put the RBB in the sectoral agendas.
    Finally, as part of the restructured plan, CIAS – given its strategic role in
    coordinating the Crecer strategy – was included as leading a subcomponent under
    Component 1. Though it centralized “real power? around large scale social
    programs (i.e., Crecer, conditional cash transfer Juntos Program), lack of strategic
    and operational clarity were observed. Therefore, in order to gain control back,
    MEF has systematically assumed the role of social policy formulation,
    implementation, monitoring and evaluation.          As a result, the institutional
    relationship between MEF and the social sectors (including CIAS) has become tense
    and affected project delivery.

   Rigid system with respect to administrative procedures imposed by the UCPS.
    The UCPS faced high external pressure imposed by the procedures implemented by
    the Comptroller General’s Office to guarantee the completion of a detailed protocol
    of administrative steps. Thus, the Unit showed rigidity in how it related to the
    technical units, both within and outside MEF. Communication and coordination
    mechanisms were not fluid as expected and, occasionally, the PCU team showed
    limited predisposition towards executing actions with celerity. Moreover, PCU also
    showed a moderate staff rotation especially as it concerned technical sector
    assistants.

   Coordination mechanisms to facilitate project implementation. In view of all the
    factors mentioned above that affected implementation, the Bank proposed and led an
    operational strategy to expedite implementation. Thus, regular technical meetings
    were carried out with participation of staff members from the sub-executors, as well
    as from the PCU and the Bank. These meetings facilitated the reduction of time
    consumed in revising and approving documents, coordinating activities of mutual
    interest and providing in site technical assistance and operational monitoring.

   Political transition-related delays. In addition, due to the delays in start-up, the
    Project ran into the period of governmental transition (2006), bringing about great
    levels of uncertainty and an implementation setback. Although the transition did not
    imply a challenge to the objectives committed in the PAD, it did reflect in delays for
    achieving PDO-related outcomes.


    2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

   M&E design. The original Project elaborated a Results Framework that was
    aligned to the PDO and based on the information that existed in 2004. This
    Framework was prepared with the expectation of data that, although not available at
    that time, was supposedly going to be generated. As part of Project restructuring, a
    readjusted version of the Results Framework – which was directly discussed with
    sub-executing counterparts – was prepared. As opposed to the original one, this one
    was based on already available data and clearly identified reporting responsibilities.




                                                                                       17
   M&E implementation. The original Project found that the indicators included in
    the Results Framework faced, at least, three major shortcomings: (i) counterparts
    were not aware about the matrix and so they considered it as an “external?
    imposition of the Bank rather than a managerial tool that could benefit their
    performance (i.e., this might have been related to the way in which sub-executors
    were informed about its use by UCPS), (ii) the matrix did not comply with the
    standard criteria of indicators formulation (i.e., specific, measurable, achievable,
    realistic and/or time-bound), and (iii) there were no data sources available to provide
    the required information. Once the Project was restructured, several of these
    shortcomings were discussed and a revised Results Framework elaborated in
    collaboration with counterparts. This facilitated operational monitoring and the
    periodical discussion of implementation progress.

   M&E utilization. As M&E has been at the core of the Project itself, the use of
    M&E data has been systematically increasing. Analysis, measurement and reporting
    became regular activities promoted by the Project. Staff commitment around these
    issues was remarkable, especially once the Project was restructured and the Results
    Framework effectively reflected their activities and efforts. As a result, M&E data
    was used to inform decision making and public budget resource allocation (e.g.,
    MINSA’s regional funds through the use of ENAHO, ENDES and SIGA6 data).
    Moreover, in terms of sustainability, several of the indicators have been
    mainstreamed into the current RBB monitoring system and the team has assumed
    the responsibility of data gathering. One factor that might explain these positive
    results is that, after restructuring, there was only one sub-executor responsible for
    tracking performance: RBB.


    2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The Social TAL did not trigger any of the Bank’s safeguard policies. Furthermore,
though the effect was not intended to be direct, the Project included strategic action
lines that systematically contributed to improving the situation of indigenous peoples
and ethnical minorities. For instance, the design, consolidation and capacity-building
around the establishment of a Monitoring and Evaluation System (i.e., originally based
at MIMDES and, later on, at MEF through RBB) offered several opportunities to
enhance social policy in the benefit of such social groups. Data was expected to support
decision making as per prioritizing interventions and allocating funding.

Some of the specific project-related actions that contributed to social inclusion were the
support to the improvement of the social policy-related sections of the National
Household Survey (ENAHO), the promotion of community participation mechanisms
(i.e., which was complemented by the JSDF Grant “Peru: Giving Voice to the Poor to
Influence Decision Making?) and the strengthening of communication and information
access about social programs which was made available through their information
portals and MEF’s Consulta Amigable website. specifically:


6
  Although SIGA, an administrative information system consolidated under PARSalud and later on
mainstreamed in RBB – was not originally a formal subcomponent of the restructured Project, its
relevance became gradually visible throughout implementation. Thus, it became a key tool promoted by
the Social TAL in the context of decentralization of social programs.


                                                                                                 18
       The ENAHO survey now includes user-satisfaction modules in its health and
        nutrition sections, which enable social program managers and civil society to track
        the users’ perception of the quality of services delivered, including the cultural
        adequacy of birth-delivery procedures.
       The participatory monitoring pilots supported by the project and its allied JSDF
        Grant provided an opportunity to municipal authorities, civil society and grassroots
        groups to monitor the performance of local schools and health centers. Lessons
        learned from these pilots helped design the Social Monitoring mechanism that will
        be implemented under the RBB’s nutrition strategic program, following
        recommendations of its Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework.
       The evaluation and expansion of Consulta Amigable promoted by the project
        enabled the participation of civil society, the media and local organizations to
        monitor the execution of national and subnational budgets. An enhanced and more
        user-friendly portal contributed to the improvement of budget transparency and the
        involvement of usually excluded actors in the budget dialogue. The publication of
        the modified budget (PIM) and SIAF-GL data in Consulta Amigable, as
        recommended by its evaluation, allows users to compare executed spending with
        the actual budgetary assignments of the national, regional and local governments.
        Thanks to MEF’s and the imporved Consulta Amigable portals, Peru ranked among
        the two best performers in the Region in 2008, according to the Open Budget
        Index, with a score of 66% 7.


On the fiduciary side, UCPS was formally responsible for financial accounting and
periodically reporting to the Bank. Based on Project supervision reports, UCPS’s
staffing, record keeping, and financial reporting and monitoring were satisfactory.
Specifically, staff had adequate academic qualifications and professional experience,
accounting was up-to-date, reconciled and bank account reconciliations were properly
done and FMRs were submitted on a timely manner with all the required information.

Shortcomings were observed, however, in internal control (i.e., accounting policies
procedures) and budgeting systems. For instance, at some point, the exchange rate used
by the Project was not in line with what was required by the Bank guidelines.
Additionally, as UCPS consolidated the information provided by the sub-executing
entities to elaborate the AOPs, given this was not their formal obligation, it was usually
the case that such plans were not an effective monitoring tool because they were not
timely updated.


        2.5 Post-completion Operation

Though decentralization of social programs is still an ongoing process, several actions
have been implemented to facilitate capacity strengthening to this end. Strategic lines
promoted by the Project have been either mainstreamed into MEF’s structure (M&E
system) or are being supported by complementary efforts. For instance, the Fiscal TAL
will continue to promote evaluation-related activities and PRODEV – an IADB

7
   The International Budget Partnership’s Open Budget Index evaluates the quantity and type of
information available to the public in a country's budget documents and information systems
(http://openbudgetindex.org/files/cs_peru.pdf).


                                                                                           19
promoted initiative to strengthen governmental effectiveness in achieving
developmental outcomes – will consolidate efforts made, especially at the regional and
local levels. Moreover, the Juntos Results for Nutrition SWAp, currently under
preparation, will continue to strengthen local level budgeting and executing capacity of
health executing units.

In terms of transition arrangements for the Project's future operation, appropriate
technical, financial and institutional provisions would be needed to ensure effectiveness
and impact. Among them, aside from a timely and adequate budget provision (i.e.,
public funds), complementary staffing and management-related capacities will need to
be put in place to institutionalize measurement tools and the required abilities to
implement them both nationally and regionally.

One of the most relevant performance indicator by which the Project can be monitored
and evaluated in the future is, as stated in the revised Results Framework, the proportion
of Regional Governments that have implemented and monitored their strategic social
programs. SIGA, which is currently in place, would serve as the monitoring tool to
update this indicator.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

   Objective. The original main objective of the Project maintained its relevance over
    time to adjust to the Peruvian political changing reality, especially after
    restructuring. Its main challenge was not content-related but formulation-related:
    The original PDO explicitly referred to implementation arrangements (i.e.,
    MIMDES role). Based on MIMDES’ performance and MEF’s role in RBB, PDO
    restructuring was required to guarantee its achievement. Thus, it was and still is
    extremely relevant to the country’s current policy agenda (i.e., accountability of
    social programs in the context of decentralization) by developing institutional
    capacity to monitor key indicators in the RBB for the social sectors. In addition, the
    objective remains relevant for the Bank’s Country Assistance Program (CAS) and
    its current operations (i.e., Fiscal Management and Competitiveness Development
    Policy Loan to support, among others, the Government’s policy for the gradual
    implementation of RBB throughout the public sector; the Results and
    Accountability Development Policy Loan to support the Government in
    strengthening accountability and improving results in health, nutrition and
    education; and the Nutrition SWAp which is currently under preparation).

   Design. The restructured Project design aimed at strengthening institutional
    capacities for the implementation of the RBB (i.e., one of the most relevant and
    innovative public policy reforms the Government has embarked on in recent years),
    with particular emphasis on the capacity to monitor key indicators in the social
    sectors. In addition, the TAL was designed to support the strengthening of
    institutional capacity in CIAS for the implementation of Crecer which, in the longer
    term, was expected to be supported by the Nutrition SWAp. Moreover, technical
    assistance provided by the Bank supported the generation, consolidation and
    institutionalization of M&E-related capacities at the national but, most importantly,
    at the regional and local level.


                                                                                       20
   Implementation. The Project increased its relevance throughout implementation as
    it addressed crucial aspects for the development, consolidation and mainstreaming
    of social programs. Project implementation sought to guarantee the timely
    execution of deliverables. Particular pressure was given as RBB required
    strengthened sectoral monitoring systems in order to set capacities at the sub-
    national levels for budget planning, monitoring and evaluation, as well a the
    readjustment of nationally-representative household surveys. Furthermore, the
    Bank’s implementation assistance was responsive to changing needs and
    circumstances throughout, especially after restructuring.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objective

   Overall PDO. The original Project aimed at promoting an increase in the
    percentage of priority social programs expenditures on human capital and
    supporting the institutionalization of management tools with participation of social
    sector institutions. By July 2007, the percentage of budget linked to Performance
    Agreements reached 75% in food programs and 68% in rural infrastructure
    programs (as compared to the 40% originally targeted for each of these types of
    programs). Nonetheless, the percentage of human capital-related expenditures was
    35% (as compared to the target of 93% - 95% included in the PAD) and there were
    no grassroots organizations voicing their opinion on social policy and quality of
    programs in participatory evaluations (as compared to the 300 that were originally
    expected). As explained above, a determinant factor for these delays and/or failures
    to comply was the lack of a sound strategy and clear operational plan to implement
    decentralization of social programs at the regional level. These results led, in
    addition to the reasons described in previous sections, to the restructuring of the
    Project in October 2007.

    Once the Project was restructured, the PDO was satisfactorily achieved in
    collaboration with the RBB strategy. In particular, achievements were observed in
    the progress towards PDO-related indicators and their targets. Specifically, at the
    end of the Project, nine national strategic social programs had an increased budget
    under the RBB framework despite that the original target was set at four. Moreover,
    60% out of the 100% originally targeted regional governments had implemented and
    monitored the four national strategic social programs (under the RBB framework).
    Finally, an on-going monitoring and evaluation system for prioritized national
    strategic social programs was operating as set in the PAD.

    Despite its relevance for social programs-related targeting procedures, the fourth
    PDO-related indicator “Correlation coefficient value between the marginal per
    capita expenditure of the “Crecer? and the gap of incidence of chronic malnutrition
    in 36 months-old in targeted areas? was not calculated throughout the Project. Its
    calculation was not possible due to the lack of precise data.

    Thus, the ICR finds the achievement of PDO to be moderately satisfactory.




                                                                                     21
                                     Table 1
            Calculation for Outcome Rating for Formally Revised Projects

                                Against             Against          Overall        Comments
                             Original PDOs         Revised
                                                     PDOs
     1.    Rating              Moderately         Satisfactory                        Moderate
                              Unsatisfactory                                       improvement
                                                                                    after Formal
                                                                                   Restructuring
                                                                                     (December
                                                                                        2007)
     2.    Rating Value              3                 5
     3.    Weight (%              $2.99m            $3.64m                         This reflects
           disbursed                                                               disbursement
           before/after            38%               58.1%           96.1%         cutoff as of
           PDO change)                                                             December
                                                                                   2007


     4.    Weighted                1.14               2.9              4.04
           value (2X3)
     5.    Final Value                                             Moderately
           (rounded)                                               Satisfactory
The specific achievements in the areas of social policy formulation and monitoring and
evaluation of social programs8, which also point to the attainment of the PDO, can be
summarized as follows:

   Component 1. The Project aimed at supporting the institutionalization of tools such
    as the Multiannual Macroeconomic Framework and Results-oriented Agreements
    (CAR) with participation of social sector institutions. Under the original Project,
    Macro Social Frameworks were annually approved and published, as expected.
    Nonetheless, by July 2007, due to political factors, lack of operational clarity and
    changing policy priorities, Results Agreements did not achieve the expected
    outcomes and there were still no programs with improved logical or results
    framework (as opposed to the 8 that were originally targeted in the PAD).

    Once the Project was restructured, the component achieved a satisfactory delivery.
    A 12% increase was observed in the social sectors budget allocation to RBB (as
    compared to 2007) in contrast to the target of 10% included in the original Results
    Framework. Additionally, as expected, nine strategic programs improved logical or
    results frameworks which implied the definition of causal models, as well as of
    outcome-oriented indicators. As per the proportion of Regional Governments that
    had their relevant staff receive the complete RBB training package, 100% of them
    did (as compared to the 75% that was originally targeted). In sum, these results
    exceeded what was originally anticipated and were achieved as a consequence of the
    political endorsement of RBB, as well as to the commitment of strategic Regional
    Governments

8
  The Project’s Arrangements for Monitoring were readjusted as part of the restructuring. Moreover,
target values included in the Project Paper were later revised with Government officers as explained in
ISR of December 16, 2008.


                                                                                                    22
   Component 2. The Social TAL supported the design and implementation of
    monitoring instruments, as well as the provision of capacity-strengthening of sub-
    national governments. Under the original Project, given that the decentralization
    process was still being operationalized, there was high uncertainty and major
    outcomes were not achieved. Thus, the implementation of an accreditation system
    specific for social programs, the promotion of Performance Agreements and the
    monitoring of transfers to sub-national governments were not fully operational.

    By July 2007, 1487 district and 195 provincial municipalities had submitted
    applications for accreditation for social programs and the same number had signed a
    Performance Agreement with MIMDES including participation benchmarks (as
    compared to the 600 and 200, respectively, that were considered as targets in the
    PAD). Nonetheless, in terms of monitoring reports of Performance Agreements and
    the number of municipalities with increased social program management capacities,
    only 5 district and 5 provincial municipalities had reached the targets (as compared
    to the 400 and 80, respectively, that were considered in the PAD). Moreover, there
    was no incentive framework linked to Performance Agreements compliance as
    stated in the PAD.

    Under this light and given the political uncertainty around the concept and
    procedures for the decentralization of social programs, the revised Project did not
    support this component further.

   Component 3. The Project assisted in the design of a monitoring and evaluation
    system for social assistance programs and of the Public Expenditure Tracking
    System in MEF. The Project also contributed to the evaluation of the Consulta
    Amigable (a system linked to SIAF that allows the public to consult expenditures),
    and to the strengthening of analytical capacity of technical staff of the different
    sectors. Under the original Project, a budget module was included in SIAF and
    municipalities’ capacities partially improved in terms of participatory planning,
    budgeting and monitoring.

    Moreover, despite its shortcomings, a major activity conducted during the early
    years of the Project was the design of MIMDES’ monitoring and evaluation system
    for social sectors. To this end, the system’s conceptual model was defined,
    validated and a trial software launched in pilot areas. However, due to the
    systematic changes in managerial and technical posts, the system could not be
    consolidated or scaled-up.

    By July 2007, the performance of this component was rather low except for the 195
    management committees established for food aid programs (as compared to the
    originally targeted 194) and for the 3116 users that visited the Consulta Amigable
    website monthly (as compared to the 140 that were considered in the PAD). There
    was no progress at all in indicators such as the number of municipalities with
    monitoring indicators, number of impact and qualitative evaluations of social
    programs published and discussed in public, number of participatory workshops
    held to review monitoring reports in municipalities of quintiles 1 and 2 and number
    of participatory workshops that allow full participation of native language speakers.




                                                                                      23
   Once the Project was revised and its indicators readjusted, several of its outcomes
   were achieved. For instance, as compared to an original target of eight, nine
   participatory monitoring experiences of budget implementation at the local level
   (under the RBB framework) were conducted; fourteen external evaluations of social
   programs’ performance were conducted and discussed (with social sectors) (as
   compared to the six originally planned), two output-related monitoring reports on
   selected interventions were conducted, discussed and disseminated (as compared to
   an estimate of four) and five outcome-related monitoring reports for each national
   strategic social program were conducted, discussed and disseminated as planned.

3.3 Efficiency

As the Project was a technical assistance operation, an economic analysis was not
prepared during preparation against which its efficiency can be measured. Still, the
Project’s efficiency can be inferred on the basis of the expected impacts of the activities
it supported and the efficiency with which it was implemented.

As discussed, the Project was expected to develop institutional capacities for
strengthening results-oriented and participatory planning, monitoring and evaluation
with emphasis on decentralized social programs. The large-scale implementation of
the RBB with emphasis on priority social programs – especially through the use of
SIGA – has increased data collection capacities. By improving the quality of
information available, through data collection, and an increased focus on monitoring
and evaluation, the Government will be able to make better-informed decisions
regarding the design and targeting of its social sector programs, and beneficiaries of
those programs will eventually count on better targeted and more efficient services.

The introduction of RBB mechanisms into Government programs introduces greater
efficiency into the allocation and use of Government resources, while identifying issues
with respect to institutional capacity constraints among certain states and municipalities
that can be and is being addressed through strengthened implementation support aimed
at building needed capacity. These efforts are expected to strengthen the effectiveness
of social programs, both through improved equity and improved quality and efficiency
in their delivery.

The costs involved in achieving Project objectives were reasonable in comparison to
both the benefits and recognized norms. The Project was expected to have a positive
fiscal impact resulting from monitoring aimed at improving effectiveness in tracking
social programs-related outcomes and by increasing institutional capacities to conduct
these exercises regularly. Although, at present, there is not methodological instrument
available to allow attributing the effects to the Project itself and that of external factors,
an actual effect on National Budget is anticipated.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

The overall outcome of the loan is rated moderately satisfactory. The overall
objective of the loan set at the time of its approval (i.e., develop institutional capacities
on results-oriented planning, monitoring and evaluation) remained extremely relevant
throughout the operation and was aligned to the Government’s commitment around
promoting accountability of social programs. This relevance still holds in the present

                                                                                           24
provided the Government is strongly committed to further implementing RBB. Though
the project was not implemented as originally planned due to limited technical and
coordination capacities, outcomes were moderately achieved after restructuring,
especially under components 1 and 3. Efficiency was measured through the expected
impact of Project-related activities on social program expenditures. It was found
satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

   Poverty impacts, Gender aspects and Social Development

Though the Project was directly associated to the promotion of capacities around
planning, monitoring and evaluation of social programs, its impact on poverty, gender
aspects and social development was not expected to be direct. The Project, however,
implemented actions to increase knowledge, modify attitudes and promote skills for
technical staff to carry out their social development-related functions in a more efficient
way.

   Institutional changes/Strengthening

The achievement of PDO was directly involved with the promotion of institutional
changes. Thus, the Project made some important contributions to the development of
policy instruments and capacity leading to improved accountability in the social sectors,
as well as to the strengthening of RBB which was central to the PO, as part of the
Bank’s technical operations in Peru.

After restructuring, the Project supported important institutional changes related to the
most relevant reforms initiated in the country, specifically decentralization of social
programs, implementation of RBB and launching of the Crecer strategy.

In particular, the Project facilitated changes in three areas: (i) Consolidating
“measurement and assessment culture?, especially as related to social programs, (ii)
setting up an inter-institutional coordination mechanisms, and (iii) strengthening
capacities at the national, regional and local levels for the adequate design,
implementation and scaling up of outcome-oriented monitoring procedures.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not Applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
The assessment of risk to development outcome is rated moderate. There are several
factors indicative that development outcomes achieved through the Project are likely to
be maintained and justify rating the risk as “moderate?. In particular: (i) MEF’s
autonomy for budgetary-related decision making, (ii) MEF’s current commitment
around RBB institutionalization, (iii) increasing availability of regional experts on the
subject matters, and (iv) continuous support of other international donors and agencies
around RBB and related processes.



                                                                                        25
However, there are also a few factors may affect the sustainability of the outcomes of
this Project. Among them are the following:

   Regional Elections 2010 and Presidential Elections 2011. The uncertainty
    associated to upcoming electoral processes might result in an either positive or
    negative influence on the achievements made. In either case, it might be important
    to establish formal commitments to continue working along the strategic principles
    that have been established by MEF in collaboration with Regional Governments.

   Regional capacities are still weak. Despite progress made through the Social TAL
    and other complementary operations, regional governmental levels still face lack of
    systematic training opportunities and technical assistance to consolidate what has
    been achieved. Among other important issues, high rotation of staff is a major
    shortcoming that impedes the accumulation of a knowledge base in the regions.

   Decentralization still “in progress? and its ownership is still weak. As discussed
    above, decentralization has initiated its operationalization but the process is still far
    from being completed. To this end, relevant actors at sub-national levels might still
    consider that decentralization is a Lima-based recommendation that still does reflect
    their current dynamics. Thus, it is perceived as external.

   Partial implementation of RBB at the country level. Despite the political
    endorsement of this reform and progress made to date in its implementation, RBB
    still faces some challenges. It is currently promoting a “micro-management of
    inputs? rather than on an effective mechanism to focus outcome-based funds
    allocation at the regional level. Thus, RBB has not yet become an instrument for
    decision-making within the decentralization process of social programs.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

   Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

The Bank and the Borrower framed the Project design within the overall Bank’s CAS
considering, especially, the assumptions, outcomes and lessons achieved through the
PSRL series. The Bank brought about its international experience in the design of
technical assistance loans with emphasis on social sectors and programs (i.e., results-
based M&E strategies and participatory monitoring). Additionally, relevant knowledge
gained through previous operations in Peru was included as part of the Project designed
and served as a basis to prioritize key strategic action lines. For instance, one of these
lines was trying to promote an institutional linkage among the national level and the
regional and local ones in terms of implementing the decentralization of social
programs.

Nonetheless, the Bank overestimated several aspects that were crucial for the Project’s
successful implementation later on. Among them, the Bank assumed the Government
had a sound strategy and a clear operational plan to implement the decentralization of
social programs and departed from there. This assumption led the Bank to propose a
complex platform conformed by multiple sub-executing units, assign a major role to


                                                                                          26
MIMDES – which did not have the necessary institutional stability to support the
Project –, define an “ideal? Results Framework with unclear target values and
methodological procedures and to underestimate critical risks.

Moreover, the Bank miscalculated the timeline for Project approval. Thus, the Social
TAL faced an important timing mismatch with the PSRL IV that it was supposed to
complement. When the Project became effective in January 2005, the PSRL IV had
already begun its operations. Therefore, as explained in section 1.1, the envisioned
technical assistance was mainly implemented to contribute to other Bank operations that
were in place.

The ICR rates Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry to be moderately
unsatisfactory.

   Quality of Supervision

Through Bank supervision the Project made two major overall contributions: on the one
hand it mainstreamed the relevance of quality of social expenditure (rather than
quantity) in the public policy agenda and on the other it strengthened and supported the
scaling-up of SIGA as a decision-making managerial tool at the regional level.

Moreover, innovative mechanisms were validated and used during the span of the
Project.     For instance, inter-institutional meetings (i.e., UCPS, DNPP, Bank and,
originally, MIMDES) were held constantly to facilitate technical decision-making and
project delivery. Moreover, these meetings allowed the timely provision of hands-on
feedback to governmental teams and expedited activity implementation.
Technical and financial/procurement missions were, most of the time, carried out jointly
which allowed the permanent feedback among Bank teams involved in the operation.
The Project had two Task Team Leaders. For most part of the Project, the TTL was
field-based, provided continuous assistance during implementation and facilitated inter-
institutional coordination throughout. Later, the Project had a TTL that was responsible
for other projects related to this Technical Assistance Loan and facilitated coordination
and a holistic view of the overall strategy targeting social programs.

The ICR rates Quality of Supervision to be satisfactory.

   Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

The overall performance of the Bank is rated moderately satisfactory. At the time of
preparation, implementation and supervision, the Bank provided timely technical and
managerial assistance to an ongoing governmental priority and facilitated support to the
planning and monitoring of two key social program-related country reforms – Crecer
strategy and RBB. However, the Bank proceeded based on several critical assumptions
about the operational strategy and political endorsement the Government was going to
provide to implementing decentralization of social programs. This overestimation, later
on, jeopardized Project implementation which led to its restructuring in 2007. Through
the restructuring the project managed to maintain its relevance within the rapidly
changing environment.




                                                                                      27
5.2 Borrower Performance

   Government Performance

The Government was responsible for the preparation of the Project throughout the
whole process. Relevant governmental officers of all involved sectors (i.e., MEF,
MINEDU, MIMDES, MINSA) expressed high commitment in the implementation of
the Project as it complemented a current policy effort – decentralization of social
programs. Nonetheless, commitment around the Project was not constant. In particular,
given that Presidential Elections took place in 2006, the implementation was
characterized by high staff rotation at the managerial and technical levels. This affected
implementation and outcome delivery.

Moreover, in terms of sub-executing units, MIMDES’ capacities were not as strong as
anticipated during project preparation especially given that the operationalization of
decentralization was still in progress.       Later on, the RBB became the sole sub-
executing unit which – given its team experience, strategic vision and commitment –
reflected positively in the delivery of Project outcomes.

The ICR rates Government Performance to be moderately satisfactory.

   Implementing Agency

For purposes of this ICR the implementing agency was the UCPS. In terms of this Unit,
as explained above, its rigidity in terms of rules compliance and limited coordination
with sub-executors constrained the timely delivery of outcomes. Moreover, the Unit
exhibited high staff rotation especially as it related to sectoral assistants (sectoristas)
who were directly responsible for providing technical assistance. Finally, as UCPS was
not directly involved in Project preparation, the Unit’s staff did not have sufficient
information as to the rationale, contents or expected outcomes of the Project. This,
somehow, prevented the UCPS team from having a proactive attitude towards results
achievement.

After Project restructuring, however, the UCPS improved its control mechanisms and
skills towards expediting implementation and complying with Bank regulations. Thus,
at the end, the Project achieved a satisfactory disbursement (96% of the restructured
amount as illustrated in the table below).

    Original         Cancelled       Restructured         Disbursed        % disbursed
     project       amount after        Project             amount
    amount         restructuring       amount              (in USD
    (in USD           (in USD          (in USD             million)
    million)          million)         million)
       7.8              0.90              6.9                6.63              96%

The ICR rates Implementing Agency to be moderately satisfactory.




                                                                                        28
   Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

The overall performance of the Borrower is rated moderately satisfactory for the
reasons outlines above. After restructuring, several of the factors threatening the
success of the Project were addressed and project implementation took a renewed speed.

6. Lessons Learned

   Lessons of general application

    o Validating working assumptions throughout the life of the Project might
      facilitate implementation. It is important to systematically ensure that working
      assumptions are actually met in the field. In this case, a major working
      assumption was that decentralization was to be in place at the time of
      implementation (i.e., especially of Component 2). Thus, it would be advisable
      to permanently assess not only progress made towards the Project Development
      Objective, indicators and targets but also the risks identified in the Project
      Appraisal Document. An innovative way to do so would be to conduct
      participatory exercises involving Bank and Government staff to make the
      necessary adjustments along the design and implementation process. An
      additional strength of this approach would be to create ownership at the country
      level and, consequently, promote political support. Finally, given the usual time
      gap between projects’ negotiation, approval and implementation, these exercises
      could allow revisiting the expected outcomes and making the necessary
      adjustments to guarantee conditions for a realistic operation.

    o Counting on a social policy “champion? is critical for the success and
      sustainability of operations dealing with the consolidation of social
      programs within a decentralized context. Leadership is crucial to sustain
      investments throughout. In the case of social policy, Peru faces a serious
      dilemma: on the one hand, institutions “naturally? responsible for leading social
      policy (i.e., CIAS, MIMDES) have not yet developed the necessary technical
      and/or coordination capacity to effectively carry out this major task. As a
      response to this, the Ministry of Economy and Finance has taken the lead to
      design, prioritize, budget, monitor and evaluate social policy and programs
      which renders in weakening responsible institutions further. This creates an
      uncertain landscape for the international technical cooperation in terms of the
      institutional arrangements they have to negotiate and deal with. To this end, the
      Bank could continue to support an active dialogue between MEF and social
      sectors in order to establish an adequate balance among them and facilitate that
      each of them complies with their institutional role.

    o Assessing and addressing actual managerial and technical capacities is
      critical for project success. Based on the assessment of current capacities at the
      national and sub-national levels (i.e., regional and local), the Bank could support
      the establishment – in close collaboration with governmental officials – an
      institutional platform for training, promoting and enhancing capacities that
      endure beyond an externally-funded operation. Although the RBB is strongly
      committed to these actions, capacities’ strengthening is still an ongoing process
      at all levels. Thus, the ability to incorporate new RBB-related knowledge and


                                                                                      29
   transform it to action involves several skills. Among them are the capacities to
   plan, document, communicate, measure and disseminate results.

o Readjusting methodological criteria for Technical Assistance-related
  projects might render better results. During Project design, it would be
  advisable to consider objectives that allow sufficient breadth at the
  implementation stage (i.e., institutional arrangements) without being ambiguous.
  The Social TAL’s original PDO explicitly referred to the role of MIMDES
  which, given its limited technical and coordination capacities, resulted in
  restructuring. In addition, objectives should be reasonably measurable and
  targets realistically set.

o Implementing a project with multiple sub-executing units might impose
  additional challenges to outcome delivery. During the past years, the Bank
  has systematically invested efforts in promoting operations with multiple sub-
  executing units. This has been based on the documented evidence about how
  inter-institutional coordination supports the attainment of common goals.
  Results, however, have been rather ambiguous. On the one hand, institutions
  have partially coordinated their activities as a consequence of external pressure
  imposed on them. On the other, however, communication and information flow
  has not yet been institutionalized and only takes place if there is an external
  facilitator promoting it. Thus, the cost-effectiveness of such efforts has not yet
  proved to be positive since they turn out to be extremely demanding in terms of
  time, resources and energy. In sum, inter-institutional coordination cannot be
  promoted from a top-down approach. It rather needs to be part of a bottom-up
  strategy that departs from the sectors themselves.

o Elaborating a realistic Results Framework supports monitoring and
  project-related decision making. Indicators are helpful measurement
  instruments to inform about operations’ performance and progress towards
  performance. In simple terms, indicators work as intervention’s “semaphores?.
  In that sense, their importance is critical. Thus, indicators chosen at start will
  lead implementation. In the case of the Social TAL, the indicators contained in
  the PAD’s Results Framework were defined by the Bank team – in collaboration
  with the Government – based on uncertain data sources and lacked
  methodological clarity. During implementation, governmental managers did not
  take ownership for the targets set during the design stage. Thus, it would be
  important to involve governmental officers from start and make sure that the
  formulation of indicators complies with the standard methodological criteria.

o Aligning operations to current country reforms increases the odds of
  political endorsement. Political commitment, support and ownership are key
  conditions for any operation’s success. To this end, aligning the project’s PDO
  to current political priorities increases the probability of the operation to be
  supported by governmental managers. The Social TAL, as described above, was
  aimed at supporting the GoP in increasing its institutional capacities in terms of
  planning, monitoring and evaluation of social programs. This goal was directly
  aligned to a priority set by the Toledo administration. In addition, the Bank
  made sure to permanently communicate its progress and shortcoming to relevant
  authorities in order to make decisions and readjust processes as needed.


                                                                                 30
       Moreover, when the decision of restructuring took place, the expectation was to
       realign the Project to governmental social program-related priorities and
       initiatives (i.e., RBB and Crecer).

    o Becoming aware of the differences among “political timing?, “technical
      timing? and “project timing? could add a realistic basis for interventions.
      Experience is one of the most valuable resources available to institutions and
      time – due to its scarcity – is, at times, a constraint. It is central to bear in mind
      that a project manager’s timeframe is likely to be considerably different from
      that of a politician’s and/or a technician’s (i.e., there are differences between the
      timings of these two as well). Political timing is likely to be focused around
      short term results. In the case of the Social TAL, the political timing seemed to
      rule over the other two. In practice, subordinating the technical to the political
      timing might be detrimental for achieving results. The challenge would be to
      allow each of these three dimensions to fulfill their own goals by articulating
      agendas and setting-up synergies towards common targets.

   Project-specific lessons

    o Promoting inter-institutional hands-on assistance and monitoring facilitates
      coordination and delivery. Experience shows that project technical staff
      usually lacks time to coordinate. In addition, when they submit documents (i.e.,
      Terms of Reference, proposal, deliverables) to the Bank they usually press for
      immediate approval which takes longer than expected provided the Bank has
      further observations and recommendations. Based on these facts, as part of
      Social TAL implementation, the Bank promoted a technical coordination space
      with participation of all relevant actors. This facilitated discussion, feedback and
      informal approval of outputs in order to expedite the administrative procedures.

    o Designing a dynamic Annual Operations Plan allows decision-making.
      Managerial instruments (i.e., such as AOP) are designed to facilitate project
      implementation. However, they usually become rigid documents that hardly
      allow for revisions and, when they do, an administrative procedure needs to be
      followed. As part of the Social TAL, the Bank and PCU agreed to have
      quarterly meetings to revise progress and adjust AOP activities as necessary.
      This facilitated delivery especially during the last two years of the Project.

    o Involving the PCU staff could benefit project implementation. Usually,
      technical and administrative teams work independently. This, of course, does
      not facilitate coordination or communication. The Social TAL was not an
      exception to the rule. Thus, for further operations, it would be highly advisable
      to inform and involve the PCU staff – as much as possible – for them to become
      knowledgeable about the rationale of the Project and assume a proactive attitude
      towards outcome achievement.

    o Assessing periodically project outcomes could lead to timely decision
      making in benefit of the Project. In order to be consistent with an operation
      that supports outcome-based deliverables, projects of this kind could promote
      regular “project outcome participatory assessment meetings? in order to evaluate
      the degree in which results are being achieved. This, in addition to the output-


                                                                                         31
   based AOP revision, could lead to important readjustments and reallocation of
   funds, if necessary.

o Considering the procedures associated to large-scale tenders (licitaciones)
  could benefit implementation-related decisions. Large-scale tenders offer, for
  instance, the possibility to gain geographically coverage in the application of a
  national survey based on a cost-efficient scheme. Nonetheless, such
  administrative processes involve several requirements (i.e., signing a MOU,
  drafting a detailed contract, defining clear technical specifications, etc.) which
  usually results in delays. As part of the Social TAL, two major tenders were
  implemented with the National Statistics Institute (i.e., large-scale health and
  education surveys, respectively). For further operations of this kind, it would be
  advisable to set a realistic timeline, identify technical and administrative
  procedures, define clear roles and responsibilities and establish milestones to
  monitor throughout the implementation of these activities.




                                                                                 32
7. Comments on Issues Raised by the Borrower/Implementing
Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing Agencies

On June 3rd 2010, and through official communication nr. 371-2010, the borrower
sent comments to the document.

The note stresses how the analysis of the ICR appropriately reflects the
characteristics of project implementation and the advances achieved.

It then makes two specific comments and suggests to:

   i) Highlight how, after restructuring, the UCPS improved its capacity and
           managed to accelerate execution substantially;
   ii) Include a table to show results of financial execution of the project.


(b) Co-financiers

Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Not applicable




                                                                                  33
Annexes
1.   Project Costs and Financing
2.   Outputs by Component
3.   Economic and financial analysis
4.   Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
5.   Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
6.   List of Supporting Documents




                                                                     34
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing


(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                   Appraisal        Actual/Latest
                                                                       Percentage of
          Components             Estimate (USD     Estimate (USD
                                                                        Appraisal
                                    millions)         millions)
 IMPROVING THE QUALITY
OF SOCIAL POLICIES AND                   0.00              2.58
PROGRAMS
 IMPROVEMENT OF
MONITORING AND
                                         0.00              3.40
EVALUATION IN THE
SOCIAL SECTORS
 PROJECT MANAGEMENT                      0.00              0.86

           Total Baseline Cost          0.00                6.84
Physical Contingencies
                                        0.00                0.00            0.00
Price Contingencies
                                        0.00                0.00            0.00
            Total Project Costs         0.00                6.84
Front-end fee PPF                       0.00                0.00            .00
Front-end fee IBRD                      0.00                0.00            .00
     Total Financing Required           0.00                6.84




(b) Financing
                                                  Appraisal Actual/Lates
                                    Type of       Estimate     t Estimate Percentage
         Source of Funds
                                  Cofinancing       (USD          (USD     of Appraisal
                                                   millions)    millions)
Borrower                                        0.00         0.00         .00
International Bank for
                                                7.80         0.00         .00
Reconstruction and Development




                                                                                       35
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

This Annex presents a detailed discussion of the achievement or outputs by Project
Components organized into two sections: Prior to restructuring (i.e., until December
2007) and post-restructuring (i.e., from January 2008).

(a) Outputs by Component prior to restructuring

As part Component I - Improving the quality of social policies and programs, the Social
TAL supported a first round of the Multiannual Macroeconomic and social Framework
(MMF). It is now institutionalized and published annually. The Project supported
social policy research oriented to the identification of relevant social programs’
indicators, as well as mid-year revisions and readjustments of the framework.

Regarding PESEM, the Project facilitated the validation of policy guidelines with the
three social sectors. Currently, the recently created CEPLAN (National Center for
Strategic Planning) is by law responsible for PESEM monitoring, taking this role away
from MEF. The Project also supported the background studies that led to a major
pension reform in Peru, linked to the closing of the celula viva.

Performance-based management agreements (CAR) were signed, at both national and
regional levels, with the health and education sectors under Social TAL for two fiscal
years (2005 and 2006). These CARs encompassed Hospitals, the Integrated Health
Insurance (SIS) as well as health networks and large schools. During 2007, the
Government decided not to finance CAR in order to review and adjust them to the RBB
context. In the future, CARs will be supported by the Fiscal TAL.

Under RBB, five national programs, four of which in the social sectors, were subject to
improved results frameworks by 2007.

Component I. Improving the quality of social policies and programs
      Sub-component/Indicator            Baseline     End-of-       Actual value   Responsible
                                          value     project value    (Dec 2007)
1.1 Social Policy Design in a
decentralized context
MacroSocial framework approved and          0            1           Annually       DGAES
published annually as part of MMF.

1.2 Implementation of results-oriented
management agreements at the national
level
Number of social sectors with improved      0       3 PESEMs, 3          0           DGPM
PESEM (strategic plans) and POAs                       POAs
following them.

Number of Results Agreements (CAR)          1            3              67           DNPP
signed between DNPP and sectors
including incentives.

Number of programs with improved            0            8               4           DGPM
logical or results frameworks




                                                                                         36
Under Component II - Implementation of Performance Agreements and Accreditation
of social sectors, the Social TAL supported MIMDES in the accreditation process of
local governments at the provincial and district level for the decentralization of the
food-aid and social infrastructure programs. This included design and printing of
materials; training of technical staff in sub-national governments; and macro-regional
workshops to share experience of the decentralization process.

The Project financed training and materials for the implementation of Performance
Agreements (PA). Workshops were carried out to assess PA. The main lesson learned
was that PA did not accomplish it accountability purpose as indicators were not
appropriately designed or were not monitored.

While PA were originally identified as the main instrument to monitor budget transfers,
the SIAF was ultimately used as the key instrument. The lack of incentives tied to the
transfers has resulted in continuous transfers to sub-national governments regardless of
performance.

Component II. Implementation of Performance Agreements and Accreditation of
social sectors
                Indicator                     Baseline     End-of-        Actual value      Responsible
                                               value     project value     (Dec 2007)
2.1 Implementation of accreditation
     process
Number of applications submitted by              0       800 districts,   1487 districts,    MIMDES
municipalities for accreditation for social              150 provinces    195 provinces
programs revised and with feedback to
municipalities.
Annual evaluation of accreditation               0        Evaluation            0            MIMDES
system.
2.2 Design and implementation of
     Performance Agreements
Number of PA signed between                      0         600 distr,     1487 districts,    MIMDES
MIMDES and municipalities, including                       120 prov       195 provinces
participation benchmarks.
Number of monitoring reports of PA.              0         400 distr,      5 districts,      MIMDES
                                                            80 prov        5 provinces
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation of Budget
Transfers to sub-national governments
Number of municipalities with increased          0         600 distr,      5 districts,      MIMDES
social program management capacities                       120 prov        5 provinces
and number pertaining to 1st quintile.                   1st and 2nd q:
                                                            40 distr,
                                                            25 prov
Results of annual evaluation of PA used          0       PA Indicators    1 evaluation       MIMDES
for improvement of indicators and
incentives.
Incentives framework linked to PA               no            Yes              No            MIMDES
compliance.
Improved geographical targeting of               0           25%               25%           DGAES
transfers to sub-national governments9,
with XX% of additional budget going to
1st quintile

9
  Including FONCOMUN, Vaso de Leche, and decentralized MIMDES social programs, except Comedores
Populares.


                                                                                                  37
Finally, as part of Component III – Improvement of Monitoring and Evaluation in the
Social Sectors, several instruments were promoted under this Component. Among
them, the Integrated Financial Administration System (SIAF) concluded the
development of its Budgeting Module and it is currently being implemented in all local
governments. However, given that the operational mechanisms for decentralization
were not yet in place, this module was not used to monitor budget execution.

MIMDES made regular progress in the initial design of the conceptual model under
which the System was to be based.            Three pilot experiences were implemented.
However, this process took longer than anticipated given the lack of a clear strategy to
set up decentralization at the regional level.

The Consulta Amigable was evaluated and determined to be a useful participatory
monitoring tool. The evaluation recommended further improvements to the system.
Logical frameworks of the strategic programs to be evaluated were validated with
participation of the social sectors. Nonetheless, the design and implementation
processes took longer than anticipated due to unclear institutional arrangements (i.e.,
between MIMDES and DGPM, which at the time was the sub-executing unit
responsible for this output) and lack of an operational strategy.

Component III. Improvement of Monitoring and Evaluation in the Social Sectors
                Indicator                    Baseline     End-of-       Actual value   Responsible
                                              value     project value    (Dec 2007)
3.1 Strengthening of Basic Information
Systems

Number of municipalities and regional           0       500 muni, 25         0            SIAF
governments with monitoring of budget                     regions;
execution reports and physical goals of                  Q1+2: 100
PSP, and number of them in 1st and 2nd
quintiles districts.

3.2 Implementation of a Monitoring
    System for MIMDES Social
    Programs

Number of municipalities with                   0          (i) 40            0          MIMDES
monitoring indicators: (i) targeting of                    (ii) 50
nutritional programs, (ii) knowledge,                     (iii) 900
attitudes and practices of mothers (infant
nutrition programs), (iii) maintenance
and management capacities
(rural infrastructure programs).

Number of impact and qualitative                0       8 evaluations        0           DGPM
evaluations of social programs published                published and
and discussed in public                                   discussed

Number of Comités de Gestión                    0           194             195         MIMDES
(management committees) established
for social programs
3.3 Strengthening of Evaluation
     capacities and instruments
Number of hits on the Consulta                  0           140            21811          SIAF
Amigable website



                                                                                             38
               Indicator                      Baseline         End-of-          Actual value   Responsible
                                               value         project value       (Dec 2007)
3.4 Impact and intermediate evaluations

Number of impact and qualitative                  0               8                  0           DGPM
evaluations of social programs published
and discussed in public
Number of participatory workshops held            0              150                 0          MIMDES
to review monitoring reports in
municipalities – Q1 and Q2
Number of participatory workshops that            0               40                 0          MIMDES
allow full participation of native
language speakers

(b) Outputs by Component post restructuring

Once the Project was restructured, the operational focus was placed on RBB and the
implementation was centered on its technical team based at DNPP. This was favorable
for output delivery. As per Component I, targets were satisfactorily achieved as in,
several of the indicators, they exceeded the values that were originally set. One of the
major contributions of the Social TAL was the support it provided to implement a
systematic training process to align Regional Governments to the RBB reform.
Moreover, since the Project complement other Bank efforts along the same line, these
activities were helpful to consolidate the political endorsement to RBB. Finally, despite
progress made in the implementation of the Household Focalization System (Sistema de
Focalización de Hogares, SISFOH), the related expected output was not achieved under
the Project spam,

Component I: Improving the quality of social policies and programs
                  Indicator                           Baseline        End-of-        Actual    Responsible
                                                       value          project        value
                                                                       value          (Dec
                                                                                     2009)
Percentage of increment in the social sectors’           0             10%            12%         MEF
budget allocation to RBB (as compared to
FY2007)
Number of strategic programs with improved               0              9                 9       MEF
logical or results frameworks
Percentage of regional governments whose                 0             75%           100%         MEF
relevant staff have received the complete RBB
training package
Percentage of regional governments that utilize          0             50%               N/A      MEF
focalization criteria (geographical and/or
individual) in the RBB implementation

Outputs delivered under Component III were also instrumental to the consolidation of
RBB at the regional level. In particular, the design, implementation and dissemination
of participatory monitoring exercises – which were coupled with the efforts of Voices of
the Poor – promoted ownership among sub-national authorities. Moreover, through the
inclusion of new modules in the ENAHO and ENDES, relevant RBB-related outcome
information was gathered, particularly, for the health and education priority strategy
programs.




                                                                                                     39
Although at the time of the restructured Project Paper, SIGA was not yet envisioned as
a managerial tool for decision making that could support RBB implementation, once it
was prioritized, the Social TAL strongly promoted its implementation and scaling-up.
Finally, as explained in section 1.7, after the Project was restructured, the external
evaluations were supported through the Fiscal TAL.

Component III: Improvement of monitoring and evaluation in the social sectors
                         Indicator                               Baseline   End-of-   Actual   Responsible
                                                                  value     project   value
                                                                             value     (Dec
                                                                                      2009)
Number of participatory monitoring                                  0         8          9        MEF
experiences of budget implementation at the
local level (under the RBB framework)10
Number of external evaluations of social                            0         6        14         MEF
programs’ performance conducted and
discussed (with social sectors)
Number of output-related monitoring reports on                      0         4         2         MEF
selected interventions conducted, discussed and
disseminated
Number of outcome-related monitoring reports                        0         4         5         MEF
for each national strategic social program
conducted, discussed and disseminated




10
     This was be based upon the outcomes of Voices of the Poor



                                                                                                     40
Annex 3. Economic and financial analysis

No economic analysis was conducted at the time of the Project appraisal or upon Project
completion.




                                                                                    41
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                        Responsibility/
           Names                               Title            Unit
                                                                          Specialty
Lending
                                                               LCSHS-
Patricia M. Bernedo           Senior Program Assistant
                                                                DPT
Daniel Cotlear                Lead Economist                   HDNHE
                                                               LCSHS-
Pedro Andres Francke Ballve   Consultant
                                                                DPT
Jose R. Lopez Calix           Lead Economist and Sector Lead   LCSPR
Kathrin A. Plangemann         Lead Public Sector Specialist    AFTPR
Rossana Polastri              Country Manager                  LCCPY
Laura B. Rawlings             Lead Social Protection Special   HDNSP
                                                               LCSHS-
William Reuben                Consultant
                                                                DPT
Ana Karina Rozas              Junior Professional Associate    LCSHD
Rodrigo Serrano-Berthet       Senior Social Development Spec   LCSSO
Luisa Maria Yesquen Solari    Executive Assistant              LCRVP
Supervision/ICR
Keisgner De Jesus Alfaro      Senior Procurement Specialist    LCSPT
Erika Bazan Lavanda           Program Assistant                LCRCE
                                                               LCSHS-
Patricia M. Bernedo           Senior Program Assistant
                                                                DPT
Sara Burga                    Team Assistant                   LCC6C
Jose Pablo Gomez-Meza         Sr Economist (Health)            LCSHH
Nelly Ikeda                   Financial Management Analyst     LCSFM
                                                               LCSHS-
Pablo Augusto Lavado          Junior Professional Associate
                                                                DPT
Lourdes Consuelo Linares Sr Financial Management Specia        LCSFM
Patricia Mc Kenzie        Manager, Financial Management        MNAFM
Carmen Rosa Osorio Llanos Junior Professional Associate        LCSHE
                                                               LCSHS-
William Reuben                Consultant
                                                                DPT
Francisco Rodriguez           Procurement Specialist           LCSPT
Claudia Maria Sanchez
                              Junior Professional Associate    LCSHE
Lanning
Luis M. Schwarz               Senior Finance Officer           CTRFC
                                                               LCSHS-
Cornelia M. Tesliuc           Sr Social Protection Specialis
                                                                DPT
                                                               LCSHS-
Silvana Vargas                Consultant
                                                                DPT
Evelyn Villatoro              Senior Procurement Specialist    EAPPR
                                                               LCSHS-
David Ian Walker              Lead Economist
                                                                DPT
Luisa Maria Yesquen Solari Executive Assistant                 LCRVP




                                                                                      42
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY03                                    22                          62.64
  FY04                                    31                         114.12
  FY05                                     1                           9.29
  FY06                                                                 0.00
  FY07                                                                 0.00
  FY08                                                                 0.00
  FY09                                                                 0.00
                          Total:          54                         186.05
Supervision/ICR
  FY03                                                                 0.00
  FY04                                                                 0.00
  FY05                                    10                          33.12
  FY06                                    12                          37.15
  FY07                                    16                          58.29
  FY08                                    18                          66.53
  FY09                                    18.57                       74.42
  FY10                                    10                          71.83
                          Total:          68                         195.09




                                                                                  43
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


On June 3rd 2010, and through official communication nr. 371-2010, the borrower
sent comments to the document.

The note stresses how the analysis of the ICR appropriately reflects the
characteristics of project implementation and the advances achieved.

It then makes two specific comments and suggests to:

   iii) Highlight how, after restructuring, the UCPS improved its capacity and
           managed to accelerate execution substantially;
   iv) Include a table to show results of financial execution of the project.




                                                                                  44
45
46
47
48
49
    Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

The following documents, which were used for the preparation of this ICR, can be
found on file:

Project Documents:

   Project Appraisal Document

   Legal Agreements

   Implementation Status and Results Reports

   Auditing Reports

   Aide- Memoires


Other Background Information:

   Law of Decentralization (promulgated on July 17, 2002)

   Organic Law of Regional Governments (promulgated on November 19, 2002).

   Public Sector Budget Law for Fiscal Year 2007 (Law 28927), Chapter IV on
    “Implementation of Results-based Budgeting?.




                                                                                   50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IBRD 33465R
                      80°W                                                                                          75°W
                                                                                                                    75                                                                                            70
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  70°W
0°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0°




                                        EC U AD OR
                                        ECUADOR                                                                     Arcadia                                    COLOMBIA
                                                                                                                                                               CO LO MBIA
                                                                                                                              ap




                                                                                                                              N
                                                                                                                                   o
                                                                                                                                                                   Putumayo
                                                                                                                Puerto Curaray




                                                                                               Co
                                                                                                 rr i


                                                                                                            Tig
                                                                                                     en


                                                                                                                r
                                                                                                      tes


                                                                                                                e
                            To
                          Machala
           Tumbes                                                                                                                                                                      ma




                                                                                                                                                                                      A
                                                                                                                                                                                             zona
                                                        Santiago
                                                                                                                                                                                                 s
       TUMBES                                                                                                                                   Iquitos




                                                                                    taza
                                                                                                                                                                                        Caballococha
                                                  AMAZON
                                                  A


                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AZI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               B R AZI L
                                                                                 Pas
                                Loja
       Talara                                                           Ayar Manco
                                                                                                          LORETO                                                        Ya
                                                                                                                                                                           var
                                                                                                                                                                               i

          Sullana
                                                     ZON




5°S             PIURA                      San                                  Maraño                                                                                                                                                                           5°S




                                                                                                                                                 li
                                                                                      n




                                                                                                                                               ya
                                           Ignacio                                                                                               a
                                                                                                                                              Uc
                Piura
                                       CAJ
                                       C J
                          A
                          A




                                                      AS




                                                                                                     Yurimaguas                        Tamánco
                             n
                             n
                                        AM




                                               Chachapoyas
                                                                              Moyobamba
                                         M
                                  d




                                                                              Tarapoto
                                           AR
                                           AR




            LAMBA-
                                                                      SAN                                                                                                                                             PERU
                                       e




             YEQUE                                A
                                             C
                                             C




                            Chiclayo
                                                                     MARTIN
                                                  A
                                           s
                                           s




                                                  Cajamarca
                                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                      Cruzeiro
                                                                                                                                                       do Sul

                                Trujillo                                                    Santa
                                                                                            Lucia
                               LIBERTA
                               LIBERTAD
                            LA LIBERTAD                                                                                           Pucallpa
                                                                                       Hu




                                                       Nevada Sihuas
                                                                                           alla




                                                     Hueascarán
                                                                                                ga




                                       Chimbote       (6768 m)
                                                      ANCASH                                          Tingo María
                                                                                                                                  Uc
                                                                                                                                    ay




                                                                                       HUANUCO
                                                                                                                                        ali




                                                       Huaraz
                                                                    Nevada                            Huánuco
10°S                                                               Yerupaja                                                                                                                                                                                     10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10°S
                                                                   (6634 m)                                                                 UCAYAL?
                                                                      Goyllarisquizga                  PASCO                                                                         Purús
                                                                                                Cerro de
                                                                                                  Pasco
                PA C IF I C
                                                                                 M
                                                                                 M




                                Huacho  Sayán                                                                                                                    Atalaya
                                                                                                                    Satipo
                                       LIMA                                                            La
                OC E AN C A L L A O
                                                                                                                                       Ap




                                                                                                                                                                                               MADRE
                                                                                           t
                                                                                           t




                                                                                                       Oroya
                                                                                                                JUNIN
                                                                                                                                        uri




                                                                                                                                                           Uru
                                                                                                                                           m




                                                                                                                                                                                               DE DIOS
                                                                                               n
                                                                                               n




                                                                                                                                          ac




                                                                                                                                                               ba




                                                                                                                    Huancayo                                                           M
                                                                                                                                                                                        ad
                                                                                                                                                                 mba




                                                                    Callao                                                                                                                 r
                                                                                 LIMA                                                                                                          ed
                                                                                                      s




                                                                                                                                                                                                 eD
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ios             Puerto
                                                                                                                                   Ayna                 CUSCO                        Sintuya                      Maldonado
                                                                                                          .




                                                                                                Huancavelica                                         Quillabamba
       0            100         200            300 Kilometers                                                                                                             Nevada
                                                                                                          HUANCA-                        Ayacucho                        Salcantay
                                                                                                                                                                         (6271 m)                Lanlacuni                     Astillero
       0                  100                     200 Miles
                                                                                                           VELICA                               A                                  Cusco
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Bajo
                                                                                                                                                     PU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      In a




                                                                                     Pisco                                                                                                                              mb
                                                                                                                                                                  Abancay                        Nudo                        a ri
                                                                                                                                                          RI
                                                                                                                             AY




                                                                                                                                                                                               Ausandate
                                                                                                          Ica                                                  M                                                PUNO
                                                                                                                                                                   AC                          (6384 m)
                                                                                                                              AC




                                                                                                      ICA                                                                                                                                        To San
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Buenaventura
                                                                                                                                       UC




                                                                                                                             Puquio

                      PER U                                                                     Caballas               Nazca                     O                                                                                                              15°S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                15
                                                                                                                                            H
                                                                                                                                            H




                                                                                                                                                                 Alca               Cailloma
                                                                                                                                                                         Nevada                                                               To
                                                                                                       San Juan                                                                                             Juliaca                        Carabuco
                                                                                                                                                                                   An




                                                                                                                                                                        Coropuna
                SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                               (6271 m)
                                                                                                                                                                                      de




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Lago
                                                                                                                                                                                       e  s




                                                                                                                      Antiquipa                                                                                Puno                 Titicaca
                REGION CAPITALS                                                                                                                        AREQUIPA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                                                                                                M
                                                                                                                                                                                                M




                                                                                                                                            Atico                        Arequipa                                                                   La Paz
                NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                 tn




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Desaguadero
                                                                                                                                                                                                      s.
                                                                                                                                                                                                       .




                RIVERS

                MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                                          Mollendo
                                                                                                                                                                                    Moquega
                RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                                                   TACNA
                                                                                                                                                          MOQUEGUA
                REGION BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Visviri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                B OL I V I A
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Tacna
                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                To Belén
                                                                                                                    75°W                                                                          To Iquique           CHILE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NOVEMBER 2006
