Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
C,g. /S  3- 2 /
Retpt N6. 5223-LBR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
February 15, 1985
Western Africa Projects Department
Water Supply Division
Tis document as a restsictd dstribtom ad -y be used bY recipents only in the pedformance of
their offiial dutie. its ctntess my nut d&erwise be discosed withet World Bank uboria*o.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The official monetary unit is the Liberian Dollar with par value equal to
the US Dollar (US$). The US Dollar is legal tender in Liberia.
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 millimeter (mm)                    =  0.04 inches (in.)
1 meter (m)                          =  39.4 inches (in.) = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                     =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (kM2)             =  0.386 square miles (sq. mi)
1 cubic meter (m3)                   =  35.3 cubic feet (cu. ft)
1 liter (1)                          =  0.264 US gallon (gal)
1 cubic meter per second (m3/sec)   =  22.8 million US gallons per
day (ngd)
1 cubic meter per day (m3/day)       =  264 US gallons per day
liters per capita per day (lcd)      =  0.264 US gallons per capita
per day
1 hectare (ha)                       =  2.47 acres (ac)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB    African Development Bank
CDC     Commonwealth Development Corporation (United Kingdom)
GOL     Goverment of Liberia
GTZ     Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
(German Technical Assistance Agency)
KfW     Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (German Reconstruction Bank)
LWSC    Liberia Water and Sewer Corporation
PPF     Project Preparation Facility of the World Bank
PVC     Polyvinyl chloride
SAC     Structural Adjustment Credit
UNICEF United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund
US      United States
USAID   United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR - GOL and LWSC
January 1 - December 31, prior to FY81
Januarv 1, 1980 - June 30, 1981, for FY81
July 1 - June 30 subsequent to FY81



FOR OMCUIL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN PROJECT FILE .....    ..............  iv
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .......     ..................... v-vi
I.   THE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR
A. General                                               I
A.Geerl  .............................................. 1
B.  Water Resources .................................   I
C.  Organization    ........................1............ 
D.  Development and Objectives ...................       2
E.  Water Supply Service Levels .................... .  3
1.  Urban .....................                   3
2. Rural ........                                 3
F. Sewerage ....... ...                                  3
G.  Bank Lending and Assistance Strategy ...........     3
II.   THE PROJECT AREA
A. Location .............    ...........................   5
B. Population Growth .......      ........................   5
C. Water Demand Projections ......      ..................   6
D.  Existing Water Supply Facilities .....    ...........  6
E.  Sewerage ............   ............................   8
III. THE BENEFICIARY
A.  Background        .........................          8
B.  Management and Organization .....................    9
C.  Personnel        .........................           9
D.  Operations and Maintenance .......... ............  10
E.  Metering   ........................................  10
F.  Billing and Collection ......   ....................  11
G.  Accounting      ......................................  11
H. Training      ........................................  11
I. Insurance         ............ 12
This report was prepared by Mr. E. P. Aikins-Afful (Sanitary Engineer
and Lead Project Officer) and Ms. E. W. Patterson (Financial Analyst)
based on the findings of an appraisal mission comprising Messrs.
J. H. Nebiker (Sanitary Engineer and Mission Leader), Eric Williams
(Consultant Financial Analyst) and S. Katsu (Economist) who visited
Monrovia in June 1983. The report was processed by Miss E. Yan and
Mrs. L. Iacono.
Thi document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
teiofric dutes. Its contents ay not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authorizaton.



- ii -!
Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
IV.   THE PROJECT
A.  Genesis .....................   12
B. Project Objectives                ...... 12
C. Investment;Program.....                                     13
D. Project Dehcription.....                                    13
E. Project Cost Estimates              ...... 15
F. Project Financing                ...... 17
G. Implementation.....                                         18
H. Training                    ...... 19
I.  Implementation Schedule                 ....               19
J. Procurement.                           .......  20
K. Disbursements                  ...... 22
V.    FINANCE
A.  Financial Performance .... ......... ......... ...   23
B.  Billing, Collection and Liquidity                          25
C.  Capitalization .................. .             .......  -  25
D.  Accounts and Audit .. .. ....................  26
E.  Tarif fs ............... ,......0......   27
F.  Prospects for Improved Financial Performance ....  28
G. Financing Plan                . ..28
H. Revaluation of Fixed Assets  .               .30
I. Future Financial Performance   .             .30
VI.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND BENEFITS
A. Project Benefits    .. .32
B.  Least-Cost Analysis and Alternatives   ...                 32
C.  Access to Service by the Poverty Group . .32
D. Affordability               .       .       ............. 33
E. Rate of Return               ...34
F. Project Risks               ...34
G.  Environmental Considerations  . ................  34
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
A.  Agreements Reached ............................   35
B.  Conditions of Credit Effectiveness              ...        36
C.  Recommendation ..........           .... .                 36



- iii -
Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEXES
2-1   Monrovia Water Supply - Population, Demands and Capacity
2-2   Monrovia Water Demand Forecast
3     Organizational Chart L.W.S.C.
4-1   Investment Program - Greater Monrovia Water Supply System
4-2   LWSC Manpower & Training
4-3   Implementation Schedule
4-4   Action Program
4-5   Estimated Credit Disbursement Schedule
5-1   LWSC - Income Statement
5-2   LWSC - Balance Sheet
5-3   LWSC - Funds Flow Statement
5-4   LISC Water Rate vs. Inflation
5-5   Assumptions Used in Financial Forecasts
MAP: Liberia - Monrovia Water Supply System (IBRD Map No.17710)



-iv -
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
File Code
A. Reports and Studies Related to the Sector
Al.  Liberia excluding Monrovia - Part I, prepared    ) CR. 859-LER
by PWL, July/August 1980                           ) 122.945 (P3_5)
A2.  West Africa Regicn, Vater Supply and Sanitation  ) Africa - VS
Sector Strategy Paper, prepared by the Water       ) Sector Bank
Supply Division, Projects Department, West         ) Reports
Africa Region, World Bank, August 1982             )
A3.  An Act to Amend the Public Authorities Lay to    ) VS Sector -
create the Liberia Water and Sever Corporation   ) Liberia 620
(approved January 30, 1973, published              j
Aprii 10, 1973)
A4.  Monrcvia Sewerage Project, Tcp Priority            ) CR. 859-LBE
Measures, Report and Dravings, prepared by         ) 125.186(3)
PYL, May 1981                                      )
A5.  Monrovia Sewerage Project, Long-Term Concept,    ) C!. 859-LBE
Repcrt, Addendum and Dravings, prepared by         ) '25.185 (B1-3)
PYL, June/October 1981                             )
B. Reports and Studies Re6ated to the Project
El.  Wazer Sector Study, Part II, Mcnrovia              ) CR. 859-LBR
Conurbation, prepared by PL, Reporzs and          ) 122.945
Drawings, August 1960                              ) (1-2, 6-10
B2.  %anagement :mpr-vement Prcgra= (Ccr Liber_a          CB. 859-'.
Water and Sever Ccr:orazion) prepared by           ) 123.297 CA-P)
PAS/PiW1, 1979-80
B3. Rec=cended 5MG Steel Stand-pipe and Bcoster         ) CR. 859-L3E
Pumping Station, Mcnrovia, prepared by ABE,        ) 128.616
August 1982                                        )
B4.  FEgineering Review Study, Mcnrovia Water           ) CE. 859-LBR
Supply System, Report, prepared by ABE,            ) 128.677 CD-F)
May 6, 1983 with Supplementa  In formation         )
May 25, 1983, and Data Wcrk Bcok, 1983             )



- v -
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower       : Republic of Liberia
Beneficiary    : Liberia Water and Sewer Corporation (LWSC)
Amount          : SDR 5.1 million (US$5.0 million equivalent)
Terms             Standard
Relending
Terms        : US$3.0 million of the proceeds of the credit would be
invested in LWSC's equity capital and US$2.0 million
would be on-lent for 20 years, including 5 years of
grace, with interest charges of 10 percent per annum.
Project
Description  : The project's principal objective is to strengthen LWSC
and improve its financial and operational performance.
LWSC's accounting and financial systems would be revamped
to improve financial management, while technical
assistance and staff training would be provided to
improve the efficiency of operations. Modest investments
would be made in rehabilitation and maintenance of LWSC's
assets to prevent their further deterioration.
Construction of a storage reservoir and selective
extension of the distribution system would also improve
the quality and reliability of water supply in Monrovia.
The principal benefit of the project would be improved
water supply service in Monrovia. Improvements in LWSC's
operating efficiency and financial performance would,
over time, equip LWSC to undertake and operate future
expansions to meet Monrovia's increasing water supply
needs. Construction and supply risks on the project are
low, but the technical assistance could be impacted by
country risks.



- vi -
Estimated Cost: 11
Estimated  Cost: I/                                   Foreign   Local   Total
(US$ million) -
Technical Assistance                  2.4       .1     2.5
Training                               .1       .2      .3
Studies/Designs                        .5       .1      .6
Equipment/Supplies                    1.0       .1     1.1
Distribution/Transmission             3.8      1.0     4.8
Base Cost                         7.8     1.5      9.3
Contingencies: Physical              .4       .1      .5
Price               1.8       .4     2.2
Total Project Cost              10.0     2.0    12.0
Financing Plan:
Foreign   Local  Total
- (US$ million)-
IDA                                    5.0     -        5.0
African Development Bank               3.8       .2     4.0
Germany (GTZ)                          1.2      -       1.2
LWSC                                    -       1.8     1.8
10.0     2.0    12.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                                IBRD Fiscal Year
FY86     FY87      FY88     FY89      FY90
-    - (JUS$ millionn)-
Annual           1.5      0.6       1.2       1.6      0.1
Cumulative       1.5      2.1       3.3      4.9       5.0
Economic Rate
of Return    : As the project does not provide additional supply sources
or treatment capacity, it does not lend itself to a rate
of return analysis.
President's
Report          P-3865-LBR of February 27, 1985
Map             :  IBRD No. 17710
1/ Net of taxes and duties, from which the project is exempt.



REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
I. THE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR
A. General
1.01      Liberia has a surface area of some 42,500 sq. mi (111.000 km2)
and a population estimated at about 1.9 million. Nearly one-third of
the total population now lives in urban areas. Monrovia, which has
grown at an annual rate of 72 (compared to 3% country-wide growth)
during the period 1974-1984 now has a population of over 400,000. The
economy is dualistic with a traditional sector which is mainly
agricultural and a modern enclave sector which is export oriented,
producing iron ore, rubber and forestry products.
B. Water Resources
1.02      The hot and humid climate of Liberia is characterized by an
intense rainy season from May to November, followed by a relatively
drier season from December to April. Annual precipitation averages
about 200 in. (5,000 mn) at the coast, declining inland to about 120 in.
(3,000 mm). As a consequence of its high rainfall, Liberia has an
abundance of water supply sources, including six major river regimes and
hundreds of small streams and creeks. Groundwater can be found,
generally in small quantities, in the lateritic overburden oI in the
upper weathered part of the basement complex, particularly in valleys
and along rivers and streams. However, no extensive exploration of
groundwater has been undertaken.
C. Organization
1.03      The Liberia Water and Sever Corporation (LWSC), created in
1973, is empowered by law to establish and operate water supply and
severage facilities throughout Liberia, but until the late 1970s, LWSC
operated only in Monrovia and two other towns. Since that time, eight
additional towns (so-called outstations) have been equipped with
reticulation systems. LWSC manages the outstations on behalf of
Government (under an implicit management contract) and is reimbursed for
operating deficits. Outside of these towns, there are a number of
small-scale water supply services established by various Government
ministries and some private systems operated by the mining and
plantation companies. Construction and maintenance of rural water
supplies are the responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Development,
which oversees a disparate collection of well and borehole development



-2-
activities. The Ministry of Public Health is involved in water quality
surveillance, but its role is limited by inadequate funding. The
organization of the sector is workable and can be satisfactory if
sufficient numbers of adequately qualified staff are available to manage
it. Although LWSC is responsible for sewerage in Monrovia, sanitation,
drainage, and refuse collection are nominally the responsibilities of
local authorities which are financially weak and have attendant
shortages of qualified staff and support services.
D. Development and Objectives
1.04      Development of the sector has been intermittent, depending on
the availability of external financing. The first Monrovia water
supply, financed by the Government of Liberia (GOL), was constructed in
1953 and augmented in 1960. Except for the transmission main, these
works were abandoned and replaced by a treatment plant constructed at
White Plains in 1969. The White Plains treatment plant with a capacity
of 8 mgd (30,500 m3/day) was financed by a loan from the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID) in the amount of
US$7.0 million. In 1973 the African Development Bank (AfDB) granted a
US$2.2 million equivalent loan to LWSC for improvements to the then
existing system and for the des4gn of further expansions. An IDA Credit
of US$8.0 million (CR.859-LBR) and co-financing from the Commonwealth
Development Corporation (CDC) equivalent to US$2.0 million made
available in 1979 financed the expansion of the White Plains treatment
plant to 16 mgd (61.000 m3/day) and improvements in the delivery system.
A raw water transmission main was constructed with parallel financing
(US$2.8 million equivalent) from AfDB. The Federal Republic of Germany
has financed construction of the outstations water supply systems
through Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) and technical assistance
for institutional strengthening and manpower development through
Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ).  Construction of
Monrovia's sewerage system including the sewage treatment plant in the
late 1960s was financed by USAID and renovations in 1983 were financed
by KfW.
1.05      A detailed water sector study covering all of Liberia was
completed under the Monrovia Water Supply Project (the first project) in
1980, and subsequently a long-term sewerage development plan for
Monrovia was prepared as well. Both provide a basis for sound sector
development, but the uncertainties of obtaining adequate internal and
external financing prevent establishment of a definitive implementation
schedule. The water sector study emphasizes systematic maintenance and
rehabilitation in the near term in order to improve operational
efficiency and to extend the useful life of the facilities, thereby
deferring the need for extensive capital investments in the sector. At
present, village water supply programs are being supported by the Danish
Government and United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund
(UNICEF). USAID is also interested in rural water supply activities.



-3-
The Bank, through the Second Bong County Agricultural Development
Project (CR.1447-LBR), will also be involved in the rural water supply
sub-sector.
E. Water Supply Service Levels
1. Urban
1.06      Some two-thirds of all urban inhabitants, or about 425,000
people, including 305,000 in Greater Monrovia, have access to public
water supplies through individual connections, standpipes or vendors.
Those not served rely on wells and streams, supplemented by collected
rainfall. Almost all public water supplies are in urban areas, and
Monrovia accounts for about 70% of these. During the period 1978-1984,
construction of eight additional outstation water supply systems
increased by about 100,000 the number of urban inhabitants outside of
Monrovia having access to public water supplies.
2. Rural
1.07      Of the approximately 1.3 million people living in rural areas,
only about 6% have access to safe water supplies, mainly because of
local pollution of shallow wells, streams and springs. Various rural
water supply programs (see para 1.05) have attempted to redress this
situation, through borehole drilling and improvements to existing
sources, but poor maintenance frustrates the success of these programs.
Many boreholes intercept groundwater which is unsuitably high in iron
content.
F. Sewerage
1.08      Monrovia's public sewerage system serves about 4,000 buildings
in downtown Monrovia, the Sinkor area and the port area (Bushrod
Island), including many commercial, institutional, and governmental
premises. In newer areas and for better housing, septic tanks and
cesspools are used. The great majority of Monrovia residents rely on
primitive latrines.
G. Bank Lending and Assistance Strategy
1.09      The Bank's overall strategy for Liberia, in the near term, is
to improve the country's creditworthiness. Because public sector wages
consume 54% of total revenues, strengthening and improving the
efficiency of public sectol institutions has been identified as a key
element in achieving this goal. Rehabilitation has also been cited as a
least-cost solution for maintaining and/or expanding productive
capacity. A proposed structural adjustment credit (SAC) which includes
a substantial component for public enterprise reform would be
complemented by this project which is directed at strengthening LWSC.



- 4 -
While the SAC will aim at improving public sector institutions'
efficiency by instituting broad-based policy reforms, the proposed
second water supply project (the second project) will address specific
institutional, financial and operational weaknesses of LWSC, one of the
six enterprises on which a structural adjustment credit now under
consideration will focus.
1.10      The Bank's water supply sector strategy in Liberia--to improve
system reliability and efficiency and to establish financial
viability--is consistent with the program outlined for improving the
overall creditworthiness of Liberia and if met should enable LWSC to
compete for external financing in the future. Construction of a
distribution storage reservoir under the second project will immediately
improve LWSC's operational efficiency by reducing excessive pumping and
wear as well as energy consumption.
1.11      The second project is a follow-on to the Bank's first project
in Monrovia (CR.859-LBR), which was completed in 1983. (A project
completion report was issued in June 1984.) The first project (with the
exception of the raw water pipeline) was prepared as a short-term
measure to ensure an adequate water supply for Monrovia through 1984.
Although the physical components of the project were quite successfully
completed, the institutional and operational aspects were not as
successful, in large part because of management changes and increased
Government intervention since the 1980 coup, resulting in deterioration
of the financial position and operating capability of LWSC, which is now
on the brink of financial collapse. The second project is conceived as
a rescue operation, with emphasis on technical assistance, institutional
development, and rehabilitation to prevent irreversible decay of the
physical system and to develop an institution which can meet the water
supply needs of Monrovia's rapidly growing population. Based on
experience with the first project, physical components will be
undertaken only after certain institutional and financial targets have
been met (para 5.18) and they will be limited to the most pressing needs
of the system with due regard for the budgetary constraints of GOL.
1.12      The second project also provides a follow-on to the Monrovia
Urban Development Project (CR.1223-LBR), which is scheduled for
completion in 1986. The Urban Development Project will improve water
supply to Monrovia's urban poor through installation of 52 additional
standpipes. Maintenance of standpipes (para 6.04) and improving the
reliability of water supply will be elements of the second project.
The Urban Development Project is also financing a water tariff study,
the recommendations of which would be implemented, as agreed with IDA,
during the term of the second project.



-5-
II. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Location
2.01      The second project is centered in Monrovia, the capital city,
coimercial center and main port of Liberia. It will directly benefit
all of LWSC's operations in Greater Monrovia. Institutional development
of LWSC through technical assistance and training to be provided by the
project will also benefit LWSC water supply operations in 10 other towns
(outstations) with a total population of about 125,000 persons.
2.02      Topography of Monrovia is generally flat, with the exception
of the rocky prominence of Mamba Point which rises to about 230 ft
(70 a). The large elevation variations in this area make it difficult
to iaintain uniform water supplv pressures. The near-surface presence
of rock in the area also creates difficulty in the laying of water
mains. To save on costs, much of the original system in the downtown
area was built at ground level on rights-of-way, now mainly built over
and inaccessible. Also, because of rock, many house connections lie on
or are shallowly buried in the ground, and are thus subject to ready
breakage and attendant leakage. Flexible polyvinyl chloride (PVC)
connection pipe to be supplied by the project will require replacement
at greater depth.
2.03      The significant fresh water resource in the area is the
St. Paul River, which serves as the sole source of water supply for
Monrovia. It is dammed 21 mi (34 km) from Monrovia to create Mt. Coffee
Reservoir, which serves as the major source of electrical power for the
country. Plows during dry seasons of the last decade have been
inadequate to prevent tidal intrusion into the LWSC intake structure and
low-lift pumps below the dam, introducing intolerable salinity levels to
the water supply. To remedy this difficulty, the first project financed
the construction of a 36 in. (900 mm) diameter, 15,000 ft (4.6 km) long
rav water transmission main from the dam itself.
B. Population Growth
2.04      The 1974 census determined a population for Monrovia of
204,200. The present estimated population is about 422,000. With
Liberia experiencing an annual rate of population increase of 3.4%,
which is not only among the highest in Sub-Saharan Africa, but in the
world, there is little basis to assume Monrovia will not continue its
historic growth rate of about 7% per annum in the next decade which is
due to both migration and a high rate of natural growth. Thus, by 1998,
the population of Monrovia is estimated to be about one million (see
Annex 2-1). Thereafter, some reduction in the rate of growth might
occur through family planning programs which are only gradually being
introduced.



-6-
C. Water Demand Projections
2.05      Demand projections for the project period and beyond are
presented in Annex 2-2.  In the absence of reliable data since
relatively few meters are accurately measuring individual consumption
(para 2.09), the following assumptions have been made for the
projections:
(a) physical losses estimated at over 26Z will decrease to
about 20% with improved future operations; and
(b) unbilled water which is primarily the result of illegal
connections is presently put at about 24% of production;
it is expected to decrease to about 10% during the project
period.
Thus unaccounted-for water (physical losses and unbilled water) is,
therefore, assumed to decrease from the present 50% of production to
about 30% as a result of anticipated improvements in operations and
maintenance during the second project. House (domestic) connections are
assumed to serve 15 persons, with standpipes serving about 500 persons
each. Average consumption for house connections is estimated at about
18 gcd (70 lcd).
D. Existing Water Supply Facilities
2.06      The present water treatment plant for Monrovia is located at
White Plains on the St. Paul River. The treatment plant was built in
two stages. The first stage, financed by USAID, was constructed in
1969, and provided 8 mgd (30,000 m3/day) of nominal capacity.  The size
of the plant was doubled to 16 mgd (61,000 m3/day) nominal capacity in
1983 by the first project which also financed the raw water transmission
main from the Mt. Coffee Reservoir. The alternate intake works are a
low-lift pumping station comprising three pumps each of 8 mgd
(30,500 m3/day) and one pump of 4 mgd (15,250 m3/day) capacity for
pumping raw water directly from the St. Paul River. A high-lift pumping
station, consisting of four pumps each of 8 mgd (30,500 m3/day) and one
pump of 4 mgd (15,200 m3/day) capacity, discharges treated water into
two transmission mains, one of prestressed concrete 36 in. (900 mm) and
the other of cast iron 16 in. (400 mm) diameter leading to Monrovia.
Treatment is of the conventional type to reduce turbidity and produce a
potable water: floculation, sedimentation, rapid sand filtration and
chlorination. The treated water tends to be corrosive due in part to
inadequate lime addition. Corrosivity of the water is of concern and is
to be studied as part of the second project in order to reduce
deterioration of the distribution/transmission system.
2.07      There is no distribution storage in the system except for the
high elevation service area at Mamba Point. As a result, the



transmission mains are required to supply peak instantaneous demand
which necessitates that the high-lift pumps work continuously at the
White Plains treatment plant resulting in excessive pow-r costs. With
the completion of the recent treatment plant expansion, production is
about 14 mgd (53,000 m3/day) with a daytime peak of an additional 20%, a
low figure reflecting high average night-time consumption (estimated to
be about 70% of the day-time flow). There are no significant seasonal
variations in demand. Over 90% of the flow enters the city via the
36 in. (900 vm) diameter transmission main, which was designed for a
flow of 16 mgd '61,000 m3/day). Because of the long pumping distances
involved and the resultant high headloss and inadequate pressures.
service in the high elevation Mamba Point area was particularly poor.
To alleviate this problem, the first project financed the Mamba Point
Booster Pumping Station, which pumps from the distribution system into a
separate high-service distribution system that uses the two storage
reservoirs on Mamba Point for pressure equalization. These reservoirs,
with a combined capacity of 1.6 mg (6,100 m3) are thus not available for
pressure equalization for the remainder of the system. Service in the
Mamba Point area improved substantially with the first project. The
proposed 5 mg (19,000 m3) storage reservoir in the second project will
reduce pumping costs, improve pressures, and provide reserve capacity
during power outages (para 6.02).
2.08      There are approximately 18 mi (29 kn) of 36 in. (900 mm)
prestressed concrete and 11 ml (18 km) of 16 in. (400 mm) diameter cast
iron transmission mains in addition to about 80 mi (129 km) of
distribution pipes of varying sizes from 2 in. (50 mm) to 12 in.
(300 mm) serving Monrovia, dating back to 1953. The majority of the
distribution pipes is of cast iron, although recent additions are
ductile iron, asbestos-cement, and PVC. Corrosivity has severely
lowered the carrying capacity of the cast iron pipe, at a rate of about
1% per year, and gradually the capacities of the prestressed concrete
and ductile iron pipes have diminished as well. Service connections are
primarily made with low quality galvanized steel pipe. The estimated
useful life is only five years, after which the original diameter is
reduced by half due to corrosion and tuberculation.
2.09      Customer service, in principle, is by metered house connection
with a limited number (100) of public standpipes to serve the low-income
areas. The ongoing Monrovia Urban Development Project (CR.1223-LBR)
provides for the installation of 52 additional standpipes in the urban
poor areas. A block mapping program showing locations of all
connections, completed under the first project, was recently updated
with PPF funds from the proposed second project. It revealed that of
17,000 connections, 11,300 (66%) were metered (and legal), 1,700 (10%)
connections were legal but without meters. and 4,000 (24%) were illegal.
The illegal connections identified through the block mapping program are
now being regularized and added to LWSC's billing base. Of the 11,300
metered connections, the program found about 40% of taie meters to be



- 8 -
broken, in poor condition, or disconnected. The functioning metered
connections were basically those of larger users (so-called demand
customers) such as embassies, businesses and large residences. A task
force at LWSC is currently investigating the use of a different and more
durable type of meter requiring less maintenance. It is expected that
the combination of improved treated water quality (to reduce corrosion)
and rehabilitation of the distribution system (to reduce backflow), both
objectives of the second project, would help to reduce the incidence of
meter malfunctioning due principally to clogging as a result of sediment
deposition.
E. Severage
2.10      Sewerage was introduced in 1950 and expanded in 1969 with
USAID funding. It has recently (1983) been partially rehabilitated with
the assistance of KfW at a cost of US$3.5 million. The system consists
of some 38 mi (61 km) of sewers and force mains serving major portions
of downtown Monrovia, Bushrod Island and the Sinkor area. The system
includes four pumping stations and a sewage treatment plant in Sinkor
with 5 mgd (19,000 m3/day) design capacity. The plant was designed to
provide sedimentation and secondary (biological) treatment with
trickling filters. After disinfection, the treated effluent is
discharged into the Mesurado River. Although the system is for sanitary
wastes only, much extraneous unpolluted water enters it through illegal
connections with storm drains and from infiltration of groundwater.
Frequent clogging from siltation and misuse, coupled with lack of
maintenance results in the diversion of much of the flow to overflows,
and the treatment plant receives only about half of its design flow.
There are approximately 4,000 registered connections to the sewers.
Expansion of the sewerage system is not considered necessary nor would
it be economically viable at the present time. The project includes a
preventive maintenance program for the sewerage system.
III. THE BENEFICIARY
A. Background
3.01      The ultimate beneficiary of the credit would be LWSC, estab-
lished in 1973 by the act amending the Public Authorities Act. Under
the Act, LWSC is empowered, inter alia, to establish and maintain water
supply and sewerage facilities throughout Liberia; to set rates, fees
and charges; to borrow or raise money; and to sue and be sued. LWSC's
by-laws define the composition of its Board of Directors; the Board's



-9-
powers and responsibilities, as well as those of the Managing Director,
and the frequency of and use of proxies at LWSC Board Meetings.
B. Management and Organization
3.02      LWSC is Government-owned but is not administratively linked to
any particular Government department. Its nine-member Board consists of
three Cabinet Ministers, the Managing Director of the Corporation and
five persons from the private sector. The Minister of Rural Development
is currently the Chairman of LESC's Board.  The Minister of Planning and
Economic Development and the Deputy Minister of Finance are also
members. The private sector is represented by a medical doctor, a
banker, two businessmen and a lawyer.
3.03      The current organization of LWSC is shown in Annex 3.  As
indicated, there are four Deputy Managing Directors reporting to the
Managing Director. The Deputy Managing Directors and certain other key
managers comprise the Management Advisory Council which meets weekly to
discuss institutional problems and proposes solutions to the Managing
Director. The present Managing Director, an experienced Liberian
engineer, was appointed to his position in October 1982. Organizational
studies financed by the first project made recommendations, many of
which were not implemented in the aftermath of the 1980 coup which has
increased Government involvement in LWSC's management. Under the second
project, these studies will be reviewed and updated for implementation,
subject to review by IDA.
3.04      As noted earlier (para 1.03). LWSC manages the outstations on
behalf of Government and is reimbursed for operating deficits. While it
is not clear that this arrangement results in the optimal sector
organization, at the present time it is too ambitious (and unrealistic)
to suppose that LWSC can make a sufficiently rapid turnaround to achieve
full cost recovery on both the Monrovia and outstations operations.
During negotiations it was agreed that GOL would continue to reimburse
LWSC for operating deficits related to the outstations operations
(para 7.01 (a)(i)). The outstations, therefore, have no net effect on
either LWSC's net income or its financial position.
C. Personnel
3.05      LWSC had 360 employees in 1978, but after the change in
Goverment in 1980, there were substantial increases in all levels of
staff, frequently the result of direct Government intervention. By
1983, the payroll had swelled to over 640. Overstaffing, evident
especially in the lower grades, results in low morale and indiscipline
and contributes to overall operational shortcomings. For certain
activities such as meter reading, treatment plant operation and
maintenance, a survey based on operational parameters reveals that LWSC
has about twice the number of staff of well-run West African utilities.



- 10 -
LWSC has recently eliminated the most obvious staffing redundancies and
total staffing now stands at just under 600. Agreement was reached
during negotiations that there would be no new hires of unskilled staff
during the project term, and that LWSC would undertake to effect further
staff reductions (para 7.01 (b)(i)).
D. Operations and Maintenance
3.06      Unaccounted-for water (the difference between water produced
and water billed) is consistently at an unacceptable level of about 501
of production (para 2.05). Much of the difference arises from the
substantial number of illegal connections, leakage from the transmission
and distribution systems and poor quality house connections. Errors in
meter readings, defective meters, a rather makeshift billing system, and
a shortage of meters for new connections are also factors. LWSC is
attempting to reduce these losses, but it is hampered by lack of essen-
tial equipment and GOL interference in implementing disconnections. The
project components for updating block mapping and providing new meters
and spare parts, together with vehicles, technical assistance and
training should eventually reduce the unaccounted-for water level to a
more reasonable figure of 30%, which would enhance the potential for
revenues.
3.07      Maintenance of the LWSC system throughout is haphazard, the
result of improper and inadequate supervision, unqualified staff, and
lack of equipment and spare parts, compounded by difficulties caused by
certain design features, topography and climate. The second project
will finance equipment, vehicles and spare parts to improve maintenauce
through a well organized preventative maintenance program; project
technical assistance and training should also result in improvements in
LWSC's operating performance.
E. Metering
3.08      In theory, LWSC operates under a system of universal metering.
In practice, due to a fairly high proportion of defective meters,
partial metering is in effect (para 2.09). The feasibility of
selectively metering industrial, comnercial, institutional and high
volume residential consumers will be considered in conjunction with the
restructuring of LWSC's tariff once the results of the ongoing tariff
study (para 1.12) are available. The second project will provide
technical assistance in the form of a distribution engineer, who will
supervise the installation of zonal meters and will assist in implement-
ing a comprehensive re-metering program, starting with the high service,
severed areas. The second project will also provide funds for meters
and for setting up a meter repair workshop.



- 11 -
F. Billing and Collection
3.09      LWSC's billings are prepared by a contractor who handles the
assignment by renting computer time wherever and whenever possible. The
billing software has been modified over time, but the documentation has
not been maintained. As a result, LWSC's current billing system is
essentially a "tblack box" operation which produces output of
questionable validity. Unreliable billing and accounts receivable data
hinder collection efforts. Collections from private (i.e.,
non-governmental) consumers have declined from 78% of billings in 1978
to 62% in 1983, despite the fact that the tariff has remained unchanged
in nominal terms and, hence, has actually decreased in real terms.
Improvements in billing and collection are critical to improving LWSC's
financial and operating performance. Consequently. PPF funds have been
provided for a new billing and accounts receivable system which will be
run at a well managed Monrovia service bureau.
C. Accounting
3.10      LWSC's accounts are maintained under a manual system, the
maintenance of which has deteriorated over time, due primarily to
attrition of qualified accounting personnel. Although accounting
transactions are recorded on a more or less timely basis, LWSC lacks the
in-house capability to prepare comprehensive financial statements.
Hence, heavy reliance must be placed on the work of the external
auditors and the annual audited accounts. The second project will
finance the acquisition of an automated accounting system as well as
technical assistance to support its implementation.
H. Training
3.11      The Management Improvement Program, a component of the first
project, included some training elements, but these were not fully
effective. Part of the planned training never materialized, and the
considerable turnover of LWSC staff that had been exposed to training
further limited the success of the training program. In addition, the
increase in number of staff on the LWSC payroll and the hiring of
employees without proper qualifications have lowered overall staff
capability and effectiveness within the organization. A Training
Section, staffed by a Training Director and a secretary, works within
the Manpower Development Department without any effective operating
budget or training facilities. Training activities include in-house
workshops and seminars to upgrade employee knowledge and skills, and
occasional management seminars at local Institutions. In addition to
LWSC internal training, technical assistance under the direction of GTZ
has accomplished extensive training of technical personnel for the
outstation operations. This effort has included on-the-job training and
four training fellowships in the Federal Republic of Germany. The
second project would finance technical assistance to further develop and



- 12 -
strengthen the capabilities of LWSC's Training Section. It vould also
provide for on-the-job training through counterpart arrangement with
experts from either a consulting firm or a major urban water utility in
a developed country by secondment of staff to LWSC for various periods
of time (twinning).
I. Insurance
3.12      LWSC does not currently insure any of its assets, but agreed
during negotiations to undertake to develop a phased pLan acceptable to
IDA for insuring all of its assets.
rV. THE PROJECT
A. Genesis
4.01      The Monrovia Water Supply Project, approved in 1978, was
conceived as a short-term program (with the exception of the raw water
pipeline) that would ensure adequate water supply for Monrovia through
1984.  At the same time, it was expected to prepare the ground for a
follow-on project as part of a rational long-term development program.
Because demand has been somewhat lower than anticipated when the first
project was appraised, LWSC's production capacity is adequate to fully
meet current demand. With increased operating efficiency, a prime
objective of the second project, the current capacity should be adequate
to meet demand through 1987 and possibly to 1990. As production
capacity is sufficient in the near term and as many of the institut!.onal
objectives of the first project were not fully met (para 1.11), the
emphasis of the proposed second project is on institution building,
rehabilitation and improving operating efficiency, rather than on
expansion of the production facilities. A PPF advance of US$450,000 was
approved in April 1983, and the project was appraised in June 1983.
B. Project Objectives
4.02      The second project is conceived as a rescue operation with
emphasis on institution building, rehabilitation and maintenance to
protect the already extensive investment in the sector from further
deterioration. The project is designed to steer LWSC away from complete
financial collapse by revamping its accounting and financial systems
while simultaneously improving the efficiency of its operations through
staff training and by modest investments in maintenance and
rehabilitation to extend the useful life of the physical facilities and
reduce operating costs.



- 13 -
4.0:      !ithin the context of the sector strategy (para 1.10), the
specific objectives of the second project can be defined as follows:
(a) to effectively and efficiently manage the financial and
human resources of LWSC;
(b) to make repairs and limited expansions to the
distribution system to enhance the availability and
reliability of supply;
(c) to improve billing and collection performance; and
(d) to achieve operational efficiency in the use of energy,
supplies and manpower by eliminating waste.
C. Investment Program
4.04      The second project will be of limited scale, directed at
correcting present deficiencies and using available facilities to their
fullest, while at the same time curtailing excessive consumption through
an appropriate tariff structure. Nonetheless, construction of capital
works, which is not a major objective of the second project, cannot be
forestalled for long. Even under the most optimistic of scenarios,
additional transmission capacity from the White Plains treatment plant
will be necessary within a few years, coupled with additional treatment
plant capacity and distribution system enlargement. Annex 4-1 indicates
the size of these physical works projects, estimated to cost some
US$82 million over 15 years in 1984 terms. The timing and size of these
projects reflect significant reductions in unaccounted-for water
relative to total production (from 50% to 30%) to be made possible by
improved operations supported by the second project. Under prevailing
economic and financial conditions in Liberia and world-wide, any
commuitment to the financing of the future projects must remain
uncertain. Both GOL and LWSC, however, are aware that sharply-improved
operations at LWSC are necessary to attract future project financing.
Failure to do so and provide the necessary expansions will result in
increasingly serious shortages of water throughout the city, but
particularly in the areas most distant from the major 36 in. (900 mm)
transmission main; i.e., downtown Monrovia and the port area.
D. Project Description
4.05      The second project (which is primarily for rehabilitation and
maintenance) would provide necessary improvements to the distribution
system (para 6.02) as well as to operational support facilities (vehicle
and meter repair workshops and data processing facilities). Also, a
supply of critically needed spare parts is incorporated in the second
project as well as technical assistance, training, and engineering
studies, design and supervision. By its emphasis on rehabilitation and



- 14 -
human resources development, the second project complements the
technical assistance program of GTZ which has been extended to
November 1986. As previously indicated (para 4.02), this project is a
rescue operation and includes only the most critical elements required
for more efficient operation of the existing system. It is intended
that no major construction should be started until certain institutional
and management targets (para 5.18) have been attained. The proposed
components of the second project are as follows:
(i)    Technical Assistance and Training
a) ten man-years of technical assistance for the
positions of financial controller (3 years),
distribution engineer (3 years), water engineer (3
years) and training specialist (1 year) preferably
through a technical co-operation agreement which
may eventually develop into a "twinning"
arrangement with a well-run water utility. These
are in addition to technical assistance provided by
GTZ (para 4.12);
b) support for training including tuition, training
equipment and supplies;
(ii)   Studies and Designs
c) design and supervision of construction of items
(i), (j) and (k) below;
d) consultant services for (1) revision of Management
Improvement Program studies prepared under the
Monrovia Water Supply Project, (2) fixed asset
revaluation, (3) data processing, (4) groundwater
exploration, and (5) public relations;
(iii) Equipment and Supplies
e) supply of communications equipment to facilitate
information exchange and transmittal and data
processing equipment to improve billing, financial
reporting, financial and management planning and
control (minor office equipment would also be
provided);
f) supply of equipment, tools and spare parts for the
motor vehicle repair shop and the meter repair
shop;
g) supply of vehicles and field equipment comprising
three cars, eight light trucks, five heavy trucks,
compressor and generator;



- 15 -
b)  supply and installation of chemical dosage
equipment and supply of bulk chemicals to improve
treatment processes including operation and
maintenance and to reduce internal pipeline
corrosion;
(iv)   Distribution and Transmission
i)  supply and laying of approximately 6 mi (10 km) of
8 in. (200 mm) and 12 in. (300 mm) diameter pipe in
the Congotown, Sinkor and Mamba Point areas to
strengthen pressures;
j)  construction of a 5 mg (19,000 m3) distribution
storage reservoir of reinforced or prestressed
concrete construction in Paynesville to store and
regulate the transmission of water from the White
Plains treatment plant into the city, thereby
improving pumping operations, reducing energy
consumption, and improving reliability of adequate
supplies and pressures;
k)  installation of 11 large zonal meters to allow
monitoring of consumption in the various districts
of Greater Monrovia;
1)  repair and rehabilitation of valves, hydrants and
standpipes; and
mi) supply of approximately 5,000 service meters,
together with PVC pipe and fittings for 6,000 house
connections; and the supply of spare meter parts
and pipes.
E. Project Cost Estimates
4.06      Total estimated cost of the project is US$12.0 million with an
offshore component of US$10.0 million, representing about 84% of total
costs. The project will be exempt from local taxes and duties.
Component cost estimates are provided in the following table. Estimates
for technical assistance and engineering costs are based on the on-going
GTZ experience at LWSC and quotations. The estimated cost of technical
assistance includes salary, allowances, housing and relocation expenses
of appointed staff plus support costs. Supply and construction cost
estimates for the distribution and transmission system extensions and
repair are based on detailed consultant studies of unit costs incurred
in the Monrovia Water Supply Project and of the recent sewerage system
rehabilitation financed by KfW. Design services are based on a
percentage of the cost of the proposed physical works (about 6%).



- 16 -
,     Pwject Costs
(1984 pricer)
X of Bae
local       Foreign       Total       cost
US$' 000
Telrdcal Assistance
salaries                                        -         1,636        1,636
Beuis                                          126          772          898
126       2,40B a/      2,534          27.4
Training Specialit                              44          100           144
Training Support                               136           10           146
180         110           290           3.1
Sbrlies and DJesigw
Accounting Systems                               5           45           50
*t. Studies, PublicP Relaticas                   6           31           37
PThed Asset Revalbatim                          20           80           100
Gruzmdwater Studies                             15           35           50
B 3gneering Desigu                              30          180          210
Oxistructiam Su;ervision                        34          145           179
110         516          626            6.8
Bylupmnt andx Supplis
Accounting Systems                              15          105           120
Camand.catios F.uipmet                          -           100           10D
r*te  Repar Stx-p                               -            10            10
*wo Vehicle Rqair Sbp                           20          110           130
Veiicles and Tnruks                             15          245          260
FIel Epuipmnt                                    5           70           75
IWter Trat        PFJt                          40           80           12D
3alk Chicals                                    -           250          250
95         970         1,065          11.5
1)istrixitm ain!       ssin
Sti- KiRcks                                     60           40          10O
Valves, Hydrants & Sta3dpipe Repair             25           95          120
Zmal Meters and Tnstaflatilm                    15           75           90
Pepair of Traxiuussim  Valves                   20           80          100
Savice  aters and Spare Parts                   -           284          284
*js  Caihctias and Spare P#e                    -           518          518
Pipe, Fittings - Dlsributim                     35          655          690
LTying of Pipe                                 200          634          834
Distrihatiti Storase                           540        1,260        1,800
StoragePiping                                   70          130          200
965       3,771         4,736          51.2
Total Base Cost                            1,476        7,775         9,251         100.0
Ccmtin:ides:
PhYsical (15% on csruci compoents)             127          401          528            5.7
Price (26%)                                    373        1,828        2,201           29.5
Total Project Cost                          1j976      10z004        11.980          29.5
at Incles tJS$1.2 mulIm eqtivleit to be pallel finmacd by GIM



- 17 -
4.07      Physical contingencies have been set at 152 on construction
components, which is adequate to cover the risk associated with possible
change of project scope. In addition, allowance has been made for price
escalation as follows:
Price Contingencies
Year        1985       1986      1987       1988      1989       1990
Foreign       8.0        9.0       9.0        9.0       7.5       6.0
Local         6.0        6.5       7.0        7.0       7.0       7.0
The net effect of the price contingencies is an increase of the foreign
exchange component of the project costs, expressed in mid-1984 prices,
by about 26Z and of the local costs by 23Z through the implementation
period to 1990. The Liberian tie to the US dollar tends to minimize
local inflation in comparison with most of Liberia's neighbors. Strong
competition among the several foreign contractors active in Liberia has
resulted in very competitive prices in recent years.
F. Project Financing
4.08      The project is to be financed as follows:
Freign    Local    Total
___- US$' 000 -
IDA       5,000       -      5,000
AfDB      3,804       196    4,000
GTZ       1,200        -     1,200
LWSC        -       1,780    1,780
1  004    1.976   11.980
The AfDB loan is proposed for parallel financing of the distribution
storage reservoir and enhancement of the distribution system and it may
be used for local costs. Thus, the LWSC contribution is about
US$0.2 million less than the total anticipated local costs of the
project. GTZ will also finance US$1.2 million equivalent of the
technical assistance program in parallel.
4.09      The borrower will be the Government of Liberia.  Because of
the very weak state of LWSC finances (see Chapter V), it was agreed
during negotiations that US$3.0 million of the the proceeds of the
credit be passed on to LWSC as equity and the remainder be on-lent on
commercial terms-i.e., five years grace, 15 year repayment period, 10l
interest (para 7.01 (a)(ii)). The proposed AfDB loan to GOL equivalent



- 18 -
to US$4.0 million would also be on-lent to LWSC. Effectiveness of a
lending agreement with AfDB and a grant agreement with GTZ
(para 7.02 (a)) and execution of an on-lending agreement between GOL and
LSWC (para 7.02 (b)) are to be conditions of credit effectiveness.
G. Implementation
4.10      LWSC, assisted by consultants, would be the implementing
agency for the project. A project management unit in LWSC headed by a
capable Liberian engineer has now managed several projects including the
Monrovia Water Supply Project and several KfW financed projects. This
unit would receive technical assistance support as needed. GTZ has
invited proposals from potential twinning partners and it is expected
that selection and employment would be completed by mid-1985.
4.11      An engineering review of the transmission mains and
distribution facilities has been completed. Several foreign consulting
firms, including three with significant experience with LWSC, are being
considered to prepare engineering designs, including preparation of
tender documents for the distribution piping and the storage reservoir.
It is intended that supervision of construction would also be awarded to
the consultant selected for design. Design and supervision of
construction for transmission and distribution system rehabilitation and
installation of zonal meters will also be undertaken by this consultant.
Additionally, consultants will be retained for revisions to the
Management Improvement Program and fixed assets revaluation. A Liberian
consultant will be sought to advise LWSC and its customer relations unit
on public relations and to prepare materials for distribution to the
public.
4.12      The GTZ technical assistance team presently with LWSC consists
of a general advisor, a commercial advisor and an outstations advisor.
GTZ has committed an additional DM 3.8 million (about US$1.2 million)
for 1985-86, extending the contracts for the three advisors by two years
beyond the 1984 expiration date. The additional commitment would also
provide five and a half man-years of technical assistance to LWSC in
other critical positions as follows:
- electromechanic (24 months)
- vehicle workshop supervisor (18 months)
- accounting advisor (24 months).
The proposed 1985-86 GTZ program would also finance equipment, tools and
spare parts for the vehicle workshop, block mapping for the outstations,
three vehicles for the additional experts, and training materials.
Although LWSC's technical assistance requirements should begin to taper
off beyond 1986, if GTZ is not able to continue providing support in
this area, other sources of assistance will have to be identified.



- 19 -
4.13      In light of GTZ's ongoing technical assistance program to
LWSC, it is proposed that GTZ become the executing agency for all
project technical assistance with the Bank reserving the right to
approve selection of prospective candidates. This would consolidate
available resources, facilitate administration of this component, and
obviate the need to implement parallel programs which could run the risk
of not being fully complementary. GTZ has maintained close supervision
of its program through visits and supervision reports which supplement
the monthly reports of its team. These reports have been regularly sent
to the Bank. The Bank has a number of projects for which GTZ acts as
executing agency (Haiti - "Organisme de Developpement du Nord";
Indonesia - Small Enterprises Development Project; Lesotho - Basic
Agricultural Services Project; and Tanzania - Coconut Rehabilitation
Project). Recruitment of experts by GTZ is international. Priority
will be given to recruitment of a technical assistance team from a
well-run water utility to provide a twinning opportunity for LWSC
(para 4.05 (i)(a)).
4.14      The role of technical assistance experts at LWSC will be
primarily as line managers, with emphasis on providing on-the-job
training (para 4.15). The financial controller will be responsible for
developing a proper system of financial planning and control; the
distribution engineer will supervise all distribution operations and
will direct metering and leakage and waste control programs for all of
Monrovia; and the water engineer will oversee the operation and
maintenance of the water and sewage treatment plants and the Monrovia
sewerage system.
H. Training
4.15      The second project will finance a consultant who will provide
technical assistance in carrying out manpower and training needs
anAlyses of LWSC. The consultant will work on site, intermittently over
a two to three year period and will also assist LWSC's training section
in co-ordinating in-house training, training at local institutions,
counterpart training and on-the-job training related to the technical
assistance program. The project will also provide funds for tuition at
local training institutions. Details of the training component,
including costs and an implementation schedule, are included as
Annex 4-2.
I. Implementation Schedule
4.16      The time-table for implementation is shown in Annex 4-3.
Because of its emergency nature, the project is designed to be completed
in four to five years instead of seven or more years as is usual in West
Africa. The two major construction components (distribution system
extensions and storage reservoir) will be implemented toward the latter
part of the project to allow time for necessary institutional and



- 20 -
management improvements (para 5.18) to be made. An action program
(Annex 4-4) outlining the steps required to achieve these objectives was
agreed during negotiations and LWSC also agreed to provide by December
31, 1985 an updated detailed plan of action for increasing operational
efficiency and achieving its financial goals, including specific
measures for reducing operating costs, bad debt expense and
unaccounted-for water (para 7.01 (b)(ii)).
J. Procurement
4.17      Supply of pipe, fittings, zonal meters and house connections,
and other supply contracts for goods above US$250,000 as well as civil
works for the laying of distribution pipe, installation of zonal meters
and erection of distribution storage reservoir would be awarded under
international competitive bidding, in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines for items financed by IDA, or for items financed by the AfDB,
in accordance with AfDB Guidelines which are acceptable to IDA.
Procurement of vehicles, data processing equipment, spare
parts, and miscellaneous supplies estimated to cost more than the
equivalent of US$100,000 but less then US$250,000 would be carried out
through competitive bidding, advertised locally and conducted in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA. Contracts for the
purchase of goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
US$100,000 would be procured on the basis of negotiated purchases after
solicitation of price quotations from at least three established and
reliable suppliers. LWSC will undertake repair of distribution valves,
hydrants and standpipes, and modifications to the meter repair shop,
vehicle workshop and treatment plant, under force account or
alternatively through contractors under day-work rates, in accordance
with programs and procedures to be approved by IDA. The work involved
will cost in total about US$150,000 (exclusive of spare parts and
miscellaneous supplies). All technical assistance positions would be
filled and consulting services undertaken by persons with qualifications
and experience and on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The
procurement methods may be summarized as follows:



- 21 -
Procurement Arrangements a/
(US$'000)
Project Element         I__  b/       LCB          Other     N.A.        Total
Equipment/Supplies    4.423          1,398           -         -         5,821
(1.068)       (1.152)                             (2,220)
Civil Works and        1,958                         170       -         2,128
Construction          (303)                        (80)                 (383)
Services                               -           2,381       -         2,381
(1,947)              (1,947)
PPF Refinancing                                                450         450
_            _              -        (450)       (450)
Total                6,381         1,398         2,551       450      10,780
(1,371)       (Ial52)      (Qj027)      (450)    (50)
a/ Excluding Technical Assistance from GTZ but including contingencies.
Figures in brackets are the respective amounts financed by the
IDA Credit.
-/  Procurement under the AfDB parallel financed component is assumed
to be by ICB.
4.18      Prequalification will be required for all civil works
contracts. International contractors, active in Liberia, are likely to
receive awards (para 4.07). Liberia is not eligible for domestic
preference for civil works contractors or suppliers. Based on technical
requirements reflecting local conditions, procurement will be li-ited to
ductile iron or PVC distribution pipe; PVC house connections; and a
reinforced or prestressed concrete storage reservoir. Purchase of
meters and vehicles and smaller items wlll reflect consideration of the
advantages of standardization. Procurement experience on the Monrovia
Water Supply Project was good. Bids are received at LWSC and are opened
in public, followed by evaluation by an LWSC committee assisted by
consultants. The award recommendation, approved by the LWSC Board of
Directors, is sent to the National Bidding Committee for review and
final approval.



- 22 -
K. Disbursements
4.19      The proceeds of the proposed credit for US$5.0 million would
be used to finance the foreign content of the components identified for
IDA financing and would be disbursed as follows:
Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit
Estimated Amount % of Expenditure
Component          Category       (US$'000)      Financed
Equipmeut and supplies       (1)           2,044        100% of foreign
Civil works                  (2)             383        50% of total
Consulting services,         (3)           1,947        100% of foreign
technical assistance
and training support
Special Account              (4)              50        -
PPF                          (5)             450        100% of total
Unallocated                  (6)             126
Total                                   5,0=00
An initial advance of US$50,000 will be made to a Special Account, to be
established on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA as a condition of
credit effectiveness (para 7.02 (c)). If requested by LWSC and agreed
by IDA, the amount of the advance may be increased to US$200,000 after
LWSC has effected required changes in its accounting systems
(para 5.10). Amounts advanced to this account will be used to finance
small foreign and local expenditures. Replenishments of the Special
Account will be subject to submission of satisfactory documentation
evidencing amounts withdrawn from the Special Account. Disbursements
will be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures for payments
against contracts of less than US$20,000. Documents related to these
purchases will be retained by LWSC and made available upon request for
review by visiting Bank missions. Annual audit reports will include a
separate opinion covering amounts withdrawn from the credit account on
the basis of Statements of Expenditures.
4.20      LWSC's counterpart funding requirement for the construction
components will be paid into a project account. To ensure the
availability of counterpart funds, construction of the distribution
storage reservoir and extension of the distribution system will not
commence until at least US$550,000 has been deposited into the project



- 23 -
account. Semi-annual payments of US$200,000 will be made beginning not
later than June 30, 1986 (para 7.01 (b)(iii)). The project account will
be subject to regular review by the Bank and an annual external audit.
The establishment of the project account and the schedule of payments
into it was agreed with LWSC during negotiations.
4.21      The estimated schedule of disbursements for the credit is
shown in Annex 4-5, with closing of the project on December 31. 1990.
It is fast-disbursing in its supply contracts as well as the two major
civil works contracts. The Monrovia Water Supply Project with costs of
over US$18.0 million was completed within five years from the date of
approval. Thus, the projected disbursement profile for the proposed
second project is based on the actual disbursement profile of the first
project. This is far faster than the regional West Africa disbursement
profile for similar projects (8 years).
V. FINANCE
A. Financial Performance
5.01      Annexes 5-1 to 5-3 set out financial statements for LWSC for
FY81 and FY82. with estimates for FY83 and FY84 developed from the
unaudited financial statements of LWSC, and projections up to FY90. The
accounts as presented reflect the current arrangement whereby LWSC
operates the outstations under an implicit management contract with GOL
(para 3.04); the outstations still belong to the Government, so neither
the assets nor the related loan debt (about US$25 million) appear in
LWSC's balance sheet. Accordingly, only cash receipts and payments in
respect of these centers, together with operating subsidies, are
included in LWSC's accounts. Other loan debt is shown in LWSC's books,
but since the Government does not regularly bill LWSC for debt service
paid on LWSC's behalf, the records are incomplete. The following table
summarizes the salient features of LWSC's finances for the period
FY81-84; subsequent accounts are expected to reflect substantial
modifications and are reviewed later (paras 5.21 and 5.22).



- 24 -
LWSC Finances - FY81-84
(US$' 000)
FY81-/       FY82       FY83        FY84
-- Actual -    - Estimated -
Revenues                               6,929       5,111      4,100      4,813
Operating Expenses                     8,515       6,707      7,105      7.726
Deficit before Interest       (1,586)    (1.596)   (3.005)    (2.913)
Net Fixed Assets                      44,096      42,739    48,049      46,339
Customer Arrears                       9,753      13,078    15,426      18,487
LESS Bad Debts Provision              (5,900)    (7,406)   (8,999)   (11,044)
Cash                                   1,602         (22)        50         245
Other Assets                           3,663       7,551      1,129         977
Total                               53,214      55.940    55.655      55.004
Representing: Equity                  26,196      24,825    21,980      18,737
Loan Debt              21,745      24,478    25,799      25,799
Other Creditors         5,273       6,637      7,876     10,468
Total                               53,214      55 940    5 5.650
Operating Ratio (Z)                     81          76         58         62
Current Ratio                          1.2         0.9        0.9        0.8
a/ 18 months (change of fiscal year).
5.02      LWSC's accounts reflect a disastrous trend with revenues
falling increasingly short of operating expenses. Although accounts are
shown on a consolidated basis, the separate accounts which are
maintained for water supply and sewerage indicate that substantial
deficits are incurred on the latter service. Although fewer than 25Z of
the water customers have access to the sewerage system, sewerage
operating deficits account for about half of LWSC's total annual
operating deficit. Out of a total accumulated deficit of
US$11.4 million at June 30, 1983, US$5.5 million was related to
sewerage. However, the allocation of expenses between water and
sewerage is somewhat arbitrary, so the apportionment of the deficit is
not very meaningful. This project proposes to finance the acquisition
and implementation of a new accounting system which will include
separate cost center accounts for Monrovia water, sewerage and
outstations.



- 25 -
B. Billing, Collection and Liquidity
5.03      Consumer billing has suffered from serious delays and errors
which impair customer relations (corrections and adjustments sometimes
exceeded the original billing total). A new billing and accounts
receivable system financed by the PPF is being implemented and will
allow cross-checking of consumption trends to assist in the
identification of incorrect bills. Updated block-mapping information
(also financed by the PPF) is being integrated into the billing data
base.
5.04      Improvements in the billing system should also improve
collection. At present, collection efforts are hindered by unreliable
billing data, and the effect of the recurring revenue deficits is
compounded by unsatisfactory rates of collection of water and sewer
charges. In respect of non-government accounts, LWSC's collections in
FY83, for instance, represented only 62% of billings; at the end of the
year, arrears totalled US$11.4 million-equivalent to nearly three
years' billing--partly covered by a doubtful debts provision estimated
at US$9.0 million. It is believed that this total includes large
numbers of "dead" accounts and erroneous charges, but undoubtedly also
represents a large number of delinquent accounts; LWSC is now carrying
out a program of service cut-offs but illegal reconnections are believed
to be numerous. In respect of Government accounts, collections are even
more deficient; in FY83 they represented only 40% of billings and
arrears at the end of the year amounted to US$4.1 million, plus
US$0.7 million in respect of the outstations subsidy. The Ministry of
Finance makes lump-sum payments on behalf of all public departments as
and when funds are available, but often without indicating the accounts
to be credited; payments are never sufficient to meet even current
billings, so that the arrears continue to mount. Agreement was reached
during negotiations that GOL would make adequate provision in its budget
to pay its water and sewerage bills in a timely manner
(para 7.01 (a)(iii)). The proposed SAC (para 1.09) will also emphasize
fiscal responsibility of governmental entities and parastatals.
5.05      These billing and collection deficiencies create enormous cash
flow problpms for LWSC. It has paid no debt service for about four years
(no doubt in partial setoff against the Government's unpaid billings);
by the end of FY83 it owed over US$7.6 million to suppliers, public
corporations and other creditors; and on occasion it has been unable to
meet the payroll on time.
C. Capitalization
5.06      Due to substantial operating deficits over the years, LW4SC's
equity has been almost totally eroded by the large accumulated deficit.
LWSC's outstanding debt totalled some US$25.8 million at the end of FY83



- 26 -
against an equity of about US$0.7 million (ignoring the US$21.2 million
notional surplus from the revaluation of fixed assets in 1978), yielding
a debt/equity ratio of about 40:1. As a first step in establishing LWSC
as a financially viable utility, it is proposed that its capitalization
be restructured to result in a more reasonable balance between debt and
equity by GOL's making an equity contribution out of the proceeds of the
IDA credit and by adjusting certain long-standing debts between
Government and LWSC.
5.07      Of the proceeds of the IDA credit, US$3.0 million will be
passed on to LWSC as a GOL equity contribution and US$2.0 million will
be on-lent to LWSC (para 4.09) with five years grace (both principal
repayment and interest). After the grace period, LWSC will be required
to repay principal over 15 years (30 equal payments) at 10% interest.
5.08      LWSC and GOL have begun to clear by means of offset some of
the reciprocal liabilities existing between them. On the one hand LWSC
is in arrears with respect to debt service due to GOL under various
on-lending agreements, while on the other hand GOL has failed to fully
reimburse LWSC for operating deficits related to operation of the
outstations and has never compensated LWSC for sewerage system operating
deficits, despite its contractual obligation to do so under previous
loan agreements with donor agencies (GTZ, AfDB and IDA). The Government
also owed LWSC US$4.7 million for unpaid water and sewerage charges at
the end of FY83. GOL has agreed that it would, as a condition of credit
effectiveness, execute an agreement converting LWSC's overdue debt
service payments to GOL to equity contributions (para 7.02 (d)), and
that LWSC's ongoing financial agreements with the Government would be
rationalized and clarified.
5.09      While LWSC is a net creditor of the Government and most
parastatals with respect to current liabilities, it is a net debtor of
the Liberia Electricity Corporation, with accumulated arrears totaling
US$3.5 million at June 30. 1983. During negotiations it was agreed that
LWSC would proceed with a program to effect the offset of mutual
liabilities with other parastatals by April 30, 1985.
D. Accounts and Audit
5.10      Inadequate accounting systems and lack of qualified accounting
personnel are among LWSC's most critical institutional deficiencies.
The unavailability of reliable financial information clearly has an
adverse impact on LWSC's ability to conduct its operations efficiently.
The project will provide funds for a commercially-oriented, automated
accounting system comprising general ledger, billing and accounts
receivable, accounts payable, fixed assets and payroll subsystems. The
system will be operated under a time sharing arrangement by a Monrovia
service bureau. The project will also finance through technical
assistance, a Controller for three years. to support the GTZ experts
(accounting and commercial advisors) in implementing the new system and
training LWSC staff.



- 27 -
5.11      Because of the substantial weaknesses in LWSC's accounting
system and financial controls, significant reliance must be placed on
the annual audits of LWSC's accounts. At negotiations, it was agreed
that audited accounts for FY83 and FY84 would be submitted to IDA by
June 30, 1985 (para 7.01 (b)(iv)). In addition, the Project Agreement
includes the standard covenant that LWSC employ external auditors
acceptable to IDA and submit to IDA within nine months after the close
of the fiscal year the auditor's report and all related documents
(para 7.01 (b)(v)).
E. Tariffs
5.12      From July 1978 until December 1984, LWSC maintained without
change a simple two-tier tariff structure, with the lower tariff being
levied on the first 20,000 gallons of consumption per month. Effective
January 1, 1985, LWSC revised its tariff structure. The lower rate of
US$2.10 per 1,000 gallons (US$0.55/m3) now applies to the first 6,000
gallons of consumption per month while a rate of US$2.80 per 1,000
gallons (US$0.74/m3) applies to consumption above that level. (These
rates represent a 25% increase above those previously in effect.) There
is a minimum charge equivalent to 2,500 gallons per month (US$5.25).
However, many consumers are unmetered or have inoperative meters, and in
such cases a flat rate is levied, equivalent to 6,000 gallons per month
(US$12.60). Since this does not discourage excess consumption, there is
a presumption of lost revenues and waste of water. Many connections are
shared and, if, for example, three families (18 consumers) shared a
single connection, 6,000 gallons per month would be equivalent to only
40 lcd or 11 gcd, about 60% of the expected value in Monrovia
(para 2.05). For sewer customers, a sewer-use fee is levied at 60% of
the water bill.
5.13      Water connection charges are set at a US$20.00 refundable
deposit for households and US$50.00 (US$20.00 refundable deposit plus a
US$30.00 connection fee) for commercial and larger users. LWSC provides
the meter and one length (approx. 39 ft or 12 m) of small-diameter pipe
for each household connection. Water connection fees are purposely kept
low to encourage consumers to have registered, rather than illegal,
connections. All water customers living within 100 ft (about 30 m) of a
sewer main are charged for sewerage. There is no connection charge as
connection costs are assumed to be recovered in the sewer-use fee.
5.14      Annex 5-4 graphically compares changes in LWSC's tariff to
local inflation rates and clearly shows that increases have been
significantly less than would have been warranted to compensate for
infl&.ion.  Even so, LWSC's tariff is one of the highest in West Africa.
Therefore, the project will emphasize improving financial performance by
increasing operating efficiency to the fullest extent. Preliminary
analysis indicates that a further tariff increase could be deferred
until FY90 if LWSC succeeds in reducing operating costs and in



- 28 -
appropriately billing and collecting for water produced. During
negotiations, it was agreed that LWSC would carry out a program of
selective metering and implement charges sufficient to cover its cash
operating expenses and debt service from FY86 and to cover cash
operating expenses plus depreciation on revalued fixed assets from FY90
and which reflect such recommendations of the tariff study commissioned
under the Monrovia Urban Development Project (para 1.12) as are
acceptable to and agreed with IDA (para 7.01 (b)(vi)).
F. Prospects for Improved Financial Performance
5.15      In the light of the foregoing, it is impossible to pretend
that LWSC is an efficient and financially sound institution, or that it
is capable of being speedily turned into one. Rather, the need is to
mount a rescue operation to endeavor to remedy the more flagrant
deficiencies and to promote a gradual improvement in its performance.
Hence, there is little practical purpose in setting early targets for
financial performance by LWSC. On the contrary, it will be an
achievement if LWSC's dangerous slide toward complete bankruptcy can be
reversed. If it can keep solvent in the immediate future, gradually
improve its operating efficiency and manage its finances prudently
within the constraints of rational tariff levels, it mav be in a
position in about five years' time to begin to achieve the sort of
financial performance normally expected from water utilities. This
possibility is considered in para 5.22; however, certain impediments
must first be addressed to give LWSC an incentive and a reasonable
prospect of survival and standing on its own feet.
G. Financing Plan
5.16      On the basis of the assumptions for financial projections
outlined in Annex 5-5, the financing plan for the projecr period FY86-90
would be as shown in the following table:



- 29 -
Financing Plan - FY86-90
US$'000          Z
Sources
Internal Cash Generation                        14,139
LESS Net Increase in Working Capital             3,104
11,035          56
Proposed IDA Credit                              5,000          24
AfDB Loan                                        4,000           20
Total                                       20.035          100
Applications
Debt Service                                     6,549           33
Capital Outlay:
- Proposed Project (excluding non-
capital components)                          7,000          35
- Future Project                               3,000           15
- Other Capital Works                          3,486           17
Total                                       20.035          100
5.17      The financing plan reflects the fact that certain components
of the proposed project are of a non-capital nature-the technical
assistance element (the ongoing GTZ assistance will in fact probably not
appear in LWSC's accounts at all) and certain repair works which would
be recorded as operating expenses, with counterpart financing from
current revenue. The future project referred to represents estimated
initial expenditure on the "Near-Term Program" (para 4.04);  while the
item "Other Capital Works" represents routine extensions and
replacements for the Monrovia water supply system; no major expenditure
is foreseen within the period under survey in respect of the sewerage
system, which has recently been upgraded.
5.18      At present, LWSC's financial situation worsens with each
gallon of water produced and distributed. The project has been designed
so that the construction components aimed at increasing distribution
will be delayed until, as a result of improvements in the billing and
collection system and increased tariffs, they are likely to also produce
financial benefit to LWSC. After FY86, if projected net revenues
materialize, LWSC could be in a position to finance a growing share of
capital expenditure itself, insofar as the expenditure is not covered by
the proposed project credits. During negotiations LWSC agreed that the
major construction components of the project will not be undertaken
until a substantial amount (US$550,000) of the counterpart funds
required have been generated by LWSC and deposited in a project account
(para 4.20).



- 30 -
Further borrowing is anticipated to be necessary after the project
implementation period, when the next major development scheme gets
underway.
5.19      At this stage, however, projections are conjectural to an
unusual degree in view of the many uncertainties existing; for example,
LWSC's present unstable financial situation and operational
shortcomings, the lack of reliable data on demand and consumption
patterns, the difficulty of predicting how far LWSC will succeed in
capturing potential revenues from the services it provides, and the
prevailing climate of illiquidity in Liberia generally.
H. Revaluation of Fixed Assets
5.20      LWSC's fixed assets were revalued in 1978, but the valuation
has not subsequently been updated.   Since annual revaluation is
probably beyond the capabilities of LWSC's present staff, it is proposed
that fixed assets should be professionally revalued every five years,
the next revaluation to take place before the beginning of FY89.
For projection purposes, actual and projected international inflation
rates (para 4.07) since 1978 were applied. Actual and projected
domestic inflation rates were also used in forecasting operating
expenses. On this basis, and on the capital program used for
projections, net fixed assets in FY90 would be slightly over
US$71 million.
I. Future Financial Performance
5.21      The financial projections compiled for LWSC's operations up to
FY90 are presented in Annexes 5-1 to 5-3. The following table sets out
the principal elements in summary form.



- 31 -
LWSC Finances - FY85-90
(US$' 000)
FY85      FY86      FY87      FY88         FY89      FY90
Revenues                   6,442      8,694   10,048    11,173        12,416    14,180
Operating Expenses         8,457      9,637   10,508    12,684        13,423    14,030
Surplus (Deficit)
before Interest         (2A015)      (943)    (460)   ( &521)       (1,007)      150
Net Fixed Assets          44,125    41,962   41,122    71,373         69,052    71,277
Customer Arrears           7,907      4,875    3,852      3,724       3,637      4,062
LESS: Bad Debt Reserve   (4,524)   (2,638)  (2,039)   (1,748)         (1,486)   (1,589)
Cash                       1,006        233    1,186        621          954     1,554
Other Assets                 483        813    1,035      4,271       6,624      3,899
Total                 48 997    45.245   45X156    78.246        78,781    79A203
Representing:
Equity                  24,736    23,507   23,258    56,009        55,841    55,844
Loan Debt               20,066    19,524   20,223    20,463        21,814    22,175
Other Creditors          4,195      2,214    1,675      1,774       1,126      1,184
Total                 48X997    45.245   45.156    78 246        78AZ71    Z2A203
Operating Ratio (%)      76          90       96         88          93        101
Current Ratio           1.1         1.4      2.2        1.9         3.4        4.1
a/ After revaluation.
5.22      It must again be emphasized that the projections are
conjectural to an unusually large extent, resting on many assumptions
which may or may not be substantiated. If the assumptions, however,
prove to be valid, there would be a marked improvement in LWSC's
financial situation, to the point where it is able to discharge its
obligations and generate cash towards future investment needs. GOL's
financial obligations with respect to LWSC should be limited to timely
paying of its water bills and reimbursing LWSC for the operating losses
incurred on outstations' operations. One possible result if such an
improvement materialized would be a lessening of the perceived need for
intervention in LWSC's affairs by Government, thus contributing to a
further strengthening of the utility's autonomy. Even so, it is highly
unlikely that LWSC would achieve a positive rate of return on net fixed
assets revalued until FY90 at the earliest. Therefore, the financial
targets for FY86-90 agreed upon during negotiations are stated in terms
of cash generation only.



- 32 -
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND BENEFITS
A. Project Benefits
6.01      In the short-term, the principal benefit of the project will
be improved water supply service in Monrovia. In the longer term, the
main benefit will be a gradual improvement in the financial and
operational health of LWSC so that it can implement and operate future
expansions to meet the rapidly growing water supply needs. Both the
immediate and longer-term benefits will favorably impact on the
well-being of the urban poor, on commercial and industrial -uevelopment,
and on the general economy of the country.
B. Least-Cost Analysis and Alternatives
6.02      The two significant physical components of what is basically a
technical assistance and rehabilitation project are the distribution
system extensions and the distribution storage reservoir. The
extensions have been proposed for many years and their favorable impact
on local service pressures and flows has been confirmed by computer
simulation performed separately by two different consultants.
Determination of the size and location of distribution storage was also
analyzed by computer simulation, but the results are affected by a
number of assumptions. The studies of one consultant suggested a number
of reservoirs to be located in different areas of the city together with
substantial additional investment in transmission capacity. Subsequent
studies by a second consultant, proposed only a 5 mg (19,000 m 3)
reservoir to be located adjacent to the White Plains transmission main
on a high point in Paynesville. Its purpose is to allow the White
Plains pumps to be operated in an energy-efficient manner, to reduce
excess pump wear caused by continuous pumping, and to provide emergency
storage during power interruptions or pump failures. The reservoir will
contribute to a more even supply and pressure than at present and will
reduce both the problems of excess pressures (causing waste and leakage)
and of insufficient pressures (allowing introduction of contaminated
water into the system and operational problems for water meters). The
size of the reservoir is considered optimal, based on the low elasticity
(n = 0.6) of the size/cost function and the rule-of-thukbi to provide at
least four hours of maximum daily flow of storage capacity. Alternative
types of conscruction have been analyzed (steel, reinforced concrete or
prestressed concrete). Either of the latter two will be specified in
light of the humid climate of Monrovia and the resulting corrosion
problems.
C. Access to Service by the Poverty Group
6.03      The nature of Monrovia's urban development is such that low
income residents are found scattered throughout the city among higher



- 33 -
income areas as well as in concentratlons in peripheral and newly
developing areas. For the former, water supply is readily available
through shared connections, resale and illegal connections. In the
dense low income areas, standpipes are essential for water supply.
Construction of an additional 52 standpipes and associated strengthening
of the tertiary distribution system in selected low income areas are
being completed under the Monrovia Urban Development Project (para
1.12). Vendor-supplied water is sold in some areas where standpipes are
not readily accessible. The price is about US$0.07/gallon, about thirty
times the LWSC rate. Vendor sales are low, however, as this source is
typically supplemented by roof-fed cisterns and wells (usually
contaminated).
6.04      The standpipe program has met with limited success.  In many
areas, the standpipes have been well maintained by -the populace, and
satisfaction is very high. However, only about 100 of the 140
standpipes constructed under the Monrovia Water Supply Project are still
in operation. LWSC views the standpipes as a drain on revenue, as GOL
has not paid for standpipe consumption as previously agreed, and
standpipes can serve as a source of "free" water to customers whose
service has been disconnected for non-payment. LWSC is currently
considering various alternatives for privatization of the standpipes
through licensing to private vendors. Such an approach is beneficial in
that it will allow LWSC both to derive revenue from the standpipes and
to be relieved of the responsibility for standpipe maintenance. The
proposed second project provides funds for repairing and securing
standpipes (through locked kiosks) to support privatization. During
negotiations it was agreed that LWSC would furnish a standpipe
prLvatization plan acceptable to IDA by December 31, 1985
(para 7.01 (b)(ii)). Of primary concern will be instituting an
affordable charge structure and ensuring that standpipes are well
maintained and remain in service so that the maximum number of users can
be served.
D. Affordability
6.05      Real incomes of a large proportion of the urban population
have declined in recent years. The relative urban poverty line is
estimated at US$220 per capita per annum, or about US$110 per month for
a household of six. The majority of urban poor are currently served
free of charge through standpipes and the number having access should
grow as the privatization program increases the number of operating
standpipes so long as charges remain reasonable. Others are served
mainly through shared house connections. Although the minimum unmetered
rate of US$12.60 per month is very high for a single family (11% of
income), if two or three families share an unmetered connection, the
cost is reduced to 4-6% of household income. Connections with operating
meters are charged a minimum of US$5.25 per month, less than 5% of
household income. Future tariff increases will be structured to
maintain affordability for levels of consumption required to meet basic



- 34 -
human needs, but will be more sharply progressive to encourage
individual connections and to discourage excess consumption and waste.
E. Rate of Return
6.06      As the project does not provide additional supply sources or
treatment capacity, it does not lend itself to an economic rate of
return analysis. Any rate calculations based on assumed reductions of
unaccounted-for water would be spurious because much of the water is
used, but is simply not billed. However, unquantifiable benefits of the
project are many, including reduction in morbidity and mortality rates,
as a result of a more reliable supply of safe water and its improved
accessibility to low income groups.
F.  Project Risks
6.07      Construction financed by the project is of a standard nature,
without significant construction risks or likelihood of significant cost
overruns. Similarly, supply will be straightforward, and no procurement
problems are envisioned. The institutional development objectives of
the project involve greater risks. Consequently, the project will
require very intensive supervision. While the financial objectives of
the project may appear modest, it will be a major accomplishment if LWSC
can keep solvent in the immediate future and begin to contribute to
capital expansion in the longer term. The technical assistance
component of the project especially faces substantial risks, many of the
same risks that adversely impacted the Monrovia Wat2r Supply Project:
lack of qualified counterparts, institutional lethargy and lack of
management support. However, three experts from GTZ (para 4.12), who
have been at their posts for about two years, are being well received
and are getting good support. Appointment of suitable counterparts to
the technical assistance positions is to be a condition of credit
effectiveness (para 7.02 (e)). General country risks (both economic and
political) could also be significant. On the other hand, failure to
proceed with the project will bring great risks to the population of
Monrovia, as the safety and reliability of water supply is increasingly
jeopardized by the decline in operating capabilities of LWSC. The
project is designed to improve operating efficiency at all levels by
reducing energy costs, maintaining existing investments, reducing excess
consumption, waste and leakage, and improving utilization of staff and
equipment.
G. Eavironmental Considerations
6.08      No environmental issues are apparent.



- 35 -
VII.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements Reached
7.01      During negotiations agreements were reached on the following
points:
(a) with Government of Liberia that it would:
(i)   continue to reimburse LWSC for operating deficits related
to the outstations operations (para 3.04);
(ii)  provide to LWSC US$3.0 million of the proceeds of the IDA
credit as equity and on-lend to LWSC US$2.0 million on
terms and conditions providing a five-year grace period
(with respect to both principal and capitalized
interest), with repayment of principal in thirty equal
semi-annual installments at an interest rate of 10% per
annum (para 4.09); and
(iii) adequately budget for and pay water and sewerage bills
within 60 days of receipt (para 5.04).
(b) with Liberia Water and Sewer Corporation that it would:
(i)   not employ new unskilled staff during the project term
and undertake to effect further staff reductions
(para 3.05);
(ii)  submit by December 31, 1985, a detailed plan of action
acceptable to IDA for increasing operational efficiency
and achieving its financial goals including specific
measures to be taken to reduce operating costs, bad debt
expense and unaccounted-for water (para 4.16) and for
privatization of standpipe operations (para 6.04);
(iii) deposit US$550,000 into a project account prior to
commencing construction of a storage reservoir and supply
and laying of pipes to extend the distribution system;
four semi-annual payments of US$200,000 would be made to
the project account beginning June 30, 1986 (para 4.20);
(iv)  submit its audited financial statements for FY83 and FY84
to IDA by June 30, 1985 (para 5.11);
(v)   employ external auditors acceptable to IDA and submit the
auditor's report to IDA within nine months after the
close of each fiscal year (para 5.11); and



- 36 -
(vi) carry out a program of selective metering and implement
such recommendations of the tariff study commissioned by
the Monrovia Urban Development Project as are acceptable
to and agreed with IDA and adjust its tariffs as required
to generate sufficient cash to cover all cash operating
expenses and all debt service from FY86 and all operating
expenses including depreciation on revalued fixed assets
from FY90 (para 5.14).
B. Conditions of Credit Effectiveness
7.02      The following conditions of credit effectiveness were agreed upon
during negotiations:
(a) effectiveness of a lending agreement with AfDB and a grant
agreement with GTZ for co-financing of the project (para 4.09);
(b) execution of an on-lending agreement between GOL and LWSC (para
4.09);
Cc) opening of a Special Account on terms and conditions acceptable
to IDA for the deposit of funds advanced to finance small
foreign expenditures (para 4.19);
(d) execution of an agreement between GOL and LWSC converting
LWSC's overdue debt service payments to equity contributions
(para 5.08); and
(e) appointment of suitable counterparts to the technical
assistance positions, including appointment of a controller or
chief accountant whose qualifications and experience shall be
satisfactory to IDA (para 6.07).
C. Recommendation
7.03      Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed
project would be suitable for an IDA Credit of SDR 5.1 million
(US$5.0 million) at the prevailing terms.
WAPWS
February 1985



- 37 -
REPUBLIC OF LIBERI                        ANE 2-1
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PPOJECT
MONROVIA WATER SUPPLY
Populatn. Demands and Capociy
IAOO                                                           /
!
12P0-
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
__~~ToP>                                    /
' MEN      POgIEnn                            f
...... ...  w-o   A.. DOv
6OD-       6mm0m -k_ Da
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-0
/
b-l jf_   . I I I di~I   20
19U50 1970 .sa' o   50-
/Ye/ar:                              -160
~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a now  B-25703 
200-eliber lro
.410~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
dl ~~~~~~~~~~~~                              ic~~~~~~0 -40
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
20
1960         1910          1980           1990          2D0'0W
Year
WAPWS                                                               Wo*27
Niovember 1983



-3B -
AN=  2-2
REpuC OF LBRA
sEaND WMER SUPPLY REDJB=
MMUNIA WAT  DEMAN) EFF.ASr
1983    1984    1985    1       1987    1988   1993  1998   2003
Vhter Productim
(1000 m/day)                  52      54      57      60      63      66    85    110   140
Payalal Losses                   14      14      14      14      14      14    17    20    25
Ibta1xlzzptIm                    38      40      43      46      49      52    68    90    115
3cmestic                         15      16      18      20      24      25    36    49    64
9taixipipes                       1       1       1       1       1      2      2      3      3
PTibllc                           5       5       5       6       6       7     8      10    12
Industria1 /CJ:iercial            5      6        7      8       9      10    13    17    22
Uofied (exdluding
physical los9es)               12      12      12      11       9       8      9     11    14
I *bilIedfProticn[ (Z)           23      22      21      18      14      12    10    10    10
Nu     aEr of Dmzstic
EUmccms (000's):
-legal                         12      13      16      18      20     22     29    39    50
*T1ega1                       3       4       2       1       1       1      1      2      2
'_otal                       15    7   18   19  21  23  30  41   52
Aiuiber of Stanrlldpes          110    100    105       L20    135    150   200   250   310
R,sxz:Iatk Served (000's):
- Druestie                    225    255      270    285      315    345   450    615    780
- Standilpe                    55     50      52      60      68      75   100   125    155
Total                       280    305       2    345      33    420    50    740   935
l46pzatIfxm (OOD's)             395    422    450    480        515    550   775   1040   1325
uilaticL Served %)              71      72      72      72      74      76    71    71       71
June 1984



REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART L.W.S.C.
I~~~~                  ~ ~~~~~ Ie    I 
r=_____________________                     , t2norm                        Dat
~~~~~~~win o    Imnp                                  l           I           [     wm
Woldd Bnk-26266
WAPWS
July 1984
2GrMIIE      giLH  C   C~~~



-40 -
ANEX 4-1
REPa'LNC OF LrIA
SE=@ WAT  SUPY PL ifla !
GRAEM MA  W  SUE  SYSM
(US$'000) - 1984 prices
Phacal
Gvenies
C  itrct1m  and Bgfrering Total
cost          (30)       cSt
Sead Project (19841988)
DIstribution srsts n s iproveiErts - 6 .i (10 l)   2,180           660        2,840
Storage reservoir - 5 ag (19,000 ni3) - Paynesille    2,000        600        2.600
scellameo  works                                     600           180         780
Sub-total                                                                 620
NerTr Prga  (1988-1992)
Caldw~en Rd. trc   ssimn min - 36 in. (900 DDn)
paraIlel to eidsting 16 in. (400 mn) main        8,500         2,550       11,050
Trea-mt plant additlim - 12 iDgd (45,000 m3)       13,900        4,170       18,070
t systemimprovemnts - 40 mL (65 km)    8,100         2,430      10.530
Sub-total                                                                39,650
Tnterm&iate-Teu Program (1993-1999)
}tbzod  Tmxi (%M Area) ntrrain siv   main
- 36 in. (900 um)                                3,130           940        4,070
Treatueit plant addition - 12 ngd (45,000 m3)     11,120         3,340       14,460
Storage resernir - 4 ug (15,000 rP3) - Ma    Point    1,600        480       2,080
Distribution systen inprovemnts - 47 mi (76 km)    9,570         2,870       12,440
Ra, iter mwtdsion main - 36 in (900 mu)            2,700           810       3,510
Sub-total                                                                36,560
Total Tuvetment Program (1984-1999)                                      82430
November 1983



- 41 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
LWSC MANPOWER & TRAINING
A. Present Situation
1.        LWSC had 638 employees on its payroll as of June 30. 1983.
During the year, 21 employees left the Corporation, while 72 new
employees were hired. This gave a net staff increase of 51 employees
for the year despite the repeated recommendations of some middle
management, LWSC staff, GTZ staff, and the World Bank to reduce the
number of staff at LWSC by at least one third. One of the major reasons
for this unwarranted action was the budgeting of additional job
positions which were filled by direct orders from top management and by
requests from persons outside LWSC. Many of these new employees were
hired without meeting any job qualifications and without having to
comply with normal hiring procedures, i.e., interviews, job testing, and
appropriate previous work experience. The effect of these actions was
to place an additional financial burden on the payroll, and a physical
burden on the already cumbersome and inefficient workforce. In many
cases, employees outnumber available workstations, i.e., more
secretaries than typewriters, more drivers than vehicles, etc. Many
employees are at best, underqualified for the job positions that they
hold.
2.        The LWSC Training Section is organized within the Manpower
Development Department and is staffed by a Training Director and a
secretary. Training activities during 1983 included (a) in-house
seminars and workshops, (b) seminars at local institutions,
Cc) coordination of scholarships and study leaves both in-country and
overseas, and (d) coordination of internships for students from local
training institutions. Unfortunately, the numbers of trainees involved
in these activities have been small in relation to LWSC's training
needs. Thus, despite the efforts of those responsible for training, the
effectiveness of the training activities has been minimal due to lack of
funds, lack of transport, and lack of management understanding with
regard to appropriate staffing levels, hiring practices, and training
objectives.
3.        In addition to the training being coordinated by LWSC staff at
the Monrovia headquarters, an extensive training program is being
conducted by GTZ for all outstation operations and maintenance
personnel. These activities primarily involve on-the-job training in
addition to four fellowships in the Federal Republic of Germany. The
results of this training effort appear to be successful with many staff
now being able to carry out their duties without excessive supervision.



- 42 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 2
GTZ intends to continue training operations under their ongoing
technical assistance program with LWSC. In this regard, it is essential
to coordinate any training activities in the proposed project with GTZ
to avoid duplication of effort and to provide a totally integrated
training program for all aspects of LWSC operations. This will be
accomplished by having GTZ act as executing agency for all aspects of
technical assistance under the proposed second project.
B. Sector Training Facilities
4.        A variety of reputable educational and training institutions
already exist within Liberia. The LWSC Training Section has coordinated
training activities with some of these institutions in the areas of
(a) finance, (b) management and supervision, (c) labor relations,
(d) civil engineering, Ce) secretarial and clerical work, and
(f) skilled trades such as pipefitting, electrical, and auto mechanics.
It is envisaged that institutions within Liberia will be able to provide
adequate training for many LWSC employees as determined by a training
needs analysis to be conducted within the proposed project.
C. Proposed Project Training Component
5.        The proposed project's training component comprises three
primary elements:
(a) The identification of training needs throughout the
organization. These needs will be based upon the job
descriptions and staffing levels determined by a manpower
study of LWSC operations. The training needs study will
also identify local training institutions that can be
used to train LWSC staff in the required disciplines;
(b) The strengthening of LWSC training capability in the
development, implementation, and coordination of training
activities. This will be accomplished through technical
assistance in training program management, and the
provision of training support equipment; and
(c) The strengthening of LWSC staff capability and the
upgrading of job skills through in-house training,
training at local institutions, on-the-job training
provided through technical assistance, and coordination
of training conducted by GTZ.
6.        The training needs study will be performed by the LWSC
Training Section with technical assistance provided by a training
specialist. This assistance would be provided on an intermittent basis
over a three year period. The training specialist would assist the



- 43 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 3
Training Section for a six month period at the start of the project.
This initial work would complete the study and lay the groundwork for
the implementation and coordination of all training activities within
the project. Thereafter, the training specialist would return for a one
month period every six months to monitor, advise, and report on progress
made in meeting the training objectives. The cost for this part of the
project is US$48,000.
7.        As part of the strengthening of LWSC training capability, and
in conjunction with the technical assistance described in paragraph 6,
the project will finance the purchase of training support equipment to
be used for in-house training activities. This will include such items
as (a) an overhead projector, (b) a photocopy machine, (c) a slide
projector, and (d) a duplicating machine. The total cost for these
items is US$10,000.
8.        The training element mentioned in paragraph 5 (c) above
contains three sub-components. These are (a) in-house training,
(b) training at local institutions, and (c) training conducted by GTZ
and on-the-job training provided through technical assistance. The
in-house training will continue as it has functioned in the past, with
short seminars and workshops conducted by senior staff on subjects
specific to LWSC operations, i.e., work procedures, rules and
regulations, and administrative and policy matters.
9.        The support and funding of training at local institutions will
constitute the major focus of this component of the project. Based upon
preliminary information obtained during project appraisal, but which
will need to be confirmed during the training needs study, this training
will require the following inputs:
LWSC TRAINING NEEDS
Approx.    Approx.   Training
Number     Trainee    Efforts
Job Groupings                       of Staff    Months          %
Management and Supervisory                     40          100        15
Secretarial, Bookkeeping, Clerical             70         140         20
Technical Services and Skilled Trades          90         440         65
Total                                       200         680        100
The table shows the approximate numbers of staff who would benefit from
training in each of the major job groupings, the approximate numbers of



- 44 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 4
trainee months required (numbers of trainees times the months duration
of the course), and the percentage of the training within the overall
training effort. These courses would be conducted at local institutions
as described in paragraph 4, and would be scheduled to suit employee
needs and LWSC priorities. The scheduling could be accomplished in a
variety of ways, e.g., full time release from work, part-time release
from work, or evening and Saturday courses on the employees' own time.
Courses could be conducted at the institution, or at LWSC facilities
using the institutional staff as deemed necessary. The total cost for
local tuition is estimated at US$136,000.
10.       A summary of the costs associated with the training component
of the project follows:
TRAINING COMPONENT COST ESTIMATES
Local     Foreign   Total
Item                          Cost       Cost      Cost
----FUS$ '000 -
Training Specialist                            44       100        144
Local Tuition - 680 trainee months x 200    136          -         136
Training Equipment                            -          10         10
180       110       290



REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
LWSC Tralning Schedule
yea                II i Yea_ 2.  Year                                                       3rd Yer1
Qui_a               2         3        4        1        2        3        4        1        2        3        4
Review & Conrnm Organization & Stafnng StnJctukfe
Review & Confirm Job Doscflptlons
Evaluate Staff for training
kbentity Local Training Institutions
Estab4ish Tralning Program
a) Cours
b) Trainee Seoction
c) Schedule
d) On-Job-Training
imlwement Training
Training Reports                                                _                                  m
Troining Specialist on Site                                                      o n 
Wold Bank-26479
WAPWS
August 1984



REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
IDA FISCAL YEAR   FY85        7Y187                                 FY8FY90
CAL~ENDMR YEAR      CYU5               CY86               CY37              CYSS              CYS9
ITEM                                                                       - - 1
IIEM                 ~~~1 |2 |3 |4   1 |2 |3 |4   i    2 |3 |4   1   2 |3 | 4              
DISTRIBUTION/117ANSMISSION                                                           -   -   m T   |            - $
STORAGE-                                                                                 - - - - -
EQUIPMENI/SUJPPN EFSw -- -                                                           - - - -
CONSULTANT SERVICES
a Design/Supervision                          SR_ D&D    R          E&A                      ,
bStudies                                                  P                        - --A 
tECtINICAL ASSISTANCE/TlAINING      I10 MOn Years                                                      -    --
Abbreviations
1     Review                     E&A   Evaluation & Award
S    - Supervis&on               SC   - Selection of Constultants
D)&D  Design & Documentation     P&A - Proposal & Award
Word Bank-25265
WAIP S
February  1985
X
Il



- 47 -
ANNEX 4-4
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ACTION PROGRAM
1.         Purpose:  To strengthen LWSC so that it is able to discharge
its responsibilities in an efficient and timely manner. The program
details actions to be taken and a schedule of when they are to be taken
to be most effective.
2.          Objectives:  To improve the operational performance and
management capability of LWSC through a structured program of technical
assistance.
3.         Technical Assistance:  Implementation will be carried out by
a team of experts, preferably the majority of them on secondment from a
well-run water utility. The team will consist of the following experts;
except for the training specialist, tours will be continuous for the
length of time indicated:
i)    Financial Controller to be employed by July 15, 1985
to establish a system for financial planning and
control (36 months);
(ii)   Water Engineer to be employed by July 15, 1985 to
oversee operations, establish guidelines and provide
on-the-job training to improve the quality of
operations and lower costs (36 months);
(iii) Distribution Engineer to be employed by July 15, 1985
to improve service by reducing losses through
corrosion prevention, leak detection and better
maintenance of the distribution system (36 months);
(iv)   Training Specialist to be employed by July 15, 1985 to
coordinate and advise training unit (12 months);
(v)    Accounting Advisor (GTZ) to be employed by June 30,
1985 to assist with implementation of the automated
accounting system (24 months);
(vi)   Electrical/Mechanical Technician (GTZ) to be employed
by June 30, 1985 to assist in rehabilitating equipment
and to provide on-the-job training for LWSC staff (24
months); and



- 48 -
ANNEX 4-4
Page 2
(vii) Vehicle Repair Workshop Supervisor (GTZ) to be
employed by June 30, 1985 to organize and set up
LWSC's vehicle repair workshop and to provide
on-the-job training for mechanics (18 months).
GTZ will also extend the on-going technical assistance program
consisting of general advisor, advisor for the outstations and
commercial advisor through November 1986.
4.         Unaccounted-for Water: With the aid of technical assistance,
LWSC will carry out by December 31, 1985 an analysis of its operation
and maintenance needs and design and present to IDA for review no later
than June 30, 1986, a program for and timetable of actions to reduce
breakdown and service disruption. The program will include a plau for
reducing unaccounted-for water from the presently estimated 50% to 40%
by December 1987 and to 30% by December 1989.
5.         Billing and Collection: LWSC will by December 31, 1985
complete the on-going program for billing and collection improvement and
be able tc prepare and send out bills to its customers no later than
four weeks after the consumption data are available and be in a position
to collect about 70Z of the amounts billed to private (i.e.,
non-governmental) consumers by that date increasing to about 90% by
December 31, 1989.
6.         Staffing: Starting immediately LWSC should not recruit new
staff other than in skilled management positions. LWSC should avail
itself of all possible mechanisms to reduce staffing to a target level
of 500 by June 30, 1986.
7.         Tariffs: LWSC shall implement a second adjustment on or about
January 1, 1986 based on the results of the tariff study which is now in
process and the corporation's financial performance. Other tariff
increases will be effected as necessary to achieve the cash generation
targets set forth in the Project Agreement.
8.         Cost Accounting System: Under the direction of the Accounting
Advisor, LWSC will implement an automated general ledger accounting
system which will be designed to capture costs separately for Monrovia
water, Monrovia sewerage and outstation operations. The system will be
fully operational by March 31, 1986.
9.         Planning: Starting with FY86, at least two months before the
beginning of each fiscal year, LWSC will develop and provide a
statement, acceptable to the Bank, of financial and operating targets
for the coming year.



- 49 -
ANNEX 4-4
Page 3
10.        Reporting: Starting in March 1985 and until project
completion, LWSC will submit to the Bank, quarterly reports including
financial statements, on the progress of the project and annual reports
including audited financial statements and a comparison of actual
performance with the monitoring indicators. In addition, LWSC will
prepare a completion report within six months of project completion.
11.        Training: Under the direction of the training specialist, a
training needs analysis based on job positions and staffing levels will
be conducted by August 31, 1985, and arrangements completed with local
institutions for training LWSC staff in the required disciplines that
are identified in the training needs analysis. Additionally LWSC will
develop by December 31, 1985, a program acceptable to IDA to strengthen
its in-house training capability.
12.        Insurance: By June 30, 1985, LWSC should prepare a phased
plan acceptable to IDA for insuring all assets.



- 50 -
ANNEX 4-4
Page 4
MlD:MnUNG INDICATCRS
F_85    FY86   FY87   FM        FM       EY90
I. f pratims
1. Water Pro&xucd (ug)             5,402   5,672  5.956   6,254   6,566   6.895
2. Water Billed (n)                 2,917   3,347  3,812  4,190   4,597   4,826
3. Lbeaxccted-for Water (Z)           46       41      36      33      30       30
4. Comectioms:
(a) Wter                       17,500  18,500 20,000 22,000  24,000  25,000
- tording Meters             7,700  10,000 12,100 11,200  16,300  18,300
- Defective Meters           5,100   5,100  4,600  3,900   3,300   2,300
- UThatered                  1,700   1,900  2,300  2,900   3,400   3,400
- n Iezal                    3,000   1,500  1.000  1,000   1.000   1.000
(b) Sewer                       4,000   4,100  4,200  4,300   4,40D   4,500
5. (bllectioos/Biing (%):
(a) Private                        70       80      84      87      90       90
(b) Goveninent                    100      100    100    100       100      100
6. NIzber of Ezployees:              550      500    450    400       400      400
(a) SkIled & MnmFament
(b) Unsklled
]lI. F?:inacil
1. qperating Ra-tio (bef. deprec.)    1.06    1.20   1.25   1.31    1.37    1.36
2. Ceratimg Ratio (after deprec.)    .76      .90    .96    .88        .93    1.00
3. Qirr=et Ratio                     1.13    1.36   2.23   1.89    3.44    3.01
4. Qcstxlmding Debt (US$ -il  l )    20.1    19.5   20.2   20.5    21.8    22.2
DecTter 1984



OD~5
lANK    Each   Cuai.  blob.
rr    t a rt O.   lati,.   I
Is  2       -      -      0.0
I /                                                                                                                      t.  1.31    U.
0C  d3                                         2   *1.1                                        IIi1   31.2
4   0.2 21.;    4 31.
D:                                                                                                                      21   1    .03    1.50   31.0                         so
O                                    sf ;r                ^                                   X   l.t~~~~~~~~~             ~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1 3t t.5  9  a 
3   1.21     1.17   43.4 
4   0.13     1.35    47.0
If  1  0.0      1.25 57.3
0 1.)3    :.40       1.01
0.22    43.7   100.
1                                                                                4   0.11    4.135    7.0
0t  I   0.05     4.04   00.5
0 )z/ > ,/                               ,                   1   21 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  .312    4.47@  ,13 .
1 _   / ,dt    ,ffis7                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~4 1.1?  4.1f  7.     X
2   0.05    4.00   90.0
3   0.01    5.00   100.0
LS ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . ..... ..... .... ... ..... ... .... ..
11  0FF findi,q conaiderad to be  dis-
barled *t *tIectivesue. (projected
0Icr Jcne 1055).
 0                    1-l                                       --                                          -I                             I  I  I  1   
FY 85  | 86                       87   188  | 89                            90            91  1 92                    931   94
O ACTUAL PROJECT                                         + WATER SUPPLY I                                         '  STANDARD PROFILE                                       U



- 52 -
ANNEX 5-1
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
LVSC - Income Statement
........... W.U.N...U.S........... 
(USSD000.)
1:
Year:    FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85    FY16    EY87    FIBS            FY89    FY90
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__--------
Vater Production   Sales                  -  Actual -      - Estimated -                         Projected --
Production (million gallons)          6569    4453    4900    5145    5462    5672    5956    6254    6566    6895
Vater Sales (Uillion gallons) 21   3006    2226    2431    2573    2917    3347    3312    4190    4597    4826
Unaccounted-for Water  eost.%)           54       50      50       50       46       41       36       33       30       30
Awg  Vater Rate (SIL00 gal)  31   2.19    2.39    1.96    2.11    2.23    2.48    2.46    2.48    2.48    2.73
REVENUES:
Water Sales   - Government             1525    1517    102l      1145    139    1591    1725    1806    1867    3077
- Private              505Z    3006    3755    4274    5196    6709    7728    8585    9512   11093
Sewer Charges - Covornsmnt              507     410      338      310      472      325      525      525      525     578
- Private              1012      595      404     595      600      827    S37        939      961    1080
Secondary Conters                       216     144      144      490      500      500      500      500     500      500
Other Income                            336      145      42       44       47       49       53       56       60       64
Subtotal                           8648    6617    1693    6653        6Z05   10201   11423   12412   13466   15393
Loss   Bad Debt Provision                  1719    1506    1593    2045    1743    1507    1330    1238    1049    1218
Total Revenues                     1929    5111    4100    4813    6442    8694   10048   11173   12416   14110
OPERATING EXPENSES:
Personnel                             2679    2313    2350    2810    2759    2765    2905    3148    3361    3604
Technical Assistance                                                       191      465      726      545      332
Utilities                              1705    1124    1343    1470    1628    1812    2027    2274    2555    2871
Chemicals                               504     312      330      333      369      411      45t      515     579      650
Casoline                                370     215      265      268      237      264      295      332      372     418
Maintenance                             303     245      185      187      200      733      781      834     893      955
Administration                          716     639      632      638      689      765      815      871      932     997
Other Expenses                           67       29      10       10       11       11       12       13       14      15
Amartization                                                                10       41       48       90       90       I1
Depreciation                          2171    1530    1990    2010        1363    2370    2401    4063    4286    4439
Total Operating Expenses           8515    4707    7105    7726    1457    9637   10508   12684   1342J   14030
SURPLUS (DEFICIT) BEFORE INTEREST         -1586   -1596   -3005   -2913   -2016    -943    -460   -1511   -1006             130
Less  Interest (charges)  41               870    1050    1070    1130        486      485      419      525      562      597
SURPLUS (DEFICIT) AFTER INTEREST          -2456   -2646   -4095   -4043   -2502   -1428    -949   -2036   -1566    -447
Operating Ratio - Before Depree.   1.09    1.05    0.60    0.64    1.06    1.20    1.25    1.31    1.37    1.49
- After Deprec.    0.81    0.76    0.56    0.62    0.76    0.10    0 96    0.68    0 93    1.01
Rate of Return (%)                     -2.7    -3.7    -6.6    -6.2    -4.5    -2.Z    -1,1    -2.7    -1.4            0.2
11 28 months (change in fiscal year).
21 Gallons billed 1979-83 adjusted to reflect corrections subsequontly made in consumers' monetarg bills.
31  Billing records unreliable as evidenced by average rate sometimes boing higher than maximum tariff.
41 Net of interest earned.
WAPWS
August 1984



- 53 -
AMNEX 5-2
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
SECOND WMUER SUPPLY PROJECT
LVSC - Balance Sheet
............a........
(US0000.
Year:    FiSI    FY82        FY83    FY64       185     FY86      FYI?    rFy3      FY89    FrY90
ASSTS:                                      -  Actual --   - Estimated -                             Projected                     -
.......
Vised Assets                           59377   59305    67150   67450   67599   67006   69366  121541  123503  130167
Less Accu.s  Depreciatton                   15281   17111   19101   21111   23474   25344    23244   50163    54451    58890
Net Fixed Assets                    44096    42739   48049   46339    44125   43962   41222   71373    69032    71277
Work in Progress                        2817      6898      398       93       10s      226      226    3316      5701    3000
Deterred Charges                         13C        67                40        42       37       79      Z07       135      111
Total rFaed Assets                     47093   49704    48447   46477    44275   42245   41427   74901   74903    74358
Accounts Isceivable:
Private     - Service Billings    7707         9763    11359   13411       7462     4522      3477    3335      3235    3419
Less  AlLowance for Dad Debt.                5900     7406    8999    11044       4124     1638    2039    1746        1486     1531
1807     2357     2360     2374    2138       1084     1437     1587      1749    2030
- Secondary Centers       411      517       661      769      125       125      12S      125      125       125
- Subsidy
Total Accounts Receivable            4264     6133     703S      8212     3509     2362      1938    2101    2276    2597
Inventories                              255        6s       70       70      207       406      606      623      643       644
Cash and lank                           1602       -22       50      245     1006      233      1186      621      954      1554
Total Current Assets                         6121     6236      7200     0527     4722     3000      3730    3343      3873    4816
TOTAL     33214    55940    55633    55004    43997   45245   45156   78246    78761    79204
= u=585s.. u       .s . .sum-s   .=  ... ...rr. .s=.= =335=3  infls   5333fl  sr..y*
EQUITY 6 LIABILITIES:
^ausssssut-mss *50saw=
Equity:
Governmest Contributions              9'!4   10659   12109   12909   21409   21609   22309   22559   23953    24409
Revaluation Surplus                  21247   21247   Z1247   21247   21247   21247   21247   35784   55784    5734
Accum. Rev. Surplis (Deficit)   -4635    -7281  -11376  -13419  -17920  -19349  -ZOZ98  -22334  -23902  -z4349
Total Equity                        26196   24825   21980    18737   24736   23507    23258   36009    53041   55844
Long Torm Debt:  1t
iDA                                   4264     6679          8000  6000    6000     6200     6700    650        7620     7910
Other                                17461    17799   1779?   17799    14066    13324    13523   13613    14194    34265
Total Long Term Debt                21745   24478   23799   23799   20066    19324   20223   20463   21114    22175
Accounts Payable                        S061     6405      7624   10196      3903      1502     1343     1422      754       792
Consumer Deposits                        212       232      252      272      292       312      332      352      372       392
Total Current Liabilities            5273     6637     7876   10468    4195        2214     1675      1774     112.    1184
TOTAL   53214   35940   55655   53004    48997   45245   45156   78246    75780   79203
Current  atio  211 116                           0.94    0.92       0.31     113       1.36     2.23    1.69      3.44    4.67
If Including arrears in repayments.
21 Eseluding curront portien of debt repayment.
VAuS
FebruaY 1985



- 54 -
ANNEX 5-3
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
LWSC - Funds Flow Statement
(USbODOs)
11
Tear:    FY31     FY82      FY83     rY84      iY8s     FY16      FYI7    FY93      FYI?    FY90
SOURCES OF FUNDS:                            --Actual -        -        Estimated -                    P-o ---------jected------
.................
Surplus (Doficit  - Operations          -1586    -1596   -3005    -2913   -2016         -943     -460   -1511    -1006         150
Add   Deprsciation                           1171      1830     1990      2010     2373     Z411      2449     4153      4378     45Z0
Cash Crnoration (Operations)          585       234   -10S5       -903      358    1467       1933     2642      3372     4670
Inc (Rod) in Actts. Rec.                  631     1925      099      1124   -4703    -1147       -424       163      175      321
Inc (Red) in Inventory                   -95      -186         1        0      137       199      201        17       17        Z1
(In)e Red in Aects. Payable            -2392    -1344    -1219   -2572        6293     Z001       55Y      -79       668      -39
eInc) Red in Consumer Dsp.                -52      -20      -20       -20      -20       -20      -20      -20       -20      -20
Required for working Capital            -1908      375    -339   -1468         1707     1033      315        32      843       284
Required for Debt Service                 370     1050      10S0     1130     1219      1227     IZ40      1285     1361      1436
Balance a Available (Required)
for Capital Outlay       1623   -1191    -1766        -565    -2568     -792       433     1275      1161     2950
Capital Outlay                             9022     4441       733        40      171      381      1630     3090     4385      4000
To 3s Financed                           7399     5632      2499      605     2739      1173     1197      1815     3217     1050
F-inanced fro-:
Loans                                 4545      2733     13Z1                          200     1450     1000      2150     1Z00
Covernment Equity                     2000      1275     1250       So0    3500        200      700      250      1400      450
Incroase (Reduction) in Cash         -854    -1624        72       195      761     -773       953     -565      333       60c
1/ 18 smonths (change of fiscal year)
WAPWS
August 1984



- 55 -
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA                              ANNEX 5-4
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
LWSC WATER RATE VS. INFLATION
a) z
0_
_~
xt  ~~~z
LzL
Cl     CD      C-J     C;      CD              f  (D              (Dc3
ari    r-      w                S               +            r      (1  v lI-I-
INDEX (1978 =100)
WAPWS
February 1985



- 56 -
ANNEX 5-5
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ASSUMPTIONS USED IN FINANCIAL FORECASTS
A. INCOME STATEMENT
1.        Water Produced - is assumed to increase 5% per year FY84-90
based on actual growth FY78-83. Nominal capacity of the system is
reached in FY87, but estimated production in FY90, 19 mgd, is still
below the maximum hydraulic capacity of 24 mgd.
2.        Unaccounted-for Water - comprising system losses and unbilled
consumption is assumed to decrease from 50% at present to 30% by FY89.
3.        Average Water Rate - a tariff increase of 10% is projected to
take effect on July 1, 1989.
4.        Sever Charges - are assumed to remain at 602 of water charges
for customers located within 100 ft of the sewer lines.
5.        Consumption Patterns - Government consumption is projected to
increase only as a result of the reduction in uuaccounted-for water.
All production increases are assumed to be utilized to meet private
(i.e., non-governmental) demand.
6.        Secondary Centers - Annual subsidies of US$500,000 are assumed
to remain constant under LWSC's management agreement with GOL.
7.        Other Income - is assumed to increase at the rate of local
inflation (para 4.07).
8.        Bad Debts Provision - Government water and sever charges are
assumed to be 100% collectible. Uncollectible private accot-2ts are
projected to decrease from 42% of billings in FY84 to 10% in FY90.
9.        Personnel Expense - reflects the assumption that LWSC will
reduce total staff to 550 by June 30, 1985, to 500 by June 30, 1986, and
that a staffing level of 500 will be maintained through FY90.
10.       Utilities and Chemicals - are assumed to increase with
production and inflation.
11.       Gasoline Expense - reflects a decrease in FY85 in anticipation
of realizing certain operating efficiencies proposed by LWSC; after
FY86, it increases with inflation.



- 57 -
ANNEX 5-5
Page 2
12.       Maintenance Expense - is projected to increase substantially
as LWSC adopts a regular program of preventative maintenance.
13.       Administration - increases to reflect service bureau charges
associated with the new accounting systems and inflation.
14.       Other Expenses - increase with inflation.
15.       Amortization - is calculated on a straight line basis over
five years.
16.       Depreciation - is calculated on a straight line basis at 3.5%
of gross fixed assets in service. From FY88 depreciation reflects
revaluation of fixed assets.
17.       Interest Expense - is reduced as a result of restructuring
LWSC's capitalization. The grace period on the new IDA Credit would run
out in FY91.
B. BALANCE SHEET
18.       Fixed Assets and Accumulated Depreciation - reflect
revaluation (based on international inflation rates) in FY88.
19.       Deferred Charges - comprise capitalized costs of computer
software, studies, etc., which are amortized over five years.
20.       Allowance for Bad Debts - is calculated as 25% of prior year
end balance plus current year provision.
21.       Private Service Billings - net receivables represent 6 months'
billings in FY85, 3 months' in FY86 and 2 months' thereafter.
22.       Cash - LWSC is assumed to accumulate cash generated internally
for project preparation and counterpart funding of the next phase of
expansion.
23.       Government Equity - assumes conversion of US$6.5 million of
debt service payable to equity in FY85 and an adjustment of
US$2.0 million to reflect the terms of the on-lending agreement under
the previous IDA credit. US$3.0 million equivalent from the proposed
IDA credit is also transferred as equity in FY86-90.
24.       Long-Term Debt - reflects a reduction of US$5.0 million in
FY85 as a result of US$3.0 million principal already repaid by GOL and
converted to equity and the US$2.0 million adjustment cited above.
25.       Accounts Payable - are projected to be reduced to 30 days'
cash expenses by FY90.
WAPWS
February 1985



-____________________________ _                                         WIOR    177K0
.,iX   . f    L ., w 
gu I0      ~_                          z_ <  
ARI E,A                                                                        ;1 I  /
LMNS                 ,v''S,                                                                     
' E R I A-                                                  ,/;                   I
8..d~ ~       ~        ,~~..-                                             UIqI
'   B E RIA  '.I  
<~                                                     ---                               !
Afrca                                           Sornuka To.n~~fr
>      ;       _         > ,I                                                         Mo%                                     BnKgo l
:',_- - - .: - .Id..' : .
*W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:*
MONROVlA WAE ,'---,,,, SYSTEM
-. ~        ~         5 -                    -   -, ,        cua
DUa.''''- 1'0E 0-' I?..---O
L I B E R I A      _      ,            :          i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
PltOROu S
MNWCOIAD WATER ItJOIVOtR
-   PORVES ROEAD$ES
_A__t  PA IID
. - --   MaGoVE
-. PAE   OD



