Dnm.a  of
The World Bank
FO OmCIAL USE ONLY
*                                                                             RkP£ms N.. P-3865
REPORT AN-D RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 5.1 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
FOR A
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
February 27, 1985
r  iddub   am                      rw       d bs Wb_



aU3EsCr EQUIVALEST
The official monetary uniLt is the LIberian doll-
with par value equal to the IUS dollar.
The US dollaT is legal tender in Liberia.
FISCAL YE&R
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB    Africau Development Bank
GTZ    Gesellschaft far Tecbnische Zus arbeit
(Gerzma Teci4ical Assistance Agency)
DIA    Interim National Assembly
LWSC   Liberia Water and Sever Corporation
NIOC   National Iron Ore C=pany
PRC     People's Redemption Council
SAC     Structural Adjustment Credit



rot OM AL USE ONLY
REPBLIC OF LIBERIA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUWARY
Borrower          Republic of Liberia
RenefiCizry        Lberia Water and Sever Corporation (LWSC)
Amount            SDR 5.1 mllion (US$5-0 million equivalent)
Terms             Standard
Terms             US$3.0 million of t:he proceeds of the credit would be
invested in LWSC's equity capital and US$2.0 million
would be on-lent for 20 years, including 5 years of
g-race, with interest charges of 10 percent per nnum.
Project
Description       The project's principal objective is to strengthen LWSC
and improve its financial and operational performance.
LWSC's accounting and financial systec would be revamped
to improve financial manwagement  hile technical
assistance and staff training vould be provided to
improve the efficiency of operations. Modest investments
would be made in rehabilitation and maintenmce of LWSC's
assets to prevent their further deterioration.
Construction of a storage reservoir and selective
extension of the distribution system wo id also improve
the quality and reliability of water supply in Monrovia.
The principal benefit of the project would be improved
water supply service in Monrovia. Improvements in LWSC's
operating efficiency and financial performance would,
over time, equip LWSC to undertake and operate future
expansions to meet Monrovia's increasing water supply
needs. Construction and supply risks on the project are
low, but the technical assistance could take longer than
expected to have an impact on LWSC's operations. Close
supervision by IDA would however make it possible to
adapt technical assistance to changed circumstances.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance  |
of their official dutim Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(i)
Estimated Cost: 11
Foreign Local Total
Tecbnical Assistance                 2.4       .1     2.5
Traisng                               .1       .2      .3
StudilDes4ps                          .5      .1       .6
EquipuetlS/uplies                    1.0      .1      1.1
Distribution/Transmission            3.8     1.0      4.8
Base Cost                        7.8     1.5     9.3
Contingencies: FPysical             .4      .1       .5
Price               1.8      .4     2.2
Total Project Cost             10.0     I      12.0
E Ranin    Pla:
For!AR        Local  Total
-  (zUSs milo)-
IDA                                   5.0     -        5.0
Africsm Davelopment Bank              3.8       .2     4.0
Germany (GTZ)                         1.2     -        1.2
LWSC                                   -      1.8      1.8
10.0O    2,0    12 
Estimated
Disbursements:                              ID  Fiscal Year
FY86     FY87     FY-88      Y89     FY90
z: U~(S$ milo)-
Annual          1.5       0.6      1.2      1.6        .1
Cumulative      1.5       2.1      3.3      4.9       5.0
Economic Rate
of Return    : As the project does not provide additional supply sources
or treatment capacity, it does not lend itself to a rate
of return analysis.
Staff AiDraiaal
Report       : No. 5223-LBR dated February 15, 1985
mmp            : IBRD No. 17710
1/ Net of taxes and duties, from vhich the project is exempt.



INTERNAIONL DEVELOP2ENT ASSOCIATON
REPORT AMD RECOIMDATION OF THE PRESIDElT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO TEE REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA.
FOR A SECONID 1ATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.        I submit the folloving report and rec endation ou a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Liberia for the equivalent of SDRI
5.1 mllion (US$5.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help
finance a second water supply project. US$3_0 million equivalent of the
proceeds of the credit would be passed on to the Liberia Water and Sever
Corporation (LWSC) as an equity contribution and US$2.0 million equiva-
lent would be relent for 20 years, including five years of grace, wlth
interest at 10 percent per annum. The project would be cofinanced by
the Federal Republic of Germany (CTZ) which would provide a grant of
US$1.2 million equivalent and by the African Development Bank (AfDB)
which would extend a loan of US$4.0 million equivalent.
PART I: THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Liberia: Recent Economic Develop-
ments and Medium-Term Prospects" (No. 4178-LBR) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in December 1982. An updating of Liberia's economic
prospects, as well as in-depth analysis of special economic issues, vas
undertaken during late 1984 in the process of preparing and appraising a
proposed structural adjustment credit. The conclusions of this economic
work have been included in this report.
Background
3.        Liberia has a dual economy in which an enclave sector of
foreign investments, utilizing advanced technologies and skills,
co-exists with a traditional agricultural economy using rudimentary
technologies. The wholly export-oriented enclave or "concession" sector
includes iron ore mining, rubber production and forestry and provides
about 83 percent of export earnings, generating about one quarter of the
GDP. On the whole, the links between the concessions sector and the
rest of the economy are weak. Hovever, stronger links exist in the case
of the rubber industry in the form of demand for labor services (about
7 percent of the labor force ,s employed by rubber concessions) and
material inputs. Contributions by the concessions to Government reve-
nues in the form of profit sharing provided the strongest linkage with
the rest of the economv until 1976/77. Because of low iron ore profits
since the late seventies, contributions to revenues now mainly take the
form of royalties and income tax levied on employees, and indirectly in
the form of duties on imported inputs that are not exempt under the
terms of the concession agreements. Revenues from the concessions
sector, which historically accounted for about one third of total
Government irncome, now account for a mere 2.5 percent.



-2-
4.        Outside the enclave sector, Liberia is like other very poor
African nations: about 66 percent of the population live in rural areas
and depend for their livelihood on agriculture; the bulk of them are
traditional farners producing mainly rice and cassava for subsistence.
Rubber, coffee and cocoa are the country's major cash crops; yet they
contributed only 15 percent of monetary GDP and 22 percent of export
arnings (1980-82). Almost al1 rubber is processed and exported by
foreign companies. Non-agricultural productive activities outside the
enclae sector are very limited; the largest of these, manufacturing,
contributas about 5 percent of GDP. This structural Imbalance in the
economy between the modern, largely enclave sector and the traditional
Agricultural sector is reflected in a sharply skewed income distribu-
tion. With a population of about 2 milion, average per capita GB? in
1982 vas estimated at about US$490. However, 80 percent of Liberia's
households received less than 30 percent of total inccme.
5.        The Liberian economy exhibits a number of other distinguishing
features. Liberia's currency is the U.S. doll, and the economy
operates in liberal trade and payments regimes. The economy has few
price distortions. The private sector-both domestic and foreign-has
continued to play a dominant role in the economy, encouraged by the
Government's positive attitude. the open door policy towards foreign
investments, and the convertibility of the currency. Agricultural
pricing is marked by the absence of interventions, except in the rice
sector where the Government maintains producer prices to increase rice
production. Liberia is endowed with a relatively abundant land resource
base which has and can provide the basis for a growing agricultural
sector with appropriate policies and adequate investments.
6.        The effectiveness of Liberia's public institutions is severely
handicapped by a scarcity of trained manpower at all levels. Though
Liberia has some competent managers in public office, they are insuffi-
cient in number and their effectiveness is handicapped by a shortage of
trained people for middle management positions. Organizational weak-
nesses furthermore result in poor communications within the Government
and its agencies and in duplication of effort. These inadequacies of
public institutions are not only a bottleneck to the effectiveness of
day-to-day government but to the public sector's development effort as a
whole. The large number of unproductive workers on the public payroll
has, especially in recent years, swelled the Government's current
expenditures and prevented the accumulation of savings for an adequate
investment effort.
7.        With a crude birth rate of 50 and a crude death rate of 14 per
1,000 population, Liberia's annual rate of population increase of
3.4 perc-^t is among the highest in Sub-Saharan Africa. The rate has
risen from 3.1 percent during the 1960s and is expected to accelerate to
3.7 percent by the year 2000. Consequently, the current population of
about 2 million is projected to almost double by the year 2000. The
high population growth rate has put pressure on social services, infra-
structure, etc., and, in the light of a declining economy, unemployment
has risen, especially in Monrovia where migration from rural areas



- 3 -
accentuates the problem. Given the delayed impact of family planning
programs on population growth, an active famil  plannng policy needs to
be pursued immediately. The authorities have recognized that Liberia's
rate of population growth is a heavy burden on the country's development
effort. The Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, the Family Planning
Association of Liberia and other agencies are nov involved in family
planning activities. The need for further efforts to reduce fertility
and the rate of infant mortality, while improving the health status of
the population, is compelling. The Goverment has shown its receptive-
ness to assistance in these two fields, in which the Bank is currently
preparing a project.
8.        About 58 percent of Liberia's domestic energy needs were met
by local fuelvood and charcoal in 1981, another 35 percent came from
imported petroleam and its products and 7 percent from domestic hydro-
electric power. Petroleum imports cost Liberia $129.6 million in 1981,
or 24 percent of export earnings, as compared to $12 million or
5 percent of export earnings a decade earlier. Although the reduction
of world oil prices since late 1982 has provided some relief, problems
of paying for oil imports persist. There is a clear need to implement
programs to promote more efficiency in the use of energy, seek adjust-
ments in the use of imported oil by substituting domestic hydropower to
the extent possible, promote petroleum exploration by private oil
companies and revamp the operations of the power utility company.
9.        The country has a poorly developed economic and social infra-
structure outside the enclave areas. An incomplete and inadequate road
system is poorly maintained, but the Bank is providing assistance in
this field through a road maintenance project approved by the Executive
Directors in December 1983. Only some 20 percent of the non-enclave
ropulation has access to dependable water supply, while education and
training have been inequitably distributed and are of inadequate quali-
ty. The Bank is also providing assistance in this area through a fourth
education project. The health status of the majority of Liberians
remains poor-life expectancy at birth is 54 years, and morbidity and
mortality are high. The infant mortality rate is 91 per thousand live
births (1981). The existing health care system is inadequate and
unsuited to the country's health problems. Moreover, maintenance of
health-related facilities is poor and the supply of drugs to public
hospitals is erratic at best. Poor health and malnutrition continue to
plague vulnerable segments of the population, especially pregnant and
lactating women as well as young children.
10.      Liberia's military rulers which seized power in 1980 have
promised to return the country to democratic and constitutional rule in
1985. A new constitution was adopted through a national referendum in
1984 and the ban on political activity, which had been in effect since
April 1980, was lifted in July 1984. A number of political parties are
being formed with a view to contesting presidential and other national
elections now scheduled for October 1985. In the meantime, the People's
Redemption Council (PRC) that ruled the country since April 1980 and
which was mostly composed of military personnel, has been abolished.



Instead, an Interim National Assembly (IEA), wlth broad civilian member-
ship but including some former PRC  embers as a minority. has been
appointed by the Head of State. The IRA will deliberate and advise the
Head of State on national policy during the transition period.
Recent Economic Developments
11.       Macro-economic Performance.  The military Government which
took power in Aprll 1980 inherited a sluggish and strained economy in
which GDP growth had averaged less thAn 1.0 percent per annum between
1974 and 1979. The economy was suffering from the effects of a heavy
oil import bill and a large debt burden at a time when demadn for
Liberia's major exports-iron ore, rubber and timber-was depressed.
The commodity concentration of Liberia's exports aggravated the impact
of the international recession.  In addition, in its very early life the
military-government made inappropriate policy decisions and took actions
that reduced investor confidence. A doubling of the public sector
minimum wage without regard to productivity and indiscriminate hiring
into the already swollen ranks of the civil service and public corpora-
tions exacerbated the fiscal crisis. Capital flight, the exodus of
experienced personnel, placement of inexperienced people in public
sector management positions, occasional harassment and interference in
the running of private firms and Government agencies, and a severe
shortage of public funds for investment, hurt the economy. Public
enterprises were increasingly inefficient and subsidies to these enter-
prises became a drain on scarce budget revenues. The depletion of the
banking sector deposit base restricted external credit lines and a
general liquidity crisis made mAnagement of the economy difficult during
the present administration's first two years of office and, to a large
extent, still continues to plague economic managers. To meet its
foreign currency obligations, the Government relies on off-shore tax
revenues paid by concessions, the zoreign exchange earnings of the
Liberia Produce Marketing Corporation, maritime revenue payments and
external grants and borrowings. These sources of off-shore funds have
been eroding at the same time as external payment obligations, particu-
larly debt service, are growing. Therefore, the public sector balance
of payments has recently deteriorated to crisis proportions as the
National Bank of Liberia no longer has adequate foreign reserves to meet
the cost of oil imports, service debt and make payments for needed
public sector imports.
12.       There has been a decline in GDP each year since 1980.  Between
1980 and 1982, real GDP declined by about 15 percent and real consump-
tion by over 16 percent.  The decline in the economy is mainly attribut-
able to the continuing weak performance of exports. Exports account for
a high share of GDP (56.3 percent in 1982). Between 1980 and 1982
export earnings fell by 20.5 percent. from $600.5 million in 1980 to
$477.4 million in 1982. Export earnings declined further by 10.2 per-
cent in 1983, to $427.6 million, due primarily to the reduced earnings
from iron ore. Prospects for export earnings in the short-run are
uncertain due principally to the depressed steel market, but look better
in the medium-term as the anticipated recovery in the OECD countries



gathers momentum. However, in order to respond to stronger demand in
the medium-term, substantial investments will need to be undertaken in
the export sector.
13.       After deteriorating considerably in 1980 following the dou-
bling of the minizmm wage, fiscal performance improved as a result of
expenditure restraints under successive stabilization programs supported
by the IMF. Total expenditures declined from $391 million in FY82 to
$334 million in FY84. While expenditure restraint has been successful,
revenue performance has been disappointing in part due to the deteriora-
tion in the economy but also due to poor tax administration. Revenue
and grants totalled $270.5 million in FY84 compared with
$277.3 million in FY82.
14.       The domestic savings performance has declined since the late
1970s as a result of the general decline in the economy and high levels
of Government consumption. The total domestic savings rate declined
from 27 percent in 1979 and 1980 to 12.5 percent in 1982 and the nation-
al savings rate fell from 20 percent to 2.2 percent of GDP during the
same period, primarily because of overexpenditure by the public sector.
There have been negative pcblic sector savings since 1978; all savings
in the economy have come either from the private sector or from abroad.
15.       The major reasons for the Government's poor savings effort are
excessive expenditure on wages, large subsidies to inefficient state
enterprises, and a growing debt service burden. Although revenue growth
has slowed down since 1979. Liberia still has one of the highest tax to
GDP ratios in Sub-Saharan Africa, at about 28 percent of monetary GDP or
about 24 percent of total GDP. In a period of declining GDP, averaging
about minus 4 percent over 1980 to 1983, the tax ratios have also
declined to about 25 percent of monetary and 21 percent of total GDP
respectively. However, they still remain high in relation to other
Sub-Saharan African economies due to the continuing shift towards direct
taxation of wages and salaries and the relative stability of maritime
revenue, which accounts for about 10 percent of total revenue.
16.       The control and reduction of expenditures in recent years has
been accompanied by sign'ficant changes in the structure of expenditure.
Following the doubling of wages in 1980, wages and salaries rose from
$67 million in FY78 to S138 million in FY81, increasing their share in
recurrent expenditures from 55 percent to about 60 percent, but have
been reduced in FY84 to S126 million or about 50 percent. The share of
debt-servicing (interest and amortization) has risen from 12 percent of
total expenditures in FY82 to 27 percent in FY84. Non-wage and non-debt
recurrent expenditures have declined, resulting in inadequate mainte-
nance of public assets because of insufficient materials and supplies
and some accumulation of arrears to vendors to the Government. However,
the brunt of adjustment has been borne by development expenditures which
declined from 20 percent of total expenditures in FY79 to 9 percent in
FY84. Moreover, the compositior of development expenditures has shifted
to the detriment of expenditures on vital economic services (e.g.,
agricultural development, roads, transport and communication, etc.),



-6-
which in FY78 accounted for 50 percent of total development expenditures
but only represented 36 percent in FY83. The proportion of total
development expenditures going to social and community services has
remained constant at about 18 percent, but there has been a sharp
decline in absolute te rm. Development expenditures on education and
health, for instance, declined from $20 million in FY78 to $8.2 million
In FY82. On the other hand, transfers to public corporations (some of
which provide social services) including funds for investment as well as
undetermined amounts to cover operating losses, increased their share of
total development expenditures from 19 percent in FY78 to 33 percent in
F182. Transfers to three corporations alone-the Liberia Electricity
Corporation, the Liberia Water and Sever Corporation and the National
Port Authority-accounted for half the latter total in FY81 and FY82.
17.       While the sharp decline in development expenditures in support
of the productive sectors and social services is of concern given the
negative impact that this could have on economic activity and the
quality of life in the future, of more immediate concern is the extent
to which maintenance of public assets and the quality of services has
been neglected. In reducing their current expenditures, many branches
of Government and public agencies have been cutting down on expenditures
for materials, spare parts, fuel, etc. needed for maintenance as well as
for operating purposes, while maintaining the same number of people on
their payroll. Those who are assigned to maintenance (of the road
network for instance) cannot carry out their tasks because of lack of
materials and logistical support. A more appropriate balance between
expenditures on materials and the payroll is clearly required.
18.       The quality of investments in the public sector over the last
five years has been mixed. Many investments with acceptable returns
have been made in agriculture and infrastructure, usually in cooperation
with external donors. However, heavy outlays of Government funds for
the meeting facilities constructed for the 1979 Organization of African
Unity (OAU) Conference as well as some recent urban construction
projects. have had low or negative returns.
19.       The composition of revenues has also undergone marked shifts,
with the share of individual income taxation having risen from
15 percent of revenues in 1980 to 24 percent in FY84. Among indirect
taxes, the level of import related taxes has fallen from $76 million to
$54 million between 1980/81 and 1983/84, while export related taxes have              0
fallen from $10.2 to $4.2 million over the same period. The most
important reason underlying this poor performance of revenues is the
general decline in the economy, which in turn follows largely from
adverse international developments in Liberia's export markets. Howev-
er, a number of other factors are also at work, including the effect of
the appreciation of the dollar on the competitiveness of Liberia's
exports and on the valuation of Liberia's imports for the levy of
import-related revenue charges; the unsystematic approach to incentives,
and their effect on output and new investments in the rubber and timber
sectors; the still cautious attitude of the private sector towards
investment in Liberia; and generally poor tax administration.



20.       Liberia's use of the US dollar and its traditional open-door
trade policies created a favorable environment for private investment in
the past. Since the economy was, and remains, an open one with little
protection, there have been no gross misallocations of private invest-
ment. Since 1981, however, the balance of payments has deteriorated
considerably and massive capital outflows have taken place. SInce
Liberia uses the US dollar, which has appreciated against other curren-
cies in spite of the adverse balance of payments situation, a distortion
has been created in the foreign exchange market. In additior. Liberia
is further losing competitiveness vis-a-vis the rest of the world due to
past excessive wage increases in the public sector which have affected
wage levels in the economy as a whole. Thus, because of these factors
the incentive to produce for export markets has been eroded. Mo.eover,
excessive fringe benefits introduced in the rubber concessions at the
Government's urging may also have worsened the competitive position of
Liberian plantations relative to others in Asia where labor productivity
is higher.
21.       Relationship with the IMF. Since mid-1980, the present
Government has pursued stabilization as its principal economic policy
objective. IMF standby programs have been in force continually since
then. Their principal aim has been fiscal adjustment through public
expenditure containment and borrowing ceilings, as well as new revenue
measures aimed at offsetting the post-1980 decline in trade-related
taxes. Liberia has successfully met the performance criteria agreed
upon with the IMF, except for the May/June 1983 borrowing and foreign
arrears targets.
22.       The Liberian authorities have recently concluded negotiations
with the I14F for a fifth consecutive standby prog7am covering 18 months,
from July 1984 to December 1985. This program was approved by the IMF
Board in December 1984. Like previous programs, its principal elements
are fiscal adjustment policies and measures to improve the external
position of the National Bank of Liberia as well as the general finan-
cial environment. A critical feature of the program is a reduction of
the Government's wage bill from $126 million in FY84 to $115 million in
FY85. The policy instruments for attaining this target are part of a
structural adjustment reform program which is being discussed with the
Liberian authorities for presentation to the Executive Directors in the
near future.
23.       Liberia's record of five consecutive standby arrangements
attests to the persistence of the authorities in seeking economic
stabilization since mid-1980. Total IMF resources outstanding as of
October 1984 amount to 290 percent of quota however, and the Fifth
Standby Arrangement is for 60 percent of quota. As a result of these
heavy past drawings, repayment obligations over the next five years will
rise sharply. Even with the anticipated drawings under the Fifth
Standby (SDR 42.78 million over 18 months), net transfers from the IMF
to Liberia will be negative by $21 million commencing in FY85 and will
be negative by $47 million, $72 million, and $60 million in FY86, FY87,
and FY88, respectively. These outflows are superimposed on an already



- 8 -
difficult debt service problem arising from past debts, stagnant export
earnings and declining government revenue.
:4.       Creditworthiness.  Liberia has experienced mounting debt
service difficulties in recent years and the Bank Group was forced to
suspend disbursements for brief periods in 1983 and 1984. The debt
service problem is not apparent from the conventional ratio of debt
service to export earnings, which was only 11 percent in 1982/83. Since
most of Liberia's debt is public while much of export earnings are not
channelled through the National Bank of Liberia under its payments
regime, a better measure of the public debt service burden is the ratio
of debt service to total public revenues. This ratio reached 22 percent
in 1980. A major reason for this was that Liberia had earlier obtained
commercial bank loans to finance expenditures related to the 1979 GAU
Conference, which was hosted by Liberia. While debt service resche-
dulings (discussed below) kept the ratio of debt service to Government
revenues to 14 percent in 1983, this ratio is expected to be over
40 percent for PY85 and around 55 percent fcr FY86 even after debt
relief from the Paris and London Clubs, but inclusive of IMF repurchases
and charges.
25.       External public debt outstanding and disbursed reached
$630.3 million at the end of 1982 and increased by 10.9 percent to
$699.1 million at the end of 1983. The Bank Group's share of external
public debt outstanding and disbursed was about 20 percent in 1982 and
1983 and about 23.1 percent by the end of 1984. Payments to the Bank
Group were about 22.6 percent of total debt service payments in 1982 and
increased to 36.2 percent in 1983. They were about 24.1 percent by the
end of 1984.
26.       The Government has obtained four reschedulings under the Paris
Club in recent years. In 1980, US$19.4 million of debts contracted
before January 1, 1980 were rescheduled. In December 1981, the Paris
Club granted further relief by rescheduling debts amounting to
US$24.8 million and maturing between January 1982 and June 1983.
Liberia's third request was considered in December 1983 when the Paris
Club granted relief on official loans and insured export credits valued
at US$23.6 million maturing between July 1, 1983 and June 30, 1984.
Debt service falling due 1n FY85 was rescheduled in December 1984.  The
London Club agreed to reschedule private bank syndicated loans of about
US$27 million in December 1982 and negotiations for further relief,
which included settlement of arrears of US$26 million under a facility
to purchase petroleum, were concluded recently.
27.       Liberia's debt service capacity will depend on export pros-
pects over the medium and long term as well as on the quality of econom-
ic management and the Government's policy framework. The movement in
world prices of Liberia's main export commodities between 1981 and 1983
was unfavorable and, moreover, the recent appreciation of the US dollar,
which Liberia uses as its currency, has adversely affected the country's
competitiveness. However, growth in export earnings is expected to be
higher in the medium-term, mainly because demand for rubber and timber



- 9 -
is expected to strengthen. Furthermore, ongoing agriculture development
projects that promote coffee, cocoa and palm oil cultivation as well as
exploration of mining resources, including oil, may help diversify the
economy and could accelerate the rate of export growth during the next
few years, provided that growth in the industrialized countries is
maintained-
28.       Even with improvements in export performance and economIc
management and with the additional debt relief which Liberia may obtain
in the future, the country's debt burden will remain considerable in the
short and medium term. Debt service as a percentage of Government
V           revenues, inclusive of IMF repurchases and charges, is expected to
increase to about 70 percent by 1987, assuming no further Paris and
London Club debt relief, and 3bout 55 percent with debt relief. This is
in part because previously rescheduled loans, as well as debt to multi-
national institutions such as the IMF, the Bank and IDA, are not subject
to rescheduling   In view of the country's high public debt service
obligations, assistance from the Bank Group will continue to be on IDA
terms. Liberia will also require additional debt reiief from the London
and Paris Clubs for the next few years as well as increased external
as.istance from other sources on concessional terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LIBERIA
29.       As of November 30, 1984 the Bank has approved 22 loans (in-
cluding one Third Window loan) for projects in Liberia totalling
USS155.2 million; there have also been 15 IDA credits totalling
US$106_6 million and one technical assistance grant of US$200,000 for
development planning. IFC has made three equity investments totalling
US$703,000 in the share capital of the Liberian Bank for Development and
Investment (LBDI)_ Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans,
IDA credits and IFC investments as of November 30. 1984.
30.       Up to the early 1980s, Liberia was eligible for Bank lending
as well as IDA support and substantial assistance was provided for
projects in several sectors. Support was provided for six projects in
agriculture, four in power, four in highways, three in education and
three in industry, among others. With Liberia now eligible for IDA
assistance only, Bank Group support has been more selective in recent
years and has been concentrated on continuing high priority development
efforts in agriculture, highways and education and in projects that
would irprove the country's balance of payments.
31.       Over the past months, implementation of most Bank Group
assisted projects has been affected by a shortage of Government counter-
part financing due to the sharp deterioration of public finances dis-
cussed in Part I of th-s report. The National Iron Ore Company (NIOC)
Rehabilitation project, which has required much greater Government
contributions than expected because the Company's earnings have been
depressed by adverse developments in international markets, has been



- 10 -
affected In particular, and  IOC w   forced to suspend operatios In
October 1984 because of insufficient working capital. The Government is
discussing permanent clesure of the min with the Bank and its cofinan-
ciers. To facilitate the execution of ongoing projects, the Bank and
IDA have introduced revolving accoumts to provide working capital to
executing agencies and in sOme cases reduced the scope of projects to
decrease claims on GovernMent resources. Bank Group disbursements have
fluctuated between 32.5 percent of credits and loans outstanding at the
beginning of the fiscal year in FY81 to 18.4 percent in FY83. Disburse-
ments in FY84 were equivalent to 26.3 percent of credits and loans
outstanding at the beginning of the period.
32.       Given the decline In Liberia's exports over the past few years
and the deterioration of public finances-which does not allow the
Government to make an adequate development effort-the principal objec-
tives for Bank Group operations for the immediate future are:
(a) to strengthen institutions and improve policies In the public
sector so as to improve the efficiency with which public
resources are used, with special emphasis on the quality of
public Investment;
Cb) to consolidate development programs in sectors that are vital
to the growth of the economy, giving particular attention to
those that could improve the balance of payment6;
(c) to help maintain and/or rehabilitate the country's more
important physiral assets;
(d) to continue improving the country's hcman resources.
33.      A proposed structural adjustment program, with its complemen-
tary technical assistance project, is the principal means by which the
Bank Group is seeking to bring about an improvement in the efficiency
with which public resources are allocated in Liberia. The proposed
project would be an integral part of a strategy to improve the perfor-
mance of public corporations that is to be given impetus under the
proposed structural adjustment program. Based on diagnostic studies
carried out between 1980 and 1982, it has already been agreed with the
Government that the oversight of public corporations is to be entrusted
to a newly created Bureau of State Enterprises as part of an effort to
rationalize and systematize the guidelines giver. to such corporations.
In agreement with their boards and management, specific operational and
financial goals would be established by the Bureau for a group of the
more important public corporations and responsibility for achieving such
goals r-uld be fully delegated to the corporations, without Government
involvement in their day-to-day business. Performance would be assessed
by the Government once a year in relation to the agreed targets. This
mprovement in the Government's supervisory practices toward public
corporatiots needs to be reinforced by efforts at the level of the firm
to improve financial and operational performamce. Thus, the proposed



- 11 -
project would complement efforts to improve the performance of public
enterprises under the structural adjustment program.
34.       If Liberia is to overcome its present economic difficulties,
it will be necessary to revitalize its productive sectors to reestak-lish
the country's capacity to earn foreign exchange. Bank Group strategy
ill be focussed on continuing a dfalogue with the authorities on
policies affecting the performance of export sectors, coatinuing support
for ongoing development programs that are export oriented and seeking to
diversify the sources of Liberia's export earnings. The structural
adjustment program provides for detailed revievs of policies affecting
the performance of the country's principal export subsectors-iron ore,
natural rubber and timber. Some policy adjustments by which tax rates
have been adapted to present circumstances in international markets,
have already been made in the iron ore sector as a result of preparatory
work for the structural adjustment program. Similar dialoguec will be
pursued in the context of sectoral and project assistance. The Bank
Group has long been involved in the promotion of export crops in Liberia
and future assistance for agriculture will seek to capitalize an the
gains made under ongoing projects in improving the technology for
rubber, cocoa and coffee cultivation and introducing new export crops,
most notably oil palm. Sector issues that mighLt affect farmer response
to these development efforts-such as the adequacy of farmgate prices
and the institutional mechanisms for marketing and processing farm
output-will receive growing attention and will be pursued with the
authorities as central issues to future support for agriculture. An
agricultural services project and a second rubber development project
are in preparation and will be appraised in FY86/tFY87.
35.       While efforts to diversify exports by promoting agricultural
products are promising, there is urgent need to find substitutes for
iron ore exports, which have traditionally accounted for between one
half and two thirds of the country's gross foreign exchange earnings.
Not only is iron ore facing weak demand in international markets with
little prospect of recovery over the immediate term, but, ove- the
medium tern, Liberia's export volume is likely to decline as established
ore reserves are depleted. In an effort to find a substitute export
commodity in the mineral sector, the Bank Group has been assisting the
Liberian Government establish the necessary legal and institutional
framework to encourage exploration for petroleum. A proposed petroleum
exploration project would promote a broader exploration effort in order
to increase the prospects of locating commercial quantities of petro-
leum. While it is too early to tell what the results of these efforts
might be, It is clear that, if they are successful, the balance of
payments constraints to Liberia's long-term growth prospects will have
been removed to a large extent.
36.       The deterioration of public finances and the poor financial
performance of public corporations over the past few years have resulted
in inadequate maintenance of some of Liberia's more vital public assets.
Highway maintenance was recognized to be inadequate by the Government in
1983 and Bank Group assistance was requested to prevent a further



- 12 --
deterioration of the main highways network, which would have depressed
agricultural output and further deteriorated the country's balance of
payments.  IDA is providing assistance for a highways maintenance and
rehabilitation project that is helping establish routine and periodic
maintenance procedures in the  finis try of Public Works and ensuring that
sufficient resources are allocated to highway maintenance. Inadequate
maintenance of the port of Monrovia, vhich handles over ha,l the coun-
try's exports and over 80 percent of its imports, could also have
serious consequences on the national economy unless a rehabilitation
project is undertaken soon to prevent an interruption of port services.
A project to this effect, that would emphasize management improvements
as well as the rehabilitation of physical assets, is to be appraised in
the coming months for possible Bank Group support.
37.       While the Bank Group is emphasizing the resolution of Libe-
ria's more inmedlate economic problems in its operations, it cannot
neglect addressing some of the country's more fundamental long-term
development problems. One of Liberia's chief development constraints is
a shortage of skilled manpower at all levels. It will not be possible
to raise the productivity and income of the majority of the population
to any significant extent without raising knowledge and skill levels,
and for this more and better basic education is required. The Bank
Group has provided assistance for four education projects that supported
the Government's efforts to extend and imprave primary and technical
education. These have helped to better match educatlon and training to
the country's manpower requirements. However much remains to be done:
the gross primary enrollment ratio for the country as a whole is still
only 66 percent. In order to continue the institution building tasks
initiated under previous Bank Group assisted projects and improve cost
effectiveness in the sector, a fifth education project is in preparation
for appraisal in FY88.
38.       Liberia has high population growth and infant mortality rates.
Given this demographic situation, efforts to deal with the high rates of
mortality should be linked to efforts to deal with fertility so as to
reduce the possibility of accelerating population growth, as this would
have a negative impact on the country's long-term development efforts.
A potentially effective health delivery system exists but needs to be
strengthened through training and logistical support. A maternal and
child health care and family planning project that would help the
Government develop and carry out appropriate policies for the sector is
in preparation and would be appraised in FY86.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR
Sector Organization
39.       The Liberia Water and Sever Corporation (LWSC), established in
1973 as a public enterprise, is the principal organization in the vater
supply and sanitation sector and is one of the six focus enterprises of



- 13 -
the proposed structural adjustment program (para. 33). While govern-
ment-owned, LWSC is not administratively linked to any particular
government department, and, although empowered by law to establish and
operate water supply and sewerage systems throughout Liberia, it has so
far only operated facilities in urban areas. The Ministry of Rural
Development has assumed responsibility for rural water supply. LWSC
owns and operates water supply and sewerage systems in Monrovia and
operates water supply facilities in ten other urban areas (outstations)
on behalf of the CGovernment. In addition, there are a number of small-
scale water supply facilities established by the Government and some
private system operated by mining and plantation companies. LWSC also
provides sewerage services in Monrovia, though sanitation, drainage and
refuse collection are the responsibility of local authorities.
40.       Some two-thirds of all urban inhabitants, or about 425,000
people including some 300,000 in Monrovia, have access to public water
supplies through a combination of individual connections and public
standpipes. Standpipes Drovide service for about 15 percent of the
population served. With Monrovia's population of some 425,000 growing
at an annual rate of almost seven percent, maintaining the present level
of service will require a considerable effort and substantial invest-
ment. In contrast, of the approximately 1.3 million people living in
rural ar.eas, only about six percent have access to safe water. Most
rely on shallow wells, streams and springs which are often polluted.
Various bilateral and multilnteral donor agencies are now financing
projects to imDrove rural water supply. The only public sewerage system
in Liberia serves about 4,000 buildings in downtown Monrovia.  For the
most part, urban dwellers rely on primitive latrines, although in never
areas and for higher-income housing, septic tanks and cesspools are
used.
41.       LWSC has a nine-member Board of Directors of which the Minis-
ter of Rural Development is the Chairman. The Board has met irregularly
in the past and most issues have been resolved by direct contact between
the Chairman and the Managing Director. In order to reactivate the
Board and give it a commercial orientation, the Government has recently
reconstituted its membership so that the Board now includes five persons
from the private sector, three Cabinet Ministers and the Managing
Director. It is expected that the reconstituted Board will be in a
better position to steer the Corporation to financial recovery as it now
includes directors with suitable business and professional experience.
LWSC is overstaffed at the lower levels while it suffers from lack of
qualified manpower in technical and managerial positions. The Govern-
ment and LWSC have provided assurances that LWSC would not replace lower
level staff who leave the service of LWSC during the term of the project
and would take all necessary action to reduce overstaffing (Section 3.05
of the draft Project Agreement).
42.       LWSC's revenue generation has not been sufficient to meet its
cash operating expenses due to low tariffs and poor billing and collec-
tion performance. Over the last several years, LWSC's operating expens-
es have soared while tariffs have remained stable and revenue collection



- 14 _
has declined. In order to redress this imbalance LWSC has recently
increased tariffs by 25 percent.  In principle, LWSC operates by metered
house connection; however, out of 17,000 connections in Monrovia only
about 40 percent have working meters, another 40 pe-cent are unmetered
or have non-functioning meters, and up to 20 percent may be illegal.
The recently revised water tariff is two-tiered, with the lower rate
applicable to consumptions of up to 6,000 gallons per month. Of the 140
standpipes in Monrovia, fever than 100 are currently in operation.
Standpipe consumption should be paid for by the Government but, in
practice, it is not, thus worsening LWSC's financial situation. To
prevent further depletion of its resources, LWSC has not been repairing
broken public standpipes. thus making the urban poor who depend on
standposts for their water supply most vulnerable- Privatization of
standpipe operations would be undertaken under the proposed project to
provide LWSC fair compensation for swater distributed and to ensure
continued availability of safe water supply to the urban poor; the
action plan for privatization would be furnished to IDA by December 31,
1985 (Section 3.06 of the draft Project Agreement). Severage charges,
which are currently assessed at 60 percent of water charges, will bc
reviewed duriug the project term as soon as reliable cost data are
available (paragraph 55).
Bank Group Involvement in the Sector
43.       The proposed project is the second involvement of the Bank
Group in the water supply sector of Liberia. The credit for the First
Monrovia Water Supply Project (Cr. 859-LBR) becme effective in 1979.
The project was co-financed by the Commonwealth Development Corporation
(CDC) and the AfDB. The project was designed primarily as a short-term
program to ensure adequate water supply for Monrovia while LWSC was
strengthening its management and outlining a long-term development
program. Except for a component to expand the distribution system which
was cancelled because of counterpart funding constraints, the physical
components of the project were successfully completed. As a result,
Monrovia has access to a saline-free supply of raw water, LWSC will be
able to meet the demand of its consumers through 1987 and possibly to
1990 and piped water is available to a substantial segment of Monrovia's
urban poor who previously had limited or no access to a safe water
supply.
44.       Although the physical components of the project were imple-
mented successfully, the institutional and operational aspects of the
project were not as successful. Frequent management changes, increased
Government intervention in LWSC's affairs after the 1980 coup and the
country's general economic malaise contributed to the deterioration of
the financial condition and operating capability of LWSC to the point
where its continued ability to provide adequate services is threatened.
The proposed project is designed to prevent a discontinuation of LWSC's
services by optimizing the use of its facilities and improving its
operational and financial performance. Moreover, the increased effi-
ciency of the distribution system, together with enhanced maintenance,



- 15 -
is expected to reduce LWSC's electric power requirements substantially.
This would reduce the country's energy needs and oil bill.
45.       The experience gained in the first project has been taken into
account in designing the proposed project. Construction to extend the
distribution system would be undertaken only when it is likely to
produce financial benefit to LWSC, Which would depend on improvements in
the billing and collection system and increased tariffs.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
46.       The project was prepared by LWSC with the assistance of
consultants financed with a Prroject Preparation Facility (PPF) advance of
USS450,000 approved by the Bank Group in April 1983. The project vas
appraised in June 1983 and negotiations were held in Washington in
December 1984. The Liberian delegation was headed by Mr. Emmanuel
Akinselure, Director General of Public Corporations, Ministry of FInance.
One post-appraisal mission was undertaken to monitor project preparation
activities. Supplementary data on the project are presented in
Annex III.
Project Objectives
47.       The project would emphasize institution-building to help
improve LWSC's financial and operational performance and would include
rehabilitation and maintenance of LWSC's assets to protect the substan-
tial investment in the sector from further deterioration. The project
would help improve LWSC's financial situation by revamping its account-
ing and financial systes, while simultaneously increasing the efficien-
cy of its operations by improving LWSC's use of manpower, energy and
supplies and by staff training.
Project Description
48.       Except for extension of the distribution system, the project
would not expand LWSC?s physical facilities to any significant extent
but would rather seek to use existing facilities more efficiently
through rehabilitation and by correcting operational defiLiencies and
r          providing complementary facilities where required.  Excessive water
consumption would be curtailed through an appropriate tariff structure.
The project would include 21.5 man-years of technical assistance for the
following purposes:
management                -     2.0 man-years
engineering and technical -    11.5 man-years
financial                 -     7.0 man-years
training                  -     1.0 man-years



- 16 -
Appointment of suitable counterparts to work with the conscltants,
experts and specialists and the appointment of a well-qualified accoun-
tant as controller or chief accountant would be conditions of credit
effectiveness (Sections 5.01(e) and (f) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). Construction of a 5-million gallon distribution storage
reservoir and selective extensions (6 ri.) of the distribution network
would improve the quality and reliability of water supply in Monrovia.
The reservoir for the storage and regulation of transmission from the
hihte Plais-  treatment plant would reduce pumping and the associated
energy consumption, while the extensions of the distribution network
would strengthen local service pressures and flows.  Other physical                  1
components would be the installation of 11 large zonal meters for
monitoring consumption in the various districts of Monrovia; repair and
rehabilitation of valves, hydrants and standpipes and supply of approxi-
mately 5,000 service meters, pipes and fittings for 6.000 house connec-
tions and communications equipment. The project would also include data
processing equipment to improve financial planning and control and
vehicles, equipment and spare parts as well as consultant services for
studies.
Project Implementation
49.       The project would be implemented by LWSC, assisted by consul-
tants, over a five-year period. Consulting firms would prepare engi-
neering designs, including tender documents, for the distribution
extensions and storage reservoir construction, as well as the transmis-
sion and distribution system rehabilitation and zonal meters installa-
tion. Supervision of construction would also be carried out by consul-
tants.
50.       In view of GTZ's experience in providing technical assistance
to LWSC, GTZ would be the executing agency for all technical assistance
under the project, with IDA having the right to approve candidates to
expert positions. Priority would be given to recruitment of experts
from a single water supply utility in a developed country in a 'twin-
ning" arrangement.  Technical assistance experts would have line
responsibilities at LWSC and would provide on-the-job training to local
staff. The financial controller would be responsible for developing a
proper system of financial planning and control; the cdstribution
engineer would supervise distribution operations and direct metering,
leakage and waste control programs and the water engineer would oversee
the operation and maintenance of the water and sewage treatment plants
and the Monrovia sewerage system. The training expert would work on
site intermittently over a two to three-year period and would also help
LWSC's Traiuing Section coordinate in-house training, training at local
institutions, counterpart training and on-the-job training related to
the technical assistance program.
Project Costs
51.       Total project costs are estimated at US$12.0 million and
offshore costs at US$10.0 million, or 84 percent of total costs. The



- 17 -
project is exempt from local taxes and duties. A breakdown of costs by
major expenditure categories is shown in the Credit and Project Summary.
Physical contingencies are estimated at 15 percent (on the construction
components), which adequately reflects the risks of possible changes in
the project. Price contingencies for offshore costs are estimated at
8 percent for 1985, 9 percent for 1986-1988, 7.5 percent for 1989, and
6 percent for 1990. Price contingencies for local costs allow for
inflation of 6 percent in 1985, 6.5 percent in 1986, and 7 percent
thereafter. Overall, total contingencies are estimated at 26 percent of
base costs.
Project Financing
52.       An IDA credit of US$5.0 million (SDR 5.1 million) is proposed,
in addition to a US$4.0 million equivalent loan to be provided by the
African Development Bank (AfDB). The Federal Republic of Germany (GTZ)
would provide a grant of US$1.2 million equivalent to finance technical
assistance in parallel. The balance, US$1.8 million, would be financed
by LWSC from internal cash generation. The AfDB loan would finance the
distribution storage reservoir and extension of the distribution system;
the loan would be available to finance local costs. The IDA credit
would finance the foreign cost of technical assistance, training,
consulting services for design and supervision of construction, rehabil-
itation of valves, hydrants and standpipes, supplies and equipment,
including vehicles, zonal and service meters and spare parts. The LWSC
contribution would be about US$0.2 million less than total anticipated
local costs (p.ra. 51). Effectiveness of the loan agreement with AfDB
and the grant agreemen: with GTZ would be a condition of effectiveness
of the IDA credit (Section 5.01(b) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). In view of the erosion of LWSC's capital as a consequence
of substantial operating deficits, the Government of Liberia would pass
on US$3.0 million of the proceeds of the IDA Credit to LWSC as an equity
contribution and would onlend the remaining US$2.0 million for repayment
over 20 years, including five years of grace, with interest charges at
10 percent per annum. Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between
the Government and LWSC would be a condition of credit effectiveness
(Section 5.01(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
53.       After 1986, LWSC should be in position to finance a growing
share of capital expenditure. In order to ensure that the counterpart
funds required for project implementat'on are available, LWSC would make
four semi-arnual payments of US$200,000 starting on June 30, 1986 into
the project account; work on the maior construction components would not
conmence until LWSC had paid not less than US$550,000 into the account
(Section 2.01(c) of the draft Project Agreement).
Financial Situation and Prospects
54.       LWSC's recent financial performance has been unsatisfactory,
with revenues falling increasingly short of operating expenses. Al-
though failure to control operating expenses has contributed to LWSC's
financial difficulties, inadequate billing and collection performance



- 18 -
has been an even more significant factor. In FY83. only 50 percent of
the water produced was billed; furtherxmore, only 62 percent of private
sector and 40 percent of government billings were paid. Inadequate
accounting systems and lack of qualified accounting personnel are among
LWSC's most critical institutional deficiencies. The project would
provide funds for a commercially-oriented. automated accounting system
comprising general ledger, billing and accounts receivable, accounts
payable, fixed assets and payroll subsystems. The system, which would
be operated under a time sharing arrangement by a Monrovia service
bureau, is expected to be fully operational by April 1986.
55.       Allocation of expenses between water supply and severage
operations is rather arbitrary at present.  The new accounting system
would enable LWSC to compile information on separate cost centers and to
pursue its objective of full cost recovery. Though tariffs have been
increased recently, a tariff study commissioned as part of the Monrovia
Urban Development Project (Cr. 1223-LBR) will further consider an
appropriate tariff structure for LWSC, taking into account the ability
of poorer consumers to pay, and will also consider means of discouraging
uneconomical use of water. LWSC would adjust tne structure and levels
of its tariffs and carry out a program of selective metering in accor-
dance with recommendations of the study as shall be acceptable to IDA
(Section 4.04(a) of the draft Project Agreement). These recommendations
are expected to be finalized by mid-1985. By December 31, 1985, LWSC
would also provide an updated action plan for increasing operational
efficiency and achieving its financial goals, including specific mea-
sures for reducinz operating costs, bad debt expense and unaccounted-for
water (Section 3.06 of the draft Project Agreement).
56.       Due to substantial operating deficits over the years, LWSC's
equity has been almost totally eroded.   LWSC's outstanding debt to-
talled some US$25.8 million at the end of FY83 while its equity was
about US$0.7 million. LWSC's capital would be increased by $3 million
as part of the proceeds of the IDA Credit is converted into equity (see
para 52). As a condition of credit effectiveness, the Government and
LWSC would also agree to offset mutual long-term liabilities with the
conversion of LWSC's overdue debt service payments to the Government
into equity contributions (Section 5.01(c) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). Apart from these long-term liabilities, other public
corporations owed substantial amounts to LWSC at end FY83; conversely,
LWSC owed substantial sums to the Liberia Electricity Corporation (LEC).
A mutual offset of these liabilities would be effected by April 30, 1985
under a finAncial restructuring program for state enterprises to be
carried out under the proposed structural adjustment program (para. 33).
As prompt collection from all consumers is critical if LWSC is to
maintain an adequate cash flow, the Government has agreed that it would
budget for, and pay all water and sewerage bills no later than 60 days
after receipt and that it would provide LWSC with funds sufficient to
cover operating deficits related to outstation operations (Section 3.02
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 19 -
57.       Given that LWSC's financial situation is poor and that its
operations are so deficient, it would be unrealistic to set ambitious
financial targets. If LWSC can maintain its liquidity in the immediate
future, while its operating efficiency is improved gradually and its
finances are managed prudently with rational tariff levels, it may be
in a position in about five years' time to begin to achieve the finan-
cial performance targets nozmally expected of water supply utilities.
It is, for instance, unlikely that LWSC could achieve a positive rate of
return on net revalued fixed assets before FY90 at the earliest.
Accordingly, the draft Project Agreement sets financial targets for
FY86-90 in terms of cash generation only; i.e., coverage of cash operat-
ing expenses and debt service from FY86 on and coverage of all operating
expenses, including depreciation on revalued fixed assets, starting in
FY90 (Section 4.04(b) of the draft Project Agreement).
Auditing
58.       Because of the weaknesses in LWSC's accounting system and
financial controls, significant reliance must be placed on the annual
audits of LWSC's accounts. LWSC has agreed that audited accounts for
FY83 and FY84 would be submitted to IDA by June 30, 1985 (Section 4.03
of the draft Project Agreement). In addition, LWSC would employ exter-
nal auditors acceptable to IDA and submit to IDA within nine months
after the close of the fiscal year the auditor's report and all related
documents (Section 4.02 of the draft project agreement).
Procurement
59.       The proposed procurement arrangements are summarized in the
table below:
Procurement Arrangements 11
(US$ million)
Procurement Methods           Not
ICB 2/       LCB        Other   Applicable   Total
Equipment/Supplies   4.42         1.40         -            -      5.82
(1.07)      (1.15)                            (2.22)
Civil Works          1.96          -          .17           -      2.13
(.30)                  (.08)                  (.38)
Services                           -         2.38           -      2.38
(1.95)                (1.95)
PPF Refinancing        -           -           -           .45       .45
(.45)    (.45)
Total              6.38        1.40        2.55          .45    10.78
(1.37)     (1.15)      (2.03)            4 a
1/   Excluding technical assistance from GrZ but including contingen-
cies. Figures in brackets are the respective amounts to be finan-
ced from the IDA credit.
21 Procurement under the AMDB parallel financed component is to be by
ICB.



- 20 -
Supply of pipe, fittings, zonal meters and house connections, and other
supply contracts for goods above US$250,000 as well as civil works for
installation of zonal meters would be awarded under international com-
petitive bidding, in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. The laying
of distribution pipe and erection of distribution storage reservoir to
be financed by AfDB would be awarded under international competitive
bidding, in accordance with AfDB guidelines. Procurement of vehicles,
data processing equipment, spare parts, and miscellaneous supplies esti-
mated to cost more than the equivalent of US$100,000 but less than
US$250,000 would be carried out through competitive bidding, advertised
locally and conducted in accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA.
Contracts for the purchase of goods estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of US$100,000 would be procured on the basis of negotiated
purchases after solicitation of price quotations from at least three es-
tablished and reliable suppliers. Prequalification would be required
for all civil works contracts. Consultants for engineering, training
and technical assistance would be selected in accordance with accepted
Bank Group guidelines. All IDA-financed contracts over US$100,000 would
be subject to prior review.
60.       LWSC would undertake repair of distribution valves, hydrants
and standpipes and modification to the meter repair shop and vehicle re-
pair workshop under force account or through contractors on day-vwrk
rates in accordance with programs and procedures to be approved by IDA.
The work involved would cost about US$150,000, exclusive of supplies.
Disbursement
61.       The proceeds of the proposed credit would finance 100 percent
of foreign expenditures for equipment and supplies, consultants, techni-
cal assistance and training and 50 percent of total expenditures for
civil works.
62.       IDA would make an initial advance of US$50,000 to a special
account to be established on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.
Amounts advanced to this account would be used to finance small foreign
expenditures and amounts withdrawn for payment of eligible expenditures
would be replenished by IDA subject to submission of satisfactory docu-
mentation. Opening of the sptcial account would be a condition of cred-
it effectiveness (Section 5.01(d) of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment). Withdrawal applications would be fully documented except for re-
imbursements against contracts of less than US$20,000 equivalent.
Project Benefits and Risks
63.       In the short-term, the principal benefit of the project would
be to ensure continued water supply services to Monrovia. Failure to
proceed with the project would bring great risks to the population of
Monrovia, as the safety and reliability of water supply is increasingly
jeopardized by the decline in LWSC"s operating capabilities. The pro-
ject would enable LWSC to meet water demand up to about 1990 through
more efficient use of existing facilities at which time additional



- 21 -
investments would have to be made to cope with increased demand. In the
longer-term, the main benefit would be a gradual improvement in the fi-
nancial and operational health of LWSC so that it can implement and op-
erate future expansions to meet rapidly growing water supply needs.
Both the immediate and long-term benefits would favorably impact on the
well-being of Monrovia's population and in particular on the urban poor.
64.       Construction to be undertaken under the project is of a stan-
dard nature, with few risks or likelihood of significant cost overruns.
Similarly, input supply would be straightforward, and no procurement
problems are envisioned. The technical assistance component of the pro-
ject faces the same risks that adversely impacted the First Monrovia
Water Supply Project: lack of qualified counterparts and slow institu-
tional and management response. To minimize this risk, a "twinning" ar-
rangement with a well-run water utility would be sought to provide a
well coordinated and cohesive technical assistance program and frequent
supervision by the Bank Group would be undertaken. In addition, LWSC
would be motivated to ensure the success of the institutional objectives
of the project by linking the initiation of construction to the attain-
ment of certain institutional targets. On the whole, the project
presents an acceptable level of risks, given the dangers of rapid dete-
rioration in services if it is not undertaken.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Government
of Liberia and IDA and the draft Project Agreement between IDA and the
Liberia Water and Sewer Corporation, as well as the Recommendation of
the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles
of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separate-
ly.
66.       In addition to the special conditions of the Development Cred-
it Agreement and Project Agreement referred to in the text and listed in
Section III, special conditions of credit effectiveness would be: (a)
effectiveness of the lending agreement with AfDB and the grant agreement
with GTZ; (b) execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Gov-
ernment and LWSC; (c) execution of an agreement between the Government
and LWSC converting LWSC's overdue debt service payments to the Govern-
ment into equity contributions; (d) appointment of suitable counterparts
to the technical assistance positions; (e) appointment of a well-quali-
fied accountant as controller or chief accountant; and
(f) opening of a special account.
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 22 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.       I recoimend that the Executive Directors of the Association
approve the proposed Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
By Ernest Stern
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 27, 1985
-I



- 23 - 
Page I of 5
TABLE 36
LIBZA                  - mOAL rimxonEM
_ismirA                             XZF!El=CE      s CIUMMED AV E) /
PMST                0:05US    Oo: EWX) lb    -
alzr          MM       ep             mx   c i
i960f     tZ92-    ESTDJm73    £P3M S. OF S**A    N.. AFIaM &. MM EASr
hUL C           Sll. so
7OU7L                               UL4        III-IL       IML4
6.1        3.1          66.1 
MR CW           )                    160_0       250.0        410.0  ll       Z 9                     1143.6
CN-zCR.M  OF all EQffrlzuE3         6660       61.          373.A            529.0                   622.1
PUPULcmagJa -Am     Camosn)        97I.0       1333.0      21.O`
co     acxt  C: OF 15331.)       295         26.2,        34.4             29..?                   4.2
FPh   ZN ~aRx 2900 OIUL                          -          37-
SMIrONA3y IevUL£Z10 CMIII.)                                124 
FOPUL*2IMof     5                                           L
MM S.  L-                           3.3       12_ 0        17_-             55_ S                   36_3
PEt Sr. D C  LAW S16.                        220          3172             ilLs 4;5_7
PO3ULA=M  AGE S ACMC:-)
0-1L. us                          45.4       4663         "6-6             .5.4                    43.6
Ls6-  Ms                          52.0        50.8        50.7              5L.                     531
65  A3D VE                         2.6         2.5         2'3               2.9                     3_3
OD1                 ZS.8                       3            34               2.8           '.'
1;MP                                5_4        S.6          5_7              S_2                     4.5
romw SUCK 3*2!; (3 2DI5)             50.1       ".3          50.t             47_0                    M04
e      0.2! RATE CPU TS)            20-6        S1.5         14-3             15.2                    ILS
mol NE     aU  3*S2                   3.-        3-4          3_4              3.2                     Z.S
AwX     .  *SIA  (.HCS
.           US ER) S                                          . _-  --  -                           222
wm *m0
DRXOr POO FRm. PM CAflA
(199-71-100)                        96..       IOLO          SILO             9LS6                    973
P- CA? s515l_- OF
CALOMZ  (C: OF  _RE  ERS)         114.0      IOLO         114.0             9tLZ                   110.
100EDX15 CamS PM DAY)             £6.0        43.0         SLO 567                       J0.
OF I[C ANDI AND PULSE            ILO        1Z.M         13.0 Ic          17.0                    173_
CiED (ACES 1-.) OEM  Rl*21           &2c        27.0         16.0            I_7                     16
LIMEXPEM  47 31313 (AM)              44.1       49.1         33.              53_7                    5LJ 5
LlrS 1lOf1. RAM (PU  T)            173.0       132.0        9L0              102,7                   l01.5
Aa:S  0 SAFE  '   (MM0
ZOTAL                                _        20.0 fd        __             35_6                    59.7
DR35                               -_         64.0 7d        _              51                      64.5
FIDL                                __         6_ /od        __             27.3                    38-4
aC   T0 E         DZSIOSAL
(Z OF POULMM
70r*L                               __        10 /d          __               _        
ta                                   _        35_0 /d        __ 7_
~~~~EA.                                 _       _                 6 0/d ____
POPIS-AIm PUt PHYSXII             1760000    11750.0       9610.0 1.       11948.3                  4345_1
POP. PM smClt  PS0                 110. I   26700          10               2268.9                  1a31.1
POF._ PME ucsl LL Ea
TOM1                              730.0      590.0        700.0 1.         986.9                   632_9
NBAS                             t180-0      :90.0           __            368.7                   5'5.5
__         __ --                     4012.t                 253.S
ASiESSIOP5 PM  OSn5rL*  N             --        27.7              _                                   26.2
U-L
SEN3.9                                           .      _ ______
AIUZA(3 M0. or P3305513059q
IIRUII                    ~~1.7  g                                    _-                     __
3_ .. .                              ..         . .. _
ACS TO ELECT. : aOF OL       Zcs)
ToliLL                                                                     4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6.2
go"                                  ..         ..           ..                _                    77.7
Fa___                                          _AL,



-24 -                                 AliEXI
Page 2 of 5
_isaaA                  S 5rAL     -       m S10=
LINUZI                              3UZ   CS (               AD EUD) i) A
"O.                 FLmS: REEZZ ESrAM  /b
END=        0M         ? M      UTDMU)lb3O
1%o'-'b    zml-b   EsThxa         Ayx= s. or sAum    3. AFRIcA & 31x 2sT
ADZI EWJm UZOs
13II=R?     :L                    30         50.0        66.0             9L0                     88.3
YIu         *          450        67.0        62.0             90.5                   102.5
iEMI                    .AO        33.0        50.0             73.6                    73.
SECOICUZ: TOM                      2.0        9.0        20.C             17.4                    43.0
N£112                   3.0         3.0         -.0             23.7                    52.3
lUA                     1L0        4.0         11L0             14.5                    33.0
VOCAIt:AL CO  SECOuDARY)            ML7         5.3         4.3              53                     13
1PCM-T&wACEi a
32.0       36.0         50              35.6                    30.3
14.0       17_0        20.0             24.3                    23.1
AD= LTUZZCR   RA2 (CZ)               .9 lh    1.5.0        25.              35.6                    43.5
?Az  CARS/ ~     iO                 L0       1L1          55 J            20.7                    17.8
UVI0 RE IUfml80sa   Per            l02.2      116.1       170.3             O0LS                   138.
nT R&CE58I2OUS"  M0                 L.5 it      5.2        11.2             1L65                     6.1
15M?ES-. CXRCMATM0
FE  t5  1ULA?                      0S         5.6.1                       17.2                    31.2
C5 I&  tL a?-.s CA1=                0.5         0.7         0J QS            0.3                     1.7
13%1 2A30 FO1= CM5)              310.0       480         60.0 
7IIZ C1D 3                        33.9       32.5        31.4             33.                     10.
A=zCCZ        CF  )               80Q0       75M0        70.0             57.1                    &Z-4
1503g  CFEEEV                    1.0.0       12.0        14.0             17.4                    27.9
TAL                               38.9       36.1        33.8             36.3                    26.2
RAMX                              51.9       69.0        46.4             47.6                    46.4
FEM                               26.1       23          21.2             25.1                     5.8
E1C  DE       G0E? RATIO            1.2        1L4          1.5              L4                      1.S
Zmc. UE fl10nf
KED11D By
:I112ST 52 or DWZD                  ..       61.7 k
32Gm? 2020  800881                 ..        72.6 ff        .                ..
lOD  202 OF  IO                    ..         5.3 71        .                ..
ZY  402E  80IDI                    ..         0.9 la
UL  C1S PU CAPIW
03l6                               *.          ..          ..            5723.3                  274.3
ROMAL                              ..          ..        75.0 c          249.0                   177.2
ErI *1D 3!1A11U POVUY INCONZ:
11921 (0353 PER CAflT
CSh122                                                   137..0 1         4 1350202
RtL                                                      LM  feic                                  8.
WXD7.  :SV.WASC'
109ER31 Zs=  LEL Cfl
an"*2                              ..          ..        Z3.0 .c
R..  A i.r                                       .
80? AVAULAJLZ
80? AP 8CA=
V o T r s
fa  :sea"    -qS  fw each Indicatw am popmRatU.-ueigtmd ari2tl_ec  ems. Cov.?a of coustreamog tb.
Indicatror depends on availabllty of data and la st mafoers.
lb   1aa  eghetuLa noted. 'a   for 1960 cer to m  year beogue  1939 and 1961;  sta for 1970 bet        n69 ad
1971; and dat.fr fw eat  bCaU lAtlaat"  btima  1980 and 1*
IC  1977; j  1976: / 1978; r. 1984   & 1956, CLay of lbmaoy:    1962. /I 1963:               OM.99  A Pbpeletin
blow incom  caLcalami a residua. include expatrIazaa: Li 1975.
JUN. 19"



a II-I        p  - II             -    - .s     4 .-
flo    - a.              ----     z55s1-k   ie
aa-1  di i  oa.-zb --Tie4  es-ea-  ala- a
2- Ss-Z  a.-                           o  - 9a -            -
_gac  w-C _ 6- *~~~~ ~z _ ,_ _ *_-F '1Z: _ s_szqe  a  `%   ; ::j '-
_se  a_  , at'       __- islass  P    _ tat I   *_     tt  a    lew 
mwI  -A--                                                                         -1-  _.5aj l_         . 1 _     e_
-a-a-   _                  a-*ts l   *              5fls.  .isf bl sa.e
_va -'  aws na Im                                                     le S.- l_ 1 _              S    a. _  ae
*_ -g                                    __ -Laa_e _s *__ <:  : _t.wss -_  as; ne -  - _                                            '- t
is   _n. - eS    __,                                            _. .    4. _-a.  *7"e -i -sa -                                                  la-
a. s a~a. _   _   s a-  * t                                            0.05 *     t_ .T.aas 5. s _ l a. a.... _ets .- _t t
-~1-11 -I.                                                                 i-fa--  i     - is - ;      _  i:_ _.  *. a'  a
_ ._t_ -Z__ as _ _ h__ J_ _ _|~eeJOl  .    s _w_;as   _  cs;  a.. .- _ 
_-   *_  _ -  * C: _ mP l           l    sc  -  LI          5t5J-,~
sOi. on            _la       's)   sai    a. -aa.  _                              w.    _at _. a_s  a_ as              -j _.. *    a' -_t_ a  .;r   -
-ft.~~~~~~, N_AS   lb SJt    - 1
--- .. *a.d... _   ,  -  _r- _  _-tS .._ s__               oat _ -   .... .                                                                       l-O
-aL-    s                                                             _- .      : -   __a_5 _et_
_e      ,s      _a _5 ' ,   te _e    _. aD   _             e                          -eD-.e   . Ca-i *-: '- . -''ts st.. iL    -li  -i
_..T_~~~~,   ,_, - _l                       _  IQ,-,,,                      W     _       _     S ]
C   '             -. l- i_ a-I _,             _5 _n                         lac 'w5 * 4                        e_ -  a     *- ias *-  _ e..  a__
_ a-a   .a'     *nss_ as   _l _- -   ;aa.  stfT  .ss_- tna3 re _- ~a-at   e,..                                                            tia.  i.
*1   t_: _-   a. c le    05 aSe esT..'                                        t a. .,    .ta.e      ;       aeslea    -i.s- .-_1.354 _sls ag_
_ ISa-  a. 4.5  -S *eaa  44 ft isC         .teS  s i    etat                                       -oaa adI  _  .,l; 'ati..  _I      Wa _.?. ._l
leSatt_   Cl. s',el *         Pta                      St                                                         l:.   .      ..  t   -Saa-sS--_~tt-~
_. --._s  l      a.    _ . e     11_ _e ese_stae                                   eas _   _le.a  Te . _l      .    t  _t
-Sa-. -l    S a. Pi  ae _
e -z ~~~~~~~~~a_isl  as es!.. _i -                                             sa  -  t l_ -_ g-a -. soa_ O
*    - alaS   _~ls  _N SaS                ha      _ asia                           -     * - att     _ a.;-                 &- 'Z  -   *5 a 6
n- d - -     a               - r-*_    3 ,S  a. _                                  a. ;,     e,,           - _, ,_ _ _
f5a3S          l                                    -t at -       c: n_-u_ *  - I : :,e.ci n--
-_s~~~~~~e    4.                             t4. :_ _ea  to    .f.;        a   151a    -  -   am-
_~~~~-an-_                     as  aisita   5l atO          °        -         5I   _    .at.e   iea-...-.   t,             t _s    a. 451.3.J
_ st  at-_ .           .          i-  _t         n O   _l..                _       S.           - se.ts   _~ 'eat as - F  4les  -:
e-   iClt   - e-t as  ._ tI   Ien  -_ ttnt   eao -t
~~~~~~~0  _e. a.~                                               : a.  .s, s.T:  .a_ stt  4.    tst. Tst_Ie -   5
*_iI.a*  a    eaa  _aIe  __    a. qan   a3                    l*           :         et -td   sea ..s al         .-t       a-:   .5   -a  -tl.-
4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ .-
a    sa e  %a_t.at         ,a, ':eat as, _-                                     a. _-.    a..    -  _.s.    s>..S _.           * a.a   ass.;X
2.'!;_ a- '55i_ t____ _l lOi) a.             _ 1 -   1sil                      s      asil q -    a.ls _.    a-.- lieae  -                   .
_t,easa _ataaa                  . .; ea__ _ *.t   _1st.                         slide, I.E  a- -l   -: _it  _n.  .,,te     __a.c'.
q~~~~~~~ an a. s_s  _n   t.tea                                                    -_A:.  let as.z* h; ,;_
i_ _ _. _5     _ _,__a _B  _it  _s__ ,  .  ;   STe _   lstS
Ss9.a'  _SJ _si  eB!se -a_   s___sh   al              -                               a.t _  - _ ttt  ee~-t:      e!a -            la -*St)_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e~-a _: _-._; __ _ _  q e y ; t-_1_ _ -- il -ta, __
a-U_- _ _,-   a-    -  -1                                                                                            1        _    -
@|~~~~~~~~~~~ea  .a                                                 ..a   a.   .tt  -           iSs   4. te~ w-  *a. - ;t- _ a  - _
aas - 1_   at T_ a     l          ' -. et'_ _t_: 
_ _i  __. 355  s                         5151 _T .    .4                 .:aa_   1    a-          - , ts   i          .adat5 1- a .-. *-:  -
stla  _1 t)  -     5et    len_-a..  eTl-U_al4  tm  .t                                                                                            - a -s; .
_eaia.a   e - ala.<Ja. a.  se_       ta                    a.~ a-   tsi -            LL _.  e    l a            t 
*10t55      .   11 a.   '__t    5  _n _l a. e            a _         _ _       s _J _:_           ea - eL..  .- - eta aet-:-esi-
_aas..sa a  as.ir         te tel alan _m   a- elaz mad                                     _er _ec a.                               v       .351 TWSz3
es   aseataet    _- tatasos a.e --              ta.     C                 .s*i  5                             _ a-:@ TC-- -     -.  sta 
_ _ _ q _-e__et    I_ _as _ _it                                                             -t-s Is. a;.   .'
ie   l                                                                     - _  t  _ __  1 5  _   t  * - 1_  al      - tf :; a  t                 e
x3bNv                                               t  d __  -                  - _- a. _             4 _                                       __ s
a.  sssae. -.l  nsa- I.seee.d~                                                -IO. ae ses a-   e- 'te  as  = t.a  *wa.i-a:_ m
_.aa.s ts        sl              elS          e tts~                                  a-- _    *t3     'as.. *.- *et sz a._ _i. -
a. _sc  si .t  -.......  3T  sea  a    ..satC. e,.t.    .. ..-   - .st_a   - -.                                              -      e :- __ 
_ Y~~~~-si-t  a-nne.............................-         *- ta.-..  i       ..*.  ~          .;   .4.....h                 :-@s-  -    -
tlstses  _-a- -*_       _--.  a.w aa    aa;..   iste.                          etal  -_ 5.s                                              _ .O  _.lS5.z-.a5 ~
-s- eTtaS                         '    S,_   asi, _:  0 .  . ea _    5. i_   es :t
-          tt_       .es* ._7     __   55 a. : _?  __a                a.:    __ _ .:1_:  _5-ia~   a:,t.a a_. r.  a.st - :p.,.a
-a      sas  351Ta _ia-  _ -sat -> - *iaa  Taet                                    a;........................          .............. sTs:.a.  t a-a -a: __ a5*    r_ 
a       _      aZ ;n   -@| -i   a. .       sas - Si                                      t5t    tT.} aa.  tlS..                  t  wa4  _ -  P
_ia     _a.       _ Se _  ha  easa  t_  _ a   -  _ _ a.    ila                     .n-"   oman.  _it  _ _;e _.  * I a*_
~~~~~~~~~iabaaIS                                            ;0                     a   aiabasa           t. etls.a    seia. sf
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ata        e-a    t-   aa   -.-tttasT



- 26 -
- I
Pqp 4 of 5
rFUE   ]MAM  - VTUT
GIBSS   IL   = N 1982                                  WAL a& 1}
(Z 197 (Mr3r BMCES)
$ HIMl=                     1978-81        1982
GM at 1ert fri. 1/                930.7          100.0       -0.9          4.3
G      gm D i  Itc                233.5          25.1        -6.6         12.9
GM= Watiminl Svfr                  93.5          10.0        18.4         -0.6
Cmcrent A        Bal e            -44.6          -4.8         -            -
IPorts of Gods, UES               487.4          52.4        -2.7         -9.9
}ports of Gbods, BES              513.5          55.2       -10.3         -7.9
CXIffltr, EFL0!HE Ar A1Ic P .rV    N 1982
Valu _d_       a-          2/A herWe V.. Per I&*w
iiS$i mln           o          fMs s
Agrica3ture                 345.0  36.3    515.0  79.3          669.9       45.8
inkmtyr                     197.8  20.8      40.0   6.2        4945.0      338.1
Services                   .407.1  42.9      94.5  14.5        4307.9      294.6
5tal          949.9  100.0    649.5  10.0        1462.5
GS1EM   MWCE                            CatW oe=m
1981/82                1982/83
I=SEll-FC  Z  fG1D I/  M        tM11-x   Zof G /
Qzrrmut Rwceipt                 238.0       21.2       220.7         22.0
zrent pufrueitux                293.8       26.2       269.3         26.9
riret Surplus                   -55.8       -4.9       -47.6         -4.8
Cqfra1l Epaxitures               97.1        8.6        95.8          9.6
&Euzl Fimzy iz                   39.3       3.1         34.4          3.4
m, CRDIr AMD PRIS                1978       1979        198D         1981    1982
Offni11s    BR                  E d df PeTIad
EBk Credit to FubbIc Sector       61.7       92.4       152.1        192.1  255.3
Ebk Ciad1t to Private Sector    143.8       184.6       132.9        130.9  123.7
(ktws:l PEretg aCe)
Cbcyxarr Price Ind=c 31            7.4       11.5        13.8          8.2    6.2
Bk Credat to PEbllc sector       315.8      49.1         64.6         26.3   32.9
Eb^ Credit to Private sector      27.6       28.4       -28.0         -1.5   -5.5
iiom- AUl comeusion to doflm in this table are at the a,aga ePbroas       rate
-:mlialk  did= the prld covered.
1/    G   ludm    tmt  far tra           1  uecto
ft laymm data subjct to furtrw
T    SSepter - 1Iwor 1964- 100



- 27 -
hl~I
Page 5 af 5
PE   }    RD CAPLM HWS
BALAN1F }5ERIS                         12M IM   EZP3 (AVERACE 1980-82)
1980     1981  1982 11
(lfiflLUs $)                       I   Mllim    Z
1rt of Goods, 15ES          613.5    540.7    487.4    Irmi Ore         315.6   58.9
TIqrts of Coods, liES       614.1    560.9    513.5    Unbber           80.8   15.1
Rouze (lap (defEcit =0-)      .4    -20.2    -26.1    Dia               27.7    5.2
IL3gs or lmber 47.3    8.8
Interest Payu1tS (Net)      -23.9    -20.2    -2B.0    Coffee           25.1    4.7
tibfflrs' Razdas            -32.0    -33.0    -35.0    Palm Products   4.2    0.8
odter Factor Payzents Met)  -83.7    -72.0    -64.0    cocoa             11.0    2.1
Net Traznfeis                35.7      68.1    108.5    AU otber
C-- r--ities    24.0    4.5
Balane     Curren t        -104.5    -77.3    -44.6         Total       535.7  100.0
Direct Fore4lp Inresent 21 -10.7    -42.9    -45.0
Net Ncr Borwing 31           62.5      62.2      40.7
D I        Ms         78.1     71.6      59.4
AtI zualtnx          15.6      9.4      18.7 EXTRA  ET, nEr. 31, 1983 31
Subtodal              51.8     19.3      -4.3 Public Debt,r4zl. guaraneed 699.1
N    _  aMmme Private Debt  .
T-izease in Reserves (+)    -61.8    -49.3    -57.5 Total ftsrax! & Disbuirsed 699.1
Gmss Reeves (end year)   -101.2   -150.5   -208.0  MT SWEE R&nI FtR 193 4/
Net RFrves (end year)
PubUic Desbt, incl. moaranteeda 7.05
teed Private Dbt
Total OutstaxI & Dnsursed  7.05
Fuel and ReLtid Materials
3iTX1aKS           152.1    129.6    115.1
Debt Service as Z of
Govermit Revenue            13.7
MAIE OF ECEM    US$1 - Liberian Dbolar 1
IWAD{IA INmIYG (D0CMBER 31, 1984) OMLTns US$):
_D      mAL
O ntstandfmg & WL-)ised             99.7    61.6
UziUsbrssd                          26.4    38.9
Oatstaxting Tncli U tibursed    126.1   100.5
1/  Prelwlzry
2t    Data proided by Lfberian, aitlvrities
3/    ISRD RDebr-ie       g Systen
4/    Debt Svice as perent of 1983 Eq=ts of Gods and Serwies (estimates).
not avaILle
not applicable                                          Dec. er 1984



-2& -
AlNNE II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LIBERIA
A. STATEMENT OF BAXR LOANS AND IDA  EDITS (as of November 30, 1984)
Loan or                                                      Amount (CUS$ Million)
Credit                                                        less cancellations
Number    Year       Borrower            Purpose           B       IDA 11 Undisbursed
Fifteen loans and seven credits fully disbursed            93.52  33.47      -
Ln 1323    1976 Liberian Bank for  Third Development
Dev. & Investment   Finance              7.00   -           .40
Cr  786    1978 Rep. of Liberia    Rubber Development    -         6.00        .42
Cr  839    1978 Rep. of Liberia    Forestry Development  -         6.00      2.24
Lu 1544    1978 Rep. of Liberia    Rubber Development       7.00   -          7.00
Lu 1664    1979 Rep. of Liberia    Feeder Roads            10.70  -           6.43
Lu 1765    1979  Rep. of Liberia    Decoris Oil Palm       12.00   -          9.97
Lu 1907    1980 Rep. of Liberia    Petroleum Exploration  5.00   -             .16
Cr 1076    1981 Rep. of Liberia      Small & Ned Scale
Enterprises         -      4.00 2/   2.37 3/
Lu 2080/81 1982 Rep. of Liberia    Mining                  20.00   -         2.63
Cr 1223    1982 Rep. of Liberia    Urban Development        -     10.00 2/   5.29 3/
Cr 1242    1982 Rep. of Liberia    Lofa II                  -     15.50 2!   7.26 31
Cr 1306    1983 Rep. of Liberia    Education IV             -     13.50 21   7.15 3/
Cr 1447    1984 Rep. of Liberia    Bong ADP II              -      6.70 21   5.26 31
Cr 1449    1984 Rep. of Liberia    Highway v                -     11.40 2/   9.45 3/
Total                                    155.22 106.57     66.03
of which has been repaid                26.93   0.19
Total nov outstanding                    128.29 106.38
Amount sold                    0.41
of which has been repaid     0.41        0.00
Total held by Bank and IDA               128.29 106.38
Total undisbursed                         26.59  39.44     66.03
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
21 Calculated at rate of exchange in effect at approval date.
31 Calculated at rate of exchange at November 30, 1984.
Note: The status of projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice
yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 29 -
Annex II
Page 2 of 2
b. sTATEHENT OF IFC IBVES7MES (as of November 30,  1984)
Fiscal
Year          Obligator        Type of Business  Loan       Equity     Total
1966      Liberian Bank for   Development
Development and     Finance Company
Investment                                       0.2.50      0.250
1977      Liberian Bank for   Development
Development and     Finance Company
Investment                                       0.306       0.306
1983      Liberian Bank for   Development
Development and     Finance Company
Investment                                       0.147       0.147
0.703      0.703
Less Sold:                                       0.001       0.001
Now Held by IFC:                                 0.702       0.702
(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,_



- 30 -
AUNEK III
LIBERIA
SECOND WAIER SUPPLY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENfARY PROJECT DATA
SECTION I:   Tiutable of Key Events
(a)       Time taken to prepare
project                       : 8 months
(b)       Agency which prepared         : Liberia Water & Sewer
project                          Corporation
(c)       Date of first presentation
to the Bank                   : December 1982
(d)       Date of Appraisal Mission    : June 1983
(e)       Date of Completion of
Negotiations                  : December 21, 1984
(f)       Planned Date of Effectiveness:  June 1985
SECTION II:  Special IDA Implementation Action
IDA to advance US$50,000 to a special account.
SECTITO III: Special Conditions
Ca)       LWSC not to replace runskilled staff who leave the service
during the project term and to take all necessary action to
reduce overstaffing (para 41);
Cb)       LWSC to furnish IDA, by December 31, 1985, an updated
action plan for (i) Increasing operational efficiency, (ii)
achieving its financial goals, and (iii) privatization of
standpipe operations (paras. 42 and 55);
(c)       LWSC to Ci) make four semi-annual payments of US$200,000
each into the project account beginning June 30, 1986 and
(ii) not undertake the major construction components until
after payment of US$550,000 into the account (para 53);
(d)       LWSC to (i) adjust tariffs and carry out a program of
selective metering, and (ii) generate sufficient cash to
cover all cash operating expenses and debt service from
FY86 and all operating expenses including depreciation on
revalued fixed assets from FY90 (paras 55 and 57);
(e)       Government to budget for, and pay, no later than 60 days
after receipt, all vater and sewerage bills and provide
LWSC with funds sufficient to cover operating deficits
related to outstation operations (para 56); and
(f)       LWSC to submit to IDA by June 30, 1985, audited accounts
for FY83 and FY84 (para. 58).



K~~~~-                                                                                        '-I I  .,-
d-                                                                                             e-  3,
_           i                                                  \      .'     e PIci  COW
Li< .B E R' II
, - -.                                                                                    I 
_s%           /                                               t~                       ~ ~ '~;''
S1                                           "                           _'~I                                 -' -                   '
-       bM                                                                                                   sav
N ~~~~~~'1                                                                                                                        's--''I Deta
E,    I 
(F h Lm0 A                                                                                                                                                _
L I B E R I A                                                                                                                       'I
r   AAONROVA WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMU                                                  PCNE tLLE
r                                           4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r'
PRPD  PPELME                                                                                                                                    |
-~~~~~~~~ E-ff-s   '
eb~~~ -fr -s                    -A            r     ER~~   rcrrLz .s
A    _mA Powr DosTsr  srTinom                                                -
5DUCOII HOTEL 23OOJ*RE- 'R V I
5   3900 8CoRE.SERinIR C-O  °Er  S                                                 C e    -1
PAVED ROD                                                                          v                         
---- GVEL ROADCS---=,-
|naxD                                                                                                I
|~~~~~~~~~~ ,                                                                        _






