OFFICIAL       CREDIT NUMBER 1563 LBR
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Water Supply Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                            , 1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1563 LBR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1985, between
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Associa-
tion).
WHEREAS (A.) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the Liberia Water
and Sewer Corporation (hereinafter called LWSC) with the Bor-
rower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to LWSC the proceeds of the Credit as herein-
after provided;
(C) by an agreement (hereinafter called the AfDB Loan
Agreement) to be entered into by the Borrower and the African
Development Bank (hereinafter called AfDB), AfDB intends to make
a loan (hereinafter called the AfDB Loan) to the Borrower in an
aggregate principal amount equivalent to four million dollars
($4,000,000) to assist in the financing of the Project;
(D) by an agreem nt to be entered into by Deutsche Gesell-
schaft fuer Technische Zusammenarbeit GmbH (hereinafter called
GTZ), GTZ intends to make a grant (hereinafter called the GTZ
Grant) in an aggregate principal amount of three million eight
hundred thirty thousand deutsche mark (DM 3,830,000) to assist in
the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and LWSC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with


﻿-2-
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and LWSC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and LWSC pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(c) "LWSC" means Liberia Water and Sewer Corporation, a
statutory corporation established by Chapter 88 of the Public
Authorities Law and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(d) "LWSC Laws" means the Public Authorities Law (including
LWSC's By-laws adopted by its Board of Directors on October 28,
1984) and the Liberian Corporation Law all as amended to the date
of this Agreement;
(e)  IVProject Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.01 (b) of the Project Agreement;
(f) "Special Account" means the Account to be opened and
maintained pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement; and
(g) "Project    Preparation  Advance"   means   the  project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated December 23, 1982 and
April 27, 1983 between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in


﻿-3-
this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent      to
five million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 5,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
(c) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and thereafter maintain in dollars a special account in the
National Bank of Liberia on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Proiect and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1990
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from


﻿-4-
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association  shall  reasonably   request;  (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 1
and November 1 commencing May 1, 1995, and ending November 1,
2034, each installment to and including the installment payable
on November 1, 2004, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restric-
tion upon any of its other obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement, shall cause LWSC to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable LWSC to perform


﻿-5-
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to LWSC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and LWSC under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Association. The Subsidiary
Loan Agreement shall provide for an amount equivalent to three
million dollars ($3,000,000) out of the proceeds of the Credit to
be made available as equity contributions of the Borrower to LWSC
and the remaining proceeds of the Credit to be relent by the
Borrower to LWSC at an interest rate of ten per cent (10%) per
annum with principal repayable in 20 years including a grace
period of 5 years for both principal and interest. Interest
payable during the grace period shall be capitalized.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall at all times: (i) make
provisions in its budgets for sums sufficient to pay the water
and sewerage bills of the Borrower and its agencies; and (ii)
pay, or cause to be paid, such bills no later than 60 days after
the receipt thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall at all times provide LWSC with funds
sufficient to cover the operating deficits relating to outstation
operations carried out by LWSC on behalf of the Borrower.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) LWSC shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement;
(b) The Borrower or LWSC shall have failed to perform any
of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;


﻿-6-
(c) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situa-
tion shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that LWSC
will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agree-
ment.
(d) The LWSC Laws shall have been amended, suspended, abro-
gated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adverse-
ly the ability of LWSC to perform any of its obligations under
the Project Agreement.
(e) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of LWSC or for the suspension of its operations.
(f) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of LWSC to withdraw the proceeds of
any loan or grant made to LWSC for the
financing of the Project (including the AfDB
Loan and the GTZ Grant) shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor; or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and pay-
able prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if LWSC establishes to the satisfaction of the
Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
LWSC to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to LWSC from other sources on terms and con-
ditions consistent with the obligations of
LWSC under the Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:


﻿-7-
(a) any event specified in Section 4.01 (a) or (b) above
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower and LWSC; and
(b) any event specified in Section 4.01 (d), (e) or (f) (i)
(B) above shall occur, subject in the case of the event specified
in Section 4.01 (f) (i) (B) to the proviso of subparagraph (ii)
of paragraph (f).
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are    specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and LWSC;
(b) the fulfilment of all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of, or initial disbursements under, the AfDB Loan
Agreement and the GTZ Grant Agreement;
(c) the signing of an agreement satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation by the Borrower and LWSC for the conversion of LWSC's
overdue debt service payments to the Borrower into equity
contributions of the Borrower to LWSC;
(d) the opening of the Special Account;
(e) the appointment of an adequate number of suitably-
qualified counterparts to work with the consultants, experts and
specialists to assist LWSC in carrying out the Project; and
(f) the appointment by LWSC of a controller or chief
accountant of LWSC whose qualifications and experience shall be
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:


﻿- 8
(a)  that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by LWSC, and is legally binding upon LWSC in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and LWSC and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and LWSC in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date 5cldvt 2.00 1V.Ve is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Monrovia
Liberia
Cable address:                         Telex:
MINFIN                             4221 LI
Monrovia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                         Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿9
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By A
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expeznditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Equipment and             2,080,000         100% of foreign
supplies                                   expenditures
(2) Civil works                 390,000         50%
(3) Consultants,              1,990,000         100% of foreign
experts and                                expenditures
specialists,
training and
fellowships
(4) Special Account              50,000         Amounts to be
deposited pur-
suant to Section
2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(5) Refunding of                460,000         Amount due under
Project Prepara-                           Section 2.02 (b)
tion Advance                               of this Agreement
(6) Unallocated                 130,000
TOTAL               5,100,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expen-
ditures" means e penditures in the currency of any country other
than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any tountry other than that of the Borrower.


﻿- 11 -
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tibned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii).
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category fmay
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
diture for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist LWSC in: (i) the
efficient management and use of its financial, human and other
resources; (ii) the maintenance and rehabilitation of its
distribution system, and (iii) the improvement of its billing and
collection operations. The Project consists of the following
Parts:
Part A:   Strengthening LWSC's Operations and Management
(1) A program to strengthen LWSC's operations and manage-
ment including: (i) establishment of a system of financial
planning and control; (ii) establishment of guidelines for
improvement of LWSC's operations; (iii) improvement of LWSC's
services through corrosion prevention, leak detection and better
maintenance of LWSC's distribution system; (iv) strengthening of
LWSC's personnel training unit; (v) installation of an automated
accounting system for LWSC; (vi) rehabilitation of LWSC's
equipment; (vii) establishment of a meter repair shop and a
vehicle repiir workshop; and (viii) on-the-job training for
LWSC's staff.-
(2) Acquisition of equipment, vehicles and other items
necessary for carrying out the Project, including data processing
equipment, tools and spare parts for the motor vehicle and
meter repair shops, chemical dosage equipment and bulk chemicals
to improve water treatment processes.
Part B:   Studies and Designs
(1) Design and supervision of construction of distribution
and transmission facilities included in Part C of the Project.
(2) (a) Revision of the management improvement program
studies carried out under the Monrovia Water Supply Project
(Credit No. 859 LBR) financed by the Association.
(b) Identification, cataloguing and revaluation of LWSC's
fixed assets.
(c) Identification of an appropriate data processing system
for LWSC and acquisition of hardware and software required to
operate the system.


﻿- 13 -
(d) Studies of LWSC's water treatment plant processes and
of its groundwater exploration and public relations operation.
Part C:   Distribution and Transmission
(1) Laying of about 10 km of 8-inch and 12-inch diameter
pipes in the Congotown, Sinkor and Mamba point areas of Monrovia
to strengthen water pressure in the areas.
(2) Construction of a 19,000 m3 distribution storage reser-
voir of reinforced or prestressed concrete construction in
Paynesville to store and regulate the transmission of water from
the White Plains treatment plant into Monrovia.
(3) Installation of 11 large zonal meters to allow monitor-
ing of consumption in various districts of greater Monrovia.
(4) Repair and rehabilitation of valves, hydrants and
standpipes.
(5) Purchase of about 5,000 service meters together with
pipes and fittings for about 6,000 house connections and supply
of spare meter parts and pipes.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1989.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to Categories (1), (2) and (3) in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount in
dollars equivalent to the amount allocated to Category (4) which
is to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.   (a) For purposes of withdrawal of the Authorized Alloca-
tion, the Association shall, on the basis of a request or
requests by the Borrower and evidence satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdraw
on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account and deposit in
the Special Account such amount or amounts of the Authorized
Allocation as the Borrower shall have requested, up to the total
of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) For purposes of withdrawal of proceeds of the Credit to
replenish the Special Account, the Association shall, on the
basis of requests by the Borrower furnished to the Association at
such intervals as the Association shall specify, withdraw from
the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. Except as the Associa-
tion may otherwise agree, each such deposit shall be withdrawn by
the Association from the Credit Account under the respective


﻿- 15 -
Categories (1), (2) and (3), and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower for
a deposit by the Association into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association in respect of each payment made by the Borrower
out of the Special Account such documents and other evidence as
the Association shall reasonably request, showing that such pay-
ment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sched-
ule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by
the Association: (a) when the Association shall have determined
at any time that all further withdrawals can be made directly by
the Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement, or
(b) unless otherwise agreed by the Association, when the total
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Categories (1), (2)
and (3) for the Project, less the amount of any qualified
agreement to reimburse made by the Association and of any special
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall
be equal to an amount equivalent to twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation, whichever shall be sooner. Withdrawal from
the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the
Credit allocated to Categories (1), (2) and (3) shall follow buh
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower and shall, except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, be made only after and to the extent the Association shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice have been or
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   If the Association shall have determined at any time that:
(a) any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made
for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association and,
unless otherwise agreed by the Association, prior to any further
deposit into the Special Account by the Association, deposit into


﻿- 16 -
the Special Account or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association, an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified; or
(b) any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not
be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
and unless otherwise agreed by the Association, refund to the
Association such amount then outstanding in the Special Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of C
198F                        S
FOR SECRETARY


