Report No. PID10230
Project Name                     Tunisia- Third Economic Competitiveness ...   @
Adjustment Loan (ECAL III)
Region                           Middle East and North Africa
Sector                           Finance, Private Sector and
Infrastructure
Project ID Number:               TNPE55815
Borrower:                        Republic of Tunisia
Implementing Agency:Ministry of
International
Cooperation and Foreign Investment
Ministere de la Cooperation
Internationale et de l'Investissement
Exterieur
98, Avenue Mohamed V
1002 Tunis Belv'dOre
Fax: 216-71-799-845
or 216-71-799-845
Phone: 216-71-798-522
e-mail: mciie@ministeres.tn
Initial PID Date:                April 10, 2001
Updated PID Date:                December 17, 2001
Project Appraisal Date           April 23, 2001
Project Board Date:              December 20, 2001
Background
1.      After successfully implementing stabilization and structural
adjustment programs which begun in the late 1980s, the Tunisian
authorities have, since the mid-1990s, turned their attention to creating
the conditions needed to integrate the country with the global economy,
in particular with Europe, and rapidly converge toward developed
countries' living standards. The strategy has included securing a WTO
membership as of 1994 and signing the Association Agreement with the
European Union (AAEU) in 1995. Tunisia has thus been successful in
stabilizing the economy and promoting growth while liberalizing the
economy, improving standards of living, and achieving a favorable country
risk rating. International financial markets have responded positively,
and since 1994 Tunisia has consistently improved Its access to the
sovereign bond markets.
2.      Tunisia is now facing integration and competition on a
much larger scale than in the past. The reduction of tariff protection,
especially for textiles, together with the dismantling of the Multi-fiber
Agreements, that will soon create fierce competition in Tunisia's
traditional markets (especially the EU), the implementation of the EU
Association agreement, and the long-term goals of joining the EU and
closing the gap in living standards between Tunisia and OECD countries
will require sustained growth over the next several years. In recent
years, Tunisia has achieved an unprecedented growth rate, averaging 5



percent annually. In order to meet its ambitious long-term growth and
employment objectives, the country will need to exceed (or at least
maintain) this growth. However, based on current assumptions on
economic activity in Europe as well as on agricultural production in
Tunisia, overall GDP growth could reach 4.9 percent in Tunisia in 2002, a
significant decrease from the 5.8 percent projected before the September
11th events.
3.      Tunisia's external financing needs for 2001 are estimated at
US$1.95 billion. For 2002, Tunisia's financing needs are projected to
amount to about US$2.6 billion as a result of a fairly large current
account deficit and debt repayment, as well as the targeted sizable
increase in reserves so as to be able to attain an import coverage of
three months by 2003. With inflows including grants estimated at US$56
million and foreign direct investment at US$364 million, and short-term
outflow estimated at US$287 million, borrowing needs would amount to
about US$1.8 billion in 2001. In March 2001, Tunisia mobilized the
equivalent of about US$460 million from the international sovereign bond
market at very favorable spreads. However, given uncertainties in
international financial markets after the September 11th events, the
Tunisian authorities feel that an additional bond issue in 2001 is not
desirable, especially as the March issue mobilized an amount already as
high as yearly amounts mobilized in the past. To avoid another decline
in the reserves level, the authorities are making every effort to ensure
that much of the financing from official sources in the pipeline for
2001 is realized.
Project Objectives
4.              This operation is the third in a series of policy reform
operations and supports the Government's program to enhance the
international competitiveness of Tunisia's economy. It is aimed at
promoting private investment, strengthening the financial sector, and
liberalizing the information and communication technology sector, while
maintaining a stable macroeconomic framework. The loan builds on reforms
in the real sector initiated under ECAL I and seeks to deepen
improvements in performance and efficiency in the financial sector
supported under ECAL II.
Project Description
5.      The 2000-02 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) recognizes that
further and bolder reforms are needed to strengthen Tunisia's external
competitiveness and macroeconomic framework. In this regard, the program
of reforms supported by the proposed loan are essential steps for the
Government to meet its growth and employment targets over the 10th Plan
period while completing the implementation of the AAEU. Thus, in line
with the CAS, ECAL III will support reforms to: (i) enhance the private
investment climate by improving the business environment and corporate
governance and developing private sector participation in infrastructure
via concessions and further privatization of state enterprises; (ii)
deepen Tunisia's financial sector by further strengthening banking
egulation, accelerating the development of capital markets, and reforming
the insurance sector; (iii) improve ICT regulation and private provision
of telecommunications services; and (iv)strengthen further the
macroeconomic framework and management.
-2-



6.      While support from the Bank and co-financiers for these
reforms represents only about 10 percent of Tunisia's external financing
needs, it is expected to give a positive signal to financial markets and
foreign investors. This signal is especially important in a context
where the country's balance of payments continues to be vulnerable to
structural changes and shocks in the external environment.
7.      In response to the above challenges and higher uncertainty
that Tunisia has to face in the international environment, the operation
design has been revised to strengthen macroeconomic conditionality,
increase the amount of the loan as compared to the CAS projection, and
offer tranching arrangements that provide more flexibility for Tunisia to
access Bank funds. The proposed loan, in the amount of EURO 281 million
(about US$252.5 million equivalent), will be made to the Republic of
Tunisia in the form of an adjustment loan to be disbursed in one standard
first tranche of EURO 144.69 million (US$130 million equivalent), a
capitalized front-end fee of EURO 2.81 million (US$2.5 million
equivalent), and three equal floating tranches of EURO 44.5 million
(US$40 million equivalent), linked to reforms, respectively, in the areas
of private investment climate, financial sector, and information and
communication technologies. The proposed structure is designed to allow
the Tunisians more flexibility in accelerating implementation of the
reform program in selected areas (telecommunications may be the best
candidate), thus giving the Government the possibility to disburse the
loan more quickly, if needed.
Project Benefits
8.      Sound macroeconomic performance and private sector competitiveness
are recognized by Tunisia as prerequisites for achieving its ambitious
growth, investment, and employment targets for 2002-2006. The impact of
the policy measures supported by this loan is expected to be
substantial. In particular, the loan will benefit Tunisia's public and
private sectors through efficiency gains and a more transparent
investment climate, with continued disengagement of the State from the
economy. It will contribute to the soundness and transparency of the
financial sector, thereby improving access to financial services for
enterprises and individuals while reducing the cost of these services.
The loan will also open the telecommunications sector to competition and
private participation, lowering prices and improving access to service
for consumers.
Project Risks
9.      A sudden worsening of international economic or security conditions
could slow reform and propel short-term macroeconomic stabilization to
the top of Tunisia's economic agenda. There is a risk of slow
implementation due to the need to consult with labor unions to implement
certain insurance sector reforms. Finally, the effective introduction of
competition in the telecommunications sector may take more time than
projected, in light of the relatively tight financial situation of most
operators worldwide. The operation is not expected to present any
substantial social or environmental risks. Its measures are not foreseen
to require lay-offs or to have a negative impact on incomes or employment
of any specific group. Any environmental issues arising from the sale of
government-held shares to private entities will be addressed in the
context of Tunisia's environmental legislation and will comply with the
Bank's safeguard policies.
-3-



10.     The risk of a slowdown of the reform program following an
unexpected deterioration of the international economic or security
environment is limited for the following reasons. First, the authorities
have identified additional macroeconomic stabilization measures to be put
in place if needed. Second, Tunisia has an established record of
commitment to structural reforms. Finally, the proposed loan structure
of three floating tranches will allow the Government to disburse a
specific tranche once reforms have been implemented in a single sector,
rather than waiting for completion of all reforms covered by the program.
This flexibility will be especially helpful if faster disbursement is
required due to additional pressures on the country's balance of
payments. With regard to reforms in the insurance sector, the
Government's gradual approach based on careful, though time-
consuming, internal consensus-building presents a risk of delay rather
than non-completion of the planned measures; this risk is also mitigated
by the floating tranche structure. In telecommunications, the
authorities' open and transparent selection process for the second GSM
operator represents the best guarantee to attract sound proposals from
qualified bidders. Further incentive to implement the reform program is
provided by parallel financing, based on the same policy reform matrix,
from the African Development Bank and the European Union.
Project Implementation
11.     The overall responsibility for project implementation would
be delegated to a "Project Coordination Unit" (PCU) within the Minister
of International Corporation. The operation concerns the Ministry of
Finance, the Central Bank of Tunisia and the Ministry of Economic
Development.
Project Cost and Financing
12.     In 2000, the total foreign currency needed to finance the
current account deficit and service external debt, while increasing
official reserves to a level equivalent to 3.0 months of imports,
amounted to $2.4 billion - a level significantly higher than in previous
year due to the bunching of debt amortization on account of Samurai bonds
contracted in the mid-1990s. External financing needs in the years ahead
are expected to remain significant. Projected external financing needs
for 2001-04 amount to about $2.3 billion per year. They will be driven
mainly by increased current account deficits (owing to the transitory
effects of trade liberalization, and the pursuit of higher economic
growth), and to increased amortization of external debt (due to
significant loans contracted on the intentional financial markets since
the mid-1990s). The need to maintain a comfortable level of international
reserves will also add to the external financing requirements. For 2001,
assuming that grants will continue along current trends, and that foreign
direct investment will be above recent levels, mainly owing to
privatization receipts, there remains a borrowing requirement
of about $1.3 billion. Disbursements under the proposed operation and
parallel financing could contribute $195 million (of which $75 million
from the IBRD loan, $50 million from the EU's grant, and $70 million from
AfDB's loan). Additional multilateral and bilateral loans will amount to
about $571 million.    Tunisia issued in March 2001 global Samurai and
-4 -



global Yen bonds for a total of US$460 million. This leaves a financing
need of $151 million that can be met through trade financing.
13.     During fiscal year 1999-2000, IBRD disbursement amounted to
US$147.1 million and repayment reached US$163.1 million. During 2001-04,
annual IBRD disbursement is expected to be in the US$150-200 million
range. IBRD debt service as a share of public debt service will remain
below 20 percent, and the ratio of IBRD debt service to export receipts
will remain below 3 percent. In addition, the share of IBRD and IDA in
total debt will continue to decrease, as foreseen in the Country
Assistance Strategy. Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the
Country/Sector
14.     The proposed operation is the third in a series of operations aimed
at improving the international competitiveness of the Tunisian economy
following the signing of the AAEU. ECAL I supported a broad
liberalization agenda with measures aimed at (a) strengthening the
macroeconomic framework in anticipation of forgone trade tax revenue and
(b) preparing the domestic economy for increased competition in local and
export markets. ECAL II focused on strengthening the banking sector to
increase its effectiveness in supporting the domestic economy, as well as
preparing the sector for the future opening of financial services to
external competition.
15.     Lessons drawn from both prior operations have been incorporated
into the proposed ECAL III. First, underlying work (including a Private
Sector Assessment Update, an ICT Strategy, and a Structural and Social
Sector Review) has provided the analytical foundation and a solid basis
for internal consensus-building within Tunisia and has been integrated
into the preparation of ECAL III. Second, a targeted sectoral approach
has been chosen for each floating tranche. Finally, coordination efforts
with other donors have led to the use of a common matrix of policy
measures with the EU and AfDB. In sum, the preparation of a coordinated,
focused, and analytically well-supported operation has strengthened the
Bank's dialogue with the Borrower and its development partners,
especially with regard to reforms in the telecommunications and insurance
sectors
Poverty Category
16.     Not applicable
Environmental Aspects
17.     The Loan is consistent with the Bank's environmental policies and
will follow accepted Bank procedures concerning the environment. The
Loan is classified in environmental catgory "C" (no significant
environmental impact). Tunisia's legal and environmental regulatory
framework for environment is strong. In the context of any privatization
activities under the loan, the authorities have undertaken to (i) screen
PEs which are being sold to determine past environmental liabilities and
(ii) assign responsibility for those liabilities and define the measures
needed to tackle them, in accordance with regulations in force in
Tunisia. The MinistOre de l'Environnement et de l'Amenagement du
Territoire is responsible for the enforcement of these measures and for
the enforcement of environmental legislation once a privatization has
- 5 -



taken place.
Program Objective Categories
18.     The Loan, by helping the Government undertake major reforms to
improve the transparency of the business environment and improve
enterprise Governance, liberalize the telecom sector and improve the
efficiency of the financial sector, especially insurance, directly
addresses key private sector development and competitiveness issues.
19. Contact Point:
Hamid Alavi
Task Team Leader
The World Bank
MSN H9-900
1818 H Street, 20433
Telephone No.:(202) 473-2221
Facsimile No.: (202) 522-2151
1. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
ECAL I (Loan Nos. 40690 and 40691) was a 2-tranche operation of
US$75 million with parallel financing of US$120 million by the EU. The
loan was approved on July 25, 1996, made effective on December 6, 1996,
and closed on June 30, 1998. ECAL II (Loan 44610) was a 2-tranche
operation of US$159 million, approved on April 20, 1999, with parallel
financing consisting of a grant of EURO 80 million from the EU and a loan
of US$140 million from the AfDB.
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending Jan. 25,
2002.
Lucy Njuguna
-6-



M:\InfoShop - Tonya's weekly directories\January 25, 2002\pO55815.txt
January 22, 2002 9:56 AM
- 7 -



