                                           Document of
                                        The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: 29329

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                      (TF-26326 FSLT-70940)

                                              ON A

                                              LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 281 MILLION

                                             TO THE

                                     REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA

                                             FOR A

                 THIRD ECONOMIC COMPETITIVENESS ADJUSTMENT LOAN




                                           June 28, 2004




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Middle East and North Africa Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective March 30, 2004)

                              Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar
                           Tunisian Dinar 1 = US$ 1.25
                                      US$ 1 = TD 0.80

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1 -   December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAEU   Association Agreement with the European Union
AfDB   African Development Bank
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CMF    Comite des Marches Financiers
EC     European Commission
ECAL   Economic Competitivess Adjustment Loan
ESW    Economic Sector Work
EU     European Union
FIAS   Foreign Investment Advisory Service
FSAP   Financial Sector Assessment Program
GSM    Global System Mobile
ICR    Implementation Completion Report
ICT    Information and Communication Technology
M&E    Monitoring and Evaluation
MTR    Mid-Term Review
NPLs   Non Performing Loans
PCD    Project Concept Document
QAG    Quality Assurance Group
SINDA  Systeme Informatique des Douanes (customs computer system)
TTN     Tunisie Trade Net
UIB     Union Internationale de Banque
UMTS    Universal Mobile Telephone Service
VAT     Value Added Tax
VSAT    Very Small Aperture Terminal



                             Vice President:    Christiaan Poortman
                          Country Director:     Theodore Alhers
                            Sector Director:    Emmanuel Forestier
                           Sector Manager:      Zoubida Allaoua
                             Task Manager:      Hamid Alavi

                                           TUNISIA
                     Third Economic Competitiveness Adjustment Loan


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            31

Project ID: P055815                                                  Project Name: Third Economic Competitiveness
                                                                     Adjustment Loan
Team Leader: Hamid R. Alavi                                          TL Unit: MNSIF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 29, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Third Economic Competitiveness Adjustment                L/C/TF Number: TF-26326; FSLT-70940
                            Loan
   Country/Department: TUNISIA                                                            Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: General industry and trade sector (27%); Telecommunications
                            (24%); Non-compulsory pensions, insurance and contractual savings
                            (24%); Banking (14%); Central government administration (11%)
                  Theme: Regulation and competition policy (P); Other public sector
                            governance (P); State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization
                            (S); Legal institutions for a market economy (S); Other financial and
                            private sector development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/10/2000                                     Effective: 12/27/2001                12/27/2001
     Appraisal: 04/18/2001                                         MTR:
      Approval: 12/20/2001                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF TUNISIA/MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
                      Other Partners:      European union, African Development Bank

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Theodore O. Ahlers                             Christian Delvoie
Sector Director:                Emmanuel Forestier                             Emmanuel Forestier
Team Leader at ICR:             Hamid Alavi                                    Hamid Alavi
ICR Primary Author:             Jean Pesme


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Third of a series of policy reform operations supporting the Government's program to enhance the
international competitiveness of Tunisia's economy, the Third Economic Competitiveness Adjustment Loan
(ECAL III) aimed at maintaining a stable macroeconomic framework, at promoting private investment, at
strengthening the financial sector, and at liberalizing the information and communication technology sector.
ECAL III built on the achievements of and lessons from ECAL I and ECAL II, which were respectively
focused on a first generation of reforms in the real sector and improvements of efficiency in the banking
sector.

The overarching objective of these ECALs, and of their foreseen successors, is to prepare the Tunisian
economy to face global competition brought about by the implementation of the Association Agreement
with the European Union and by the dismantling of the Multi Fiber Agreement.

ECAL III was consistent with the Tunisia CAS. It was however associated with an increase in the level of
adjustment lending compared to the CAS scenario. This increase was justified to some extent by an
accelerated pace of reform in some of the areas identified in the CAS as high-case triggers and more
importantly by deteriorating external conditions.

As was the case for the previous ECALs, ECAL III was jointly prepared with the European Union and the
African Development Bank. The EU supported the program with a grant of euro 80 million and the AfDB
with a loan of euro 216 million equivalent. The policy matrix was jointly designed, negotiated and adopted
by the three institutions - which was not the case for previous ECALs.

3.2 Revised Objective:

There was no revision of the original objective.

3.3 Original Components:

The euro 281 million loan ($ 252,5 millions) comprised four tranches: one standard first tranche of euro
144.69 million with a capitalized front-end fee of euro 2.81 million to be disbursed at loan effectiveness
and three equal floating tranches of euro 44.5 millions. The three floating tranches were linked,
respectively, to reforms related to the private investment climate, the financial sector and information and
communication technologies. The maintenance of a stable macroeconomic framework - defined by a
specific set of macro-economic indicators - constituted a fundamental condition for all tranches.

The first tranche was designed to lock-in a critical mass of reforms in all the components of the reform
program. It was disbursed on the basis of measures adopted by the Government related to the
macroeconomic framework, to the private investment climate, to the financial sector and to information and
communication technologies. They were needed for the future implementation of the other three tranches
conditions and for the sustainability of the overall reform program. This approach also helped in
maintaining a reform-oriented momentum in the design and negotiation phases.

The private investment climate tranche's main objective was to prepare Tunisia to the full roll-out of the
Association Agreement with the European Union in 2008. This component therefore focused on
competition policy and on reducing the cost of doing business for private firms. It targeted in particular the



                                                      - 2 -

relationships between the tax authorities and private sector, the quality of financial information as well as
the simplification and streamlining of administrative procedures. It also aimed at supporting privatization -
though on a small scale - and at paving the way for a gradual liberalization of the import monopolies
regime.   Given the impact of the Association Agreement on the investment climate, a study on the
promotion of investment was to better identify the related challenges and to propose policy options for
modifying investment incentives.

The financial sector tranche was intended to deepen Tunisia's financial sector by further strengthening
banking regulation, accelerating the development of capital markets and reforming the insurance sector. In
the banking sector, the operation focused in particular on improving financial intermediation. It addressed
the issues of non-performing loans and the lack of recovery and foreclosure of loan collaterals. A study on
the impact on these non-performing loans was foreseen, including the assessment of how the Code of Civil
and Commercial Procedures, would improve the situation of the NPLs. If called for by the conclusions of
this study, ECAL III was to support new measures to accelerate the recovery of bank loans and collateral
foreclosure. These objectives were to be supported in parallel by the privatization of two state-owned
banks, in the context of the investment climate component. In capital markets, the operation focused on
progress in corporate transparency, and its associated cost. In the insurance sector, the operation pursued
three main objectives: reduce contingent liabilities, promote long-term savings and provide a crucial safety
net. ECAL III therefore addressed the structural deficit of the insurance sector by eliminating the excessive
price rebates proposed by some companies at the expense of their financial sustainability and at improving
insurance regulation. It focused on modernizing the regulatory framework, the price-setting mechanisms
and on restructuring the most ailing public insurance companies (with El Ittihad, the weakest company
then, receiving primary attention given its level of deficit).

The information and communication technology (ICT) tranche pursued three main objectives: putting in
place a revised regulatory framework conducive to increased competition and private sector participation,
laying out a liberalization strategy covering all the sub-sectors and supporting the awarding of the second
Global System Mobile (GSM) license. A previous attempt to grant the license had failed, as the
Government was not satisfied, inter alia, by the amounts offered by the bidders. The negotiations focused
on the associated fiscal receipts (as evidenced by the minutes of the discussion and the incorporation of a
review clause). Contentious at negotiations, the conditionality eventually referred to "grant[ing] a second
GSM license through a competitive and transparent bidding process". The negotiation documentation did
not specify which parameters would be used to assess this process.

                                                        *

Three main issues deserve consideration when assessing the design of the operation:

·       The final architecture of ECAL III was expected to provide Tunisia with more leeway in managing
the implementation timetable and therefore in being able to close external and fiscal gaps with Bank
support. The authorities were concerned by the potential negative financial and fiscal implications of some
of the underlying reforms. The tranching feature was therefore intended to provide the authorities with as
much flexibility as possible in their handling of the various constraints: time to implement the policy
reforms, potential short-term negative impact and expected positive effects later on, and balance of
payments needs. The loan architecture was also expected to bring sectoral consistency to the reform
agenda, as a critical mass of reform was to be locked in before disbursement for each of them.

·       ECAL III supported an ambitious and complex reform agenda, both in its scope and timetable. The



                                                      - 3 -

emphasis of studies to be undertaken, in particular on sensitive issues such as the investment climate or
non-performing loans, reflected reservations from the authorities to take action within the operation's
time-frame.

·        the design of the GSM-related conditionality reflected the emphasis on the need for enhanced
competition, sound and transparent open-market economy and private-provision of services.

3.4 Revised Components:

None of the components were revised.

The closing date of the operation (initially June 30th, 2003) was extended to December 31st, 2003 during
the Spring 2003. This decision was taken on the basis of the strong likelihood that the conditions of at least
two of the floating tranches (investment climate and financial sector) needed a longer time-frame to be
implemented. The Bank however declined in December 2003 Tunisia's request for a further extension. The
operation was therefore closed on Dec. 31st, 2003 with the cancellation of the remaining floating tranche,
related to the information and communications technology.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

This ICR rates Quality at entry as satisfactory.

ECAL III was not evaluated by the Quality Assurance Group for quality at entry. The objectives of the
operation were in line with the CAS and well-related to the broader policy agenda laid out in the
Government's 10th Development Plan. The lessons learnt from ECAL I and II were used in the design of
this operation. The important body of Economic and Sector Work helped in fueling the dialogue with the
authorities in the identification of the measures to be supported by the operation. However, insufficient
attention was paid at entry on how the measure of performance and monitoring of achievements would take
place, as evidenced for instance by the focus on outputs and the lack of M&E tools. The operation was
finalized in a context of high level of uncertainties on the external front for Tunisia, just after Sept. 11th,
2001. The concerns on a possible macro-economic shock accelerated the speed of negotiation, somewhat at
the expense of the depth of the ownership by the Tunisian authorities.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The development objectives of ECAL III have been met. The rating for the achievement of development
objective is satisfactory. ECAL III has supported important policy reforms in Tunisia, and significant
progress (though uneven) has been achieved in all the sectors covered.

In addition to the preservation of a sound macro-economic framework, areas of major success in the
implementation of the operation include: (i) improvements in the investment climate, with the
simplifications of the regulatory framework and progress in state divestiture from the economy; (ii) decisive
evolution in the insurance sector, with a revamping of the sector regulation, a major change in the
automobile insurance mechanisms, an improved pricing framework and a restructuring of the weakest
insurance companies, thereby eliminating one of the central distortions in the competition framework and a
potentially serious contingent liability; (iii) improved recognition by the authorities of the challenges related
to the non performing loans in the banking sector, with enhanced disclosure of the extent of the issue and
progress towards a shared diagnosis with the Bank; increased private sector participation in the banking


                                                       - 4 -

sector with the privatization of two banks and (iv) reinforcement of the regulatory regime and institutions in
the ICT sector; preparation of a Telecommunications strategy with a liberalization timetable covering each
of the sub-components.

4.2 Outputs by components:

 The outcome of the macroeconomic component is considered satisfactory.

 Despite a challenging external environment, the macroeconomic framework remained sound and in line
 with the loan objectives. Faced with the simultaneous shocks of low tourism earnings following Sept.
 11th, 2001, weak EU growth, drought and uncertain external conditions (in particular following the
 terrorists' attacks in Tunisia and the negative impact on tourism of geopolitical tensions in the region), the
 authorities tightened fiscal and monetary policy in 2002. In a context of sluggish fiscal revenues, they cut
 capital expenditures and postponed investment in a number of public enterprises. Monetary policy adopted
 a restrictive stance in 2001 and 2002, before being eased in 2003 in view of the growth slowdown and of
 the reduction in current account pressures. The deviations to the targets set in ECAL III remained limited
 (a table in annex presents the projections and actuals for the various economic indicators defined in the
 memorandum of the president). No waiver related to the macroeconomic framework was requested for the
 disbursed floating tranches.

 ECAL III also contributed to strengthen debt management. An enhanced monitoring of the foreign public
 and private debt was put in place. A "Strategy for a Public Debt Management", which represents an
 important step towards an even more active and forward-looking approach in that respect, was prepared
 with Bank support.

                                                       *

 Overall, the outcome under the investment climate component is considered satisfactory.

 The main measures contemplated under the operation have been implemented, but not always to the extent
 initially expected. A waiver was sought on a condition relating to the privatization of a petroleum
 company and three conditions were substantially met.

 1/ the waiver points to the absence of sale offer to a strategic investor for at least 25 % of the capital of a
 public company. The authorities have selected for partial privatization the "Societe Nationale de
 Distribution du Petrole". The process of selection of an investment bank to assist the Government was
 launched in December 2003. Given the needed due diligence to be carried out before the privatization
 (including environmental and social assessments), the condition could not be fulfilled before the loan
 closing date. Since the dialogue was continuing and the absence of achievement of this condition did not
 compromise either the impact or sustainability of the overall reform program, a waiver was requested. It is
 worth noting that the lack of subsequent progress on this divestiture has led the European Commission in
 May 2004 to request additional information to the authorities regarding their timetable to partially open
 the capital of this public company. When this ICR was finalized, the European Commission had not yet
 disbursed its "investment climate" tranche, mainly because of these additional delays.

 2/ the condition of the revision of the Company Law was substantially met, as the Government chose to
 amend the law itself. The amended law, when approved, would exceed the expectations underlying ECAL
 III condition and would constitute a positive development, in line with modern corporate law approaches
 The law was not yet approved by the Parliament when this ICR was finalized.



                                                     - 5 -

 3/ the condition on the reform of public import monopolies was substantially met, as the Bank judged the
 related study as not comprehensive enough and somewhat conservative in its analysis and
 recommendations. The authorities have confirmed their intention to undertake additional studies, to look at
 each import monopoly separately and to accelerate the liberalization process where possible, They are
 currently preparing Action Plans for some of the products which could be liberalized more quickly. Given
 the importance of the issue and the social sensitivity around some of the concerned products, the Bank and
 the authorities agreed to continue the analysis and to take up the issue in the context of ECAL IV.

 4/ the condition related to investment promotion and incentives was substantially met. It dwells upon one
 of the most important issues in the dialogue between Tunisia and the Bank on private sector development.
 It concerns the fiscal incentives granted to the off-shore companies (i.e, those which are predominently
 targeting the external markets - while the onshore sector is oriented towards the domestic market). The
 Bank's analysis showed that such incentives were distortionary and did not have as strong an impact in the
 promotion of investment. The authorities and the Bank agreed to carry on a study on the "dichotomy"
 between the on-shore and the off-shore sector to provide inputs for the Tunisian authorities to develop an
 Action Plan on investment promotion and incentives. This analysis was supposed to be undertaken with
 PHRD funding end 2001, before loan effectiveness. However, PHRD funding was not available, because
 the study was not launched before loan effectiveness. To be as proactive as possible, the Bank proposed
 that the study be realized by FIAS instead, given its expertise in this area - proposal which was agreed by
 the authorities. The key recommendations of the draft FIAS study touched upon:

l the need for Tunisia to take bolder steps to prepare itself to the impact of the full roll-over of the
    Association Agreement in 2008. The study recommended that the authorities actively reflect on the
    pros and cons of a more radical approach to reforms, compared with the current gradual approach
l the need to improve the tax regime across the board, i.e. to reduce the gap in tax incentives between the
    on-shore and the off-shore sector, with a view to ultimately remove exonerations currently targeting the
    off-shore sector
l in that respect, the importance to a/ reduce the corporate tax rate and enlarge the tax base, b/ suppress
    exonerations on customs duties currently embedded in the Investment Code and c/ reform and simplify
    the Value Added Tax (reduce the number of rates, enlarge the tax base, improve administrative
    procedures for reimbursement).

The study and recommendations triggered substantive exchanges (and disagreements) with the Tunisian
authorities. The authorities expressed concerns regarding the fiscal impact of the recommendations and the
strong risk to see off-shore companies leave Tunisia if the incentives framework was to be modified.

The analysis and recommendations put forward by the FIAS study highlight the main challenges facing
Tunisia, but the conditions under which it was launched were clearly sub-optimal, with a very tight
time-frame. Time permitting, an in-depth assessment of the potential impact of removing the fiscal
incentives for off-shore companies (i.e. negative impact on current off-shore investment with a risk of shift
to other countries) could have been prepared. In that respect, the main concern put forward by the
authorities is legitimate. A full-fledged discussion did not take place in the context of ECAL III, as the
authorities pointed to the conflict of interest for the Bank when assessing the achievement of the
conditionality as the recommendations were prepared by one of its units.

The Action plan subsequently prepared by Tunisia goes in the right direction. It keeps however a very
gradual approach. In particular, it does not consider changes before 2007 to the advantages granted to the
off-shore sector. Its impact on the preparation of the on-shore sector - much less used to be confronted to


                                                     - 6 -

strong competition - to the shock of the full roll-over of the Association Agreement is questionable.

Two developments help reinforce this ICR overall positive assessment. In the context of the 2004 Budget
Law, Tunisia took steps to bring closer the investment and tax regimes for companies targeting the
domestic market with those regimes applying to the off-shore sector. They have in effect started to
implement changes in the direction recommended by FIAS. The authorities also agreed that the dialogue
will be pursued with the Bank on the various options in the context of ECAL IV. Given the importance of
the issue, and dilemmas the Tunisians authorities face given the uncertainties of the external environment,
maintaining open and constructive channels of communication on this issue is positive.

All the other measures foreseen in ECAL III were implemented. The authorities have:

l simplified procedures for the start-up and operations of private enterprises and accelerated the customs
    clearance process.
l strengthened the institutional framework for competition.
l amended the Code des droits et procedures fiscaux.
l submitted to Parliament a proposal to modify the legal framework for Corporate Conglomerates.
l made public new accounting standards relating to the consolidation of financial statements and the
    treatment of financial conglomerates.
l offered for sale, through a competitive and transparent bidding process, all public shares in Union
    Internationale de Banque (UIB). The privatization was completed during loan implementation,
    exceeding the operation's objective.
l offered for sale, through a competitive and transparent bidding process, all public shares in Banque du
    Sud.

 The enactment of the revised "Code des droits et procedures fiscaux", represented an important step
 towards re-balancing the relationship between the tax administration and the private sector - and putting it
 at arms' length to reduce interference and rent-seeking behaviors. Though the new Code was deemed as
 still leaving scope for improvements, it nonetheless provided for a much more transparent and explicit
 legal tax framework. The clarification of the tax procedures lifted in particular the most discretionary
 tools of the tax authorities.

 Overall, the authorities still have to define a strategic and visionary definition of Tunisia's private
 investment climate after the roll-over of the Association Agreement. Absent such an explicit longer-term
 perspective, private investors - both domestic and foreign - will continue to face uncertainties. The choice
 at negotiations to build on studies as a tool to pursue the dialogue on contentious issues has not been as
 successful as expected in that respect, as these studies have not triggered decisive action in the context of
 the operation. However, they have yielded positive impact as they have fueled the authorities' analysis of
 the underlying challenges, and modified their stance - as evidenced for instance by their new approach to
 the import monopolies, which is much less restrictive than previously the case. The level of recognition of
 the need to bring closer the investment regimes for the on-shore and off-shore sectors has also increased.
 The main achievement of ECAL III is to have stepped up the momentum to adapt the investment
 framework to the challenges ahead.


                                                        *


 The outcome under the financial sector component is considered as highly satisfactory.


                                                      - 7 -

 All the measures foreseen in the financial sector component have been implemented. The authorities have:

l amended the "Code des procedures civiles et commerciales" and finalized a study on foreclosure of real
    estate. On this basis, they have considered that no new legal measure was necessary to accelerate the
    recovery of loans and the foreclosure of real estate collateral by credit institutions. Tunisian authorities
    and the Bank have agreed to follow-up on this issue in the context of ECAL IV.
l adopted a Bank of Tunisia regulation on financial transparency of all corporations with debt exceeding
    certain limits.
l prepared studies on the development of capital markets and the organization/information systems of the
    "Conseil du Marche Financier" (securities regulator).
l submitted amendments to the Insurance Code to the Chamber of Deputies.
l increased auto insurance rates for civil responsibility.
l adopted a medium-term action plan with the objective of eliminating the deficit of the automobile
    branch of the insurance sector.
l submitted draft legislative amendments with the objective of revising the system of indemnity in
    automobile insurance.
l presented restructuring scenario for the most troubled insurance companies and launched the related
    restructurings. They have also agreed on corrective plans with the three undercapitalized and
    under-provisioned insurance companies. These plans are under implementation.
l put in place the resources necessary for the Comite General des Assurances (insurance supervisor).


 For the banking sector, the regulations adopted by the Central Bank on the transparency of big borrowers,
 the improved governance structure of the state-owned banks, the new risk diversification requirements
 should improve the risk-taking behavior of the industry. Once more forcefully enforced, they will
 contribute to reduce the flow of new non-performing loans. The tax relaxation for provisioning and
 write-offs of non-performing loans have been used by some banks to improve their level of provisions.
 The preliminary studies undertaken by the Central Bank on the existing stock of non-performing loans
 were not as comprehensive and ambitious as initially expected by the Bank. However, they represent a
 very positive step forward, as the Central Bank has accepted to go in much more details on the financial
 situation of Tunisian banks than before. The recognition of the challenges ahead now seems better spread
 and shared, which is likely to help in paving the way for future action. The objective to deepen the
 authorities' sense of urgency and to prepare the grounds for more decisive action on NPLs is therefore
 met. In addition, the progress in the privatization of two state-owned banks (supported by ECAL III under
 the investment climate component) was an important step forward.

 For the insurance sector, the measures related to the automobile insurance will assist in restoring the
 financial sustainability of this branch. The social impact of the increases in the auto insurance rates has
 been managed through the sequencing of the rates hikes. The restructuring of El Ittihad also was a
 courageous undertaking by the Government. It managed well in particular the dialogue with the trade
 unions involved in this insurance company. The insurance supervisor has demonstrated its commitment to
 more efficiently discharge its supervisory function. It has been provided the needed human and financial
 resources. The secondary legislation for the new Insurance Code is under preparation, including on
 reinsurance. A supervision manual has been adopted, improving the modalities of inspection. The
 enhanced monitoring of one of the important insurance companies after a review of its technical provisions
 illustrates the proactive stance of the "Comite General des Assurances".


                                                        *


                                                     - 8 -

Without underestimating the overall progress and while the outcome under the information and
communications technology component was highly satisfactory, the process through which this outcome
was reached was unsatisfactory. This ICR therefore rates this component unsatisfactory.

The information and communications technology tranche was cancelled because one of the key conditions
was not met.

Most of the measures contemplated under ECAL III were taken. The authorities have:

l adopted key implementation regulations for the new Telecommunications Code (decrees on
    interconnection, on rights of way, on approval of telecom equipment; "arrete" on numbering).
l created a national telecommunications agency and a national frequencies agency.
l adopted the Law on exchanges and electronic commerce.
l launched an international tender for the granting of a second GSM licence.
l made public a standard interconnection offer.
l adopted and made public a liberalization timetable for the period 2002-2006.
l selected an investment bank with a view to launching the bidding process for at least one Very Small
    Aperture Terminal (V-SAT) licence.

Key objectives were met: definition of a medium to long-term ICT strategy, with a liberalization timetable
for each sub-component; new regulatory framework in line with international standards and setting up of
the related regulatory bodies; opening up of the Telecoms sector to private sector participants (granting of
second GSM license, announcement in the Letter of Development Policy of the partial sale of a minority
stake in Tunisia Telecom capital, with related improvements in the Tunisia Telecom accounting system).

The number of mobile customers has boomed, with a growth rate of 242 % between 2002 and 2003. The
various decreases in access or rental prices are positive steps, even if the scope for further reductions still
exists, in particular for international lines. The authorities have prepared an action plan to reduce the price
of Internet access and the cost of specialized telecommunications lines has decreased 50 % between 2002
and 2003. Since loan closure, the authorities have in addition successfully completed the bidding of the
VSAT license. They have also announced plans to issue data licenses in 2004 and new licenses for fixed
lines and UMTS in 2005, confirming their commitment to gradual liberalization.

The ICT tranche was cancelled because the Bank determined that the bidding process for the second GSM
licence was not carried out according to the loan condition.

Regarding the bidding process, the issues were the following:

l the Bank had reviewed the bidding documentation and commented on it. Neither loan documentation,
    nor the minutes of the negotiations, defined though how the quality of the bidding process would be
    assessed. The Bank considered that the bidding process had inter alia not respected Tunisian standard
    practice, and had signalled it early in implementation. Though not legally set in loan documentation, the
    threshold against which the Bank would assess this condition was in practice defined by Bank senior
    management at the latest in September 2002.

l insisting on their understanding of their obligations from the loan agreement ­ and probably not willing
    to set a precedent in terms of disclosure to the institution, the authorities did not provide the minutes of
    the opening of the bidding offers. Doing so, they largely contributed to reverse the burden of the proof,


                                                      - 9 -

    against their interests.

The awarding of the second GSM license is in itself positive, as it shows the Government's willingness to
extend private participation in the economy. However, the strong reservations expressed by the authorities
to disclose (privately to the Bank) the needed materials evidence a reluctance to shift to a new approach of
their role in the economy, where transparency is key. This is all the more important as such a change is also
a cornerstone of the development of a Knowledge Economy.

When this ICR was finalized, the EU and the AfDB had not yet taken a final position on the ICT tranche
but were leaning towards considering the condition not to be met.

Despite the important concerns surrounding the process to award the second GSM licence, significant steps
have been taken by Tunisia in the information technology sector, which without doubt represent an
important progress towards liberalization. The change in the overall stance of the Tunisian authorities in
this sector is in itself a success, when compared to their reluctance to open it in the late 90s.
Transparency-related concerns should not be downplayed. They have a strong bearing on the development
of private sector contribution to Tunisia's development economy. Though the approach elicited may have
given excessive weight to one single measure as a proxy for transparency improvements, ECAL III was
useful in promoting bolder steps on economic governance in Tunisia.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable for adjustment operations

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable for adjustment operations

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The project yielded a substantial institutional development impact, for two main reasons :

l in each component, specific output-based measures were accompanied by enhancements in the
    institutional and regulatory framework:
         (i)   in the insurance sector: revamping of insurance regulation and creation of supervisory
              authority; new regulations on financial transparency;
         (ii) in the investment climate: interface between Tunisia Trade Net and Systeme Informatique des
              Douanes (SINDA - customs computer system); reduction of number of administrative
              authorizations; reorganization of the Competition Authority; improvements in the relationship
              between the tax authorities and the corporate tax payers;
         (iii) in the telecom sector: revamping of the ICT regulatory framework and creation of new
    regulators.

l the operation emphasized the need to allocate the appropriate financial and human resources to the new
    authorities, in particular by the new Insurance supervision authority, the Competition authority and the
    Telecommunication one. Loan supervision was adequately rigorous on that matter. By giving
    supervisory and regulatory bodies the needed critical mass as early as possible and by paying attention
    to their independence/autonomy, the project has clearly helped in fostering their credibility and
    therefore in increasing institutional development impact.



                                                     - 10 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The high-level of external uncertainty, following the September 11th, 2001 and the Djerba terrorist attacks
in Tunisia, as well as the growing tensions in the region in the lead-up to the Iraq war, have clearly had a
strong influence on project implementation, given the direct impact on tourism and thus macro-economic
stability. All these elements have of course made macro-management all the more complex and have
contributed in delaying the implementation of some of the structural reforms, as the authorities were
concerned about the possible impact on the balance of payments if the cost of some of these reforms turned
out to be higher than anticipated. This was a particularly important consideration in their reluctance to
remove some of the imports' monopolies and to level the fiscal incentives between the on-shore and the
off-shore sector.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Not applicable

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Not applicable

5.4 Costs and financing:

Not applicable


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The sustainability of the operation is considered to be likely.

The architecture of the reform program supported by ECAL III (in particular the attention paid to the set
up and autonomy of regulatory authorities), the clear political commitment of the authorities, the emphasis
put on building consensus up-stream provide very strong support to the sustainability of the operation.

Regarding the investment climate component, the strong commitment of Tunisia to a full roll-over of the
Association Agreement with the European Union is a very strong indication of sustainability, as there are
no other avenues for Tunisia to prepare itself than to build on and deepen the track of reforms supported
under ECAL III. This important deadline should support a strong reformist dynamic and act also as a very
strong incentive for Tunisia to accelerate its current pace of reform, and therefore to comfort the
sustainability of the achievements under ECAL III. The authorities are currently discussing the design of an
ECAL IV to further deepen and sustain the reforms supported by ECAL III.

For some components of ECAL III (evolution of the new El Ittihad in its mutuelle form, consolidation of
the insurance industry, improved risk-taking behaviors of the banking sector, improved investment climate,
increased private participation in the financial sector), strong mobilization of and maintained pressure from



                                                     - 11 -

the supervisors and regulatory agencies will be needed to sustain the progress made so far. This will require
the Government to continue to support strong autonomy for them. This will also require that human and
financial resources be provided, and that attention continues to be paid to training. In the financial sector,
sustainability will also be linked to efforts to promote consolidation of the market and open it to foreign
investors and to improve public trust in insurance companies (including by paying more attention to
customer satisfaction and dispute resolution). In the telecommunications sector, the authorities' commitment
to the liberalization strategy and the steps taken so far to implement it are strong indications of
sustainability. Past track-record of the authorities in implementing policy reforms and their public
commitments make it very likely that these additional steps to comfort sustainability will be taken as
necessary.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

On two accounts, the operation can be rated as satisfactory as far as transition to regular operations is
concerned:

l the agreement with the authorities to continue engagement through subsequent ECALs, under the
    overall umbrella of preparing the Tunisian economy to the challenge stemming from the full roll-over
    of the Association Agreement, put the reform program in a useful longer-term perspective. Such a clear
    deadline provides a very strong incentive for the authorities to maintain their reformist stance. For
    instance, issues such as banks' NPLs, important monopolies, promotion of investment will continue to
    be addressed in forthcoming operations. In parallel, the authorities have requested Bank support in the
    ICT sector, in the context of their hosting of the World Summit on Information Society in the Fall
    2005.

    Tunisia has traditionally been a slow and gradual reformer. This pace of reforms (and their depth in
    some components) has reflected a strong attention from the authorities to build a strong and wider
    consensus for change. As its main competitors are usually adopting bolder reforms to enhance the
    attractiveness of their investment climate, Tunisia may need to step up its reform stance in order not to
    lose grounds. The Bank should continue to factor in this challenge in future dialogue.

l as mentioned above, the emphasis in ECAL III on setting right the regulatory and institutional
    framework and on ensuring that the implementing institutions are provided with the needed resources
    should give comfort that the transition to regular operations (i.e outside of Bank support) will be
    sustainable and smooth. On some instances (competition policy, financial regulation and supervision),
    the quality of the transition to regular operations will strongly depend on the extent to which the
    Tunisian Government will endorse and support the decisions made by autonomous/independent
    authorities or ensure close coordination between the regulatory and supervisory functions (for instance
    in the insurance sector, as the Government has kept the regulatory powers). The Bank will be assisting
    Tunisia on these issues in its on-going dialogue on ECAL IV.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's performance during the project preparation was satisfactory.

Based on the preparatory diagnosis work, the teams appear overall as having found the right balance


                                                    - 12 -

between advocacy in the initial discussions on issues considered as instrumental to the impact of the reform
agenda (based on the comprehensive prior ESW) and focus during negotiations on key measures and
capacity to deliver on the demanding second-generation microeconomic reforms. The objectives of the
operation were adequate, in line with the Government's Development Plan and the CAS. They were the
result of a very good coordination and dialogue between the three co-financiers, even if the conditions for
tranche release were not exactly similar, nor the closing dates. For the Bank and the AfDB, disbursements
were conditioned by the achievement of "star conditions", whereas the European Union had to satisfied
itself in addition of sufficient progress against all the other measures of the policy matrix.

The absence of upstream definition during the negotiations of how the quality of the GSM awarding
process will be assessed (and how the related conditionality should be met) has clearly created an ambiguity
on the parameters to be used. Though far from being the only reason, this initial "misunderstanding"
obviously played an important negative role in the discussions surrounding the Bank's assessment of the
GSM licence bidding process. More attention from the negotiating team, and from senior management
involved in negotiations, would probably have put the Bank in a better position during supervision.

The internal organization of the ECAL III team was a difficulty from the outset, as the initial team leader
left the Bank between appraisal and negotiation. The Bank proved reactive by quickly designating a new
team leader, who was not from the unit leading the operation. Such a setting reflected the cross-cutting
nature of the operation. It also created some tensions in terms of division of responsibilities within the team.
Better acknowledging these challenges and clarifying up-stream responsibility and accountability lines
would have been useful.

7.2 Supervision:

The Bank's supervision is rated satisfactory.

The various supervision missions documented well the progress in implementation, flagging as early as
possible the unevenness of the progress in some key areas. In particular, the stalemate on the second GSM
issue complicated but did not preclude policy dialogue in the other areas - thereby allowing good overall
progress under the operation. The team was reactive to new circumstances and flexible in its assessment of
the progress achieved (including in the assessment of important conditions of the policy matrix), without
undermining the substance.

Supervision struck a right balance between adopting a flexible approach on some conditions, as evidenced
for instance by the investment climate tranche, and keeping a firm stance where differences of approaches
were too wide (such as on the ICT liberalization strategy and the strong reluctance of the authorities to
commit on a clear liberalization timetable). This balance yielded very positive results, as it helped in
focusing the dialogue on the most important issues and in signalling to the authorities what were the most
critical issues.

The difficulties on the ICT tranche were flagged early in implementation, and senior management was
appropriately involved. This dialogue did not emphasize the risk of having the ICT tranche as a whole
cancelled. This may have reflected the Bank's desire to keep as long as possible all options open in the
hopes that a satisfactory outcome would be achieved. Such a restraint may however have fueled the
Government's expectations and hopes that the Bank would ultimately change its position.

In this respect, it would have probably been more useful for the tasks team to seek much earlier in the
process an assessment from the Bank procurement specialists regarding the Government's proposed



                                                       - 13 -

approach to the GSM bidding process. With hindsight, such an up-stream factual review of the bidding
process could have probably helped in giving the dialogue a more objective stance, and in flagging to the
authorities that their decision to change the bidding process was going to create a conflict with
internationally-accepted practices. While there were many verbal and written exchanges between the Bank
team and senior Government officials about the adequacy of the bidding process, there was not a clear
indication to the authorities at an early stage that this could jeopardize the release of the tranche. Once the
bidding took place under the process questioned by the Bank, there was not much the Bank team could do
to make the authorities reverse their decision or to be assured that the process was transparent and
competitive as required by the conditionality. The team then did the right thing in moving the dialogue
between the Bank and the Tunisian Government to the senior management level, and in keeping the
responsibility to supervise only the two other tranches.

Cofinanciers felt that they were not sufficiently kept abreast on a regular basis of the Bank's internal
discussions on this issue and of the position it took regarding the bidding process. The Bank could have
probably done better in that respect, by setting more systematic lines of communication. At the same time,
however, the AfDB faced other important challenges stemming from the situation in Ivory Coast, and
restrictions in its ability to communicate and participate in missions. The European Commission was for
itself confronted with differences of views between Brussels and its delegation in Tunis, and lagged in
designating a counter-part to the Bank's team.

Despite these difficulties, all supervision missions have however been jointly undertaken by the Bank and
the European Union, in occasions along with the African Development Bank. This ensured consequently the
needed coordination between the co-financiers. This helped in reaching joint assessment of the progress
made and in ensuring the consistency of the dialogue with the authorities. The absence of a systematic
participation of the AfDB to the joint World Bank/European Union supervision mission has created some
gaps, even if the origin of this absence was clearly exogenous to the operation.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Bank performance is rated as satisfactory.

The sensitivities surrounding the operation, the negative impact of the differences of internal processes and
organization with the African Development Bank and the European Commission created risks which were
properly mitigated. The tensions with the authorities triggered as appropriate a strong involvement of senior
management.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Borrower performance was satisfactory.

It identified well - in particular in the context of the 10th development plan - the crucial areas for reform,
and clearly laid out its expectations in terms of Bank support - including through its own vision of the
sequence for reform in some of the most sensitive areas. The Government was therefore a very active
player in the loan preparation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Overall, and on balance, the Government performance is rated satisfactory.



                                                      - 14 -

The rating of Government implementation for this loan can only result from a balanced rating for the ICT
tranches and the three other ones. Regarding the ICT tranche, the full bidding documentation was
eventually not provided to the Bank. This strong reluctance to provide the associated documentation did not
facilitate the dialogue - with the back and forth clearly creating a situation of respective mistrust. For the
other components, the Government was behind schedule in the implementation of some key reforms but
eventually took them.

The borrower was efficient and responsive in ensuring that the overall vision of the economy underlying
ECAL III remained the bottomline when flexibility was needed to adapt to new circumstances. The
borrower was in particular very active in maintaining a very strong inter-agency coordination and in
focusing each participant in the government on the delivery of its contribution to this broad agenda of
reform.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance was satisfactory.

The Government - and namely the Ministry of Cooperation and Economic Development - was the
implementing agency. The internal coordination mechanisms it set up during the preparation, negotiation
and implementation of this loan proved efficient. The implementing agency appropriately raised the most
sensitive issues at political level, and was a good entry point for the Bank on all these matters. It also
ensured that the Bank had a very good counter-part team in Tunisia.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

The rating for overall government performance is satisfactory, despite the important shortcoming in the
ICT component.

8. Lessons Learned

Four main lessons can be drawn from the ECAL III experience:

   l The Bank should pay more attention to set much clearer and more precise (measurable) loan
         conditions. Clarity is needed on the indicators and instruments to measure progress or compliance
         and avoid unnecessary friction. The Bank should also be clear about the communication channels
         between partners and about their results frameworks. When the complexity of the reform program
         is in itself challenging, aligning from the outset as much as possible the internal processes, the
         conditionalities and the communications gateways of the various partners is crucial to success.

   l The Bank should better define responsibilities for internal Bank coordination and for
         communication with the authorities and partners. Notwithstanding the substance, the tensions on
         the ICT tranche have evidenced some gaps in the Bank's handling of the communications channels
         with the authorities. It has been reported that some potentially contradictory messages were passed
         by different staff members at the same time. The number of Bank units involved in this particular
         tranche would have deserved much earlier in the process a clearer definition of responsibilities and
         accountabilities. If the scope of the ECAL-type operations calls for a multi-disciplinary team, the
         accountability lines (in particular between Bank units) deserve clearer definition in such
         circumstances.



                                                     - 15 -

    l Programmatic approaches require a longer time horizon and strengthened monitoring and
        evaluation tools. The de facto programmatic approach characterizing the ECAL series (and the
        implicit understanding with the authorities that ECAL III would likely not be the last of the series)
        should be used to set with the authorities a joint measurement framework, covering the timeframe
        of the series of operations.

    l The Bank Group should not be both judge and party.                 Studies which are part of the loan
        conditionalities should not be undertaken by units of the Bank group. This creates on the
        authorities' side a perception of conflict of interest, whatever the quality of the input.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The Borrower has not provided comments and has not provided its own implementation completion report.

(b) Cofinanciers:

The African Development Bank has not provided comments.

The European Commission has provided comments on this ICR, which it considered as balanced and
constructive. Regarding the collaboration between the Bank and the European Commission, it emphasized
that the quality of the dialogue has been increasing during implementation, after some initial hesitations,
and that the joint nature of the supervision mission had indeed played a very useful role in that respect.
Building on these achievements and the lessons drawn fron ECAL III, the European Commission also
reinforced its commitment to maintain and even deepen such a coordination.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




10. Additional Information




                                                      - 16 -

         Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

         See attached matrix summarizing progress against loan conditionalities

                                          Implementation completion report Annex

                                        MATRIX OF POLICY REFORM MEASURES

         Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators Log Frame/Matrix

         See attached matrix summarizing progress against loan conditionalities


                                          Implementation completion report Annex

                                        MATRIX OF POLICY REFORM MEASURES


   OBJECTIVES          1st TRANCHE                 FLOATING TRANCHE MEASURES
                                                  (X indicates disbursement or "star" conditions)            STATUS OF
                         MEASURES                                                                       IMPLEMENTATION
                             (Board                                                                      AND COMMENTS

                          Conditions)

                                                         Private Investment Climate                            Financial
                                                                                                         SectorInformation
                                                                                                                   and
                                                                                                          Communication
                                                                                                             Technology

MACROECO
NOMIC
FRAMEWOR
K

Maintain a stable    1.1. Meet the         1.2. Meet the performance indicators set out in Table 3. (X) Sound macroeconomic
macroeconomic        performance                                                                        framework maintained,
framework            indicators set out in                                                              with deviations to the
                     Table 3.                                                                           targets acceptable and
                                                                                                        likely to ensure
                                                                                                        convergence towards
                                                                                                        initial targets in the
                                                                                                        medium term

         Strengthen  2.1. Put in place a    2.2. Adopt an action plan for active public debt            Done, with World
         debt        unified, computerized  management.                                                 Bank report "strategy
         manageme    database on foreign                                                                for public debt
         nt          public and private                                                                 management"
                     debt.

         Strengthen  3.1. Publish the                                                                   Done
         the tax     Decree establishing
         base and    the National Taxation
         medium to   Council ("Conseil
         long-term   National de la
         fiscal      Fiscalité").




                                                                - 17 -

           sustainabil
           ity

PRIVATE
INVESTMEN
T CLIMATE

Promote private        4.1. Agree on terms    4.2. Finalize the study and adopt an Action Plan to promote   FIAS study. Follow-up
investment             of reference for the   private investment, based on the recommendations of the       Action plan only
                       study on promoting     study. (X)                                                    partially satisfactory to
                       private investment.                                                                  the Bank, as does not
                                                                                                            go far enough in
                                                                                                            leveling the playing
                                                                                                            field between on-shore
                                                                                                            and off-shore sectors.
                                                                                                            Condition substantially
                                                                                                            met with the
                                                                                                            understanding of
                                                                                                            follow-up discussions
                                                                                                            in the context of ECAL
                                                                                                            IV.

Improve relations      5.1. Submit the Code   5.2. Adopt implementation regulations described in the        Met, even if
between fiscal         of Fiscal Rights and   Code of Fiscal Rights and Procedures. (X)                     improvements
authorities and        Procedures to the                                                                    necessary to better
private enterprises    Chamber of                                                                           balance powers of the
                       Deputies.                                                                            tax administration.
                                                                                                            Issue under discussion
                                                                                                            in the context of ECAL
                                                                                                            IV.

Simplify procedures    6.1. Reduce, to a     6.2. Establish the interface between Tunisia Trade Net and    Met. Interface
for the startup and    maximum of thirty     Customs SINDA.                                                established in April
operation of private   days after submission                                                               2002.
enterprises and        of the exporter's
accelerate the         request, delays in the
customs clearance      reimbursement of
process                VAT credits.

                        7.1. Put in place     7.2. Reduce by 60 percent the number of administrative       Met, 80 % of the 5000
                        the system of a       authorizations which were required in 2000 to create private prior authorizations
                        single contact        companies.                                                   identified were repealed
                        person ("                                                                          or replaced by ex post
                        interlocuteur unique                                                               controls. More than 75
                        ") to authorize the                                                                % of related regulations
                        creation of sole                                                                   were modified. Website
                        proprietorships.                                                                   facilitating online
                                                                                                           company creation was
                                                                                                           set up.

Improve the            8.1. Submit the draft 8.2. Adopt implementing regulations for the Company Law.       Condition substantially
transparency and       Law on Corporate      Publish new accounting standards relating to the consolidation met as the Government
reliability of         Conglomerates to the of financial statements and the treatment of corporate          decided to go beyond
information on         Chamber of            conglomerates. (X)                                             initial plan and amend
companies              Deputies.                                                                            the law to address the
                                                                                                            identified
                                                                                                            shortcomings.
                                                                                                            Proposed amendment
                                                                                                            to the Law before
                                                                                                            Parliament.

                                                                                                           New accounting



                                                                   - 18 -

                                                                                                          standards were
                                                                                                          published, providing
                                                                                                          progress towards
                                                                                                          compliance with
                                                                                                          international standards.

Strengthen            9.1. Adopt an action  9.2. Implement the action plan on competition.                 Condition met: Law
institutional         plan to reinforce the                                                                amended, new
framework for         institutional                                                                        institutional setting for
competition           framework for                                                                        the Competition Code.
                      competition.                                                                         Training and
                                                                                                           workshops organized
                                                                                                           in parallel on
                                                                                                           Competition policy.

Pursue the policy of                        10.2. Launch the international bidding processes to sell all  Done. Transaction
Government                                  shares held by governmental entities in UIB and Banque du     completed during loan
disengagement from                          Sud. (X)                                                      implementation for the
the real and                                                                                              UIB. Transaction soon
financial sectors                                                                                         to be finalized for the
                                                                                                          Banque du Sud.

                                            11.2 Open at least 25 percent of the capital of one public      Waiver granted. The
                                            enterprise to a strategic investor. (X)                         enterprise to be
                                                                                                            privatized was
                                                                                                            selected by the
                                                                                                            bidding process has
                                                                                                            not been finalized.

                                            12.2. Agree on a strategy for private participation in        Study realized and
                                            infrastructure.                                               recommendations under
                                                                                                          discussion.

                                             13.2. Carry out a study on import monopolies. (X)            Condition substantially
                                                                                                          met. Study and follow-up
                                                                                                          Action plan not fully
                                                                                                          satisfactory. Dialogue
                                                                                                          continued in the context
                                                                                                          of ECAL IV.

  FINANCIAL
  SECTOR

  Continue
  achievements
  in             the
  financial
  sector

 Strengthen              14.1. Adopt, at                                                                   Done
 governance of           STB and BNA, the
 public banks            dual-board
                         management
                         structure ("
                         Directoire et
                         Conseil de
                         Surveillance").

Measures to clean        15.1. Submit to                                                                   Done
up the portfolios of     the Chamber of
credit institutions      Deputies a draft
                         amendment,



                                                                    - 19 -

and strengthen
provisioning      relating to loan
methods           recoveries, to the
                  Code of Civil and
                  Commercial
                  Procedures.

                  16.1. Extend until                .Done
                  2006 the right of
                  credit institutions
                  to take a tax
                  deduction for loan
                  loss provisions up
                  to 75 percent of
                  taxable income.

                                                   17.2. Based on
                                                   preliminary results from
                                                   the implementation of
                                                   amendments to the Code
                                                   of Civil and Commercial
                                                   Procedures, and on the
                                                   agreed conclusions of
                                                   the annual consultation
                                                   with the IMF (Article
                                                   IV), (i) carry out a study
                                                   to evaluate the expected
                                                   effects of the
                                                   above-referenced new
                                                   legislative environment,
                                                   and (ii) introduce, based
                                                   on this study, any
                                                   necessary new actions
                                                   which would accelerate
                                                   the recovery of bank
                                                   loans and collateral
                                                   foreclosure. (X)Study
                                                   undertaken by the
                                                   Central Bank. Impact of
                                                   the revised Code still to
                                                   be assessed, and study
                                                   fell short of
                                                   recommending further
                                                   action. Issue still under
                                                   discussion in the context
                                                   of ECAL IV.

                   18.1. Include in                    Done
                   the draft 2002
                   Finance Law an
                   amendment to the
                   Corporate Tax
                   Code relaxing the
                   conditions for
                   writing off
                   nonperforming
                   loans by reducing
                   to two years the
                   period during
                   which such loans
                   must have been



                                         - 20 -

                           inactive.

 Improve the                                                19.2. Put in place a
 transparency of                                            record of individuals'
 borrower                                                   credit histories ("
 information                                                Fichier des Crédits
 available to credit                                        aux Particuliers") at
 institutions                                               the BCT, in accordance
                                                            with new statutes.Done
                                                            even if some of the
                                                            nine foreseen registers
                                                            are still under
                                                            development. Main
                                                            register in place as of
                                                            September 2002 and
                                                            transmission of
                                                            information by banks
                                                            begun in December
                                                            2002.

                         20.1. Adopt BCT                    .Done, even if actual
                         regulation on                      implementation still
                         auditors'                          lagging
                         certification of
                         financial
                         statements and on
                         mandatory rating
                         or stock market
                         listing for all
                         corporations with
                         debt exceeding
                         specified limits.

 Risk                    21.1. Adopt BCT                    Done
 diversification         regulation
                         establishing a new
                         large risk
                         concentration
                         ratio.

           Strengthe  22.1. Launch studies                  22.2. Adopt an
           n the role (i) on the development                implementation plan
           of the     of capital markets and                for the accepted and
           financial  (ii) on the organization              approved
           market     and information                       recommendations
                      systems of the Conseil                based on the two
                      du Marché Financier                   studies on the
                      (CMF).                                CMF.Study undertaken
                                                            and transmitted to the
                                                            CMF. No final Action
                                                            plan approved by
                                                            CMF, including due to
                                                            delays stemming from
                                                            changes in top
                                                            management of the
                                                            CMF.

Strengthening
the insurance
sector with a
view to


                                                  - 21 -

liberalization

Strengthen legal       23.1. Submit to                  Done, still before
framework and          the Chamber of                   Parliament.
regulatory             Deputies a draft
supervision            law amending the
                       Insurance Code.

                      24.1. Sign the                    Done
                      decree separating,
                      at the Direction
                      Générale des
                      Assurances
                      (DGA), the
                      authority of the
                      line ministry [as
                      owner of the state
                      insurance
                      companies] from
                      the supervisory
                      authority.

                   25.1. Agree on a                    25.2. Put in place the
                   time-bound Action                   human resources and
                   Plan to strengthen the              equipment necessary for
                   DGA's human                         the DGA to exercise its
                   resources and                       supervisory functions, in
                   equipment to exercise               accordance with the
                   its supervisory                     Action Plan. (X)Done.
                   functions.                          New recruitments
                                                       undertaken and first
                                                       on-site controls realized.
                                                       Guidebook for controls
                                                       prepared with AfDB
                                                       support.

 Eliminate the        26.1. Increase                   26.2. Increase
 deficit of the       automobile                       automobile insurance
 automobile branch    insurance                        premiums (civil
 (civil               premiums (civil                  responsibility) by 3
 responsibility)      responsibility) by               percent in 2002.
                      at least 8 percent.              Develop a medium-term
                                                       action plan with the
                                                       objective of eliminating
                                                       the deficit of the
                                                       automobile insurance
                                                       branch (civil
                                                       responsibility). (X)
                                                       Done. Medium term
                                                       Action plan approved in
                                                       July 2003, building both
                                                       on tariffs increases and
                                                       preventive measures to
                                                       reduce the occurrence of
                                                       car accidents.

                                                        27.2 Submit to the
                                                        Chamber of Deputies
                                                        draft amendments to
                                                        Laws 60-21 of
                                                        11/30/1960 and 62-23




                                             - 22 -

                                                            of 8/30/1962 with the
                                                            objective of creating a
                                                            new system of
                                                            indemnification. (X)
                                                            Done. Draft Law still
                                                            before Parliament.

           Strengthe                                        28.2. Modify the tax
           n the life                                       treatment and social
           insurance                                        charges related to
           branch                                           group life insurance
                                                            premiums by putting in
                                                            place an exemption
                                                            which is both fiscal
                                                            and linked to social
                                                            charges, up to a
                                                            pre-established
                                                            ceiling.Done through
                                                            2002 Budget Law.

           Restructu  29.1. Present                         29.2. Launch the
           ring of    technically acceptable                restructuring of the
           troubled   restructuring scenarios,              most troubled
           insurance  which exclude prior                   insurance company;
           companie   recourse to the                       develop corrective
           s          resources of the                      plans for the insurance
                      Guarantee Fund, for                   companies which are
                      the most troubled                     under-capitalized and
                      insurance company in                  under-provisioned. (X)
                      the market.                           Done. El Ittihad
                                                            insurance company
                                                            restructured, without
                                                            recourse to the
                                                            Guarantee Fund.
                                                            Change of status
                                                            (mutuelle) for the new
                                                            company, under close
                                                            supervision (potential
                                                            need going forward to
                                                            keep track of its
                                                            commercial practices
                                                            and market share).

INFORMATIO
N AND
COMMUNICA
TION
TECHNOLOGI
ES


Develop an ICT                                                 30.2. Prepare and
sectoral policy                                                publish a
promoting private                                              medium-term
participation in this                                          (2001-2006)
sector                                                         liberalization plan
                                                               for the ICT sector
                                                               and select an
                                                               investment bank to
                                                               support the



                                                  - 23 -

                                                          administration in
                                                          granting at least
                                                          one data license.
                                                          (X)Done. Decision
                                                          to have recourse to
                                                          en expert instead of
                                                          an investment bank
                                                          to prepare the
                                                          granting of one data
                                                          license.

Strengthen the legal   31.1. Adopt                        Done.
and regulatory         implementation
framework for ICT      regulations for the
                       new
                       Telecommunicatio
                       ns Code:
                      (i) Decree on
                      interconnection;
                      (ii)Decree on rights
                      of way;
                      (iii)         Decree
                      on the approval of
                      telecom equipment;
                       (iv) "Arrêté" on
                       numbering.

                       32.1. Create a                     32.2. Submit to the
                       National                           Chamber of
                       Telecommunicatio                   Deputies a draft
                       ns Agency ["INT"]                  law amending the
                       (independent                       Telecommunication
                       organization) and a                s Code concerning
                       National                           the status and
                       Frequencies                        autonomy of INT.
                       Agency (under the                  (X)Done
                       authority of the
                       Ministry of
                       Communication
                       Technologies).
                       Submit to lenders
                       the draft
                       amendment to the
                       Telecommunicatio
                       ns Code concerning
                       the status and
                       autonomy of INT.

                       33.1. Adopt the                  Done
                       Law concerning
                       exchanges and
                       electronic
                       commerce. Adopt
                       implementation
                       regulations for the
                       Law concerning
                       exchanges and
                       electronic
                       commerce,
                       including the
                       clauses on the



                                              - 24 -

                       protection of
                       personal data.

                     34.1 Publish a decree                  Done
                     establishing the
                     financial and
                     administrative
                     organization and the
                     operating rules for the
                     national agency in
                     charge of providing
                     electronic certification
                     licenses.

Introduce effective    35.1. Prepare                        Done
competition in         terms and
telecommunications     conditions for
.                      providers of
                       electronic
                       certification, and
                       publish an "arrêté"
                       indicating the
                       technical
                       specifications for
                       electronic
                       certificates.

                     36.1. Launch (i) an                    36.2. Grant a second
                     international bidding                  GSM license through a
                     process for the                        competitive and
                     granting of a second                   transparent bidding
                     GSM license and (ii)                   process; publish an
                     a consultation for the                 interconnection offer
                     selection of an                        by Tunisie Telecom,
                     investment bank of                     referencing
                     international repute                   international standards
                     to support the                         and approved by INT. (
                     administration in the                  X)Second License
                     context of this sales                  granted in April 2002.
                     operation.                             Condition not met
                                                            (leading to tranche
                                                            cancellation) as the
                                                            Bank was not satisfied
                                                            of the transparency of
                                                            the bidding process.

                                                           Interconnection offer
                                                           published early 2002.

                     37.1. Prepare terms                    37.2. Select, following
                     of reference for the                   an international
                     selection of a                         bidding process, the
                     consulting firm in                     consulting firm in
                     charge of putting in                   charge of putting in
                     place a cost                           place a cost accounting
                     accounting system at                   system at Tunisie
                     Tunisie Telecom.                       Telecom.Done




                                                 - 25 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project costs and financing are not directly applicable to adjustment operations. It is difficult to track the
net cost to budget of the various policy measures supported by the operation. The total amount of the
operation was equivalent USD 252.5 millions. The first tranche amounted to USD 130 millions and each of
the floating tranch to USD 40 millions. The capitalized front-end fee was USD 2,5 millions.




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits




                                      - 27 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                        No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                            (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year      Count             Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               10/15/2000                     10    PSD SPEC./TTL (1);                    S               S
                                                    FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
               4/23/2001                            PSD SPEC./TTL (1);                    S               S


 Supervision

               03/14/2002                      3    PSD SPEC./TTL (1);                    S               S
                                                    INSURANCE (1); FINANCIAL
                                                    SPECIALIST (1)
               07/26/2002                      2    PSD SPEC. / TTL (1);                  S               S
                                                    INSURANCE (1)
               12/27/2002                      2    PSD SPEC./TTL (1); SECTOR             S               S
                                                    MGR/MISSION LDR (1)
               05/15/2003                      3    PSD SPECIALIST (1); TEAM              S               S
                                                    LEADER (1);
                                                    FINANCIAL/INSURANCE (1)
               10/09/2003                      1    PSD SPECIALIST (1)                    S               S


 ICR
               03/16/2004                      1     PSD/FINANCIAL
                                                     SPECIALIST



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                         Actual/Latest Estimate
                                         No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                                 675 (1)
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                                                                    273
  ICR                                                                             25
  Total                                                                      973 (2)
(1) this covers the combined expenses from identification to Board approval
(2) this is Bank budget direct cost. Supervision amount does not include CTF expenses totalling about $
32,000.




                                                     - 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Memorandum and Recommandation of the President, Republic of Tunisia, Third Economic
Competitiveness Adjustment Loan. World Bank Report P-7489-TUN dated November 27, 2001.
2. Tranche release memo.
3. Project supervision files.




                                             - 31 -

- 32 -

