Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16786
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
Limassol-Amathus Sewerage and Drainage Project
(Loan 3222-CY)
June 25, 1997
Infrastructure Division
Southeastern Europe Department
Europe and Central Asia
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                         Cyprus Pounds (F. Cyp)
1992           1993           1994            1995           1996
US$ 1.00 =            0.450           0.490          0.497           0.446          0.440
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                                                        UsSystem
I meter (m)                                                         3.281 feet
I kilometer (km)                                                     0.621 miles
I square kilometer (km2)                                             0.386 square miles
I metric tonne (m. ton)                                              0.984 long ton
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOD5  -  Five Day Biochemical Oxygen Demand
CERF   -  Council of Europe Resettlement Fund
EIB   -  European Investment Bank
IBRD   -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA   -  International Development Association
MOF   -  Ministry of Finance
PIU   -  Project Implementation Unit
SBLA   -  Sewerage Board of Limassol-Amathus
SOE   -  Statement of Expenditures
SS   -  Suspended Solids
STP   -  Sewage Treatment Plant
TTP   -  Tertiary Treatment Plant
CYPRUS FISCAL YEAR
(January I to December 31 }
Vice President:  Mr. Johannes Linn, ECA
Director:  Mr. Kenneth Lay, ECI
Division Chief:  Mr. Ricardo Halperin, ECIIN
Responsible Staff:  World Bank Team - Anita George (Task Teani Leader and Financial Analyst), Takao
Ikegami (Sanitary Engineer), Lea Donaldson (Sanitary Engineer); Borrower Team -
Mr. lacovos Papaiacovou (General Manager) and Mr. Angelos Christou (Engineer),
Sewerage Board of Limassol-Amathus.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
Limassol-Amathus Sewerage and Drainage Project
Loan 3222-CY
Table of Contents
PREFA CE   .. . . . .     . . . . .   . . . . .    . . . .   . . . . .   . . . . .   . . . . .   . . . .   . . . . .    . . . . .   . .  . .
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...................................................                                                                      ii
PART 1. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ....................................................I
A. PROJECT BACKGROUND ...................................................                                                                   I
B. PROJECT DESIGN AND OBJECTIVES ...................................................                                                        2
C. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING: ...................................................                                                         3
D. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE ...................................................                                                            4
E. PROJECT RESULTS ...................................................                                                                      5
F. PERFORMANCE OF PROJECT EXECUTING AGENCY ...................................................  7
G. BANK PERFORMANCE ...................................................                                                                     8
PART 11. STATISTICAL TABLES ................................................... 10
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS .                                                                                                          II
TABLE 2:                       RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS .13
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE .14
TABLE 4:  LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL (US$ THOUSANDS)                                                       14
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATI ORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION.                                                                                        5
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION.                                                                                             16
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT.                                                                                                      1 7
TABLE8A: PROJECT COSTS  ...................................................1 8
TABLE 8B: PROJEC T FINANCING ...................................................                                                           19
TABLE 9:   ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS ................................................... 20
TABLE 10:  STATIUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ...................................................                                                  21
TABLE II:  COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS .................................................... 23
TABLE 12:  BANK RESOURCES:  MISSIONS ................................................... 24
TABLE 13:  BANK RESOURCES:  STAFF INPUTS ..................................................... 25
Appendixes:
A. Mission's aide-memnoire
B. Borrower contribution to the ICR
C. Miscellaneous appendixes
D. Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
LIMASSOL-AMATHUS SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE PROJECT {LOAN NO. 3222-CY}
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Limassol-Amathus Sewerage and
Drainage Project in Cyprus, for which Loan 3222-CY in the amount of US$25 million equivalent was
approved on September 12, 1990 and made effective on December 11, 1990.
Although the Loan 3222-CY was fully disbursed on April 11, 1996 the project's objectives were
fully realized only by February, 1997. The original loan closing date for this project is June 30, 1998.
Co-financing for the project was provided by the Council of Europe's Resettlement Fund (CERF).
The ICR was prepared jointly by Anita George (EC I IN) and by the borrower, the Sewerage
Board of Limassol-Amathus (SBLA) with contributions from the task team members, including
Mr. Takao Ikegami (Sanitary Engineer) and Ms. Lea Donaldson (Sanitary Engineer). The ICR has been
reviewed by Mr. Ricardo Halperin (Chief, Infrastructure Operations, ECIIN) and Mr. George Zaidan
(Project Advisor, EC I DR).  The Borrower team, comprising Mr. Iacovos Papaiacovou (General
Manager, SBLA) and Mr. Angelos Christou (Chief Engineer, SBLA) contributed considerably to the
successful completion of the project and to the writing of the ICR. The Borrowers also made a Bank-
wide presentation regarding the lessons learned from the Project and recommendations on improving
project implementation. The Borrower's comments are attached as Appendix B to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun after a presentation by the Borrower on October 31, 1996, in
Washington DC, regarding the problems faced and lessons learned from the project. The ICR is based
on material in the project file, including aide-memoires from past supervision missions.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
LIMASSOL-AMATHUS SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
LOAN NO. 3222-CY
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
I.    The Limassol-Amathus Sewerage and Drainage Project services a population of 125,000
residents, rising to above 200,000 during the peak tourist season. Limassol is the second largest urban
area in Cyprus, and one of its most important tourist sites. In 1984, the Bank approved a loan (Loan
2211 -CY) for financing a sewerage and drainage network and treatment facility in the Limassol area.
However, due to disagreement on the location of the Sewerage Treatment Plant, the project did not
progress and the loan was canceled in 1987. After considerable consultation with leaders of the
surrounding communities, an alternative site was located and a new project appraised for which a loan
of US$25 million was made to the Sewerage Board of Limassol and Amathus (SBLA) in 1990. The
original project closing date was June 30, 1998. Physical construction was completed and the loan fully
disbursed by May, 1996, while the main financial and institutional objectives of the project were
successfully achieved by February, 1997.
2.    To make the ICR process participatory, in October, 1996, the Chairman and the General
Manager of the Sewerage Board of Limassol-Amathus (SBLA) visited Washington DC, to present to a
Bankwide audience their observations and the lessons learned from the project. The Borrower's
contribution to the ICR is given in Appendix B.
Project Objectives
3.    The Project objectives, as presented in the Staff Appraisal Report of May 14, 1990, were as
follows:
(i)   to provide a safe, reliable system for the disposal of human, commercial and industrial
waste water; and thereby eliminate the nuisance and health risks, including the threat to
the area's water supply and important tourist industry, that arise from the present
unsatisfactory disposal arrangements;
(ii)   to provide key elements of a stormwater drainage system in areas subject to severe
flooding during the rainy season, which causes damage and disrupts commercial,
industrial and other activities;
(iii)  to contribute to improved environmental management by identifying and promoting the
optimum use of sewage effluent and sewage sludge in the project area; and
(iv)   to strengthen the institutional capacity of the SBLA, which at the time only had a
nucleus of staff.



- iii -
The project was designed to meet the sewerage needs of the Greater Limassol area up to the year 2010,
in two phases. The first phase (Phase 1) was to construct a sewage network, including laterals and main
sewers, main interceptor, pumping stations and basic storm water drainage for part of the Greater
Limassol area. Also, a sewage treatment plant (STP) of 23,600 m3/day, a sea-outfall, environmental
studies on sludge and effluent reuse, and consultant services for project implementation and institution
building were envisaged. Construction was to be completed in December, 1997, and the facility was to
begin operations before June 30, 1998, the official loan closing date. The Bank loan helped to finance
this first phase.
Implementation Experience and Results
Overall, the project has been successfully implemented with physical construction being
completed almost two years before schedule, despite the addition of a Government-financed tertiary
treatment and effluent re-use network. Achievement of the institutional and financial objectives took
some additional time, but they are now well established.
The implementation problems faced during the construction phase of the project were both
technical and commercial in nature. The technical problems can be summarized as follows:
Problem                                         Solution
(i)  relocation  of STP  site  due  to  public      The Government paid for the additional costs
opposition;                                     arising from  relocation of STP site 1500
meters eastward of the current site.
(ii) the re-alignment of the main collector due to  SBLA decided to re-align the main collector,
opposition by hoteliers whose properties were  taking into account the opinion of affected
in the path of the planned route;              hoteliers. The Government agreed to finance
the additional costs of re-routing.
(iii) diversion  of the  main  collector due to     Government paid the additional costs of the
antiquities found in the ancient Amathus area;  diversion tunnel created to safeguard the
antiquities.
The relocation of site, the re-alignment of the main collector and building the diversion tunnel,
coupled with the imposition of the value added tax, resulted in the project costs increasing from the
estimated US$69 million to over US$85 million . The delays in construction caused by the above
mentioned problems were overcome by accelerating the construction schedule such that the entire
system, including the tertiary STP, was completed and operational by July, 1996. This is a noteworthy
achievement of SBLA management and staff. The standards for effluent quality at the secondary and
tertiary stage of treatment have been met. Minor problems of odor at the pumping station have been
controlled through the effective use of chemicals.
The commercial problems were related primarily with the lack of acceptance of the project by
particular users such as the major hoteliers in the Limassol-Amathus area. In particular, sewerage
I SBLA is currently in the process of negotiating claims from contractors which could range anywhere between
US$1 million to US$5 million. SBLA expects settlement at around US$1-2 million.



- iv -
charges were perceived as a new form of taxation and there was considerable resistance especially during
the first two years of construction, before the system became operational. The hoteliers, especially the
ones that had already invested in their own biological treatment plants, believed that they were being
asked to make a double investment. Also the rates for hotels were almost four times those charged for the
population at large and two times those charged to industry. However, the actions of SBLA staff and the
support of the Board members, and close follow-up by Bank staff, resulted in the issue being resolved in
February, 1997, with SBLA winning court cases at the High Court and Supreme Court which now legally
establish the obligation of all hotels to pay their sewage dues. Similarly, it was consistently difficult for
the SBLA to collect dues from Government institutions since it was contested whether the Government
could be made liable to pay sewerage rates which were argued to be equivalent to taxes. The Sewerage
Law of 1971 (that governs the Sewerage Boards in Cyprus) was amended in 1995 to explicitly state that
the Government is required to pay sewerage dues. As of May, 1997, the Government had also paid up
most of its dues, and, in future, payment from the Government is not expected to pose any problems.
The delays in payment by two major groups of users resulted in difficult cash flow problems for
SBLA during the heavy investmenit expenditure phase 1992 to 1994, and SBLA was unable to meet the
self-finanlcing ratio covenanit of the Loan Agreement. However, SBLA expanded the project area and
corresponding increased collection of dues as well as rescheduled Government debt and all these
measures allowed it to make a modest contribution to investment during the years 1992 to 1994; by 1995
SBLA exceeded the self-financing ratio target of 20%. (Refer Table 6 on Key Monitoring Indicators for
Project Operation). The debt-service coverage ratio throughout the project was lower than expected, but
above 1.2 in each year.
The Limassol-Amathus project provides several useful lessons.  The primary one is the
importance of public acceptance of waste treatment facilities. Despite the overall positive benefits of
such facilities, the "not-in-my-backyard" principle has led to almost every site being vulnerable to public
opposition at any tine through the course of the project life. SBLA has learned this lesson through the
course of the project and increasingly used public relations measures to create greater public
acceptability. SBLA sponsored radio and television programs to emphasize the benefits of managed
sewage systems and the cost of the lack of such systems, in the form of illegal dumping and need for
additional policing. For the Bank, the experience from this project, underlines the use of a more
participatory approach of site selection and ensuring that all legal hurdles to the utilization of the selected
site have been overcome before the loan is approved. Although there was considerable amount of public
consultation carried out by the Borrower, as described in the Borrower's contribution in Appendix B, it
was more reactive than proactive and therefore proved inadequate among certain customers.  The
Borrower has suggested an approach to streamline the procurement process of the Bank which is
described in paragraph 25 of this ICR and in the Borrower's contribution in Appendix B.
The economic rate of return (ERR) for the project is 12% (taking into account only the secondary
level of treatment considered in SAR), is lower than the SAR projection of 17.6%2, due to the 20%
increase in capital costs, and the higher than expected operation and maintenance costs. However, it is
still above the estimated opportunity cost of capital. The assumptions on stream of costs and benefits
follow ones used in the SAR for consistency. As noted in the SAR, the ERR calculation is very
conservative since it excludes many benefits that are difficult to quantify, in particular, the project
provides the first operating treatment facility that allows for re-use of treated effluent in Cyprus, and it
2 However, a re-calculation of the ERR using the same stream of net benefits as shown in the SAR, yields an ERR
of 16%, which may suggest a computation error (or a misprint of some of the figures used). Unfortunately, the
worksheets could not be located in regional files.



v -
corrected the problem of untreated effluent being dumped or leaking into the sea. For Cyprus, the
Mediterranean Sea is a very valuable asset that enables it to sustain the tourism industry, the largest
foreign exchange earner in Cyprus. The groundwater sources which had started to be at risk of getting
polluted due to seepage and leakage of untreated effluent is also protected and provides better quality
water supply to the citizens and tourists. Also, as an extremely water scarce society, the treated effluent
provides an alternative source of water for agriculture and other sectors.
The institutional capacity of SBLA has increased considerably from the start of the project, when
there was only a small nucleus of staff. The highly qualified and committed core staff of SBLA, in
particular, the General Manager and Chief Engineer, with the support of their Board members, were
instrumental in building up institutional capacity which led to successful completion of the project.
SBLA has secured financing from the European Investment Bank (EIB) and commenced implementation
of Phase 11 of the project.
The table below summarizes the project objectives and the specific results achieved.
PrQoiect Obective                              Project Results
(i)  to provide a safe, reliable system  for the  (i) the project is currently able to serve 36% of
disposal of human, commercial and industrial  the population higher than the planned 33%.
waste water.                                  Connection to a well run system with reuse of
effluent, has begun to minimize disposal of
untreated effluent into the sea and increasing
water availability in the area. The reduction of
septic sewage in the Vati disposal area
protects the Polemidia Dam and improves the
general sanitation and hygiene of the area.
(ii) to provide key elements of a stormwater (ii) the main storm water drainage network has
drainage system  in areas subject to severe   been constructed and the flooding problem
flooding.                                     experienced in the area in the past has been
eliminated. A storm drainage Master Plan has
also been prepared and distributed to all
interested local authorities as a general
guideline document for the region.
(iii) to  contribute to  improved  environmental (iii) the  project, with  the  addition  of the
management by identifying and promoting the   Government financed tertiary treatment plant
optimum use of sewage effluent and sewage     and irrigation network, had an environmental
sludge in the project area.                   impact beyond what was expected. A number
of studies including an environmental study
for the location of the STP, optimal disposal
of effluent, effluent and sludge reuse etc. have
been carried out contributing to the overall
environmental management capacity in the
area. The quality of bathing waters on the
beach has improved and meets national and
international standards. Also prior to the
project, the individual septic sewage was



- vi -
being disposed at the Vati disposal area. This
has now been reduced by half, reducing the
environmental problems near Polemidia Dam.
(iv) to strengthen the institutional capacity of the  (iv) SBLA  made significant improvements in
SBLA.                                         institutional capacity. Most of the key staff
are in place and many have benefited from
training. SBLA had a successful twinning
with Thames Water International(UK) which
allowed interaction of key SBLA staff with
international  professionals  in  the  field.
Subcontracting services from the private
sector used for project management and
technical services for plant maintenance,
sludge management and security.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
LIMASSOL-AMATHUS SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment
A.    Project Background
I.    The Limassol-Amathus Project and the Bank's past involvement in the water and sewerage
sector reflects the importance of these two sectors to the economy and tourist industry in Cyprus. Water
resources available to Cyprus are scarce and their rational management and development is critical to
efficient economic development. The treatment of wastewater and its re-use has become a key part of
the strategy of water resources and environmental management. The successive projects of the Bank,
including the Limassol-Amathus Project, have contributed to this strategy.
2.     The first loan for collection and treatment of wastewater in Cyprus dates back to 1971 with the
Nicosia Sewerage Project (Ln. 729-CY) and Famagusta Sewerage and Drainage Project (Ln. 730-CY).
These projects provided for sewage collection and disposal facilities. However, due to the events that
took place in 1974, the implementation of both projects was suspended. The Nicosia project (Ln. 729-
CY) was subsequently completed and operations began in 1980, and today the Nicosia Sewerage and
Drainage Board is an efficient, financially viable and well functioning utility. The Famagusta loan (Ln.
730-CY) was closed in 1981 and the works remain to be completed, since Famagusta is currently part of
the Turkish controlled territory in the north of the island. The Bank also assisted in the implementation
of two multi-purpose water resource development projects -- the Vasilikos- Pendaskinos (Ln. 1658-CY,
completed in 1987) and the Southern Conveyor Projects for water resource development (SCPI Ln 2386-
CY - completed in 1991) and the Southern Conveyor Project - Phase 11 (SCPI LN 2914-CY) completed
in December, 1996. Following the Limassol-Amathus Project, in 1991, the Bank made its last loans to
the sector, the Southeast Coast Sewerage and Drainage Project (Ln 3398, 3399 and 3400-CY), under one
project designed to build sewerage and drainage networks and STPs serving three municipalities on the
Southeastern Mediterranean coast; the Larnaca component (Ln. 3398-CY) of this project is being
implemented satisfactorily, and the other two loans (Lns. 3399 and 3400-CY) are expected to be
canceled due to re-financing from the European Investment Bank(EIB) on more favorable terms. In
addition, at the request of the Government, the Bank carried out a sector study on Water Resources
Management which was completed in 1995.
3.     The Limassol-Amathus Sewerage and Drainage Project is part of a first phase, Phase l, of a
program to provide sewerage and drainage systems in the Limassol-Amathus area. The southern coastal
town of Limassol along the Akrotiri Bay, has a population of 125,000 which increases to above 200,000
during tourist season. (Map presented in Appendix D). The Greater Limassol area which is considered
the total project area, has a population of 200,000 and is the second largest urban area in Cyprus and one
of the principal tourist sites. Prior to the project, the town had no central sewerage system and the
population was served by individual disposal units consisting of septic tanks and percolation pits, and in
some cases by small biological package treatment plants. Although a similar project was appraised in
1984, because of strong local opposition to the siting of the Sewage Treatment Plant (STP), that project
was not implemented and no disbursements were made, and the loan was canceled in 1987.



-2 -
B.    Project Design and Objectives
4.    In 1990, the Government requested a new appraisal based on a new site for the treatment plant,
to which the Bank agreed and a loan of US$25 million was eventually made to SBLA. The project was
designed to meet the sewerage and drainage needs of the area up to the year 2010, and followed the basic
strategy laid out in the Master Plan for Sewerage and Drainage for Limassol and the feasibility study for
the project that was prepared in 1989. Originally, the project design did not include the tertiary treatment
plant (TTP) or the re-use network. Although at project preparation it was considered that tertiary
treatment and effluent re-use in a water scarce economy such as Cyprus was desirable, it was agreed at
that time that tertiary treatment would have been too expensive for the municipality to fund on its own.
Subsequently, during the preparation of the Southeast Coast Sewerage and Drainage project (Lns.
3398,3399,3400-CY), in discussions with the Government, it was decided that this project would include
tertiary treatment and a re-use network, which would be fully financed by the Government. SBLA was
quick to take advantage of the Government's willingness to finance tertiary treatment and revised the
original project design to include a TTP and the re-use network. The sea-outfall planned under the
project was re-designed and constructed as an emergency outfall to be used if and when treated effluent
cannot be re-used.
5.     The Project objectives as defined in the Staff Appraisal Report of May 14, 1990, were as
follows:
(a)   to provide a safe, reliable system for the disposal of human, commercial and industrial
waste water; and thereby eliminate the nuisance and health risks, including the threat to
the areas's water supply and important tourist industry, that arise from the present
unsatisfactory disposal arrangements;
(b)   to provide key elements of a stormwater drainage system in areas subject to severe
flooding during the rainy season, which causes damage and disrupts commercial,
industrial and other activities;
(c)   to contribute to improved environmental management by identifying and promoting the
optimum use of sewage effluent and sewage sludge in the project area; and
(d)   to strengthen the institutional capacity of the SBLA, which at the time only had a
nucleus of staff.
6.     The project proposed a six year construction period (1991 to 1997) for Phase I which would
include the following major components:
(i)    a sewage collection system consisting of about 152 kilometers (km) of laterals and main
sewers, in sizes from 150-300 millimeters (mm) diameter, and about 9,000 service
connections to be progressively implemented by 1999;
(ii)    a collector sewer, i.e. main interceptor/force main consisting of about 20 km of sewer
pipe varying in size from 400 to 1300 mm diameter;
(iii)  five pumping stations;
(iv)   sewage treatment plant of 23, 600 m3/day capacity;



- 3 -
(v)    a 900 mm dia. Sea outfall, of total length 2,100 m (1,500m land, 600 m sea section);
(vi)   upgrading the existing storm drainage system by provision of about 21 km of storm
drains throughout the SBLA area, and improvements to existing drainage catchment
basins and inlet structures to drains;
(vii)  operation and maintenance equipment for the sewerage and drainage systems;
(viii)  consultant services for project implementation, including institutional development of
SBLA and updating of the master plan for drainage; and
(ix)   study of the environmental impact of the effluent outfall to determine the design of the
outfall, and ensure an effluent of acceptable quality.
7.     The works to be constructed in Phase II would consist of additional lateral and main sewer
extensions to the collection system, expansion of the sewage treatment plant, and additional equipment
for the pumping stations.
8.     During implementation the Bank staff and Borrower worked closely to deal with the practical
problems that arose and in doing so some aspects of the original project design were changed without
affecting the jointly agreed objectives of the project. Some of the changes, described in Paragraph D
resulted from the change in the treatment plant site, re-routing the main collector due to the request of
some hoteliers whose properties were to be crossed, and due to the antiquities found on the original path
of the main collector, and extension of the covered project area. However, some other changes, such as
the addition of the tertiary treatment plant (financed by the Government) increased costs but also resulted
in a better thani planined environimental impact and increased the possibility of effluent and sludge re-use.
C.    Project Costs and Financing:
9.     Details on planned and actual project costs and financing for the project is shown in the
Statistical Annex, Tables 5 and 6. The original project costs for Phase I of the project increased by 22.5%
from the estimated US$69.1 to US$84.7 million(excluding the costs of the tertiary treatment plant and
re-use network whiichi were not included in the original project costs). The main reasons for the increase
in project costs are explained in the section on Implementation Experience (given below) and can be
summarized as follows:
Reason for Cost Increase             Cost Increase (US$ m)
Construction of Amathus Tunnel                4.2
Re-location of the STP                        4.6
Re-alignment of Main Collector                1.0
lImposition of VAT in 1992                    5 0
Total                                        14.8
The increases arising from the relocation of the STP and partly for the Amathus Tunnel were financed by
the Government (US$6 million equivalent from its own resources and US$3.7 million equivalent from
loan to the Government from the Social Development Fund of the Council of Europe). The remaining



-4 -
increases were funded from the Social Development Fund of the Council of Europe (US$4.0) and
SBLA's own resources (US$1.1 million).
D.    Implementation Experience
10.    During the construction period (1992 to 1995) there were several technical and commercial
problems faced by the SBLA. The technical problems included:
(i)    Relocation of the Sewerage Treatment Plant (STP) and realignment of the main collector
resulted in delays and additional costs. The additional costs of STP relocation was
borne by the Government.
(ii)    Antiquities were found in many places during construction and required diversions
which added to project cost . Remarkable is the fact that despite the resulting delays the
construction was completed almost two years prior to the anticipated completion date.
(iii)   Given the narrow streets, particularly in the older sections of the town, temporary roads
for traffic diversions had to be constructed in many instances.
(iv)   Underground utilities such as electricity, telephone and water caused some technical
problems resulting in delays and additional costs.
(v)    Land acquisition (right-of-way) caused delays.
(vi)   System commissioning problems experienced during the initial stages including odor
problems.
11.   The major commercial problem faced by the borrower was the non-payment of sewage bills.
The revenue projections of the SBLA included three major user groups - households, hotels and hotel
apartments and Government. The sewage rates were charged starting in 1991, even before construction
of the project began. While the population at large paid their dues on time, hoteliers, many of who had
their own biological treatment plants, felt they were paying for a service in advance of delivery, and that
they were making double investment. Also the rates to hotels were almost four times those charged for
the population at large and two times those charged to industry. From 1992 onwards, the hoteliers, with
some exceptions, decided to abstain from paying their dues. The Government also delayed on its
payments, in some cases because of technicalities (such as responsibilities on payments of dues on
properties with a long term lease agreement with refugees), but also because of disputes on whether
Government was required to pay. It was argued that since sewer rates are based on property values, they
were equivalent to taxes, that government institutions are exempt from paying. SBLA also experienced
delays in reimbursement of payments on relocation and the diversion tunnel expenses and the tertiary
treatment plant. The next section explains how SBLA addressed the technical and commercial problems
faced during implementation.
The Government also delayed oln its payments, in some cases because of technicalities (such as
responsibilities on payments of dues on properties with a long term lease agreement with refugees), but
also because of disputes on whether Government was required to pay. It was argued that since sewer
rates are based on property values, they were equivalent to taxes, that government institutions are exempt
from paying. However, as suggested by the Bank and due to the efforts of the SBLA, the Sewerage Law
was changed in 1995, which clarifies the responsibility of the Government to pay sewer rates. SBLA



- 5 -
also experienced delays in reimbursement of payments on site relocation and the diversion tunnel
expenses and the tertiary treatment plant.
E.    Project Results
12.    The major objectives of this project have been met and overall the outcome of the project is
highly satisfactory. The physical works were completed almost two years ahead of the loan closing date.
The more challenging institutional and financial aspects of the project took a somewhat longer period,
but nonetheless were also attained. The fact that the institutional and financial objectives of the project
have been met underlines the sustainability of the achievements of this project.
13.    The first phase of operation of the treatment plant and network was launched in December 1995.
The wastewater treatment plant facilities provide for removal of grit, oil grease and large solids in the
primary stage, followed by secondary biological treatment (oxidation ditch system). The sludge is
anaerobically digested and dewatered on belt presses. Gas produced in the digestion process will be used
to heat the digesters. The secondary treatment plant meets the design criteria of effluent with a 5-day
Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD5) of 20 mg/I and total Suspended Solids (SS) of 20mg/I. The mean
flow rate at the first phase is estimated at about 22,000 m3/day and it is expected to go up to 48,205
m3/day at the ultimate stage. Tertiary treatment is achieved through sand filtration and chlorination
process. The biological load of the effluent achieved after the tertiary treatment is 5mg/i of BOD5 and 5
mg/I of SS, which is higher than the design criteria of I Omg/I or less for both parameters.
14.    The house connections (8,700) up to the property boundaries have been completed. The cost of
construction of the house connection within the property boundaries is borne by the property owner. So
far the rate of connections within the property boundaries is 4,000 (as of March, 1997) which is higher
than the targeted level. According to the Master Plan the house connections are to be completed by
1999. However, SBLA launched a major publicity campaign to encourage further acceleration in house
connection, since the treatment facilities have been completed ahead of schedule. Most of the hotels
situated along the touristic coastal area have been connected to the system. There has been a perceptible
improvement with the odor and other nuisance problems in the area and it is believed that health and
hygienic conditions will improve as well. The volume of septic sewage disposed under the old system at
the Vati disposal area by tankers, has been reduced by more than half. It is expected that as the house
connections to the system continue to increase, the volume of effluent disposed at the area shall reduce
dramatically and resolve the environmental problem in the area and nearby Polemidia dam.
15.    The key storm  water drainage network has been constructed and the flooding problems
experienced in selected areas in the past have been eliminated. A second phase for extending the storm
drainage works is underway. A storm drainage Master Plan was also prepared and is publicly available.
The project has certainly improved management of the environment through the centralized sewage
treatment and the Government, by financing the tertiary treatment plant and irrigation network has
allowed for re-use of the treated effluent. The quality of bathing waters of the beaches of Limassol meet
all relevant national and international standards.
16.   On the commercial side, the Bank followed up during each supervision mission on the progress
on collection of dues, particularly from the hotels and the Government. SBLA took the politically
difficult decision to take the non-paying hoteliers to court. The case went through the Lower, Higher and
Supreme Court. Finally, on February 7, 1997, SBLA informed the Bank that the Supreme Court had
ruled the case in favor of SBLA, and the hoteliers were asked to pay all past and future dues. SBLA is



-6-
now in the process of working out payment arrangements with the hoteliers which will enable them to
recuperate the previous lost dues as well as surcharge on these dues. The payment issue with the
Government was also resolved with the Government amending the Sewerage Board Law of 1971 to
incorporate explicitly that the Government was liable to pay sewerage rates.
17.    The financial performance of SBLA was stable though at less than targeted levels, primarily due
to the huge receivables that accumulated due to non-payment by the Government and hotels. The
acceleration in construction and subsequent concentration of draw down on loans in the years 1993 to
1995, also contributed to a drop in the debt service coverage ratio below targeted levels. Similarly, the
self-financing ratio was also below the targeted levels. However, SBLA managed to maintain sewer rates
higher than the average assumed in the SAR, as shown in Table 6. SBLA adjusted its rate structure
according to its financial objectives, and was successful in raising revenues from US$3.0 million
equivalent in 1991 to US$13.0 million equivalent in 1997. As planned, SBLA in addition to sewer rates
based on property values, began in 1995 to charge a surcharge on water consumption for those properties
connected to the system. Details on the rate structure are presented in the Borrower's contribution
presented in Appendix B. The higher than anticipated levels of revenue enabled SBLA to remain
financially viable, and by 1995, most of the financial targets were being met. As of 1997, payment of
dues by the hoteliers and Government, will enable SBLA to improve cash management by reducing
receivables, and thereby improving its overall financial position.
18.    SBLA  has developed from  the beginning its own accounting and budgeting system, in
accordance with International Accounting Standards and Guidelines and in line with the provisions of the
Sewerage and Drainage Law of 1971. Most functions of the Accounting Department have been fully
computerized. The billing system, general ledger, receivables, collections are all inter-connected through
an integrated information system. Audited financial statements were submitted annually to the Bank on
time, and were for the most part unqualified.3
19.    The SAR had calculated an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 17.6%3. This was based on the
Phase I costs of the project (including contingencies and adjusting the costs of the main collector and
interceptor). The sewer rates charged by SBLA were used as a proxy for benefits from the project.
Although the SAR recognized additional benefits from the project such as improvement in the
environment, positive impact on tourism, health benefits and mitigation of flooding and consequent
reduction in damage, only the easily quantifiable benefits were taken into account. The SAR notes that
the ERR is conservative given all the benefits not included in the calculation. Using the same basis, the
recalculated ERR is around 12%, primarily due to the 20% increase in capital expenditure (net of taxes
and duties) from the levels expected during appraisal. The ERR for the whole project, including the
TTP5, is higher at 14%. The underlying assumptions and the economic benefits presented in Table 9 of
the Statistical Appendix, does not include several benefits which are difficult to quantify. If the value of
protection to the Mediterranean Sea and the protection of the ground water sources, and the resulting
increase (or reduction of diversion) of tourists is taken into account, and a price for the treated effluent
3In one year prior to the change in Law which establishes the Government's responsibility to pay, the auditors
questioned SBLA's assumption that Government was liable to pay dues.
4See Footnote 2.
5The assumptions made to quantify the benefits of the tertiary system include: a gradual buildup of effluent re-use,
starting with 20% in 1996, 50% in 1997 and 90% from 1998 onwards, valued at the price of freshwater supply to
agriculture. As of now the re-use effluent is supplied free of charge.



- 7 -
reflect the true opportunity cost of additional water in a water scarce society, the economic rate of return
would be much higher than the actual numbers discussed above. Without question, it may be now
confirmed that the project was economically justified.
20.   The institutional development of the Board has also been promoted and most of the staff have
been hired and many have been trained. This again, is a commendable achievement given that the project
began with a small nucleus of staff. However, the qualifications and commitment of the financial
controller and the engineer who formed the core project team, and the support of the Board members,
enabled this small group to build a capable and sustainable institution. In fact, SBLA staff have
contributed, on an informal basis, to the institutional capacity of the Sewerage Boards carrying out Bank
financed projects in other municipalities as well. While some of the activities of the Board in the
operations and maintenance of the system are being contracted out, over time the SBLA will decide the
most cost effective method (recruiting additional technical staff versus contracting out) to carry out such
functions.
21.   The Board also had a successful twinning arrangement with the Thames Water International in
staff development and training and overall institutional development. Further details on institutional
aspects is given in the Borrower's contribution to the ICR presented in Appendix B. The existence of a
well managed and fairly autonomous Board is a key factor that will make the project sustainable. SBLA
is progressing with Phase 1I of the project, with financing from the EIB and the CERF. An Operation
Plan to be followed by the Borrower to guide them in the management of the sewerage system is
presented as Appendix C.
F.    Performance of project Executing Agency
22.   The project Executing Agency, the Sewerage Board of Limassol-Amathus, is a public utility
established by the Council of Ministers Order 248/80. The high quality of performance of the project
Executing Agency is evidenced by the results achieved; not only have the physical works been
implemented on schedule, but the more difficult financial and institutional problems have been resolved
step by step. These results would not have been achieved without the persistence and hard work of the
staff and management of SBLA. It should be mentioned that at the beginning of the project, the SBLA
staff was just three members. One of the difficult objectives of the project was building the institutional
capacity and the number of staff. Despite this constraint, the core staff of SBLA were able to achieve the
major objectives of the project.
23.   The Management Board of SBLA, comprising the council members of the Limassol
Municipality and Mayors or Representatives of other Municipalities or Communities falling within the
Greater Limassol area, also contributed to the progress in project implementation. Throughout project
implementation SBLA staff, supported by the Bank, sought to increase autonomy to improve the speed
and effectiveness of decisions. Several of the changes made to the SBLA By-Laws to delegate authority
to the management of the Sewerage Board, are quoted in the Borrower's contribution given in Appendix
B of this ICR. The Board of SBLA delegated some of its authority to the management of SBLA, thus
enabling more effective day-to-day management of the sewerage board. In addition, the House of
Representatives, through the SBLA By-Laws, gave the authority to the Board to increase sewer rates
within a pre-approved ceiling. This in turn, gave SBLA the needed flexibility for adjusting tariffs
according to cost recovery principles.



-8 -
G.    Bank Perfornance
24.    The best judge of the Bank's performance is the client, whose views are attached in Appendix B
of this report. What is notable in the Bank's performance, from the design phase of this project has been
the willingness to hear the clients concerns, to understand them well and to alter or reinforce courses of
action accordingly. This spirit of co-operation and good communications were the cornerstone of
success. Although there were changes in the Bank staff handling the project, overall the transfer of
responsibility was handled smoothly. In many respects, as the borrower assumed responsibility for the
project and handled it well, the Bank had to play a less active role.
25.    There were a few matters of contention between the Bank and the Client; primarily on the
procurement requirements and on the financial covenants. On the procurement issue, the Client has
suggested that just as the Bank has a partial waiver system for timely payers of interest obligations,
similarly, clients who demonstrate that they can follow Bank guidelines without extensive review at
every stage of the bidding process, should be allowed to proceed with procurement with only an ex-post
audit on compliance with Bank rules. If there was any deviation, then the client would loose his
"preferred customer" status and revert back to having apriori reviews on all procurement packages as per
current Bank practice. This recommendation was also verbally expressed by the Chairman of the Board
and the General Manager at a presentation they made to Bank staff in Washington on their experience
with implementation of Bank financed projects.
26.    The financial covenants were not met in three out of five years of project implementation. The
Borrower was of the view that the requirement of a 20% self-financing ratio throughout the construction
period was a very stringent target. SBLA was unable to meet this target for two primary reasons: (a) non-
payment by hoteliers and government, which together accounted for 50% of the projected revenue base;
and (b) the acceleration in construction due to the initial delays caused by the site change and other
unplanied construction difficulties explained earlier. A major part of each supervision mission was
spent oni reviewing SBLA's actions to take remedial steps to be able to comply with the financial
covenants. SBLA, in turn, took politically tough decisions, such as suing the hoteliers for non-payment
and finally after three years, in February 1997, managed to get the highest court's judgment favorable to
SBLA. The Board also took a very proactive dialogue with the Government to address non-payment by
the Government and these efforts have paid off and their dues are being collected. Again, the credit for
overcoming the commercial problems faced in the project, goes to the financial management and staff of
SBLA who collaborated closely with the Bank.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
27.    The findings from the project are the following:
(i)    The importance of a participatory approach, including public relations and public
information campaigns to educate the public and gain acceptance for such a project,
which during the construction phase imposed certain hardships on the general public and
where charges were levied even before the system become operational. SBLA appointed
a private firm as a permanent public relations advisor. SBLA also had daily radio
announcements on progress in project implementation. Regular press releases were
made and in 1994, a trip to Israel was arranged to allow the Cyprus media to see that
reuse of treated effluent is possible and beneficial. All of these actions, contributed
towards gaining public support for this project.



-9 -
(ii)    Close cooperation with Central Government, local authorities and groups such as, the
Hotel Owners Association, Shop Owners Association, Chamber of Commerce and other
consumer groups, was critical throughout the project implementation period.
(iii)   Delegation of authority in terms of project implementation.  Although the Board of
SBLA comprises the Municipal Council with the Mayor as its Chairman, a Steering
Committee was established and empowered to approve payments up to a certain limit
and take necessary actions to solve day to day problems of project implementation.
Chanlges were made to the By-laws to delegate authority to the management and staff of
SBLA. This facilitated day to day management very significantly.
(iv)    A dedicated and qualified staff and management with the capacity and the autonomy to
make quick decisions was critical to the successful implementation of the project.
28.    Anothier lesson learned from this project is that a utility in the public sector can perform well if
given the right support and autonomy by the local authorities and managers. However, even under such
circumstances there are several areas where being in the public domain proved to inhibit quick action
which could have further enhaniced project implementation. For example, staffing has always been a
long procedure and usually there have been delays in recruitment. Similarly, it could be argued that the
reluctance of hoteliers and the Government (initially) to pay could have been because services are
provided by a public utility and not a private firm, which would enter into operation only after
contractually establishing payment responsibilities and deterring penalties for non-payment of dues..
29.    Despite all the efforts made in terms of dissemination of public information, a lot more could
have been done in the early stages, particularly during the site selection stage and early construction
phase. During the discussions for the location of the STP to the west of Limassol, the SBLA could for
example, have arranged a tour of community leaders and the media to neighboring countries where
similar projects have been operating for many years in order to see first-hand the benefits of installing a
sewerage system. Such a tour organized in 1994, yielded very favorable results. Similarly, the relatively
low collection rate, faced in the early years of the project, could have been improved through intensive
public campaigns informinig the public of the rationale for the sewage rates. Although SBLA really
made significanit efforts to notify and involve the public at various stages of the project, several of these
efforts were reactive rather thani proactive. It could be said in hindsight, that a well thought out and
executed public consultation plan at the start, and throughout the course of the project, could have helped
to improve project acceptance by the public at large.
30.    The project has a significanit and positive environmental impact and results in commercial
benefits as well. Tourism is an industry where it takes only one incident caused by unhealthy bathing
waters or other negative environmenital effects to result in a major slump, particularly given the
competition for tourists in the Mediterranean area. Also the risk of polluting ground water sources and
causing damage to public healthi, was high.. This project provides Limassol and Cyprus an insurance
against and a mitigation of such environimental risks. This is the first operating TTP in Cyprus, and is a
good example of efficient use of water in a water scarce country. Most important, the problems faced by
SBLA have enabled the Board to legally establish the liability for major users to pay for sewerage
services. SBLA has more thani understood the importance of public consultation and participation for
project success, and is already incorporating the lessons learned in implementing the second phase of the
project. All these elements will contribute to the sustainability of the objectives of the project.



- 10-
Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1:   Summary of Assessment
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:  Project Costs
Table 8B:  Project Financing
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table I1:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions



- I I -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives          Substantial       Partial         Negligible       Not applicable
(/)             (V)               ()                 (vs)
Macro Policies                       0                0                 0                   0
Sector Policies                      0                0                 0                   0
Financial Objectives                 0                0                 0                   0
Institutional Development           El               E                  a                   D
Physical Objectives                 0D               0 
Poverty Reduction                   0                 01                0 
Gender Issues                        0                0                 0                  EJ
Other Social Objectives             0                 0                 0                   0
Environmental Objectives            E                 0                 0                   0
Public Sector Management             0                0                 0                   0
Private Sector Development           0                0                 0                   0
Other (specify)                      0                0                 0                  El
(Continued)
B. Project Sustainabilitv              Liklcey                   Unlikely                   Uncertain
(/)                        (v)                        (1)
01                          0                         0
C. Bank Performance                   safisfcigry               Satisfact=w                  Deficient
(V)                       (b/)                       (v")
Identification                       0                                                       ] 0
Preparation Assistance               0                           0                         0
Appraisal                            0                          E0 
Supervision                                                      D 0



- 12-
Highly
D.  Borrower Performance               satisfactoy                 Satisfactoy                  Deficien
(1)                        (1)                         (1)
Preparation                                                      E 0                           0
Implementation                      ED                             J                           D
Covenant Compliance                   0                           0                            0
Operation (if applicable)            E]                          [I                           EJ
Highly                                                 High
E. Assessment of Outcome               safisfactorv      Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory     unsafisfactory
0/              0/                 0/                 0/



- 13 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title           Purpose               Year of approval              Status
Preceding operations
I .Ln. 729-CY            Building a sewerage and    1971                     Completed and began
Nicosia Sewerage Project   Drainage system for                              operations in 1980
Nicosia
2.  Ln. 730-CY           Building a Sewerage and    1971                     Not completed and loan
Drainage system for                                canceled in 1981, due to
Famage Proje             Famagusta                                          the division of the Island
Drainage Project                                                             of Cyprus. Project area in
Northern part of the
Island.
3.  Ln. 1658-CY          Multi-purpose water                                 Completed in 1987
resource development
Vasilikos-Pendaskinos     rojet.
Water Resource Project   project.
4. Ln. 2386-CY           Water resource                                      Completed in 1991
Southemn Conveyor        development project.
Project - Phase I
5. Ln. 2914-CY           Water resource                                      Completed in December,
Souther Conveyor         development project.                                1996.
Project- Phase II
Following operations
1. Loans 3398, 3399,     Developing a sewerage     Approved in 1991         Closing dates June 30,
3400CY                   and drainage network and                            1999. Larnaca component
treatment facilities for                           should be completed by
Southeastern Coast       Larnaca, Paralimni and                              1998. Paralimni and Ayia
Sewerage and Drainage    Ayia Napa.                                          Napa may cancel IBRD
loan and replace by EIB
financing,



- 14 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                            Date Planned          Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)        March 1989            April 1989
Preparation                                       May 1989              December 1989
Appraisal                                         January 1990          February 1990
Negotiations                                      March 1990            April 1990
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)
Board Presentation                                May 1990              June 1990
Signing                                           June 1990             September 1990
Effectiveness                                     December 1990         December 1990
First Tranche Release (if applicable)
Midterm review (if applicable)
Second (and Third) Tranche Release (if applicable)
Project Completion                                December, 1997        June, 1997
Loan Closing                                      June 30, 1998         March, 1997
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(1S$ thousands)
FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96            FY97      FY98
Appraisal estimate           1,800    5,000    9,300      15,800   21,800    24,500    25,000
Actual                       1,821    7,901      14,897   23,953   24,997
Actual as % of estimate       101%     158%      160%     152%      115%
Date of final disbursement   1-9-92   2.16.93   2.14.94   5.30.95   4.11.96



- 15 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
199   1991  l99Z   193   1994  19   199             199,7
Engineering - Detailed Design        8% 10 %=
Engineering - Construction and Supervision                                         -2O5 % 85%   oO10
Laterals/Main Sewers/Drains
Contract 11 A and 11 B                                   5% 1 65%   100%
Contract 11 C and 11 D                                  _5o -550o %  8100T7
Pumping Stations and Main Collector                      10%   50%    85% -T0o
Secondary STP                                                -_5Wo 100Wo
Tertiary STP                                                _           85%    100%
Sea Outfall 8
Drains (outside sewerage area)                           10%   80%    95%   100%
Land - with title              1T0%  3T0%    30% -5o    75%  t0o0%
Operation and Maintenance Equipment*                                           10%   20%
Technical Assistance - Twinning & Studies
Twinning                                         60% -90%   100%_                               -
Sea Outfall Study                                                    100%
Waste Water Re-use Study                                       30%    70%  1I00%
Rural Sanitation Study                                  60% 100%
Urban Drainage Study             = _
*Most of the Maintenance Equipment planned were not purchased since Maintenance and-
some operation activities have been sub-contracted.
NOTE: The above table tries to capture as much as possible the classification of project components as given in the
SAR, Annex 4, Pg.58. However, due to changes in the way contracts were clubbed an exact comparison was not
possible since it would not be meaningful. However, the above results indicates that after initial delays up to 1993,
the project implementation was accelerated and completed well before the expected project completion date of
December 31, 1997.



Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation - Estimnated and Actuals*
1991      1992       1993       1994       1995       1996       1997      1998       1999       2000
Operational
% of Population Served
- Estimated:                               0         0          0          0          22        33         44         55         66         77
- Actual                                   0         0          0          0          28        35         45         78         85         90
Sewer Population (000's):
- Estimated:                               0         0          0          0         11.4       17.1       22.8      28.5       34.3       44.0
- Actual:                                  0         0          0          0          1.0       18.2      24.0        41.       45.0       51.0
Sewerage Connection:
- Estimated:                               0         0          0          0         2000      3000       4000       5000       6000       7000
- Actual                                   0         0          0          0         900       3500       5500       7000       8000       8500
Financial
Sewer Rates (per C 1000 of
Property Assessment)
Project Area (Phase I)
- Estimated:                             2.30       2.30       3.65       3.65       3.65       5.50      5.50       5.50       6.25       6.25
- Actual: - Hotels & Restaur.            7.00       7.00       7.00       8.00       8.80       8.80      8.80        9.5       9.5        10.00
- Industries:                            1.80       1.80       1.80       4.00       4.40      .4.40       4.4        4.8       4.8        5.00
- Others:                                1.80       1.80       1.80       2.00       2.20       2.20       2.2        2.6        2.6       3.00
- Project Area BI                         -          --         --         --        2.20       2.20       2.2        2.6        2.6       3.00
- Project Area B2                         --         --         --         --        1.25       1.25       1.25      1.25        2.6       3.00
General Benefit Area:
- Estimated:                             0.70       0.70       1.10       1.10       1.10       1.95       1.95      1.95        0          0
- Actual:                                0.50       0.50       0.50       0.50       0.60       0.60      0.60       0.70       0.70       1.00
Water Surcharge:
- Estimated:                               0         0          0          0         0.17       0.17      0.17       0.20       0.20       0.20
- Actual:                                  0         0          0          0         0.10       0.10      0.10       0.15       0.20       0.20
Operating Ratio:
- Estimated:                               7         10         7          10        21         25         334        37         25         25
- Actual                                 N/A         11         11         11         15        20         25         40         30         30
Self Financing Ratio:
- Estimated:                              44         29         26         26        24         30         59         32         82         69
- Actual                                 N/A         11         4          17         30        58         53         99         124       115
Debt Service Ratio:
- Estimated:                               7         5.6       5.7        3.2        2.0        1.5        1.4        1.4       2.1         1.8
- Actual                                 N/A        3.4        1.6        1.9        1.7        1.2        1.2        1.5        1.3        1.0
Receivables (Monthly Revenues):
- Estimated:                               3         3          3          3         2.2        2.2        1.8        1.8        1.8        1.8
- Actual                                  9.6        12         15         15         18        2.3        2.3        2.3        2.3        2.3
*Estimated refers to SAR estimates, Actuals refers to actuals up to 1996 and projections from 1997 to 2000



Table 7: Studies Included in Project
PURPOSE AS DEFINED AT
STUDY                           APPRAISALJREDEFINED             STATUS                          IMPACT OF STUDY
I   Twinning Arrangement            Technical assistance and Guidance  Completed and being          The proposals for the organization chart,
in order to assist institutional  implemented.                  staff training, maintenance policy, etc., are
development, staff training,                                    being implemented.
definition of policies, etc.
2   Environmental Impact Assessment  This study has been combined with  Completed and implemented.  A sea outfall has been constructed at 250
of Sea Outfall (Optimal Disposal   the study for the optimal disposal.                          meters long instead of 1000 meters as
of Effluent Study)              Main purpose was to assess the                                  originally was anticipated, resulting in cost
potential effluent disposal methods                             savings of about US$2 million.
and their environmental impact.
3   Effluent and Sludge Re-use Study   Define all potential uses, establish   The effluent reuse study has been    Potential effluent reuse areas have been
volumes, assess benefits, etc.  undertaken by the Government and  established and decisions have been taken,
is completed. The sludge reuse  and reuse projects have started to be
study shall be done in 1997.   implemented.
4   Rural Sanitation Study          Sanitation in villages          Governments Responsibility       Sewerage systems are being developed and
operated in many villages.
5   Master Plan of Drainage for     To update and expand the 1974   Completed and implementation has  Detailed designs for .Cyp. 12 million
Greater Limassol Area           Master Plan to include the      already started                 drainage works have been prepared. The
expanded Greater Limassol Area                                  Master Plan is used as a guideline and
reference throughout the region.
7   Critical Path Analysis (Not defined  Main purpose to shorten the  Completed and implemented.    Implementation period shorted from seven
in the Staff Appraisal Report)  project implementation period                                   years to 30 months. Actual
implementation took 40 months.



- 18-
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate             Actual/Latest Estimated
(US$ million)                    (US$ million)
Local     Foreign                 Local     Foreign
Item                                           Costs       Costs      Total      Costs       Costs      Total
Sewerage System
Sewage Collection                                10.9'       10.6       21.5        25.8       27.8       53.6
Secondary Treatment & Outfall                     5.2        12.0       17.2         8.7       11.0       53.6
Land Acquisition                                   1.1                   1.1         1.4                   1.4
Drainage System                                    4.3         1.9        6.2         3.0        3.0       6.00
O&M Equipment and Supervision                       1.5        1.4        2.9         1.6        2.0        3.6
Technical Assistance, Training and
Studies                                           0.3         0.2        0.5         0.1        0.3        0.4
Base Cost                                         23.3        26.1       49.4        40.6       44.1       84.7
Physical Contingencies                              2.3        2.7        5.0
Price Contingencies                                6.3         8.4       14.7
Total Project Cost                                 31.9       37.2       69.1        40.6       44.1       84.7
Main Increases due to
- Construction of Amathus Tunnel                                                 1.8         2.4       4.2
- Relocation of STP                                                              3.6         1.0       4.6
- Re-alignment of Main Collector                                                 0.5         0.5       1.0
- Imposition of VAT in 1992                                                      5.0                   5.0
TOTAL                                                                           10.9         3.9      14.8



- 19-
Table BB: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimated
(USS million)                    (USS million)
Local     Foreign                Local     Foreign
Source                                        Costs      Costs       Total      Costs      Costs      Total
I BRD                                             2.5       22.5       25.0        2.50      22.50     25.00
Social Development Fund of the Council
of Europe                                        15.3       14.7      30.0       20.00      22.10     42.10
Government Grants                                   -          -.        --        6.00         --      6.00
SBLA                                             14.1                   14.1      11.60         --     11.60
- l_-     692                   40.1       44.6   84:7
Note:  Out of the US$42. 10 million loan from the Social Development Fund of-the Council of Europe, an amount of
USS3.6 million has been withdrawn specifically for financing the construction of the Amathus Tunnel. This loan
is serviced by the Government.



Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
LIMASSOL-AMAIHUS SEWERA(;E AND DRAINA(E PRUJECI
Economic Analysis - Implementation Completion Report  i
i__________________________        l(Cyprus  Pounds)                                                                ___
Capital Costs                I       199         199        1991       12           1993                      1995         1996!       1997T 199X            1999       20
Capital Expenditure          !   255.000      309000   212.458   6.259.10    11.847.340        10                                                               00
Buildings                                                                         74.186174.IX6            74.I S      74,86               e  _             _
Sewers & Pumping Stations                 _                                                 3.920,580   4,24T3,58    4.731,X0                         I
Sewage Treatment: Secondary                                                                 2.83256    ,XX3,256    2,883,256
-__________            __                                 -                   T) t~~-                                    _ _    _ _                        __ _ _ - -----
STP Control System& Lab qpt6827_
Wor kin Progress            I                                                                                          3,2     
Land                         !                                                    63-,164-     7970        15,08                           lI
Operation and Maintenance - Seconday                                                                      210,805      480,00      504,000 1  529,200    555,660       3,443
Administration Expenses                    _ _.___                  24.X9-  262,443           49246    7I76,974   3 55170    5M14U   547,074                         3,48
Operation and Maintenance - Fertiary                                                                   _               100,000      105,000    110.250    115,763    125
Total Costs (minusTeIertiary)    I  255,W    309,0    212,458  6.499.972   12,547.I33I   71,34,016   15,31,039    9,9T8,56I  101970  1340  1T46,92
Total Costs (including Tertiary)  230,000    30900      212,458 6-499978   12.547,133    7,324,016 16,153,263   10,853,785                                                   0
_________   _                      ___   _      __    ____               .       ___    ._  _ _                    _._ __ _ _tI___          __         _ _
Revenue for Phase                                    I e_T 2o26,228    25647991 3,317,64                          0 n4,352 t   4564 5.3 6,265,599  7,532,694
____________________   _ ________  _       _* I--                                                      -            t--*~~       '          1----    -     -
Valuefor Reused EfUunt                                                                   ll29,424                                   73,560 !255,008    317,963 |333,861
Net Benefits (Excudingertiary)    (233  )   (309.000)  21245) T41238,750)  (9.982T42)  (4,06,332) (11,218,039)    564,54)  3,636,774  4,664,396  5,162,865  6,385,765
Economic Rate of Return              12%_                                                                                               _ _  l_l2llI
Net Benefits (Including-Tertiary)    (255.000)  (309,000)  (212458)  4 3           TT42)   4006332263   647034)9 4,730,     5.79,744t 6583562  7,866355
Economic Rate of Keturn              14%                                    ____l_l_I_l
Net Benefit flows in SAR         (     0    (309.0)  (194,;88U0) (1,60X,220)     320,320)l (4,33T7       54,            260,000     1898730   2921990    165400|  1543500
Economic Rate of Return in SAR       16%                        l   -                                                          I
Key Assumptions:  ERR assumptions and methodology follows those used in SAR, however the ERR in SAR is 17.6%, whereas the above shows 16%.
Period of costs and benefits considered from 1989 to 2008, as in SAR.
Cost of Sewers and Pumping Station Infrastructure, net of taxes, and adjusted to reflect only Phase I flows.
Revenues adjusted to show benefits derived only from Phase I of the project.
Operating and Maintenance costs for Secondary and Tertiary differentiated, however total Administrative Expenses all assigned to both treatment levels.
Value of re-used effluent based on gradual build-up of water re-use, starting in 1996 (20%,50%,70% and 90%) and price of freshwater supplied to agriculture.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Cyprus - Limassol Amathus Sewerage Project
Covenant Type       Present    Original      Revised         Description of Covenant                 Comments
Agreement  Section                           Status    Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date         Date
GA. I       3.01      Environmental        Complied   06/30/92                    Guarantor to carry out a 12 months  Broadened study (including land
Covenants            with                                  study on the environmental impact  disposal of unused effluent option) has
of the sea outfall at Moni.      been completed and agreement
regarding effluent utilization reached
with the Government.
GA.2        3.03      Environmental        Complied                               Guarantor to ensure that industrial   Though the Govemment may not be
Covenants            w ith                                 enterprises in urban areas follow  forceful in ensuring compliance on
Partially                             wastewater discharge practices as   this issue. SBLA has been informing
per requirements on industrial waste all local industries of the requirements
treatment already in place.      on them for wastewater treatment
before discharge. SBLA is also
seeking from bilaterals funds for
introducinng a monitoring and testing
system.
LA. I       5.02 (a)  Financial Performance Complied   1991, and                  Internal funds generation at least    This ratio was not complied with
with in    after 1994                 20% of anticipated average annual   during the years 1992 to 1994 due to
some                                  expenditure for the next three vears  accelerated investment schedule and
years.                                                                 less than targeted internal cash
generation.
LA.2        5.02(b)   Financial Performance  Complied   06/30/92                  Annual review of rates and charges  SBLA consistently adjusted rates to
with.                                 for the next three years.        achieve its financial objectives and
cost recoverv.
LA.3        5.03      Financial Performance  Complied   12/31/91                  Borrower shall not incur any other   The Debt Service Coverage Ratio
with                                  debt unless revenues exceed 1.3    (DSCR) is 1.2 in 1996 and projected
times maximum debt service       to be below 1.3 in 1997 and 2000.
requirement.                     However, given SBLA's strong
financial management and as long
term loans get repaid, the longer term
DSCR projections exceed the target.
LA.4        5.04(a)   Management aspects   Complied   12/31/93                    Make arrangements for billing    Done.
of the Project or of its  with                             sewerage on water consumption.
executing agency



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Cyprus - Limassol Amathus Sewerage Project
Agreement  Section     Covenant Type       Present    Original      Revised         Description of Covenant                Comments
Status    Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date         Date
LA.5        5.04(b)  Financial Performance Complied   06/30/94                 Fumish proposed rate structure   Done.
with                                 including sewerage surcharge on
water consumption.
LA.6        5.04(c)   Financial Performance Complied   12/31/94                Adopt such agreed rate structure.  Done.
with
LA.7        5.05     Financial Performance Complied   12/31/90    12/31/95     Arrange with Guarantor for       Done after some delay due to
with                                 consolidation and repayment of   negotiations of terms of repayment.
principal amount and accrued interest
under loans made by Guarantor
through 12/31/90.
LA.8        5.07     Environmental        Complied   06/30/91                  Updating of the Drainage Master   Master plan updated. Findings were
Covenants           with                                  Plan.                            taken into account in project design.
Covenant types:                                                                                       Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                            8. = Indigenous people                                C = covenant
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation from  9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting            complied with
beneficiaries                                 10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9    CD = complied
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds      I1. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource    with after delay
4. = Counterpart funding                           allocation                                         CP = complied
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing  12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/         with partially
agency                                          regulatory/institutional action                    NC = not
6. = Environmental covenants                     13. = Other                                          complied with
7. = Involuntary resettlement



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Cyprus - Limassol Amathus Sewerage Project
The project was in compliance with all Operational Manual Statements.
w



- 24 -
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions
Prfrm- r in 2
Stage of                       Number of  Days in  Specialized Staff skills  Implementatio   Development    Types of
Project Cycle      Month/year     Persons    Field        represented/1         Status       Objectives    problems/3
Board Approval               June-
Supervision                 Oct-90              3      11                   F,N,E       1              1
Supervision                 Dec-91              4      10                   F,N,E       1              1             F,T
Supervision                 Feb-92              2       5                     F,N       1              1             F,T
Supervision                 Nov-92                                            F,N       1              1             F,T
Supervision                  June-              2      10                     F,N       1              1             F,T
Supervision                 Nov-93              2       9                     F,N       1              1            F,T
Supervision                  June-              2      10                     F,N       1              1             F,T
Supervision                 Dec-94              1       4                       N      HS              S             F,T
Supervision                 July-                                             F,I\      HS             S             F,T
Supervision                 May-96                     1                      F,N      HS              S             F,T
1 -Specialization                                 2-Performance Rating            3-Types of Problems
F= Financial Analyst                              1 = Minor                       F= Financial
E = Economist                                     2- = Moderate Problems          T= Technical
N= Engineer                                       3-= Major



- 25 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle                Plaimnel-                      Actual
Preparation to appraisal                   not available                      25
Appraisal                                  not available                      33
Negotiations - Board Approval              not available                       5
Supervision                                not available                      97
Completion                                 not available                       5
Total                                                                      165






APPENDIX A
REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
World Bank Supervision Mission May 15. 1996
Limassol-Amathus Sewerage and Drainage Project
AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.    This Aide Memoire covers the findings of a World Bank mission by Takao Ikegami and
Anita George to supervise the Limassol-Amathus Sewerage and Drainage Project (Loan 3222-CY).
2.    The mission met with the Mayor of Limassol and staff of the Sewerage Board of Limassol-
Amathus (SBLA) and had discussions with the Ministry of Finance. The mission thanks all of them
for their help and hospitality.
Status of Project Implementation
Summary
3.    The Limassol-Amathus Sewerage and Drainage Project has been very well executed, two
years ahead of the original schedule. All major contracts have been completed satisfactorily. The
sewage treatment plant has been in operation since July 1995 and is currently treating about
7,OOOm3/day of sewage. It's effluent quality is excellent.
Physical Implementation
4.     SBLA has completed about 28% of house connections as of May 1996. The average speed of
the house connection is about 60 connections per week. SBLA has also launched a public relations
campaign on Television and Radio and by circulating leaflets explaining the benefits of the new
sewage treatment facilities and encouraging the public to connect. Most of the major users (such as
hotels) have already been connected. SBLA expects to connect all 8,500 house connections in about
2.5 years.
5.    The effluent quality from the tertiary treatment plant is excellent: 5 ppm BOD (biochemical
oxygen demand); less than 1 ppm suspended solid; and 5 ppm total nitrogen. The design standards
for the effluent are: 20 ppm, 20 ppm and 10 ppm, respectively for the secondary treatment and
l0ppm, lOppm and 5 ppm for the tertiary treatment plant. One of the reasons for the good effluent
quality is that only one third of the design flow is reaching at the treatment plant at present.
6.    Despite the good quality of irrigation water (effluent), the government can only sell 10% of
the water due to lesser demand than expected. Currently about 90% of irrigation water is disposed
through the ocean outfall. The government is about to construct an extra pumping station to distribute
the irrigation water to wider user groups.



APPENDIX A
AIDE-MEMOIRE                                - 2 -                 Limassol-Amathus Sewerage
May 1996                                                                 and Drainage Project
7.     The sludge production from the treatment plant is not so large at present in comparison with
the volume of sewage inflow. This is because the sewage is aerated for a longer time as a result of
low sewage inflow. The sludge production rate will increase as the sewage inflow increases. The
quality of produced sludge seems to be a good quality: a healthy black color and well dried. The
dried sludge seems to be a good alternative source for fertilizer, because there are no industry exists
that discharges toxic waste water into the sewerage. SBLA is currently storing the produced sludge
within the treatment plant area. SBLA is planning to disseminate the reuse of sludge to farmers by
operating a pilot demonstration program. In this respect, SBLA has sought the assistance of the
Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Environment.
Status of Implementation of Major Contracts
Contract          Completion       Completion               Note
Rate (%)          Date
No. 1                             100             2/96  in operation
No. 2A                            100            12/94  in operation
No. 2B                            100            12/94  in operation
No. 2C                            100             9/95  in operation
No. 2D                            100             9/95  in operation
No. 4                             100             1/95  in operation since 7/95
Secondary STP                                           (EIB financing)
No. 4                             100             3/95  in operation since 8/95
Tertiary STP                                            (EIB financing)
Water Reuse                       100             7/95  in operation since 8/95
.___    _(Gov't financing)
Ocean Outfall                     100             7/95  in operation since 7/95
(Gov't financing)
Financial Matters
8.     While the physical implementation of the project has been outstanding, SBLA is facing severe
cashflow problems. It is possible that SBLA may even have trouble to make its payment on the Bank
loan unless immediate steps are taken to rectify the situation. There are two key problems resulting
in the cash flow constraints of SBLA. These are described below.



APPENDIX A
AIDE-MEMOIRE                               - 3 -                 Limassol-Amathus Sewerage
May 1996                                                                and Drainage Project
9.     SBLA is owed more than CYP 3 million from the Government for remaining payments due to
shifting the location of the Sewage Treatment Plant, operation costs of the tertiary plant which as per
agreement is to be financed by the Government, cost overruns on the Diversion Tunnel also agreed
to be financed by the Government and, most importantly, the dues on sewer rates.
in CYP million
Type of expenses      To be Paid to SBLA    Already paid to        Owed to SBLA
SBLA
Shift in Sewage       3.0                    1.5                    1.5
Treatment Plant
Operation Costs of    0.1                    0.0                   0.1
Tertiary Plant since
July 1995
Diversion Tunnel -    0.3 of which evidence   0.0                  0.25
cost overrun          supplied for 0.25
Dues on Sewer rates    1.55                  0.284                  1.27
TOTAL DUE FROM    4.95                       1.784                  3.166
GOVERNMENT
10.   The Sewerage Law has been changed to explicitly state the Government's responsibility to pay
sewerage charges. The Government has paid part of the rates due for 1995. However, as shown in
the table above, there are still CYP 1.27 million due from the Government for past dues. The
Govermnent has not conceded to payment of surcharges for late payments. The staff of the Ministry
of Finance also mentioned that payment requests should be timed so as to be included in the budget
excercise well before final allocations are made. SBLA is aware of this and reiterated that their
requests have been and will be made in time. Another factor complicating the issue of payments due
from the Government is that the Government and SBLA have not yet settled the payment of
Government advances and interest due. And although a proposal for offsetting these dues against
sewerage charges and surcharges have been sent by SBLA to the Government in April, 1996, the
Government has not yet responded to SBLA.
II.   SBLA has also had trouble to collect dues from the hoteliers. Out of a total of CYP 5.5
million, the hotels owe CYP 4.2 million. SBLA has, since 1994 taken legal action against 150
hoteliers. The legal process is long, but the cases decided on by the Court so far have been in favour
of SBLA. The mission emphasized that the payment from hoteliers on a regular basis has to be
established since they contribute close to 30% of total revenues, and continued non-payment has led
to the current cash flow constraints. Without resolving the financial issues, it is difficult to state that



APPENDIX A
AIDE-MEMOIRE                                - 4 -                 Limassol-Amathus Sewerage
May 1996                                                                 and Drainage Project
this project despite its excellent physical implementation record has not yet achieved its objective of
creating a financially strong sewerage board.
12.   Institutional Strengthening.  SBLA has employed 1i) staff in 1995, which takes the total staff
strength to 34 employees. However, the operation of the sewage treatment plant has been
subcontracted to a private company, Kruger, since July 1995. SBLA is planning to renew the
operation contract until December 1996, to ensure that the staff hired for the operation department
have an opportunity to be trained by Kruger for some months. It is expected that hiring process may
be accelerated after the local election to be carried out in the end of May 1996. The Chairman of the
Sewerage Board assured the mission that hiring of key staff such as the Executive Maintenance
Engineer will be done before September of 1996. The mission requested and it was agreed that
SBLA would continue to keep the Bank informed on actions taken towards increasing institutional
capacity.
Implementation Completion Report.
13.    Since as of March, 1996, the loan has been fully disbursed, the mission discussed with SBLA
how jointly we could prepare the Project Implementation Completion Report. The outline of the
operation plan discussed with SBLA is included as Annex I to this aide memoire. SBLA will send to
the Bank its contribution by mid-July. The Bank agreed to do likewise by mid-August and aim to
finalize the report by the first half of September. If possible the Chairman and General Manager of
of the Sewerage Board may visit the Bank to share with Bank staff their experience in implementing
this project and the lessons learned.
m:\ag\cyprus\lim\may961im.a-m



APPENDIX A
Annex 1
Limassol-Amathus Sewerage and Drainage Project
Implementation Completion Report
Operational Plan
*      Objectives      to ensure the boards utilize its assets optimally by delivering services at acceptable
quality standards, at minimum cost, and to its target population
*      definition of sewerage boards overall responsibility by law
*      mission of statement of the board and corresponding responsibilities:
O      maintenance
o      environment
o      hygiene/health
o      investment/expanding services
o      public relation
*      areas to be improved in order to satisfactorily discharge responsibility: tariff policy/surcharge,
personnel policy, autonomy, and daily Maintenance & Operation
O      Management policy
o      management information system
o      personnel policy
-      incentive
o      training policy
O      financial policy
o      Tariff Policy
o      Collection policy
o      measures to non-payers
o      connection/disconnection policy
o      Arrears from government and other users
*      Investment Policy
O      EIB for second/third phase
o      Financial feasibility
-      tourism projection
-      affordability for each investment phase
o      Debt services
*      Maintenance Operation Policy
o      organizational arrangement/ strengthening
o      preventive maintenance vs. investment decision
o      spare parts policy
o      patrol for illegal discharge/dumping
O      punishment
O      emergency measurement
o      measures to keep satisfactory water quality for irrigation water
0      private sector participation policy
m:\ag\cyprus\fim\icr\oplan



APPENDIX B
LIMASSOL-AMATHUS SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE PROJECT (LOAN 3222-CY)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Borrower's Contribution
INTRODUCTION
This Report (ICR) is prepared for the purposes of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) in
accordance with the Bank procedures.
THE PROJECT
PROJECT AREA: The project area is the second largest urban area in Cyprus. Located on the
southern coast along the shore of Akrotiri Bay, it comprises areas within the Municipalities of
Limassol, Ayios Athansios, Mesa Yitonia, Kato Polemidia, Yermasoyia, and the Improvement
Board of Amathus, and is referred to hereinafter as the Limassol-Amathua area. To the west are
the Akrotiri Salt Lake, and an agricultural expanse which includes extensive orchards and
vineyards. The Amathus Improvement area, containing many restaurants and hotels serving the
tourism industry, stretches out to the east for several kilometers.
PROJECT HISTORY: The original Master Plan for the Sewerage and Drainage Project of the
Town of Limassol, was completed in 1974 and implementation was scheduled to start in the same
year. The events of 1974 delayed the implementation of the project and in view of the dramatic
changes in population density and the expansion of the residential properties in the area due to the
massive influx of refugees, the study was updated in 1977 and in 1979 respectively.
The project area has also been expanded so as to cover the entire Greater Limassol area which
included the Improvement Board of Amathus and a number of other smaller Municipalities and
communities. On the basis of an updated Feasibility Study prepared in 1983, a loan was approved
by the Bank in May 1984 (Loan 221 ICY).
Designed to meet the sewerage and drainage needs of the area up to the year 2010, the project
comprised the first phase of development of a two-phase sewerage system and high priority
drainage works. The proposed sewerage system at the time followed the natural slope of the
terrain towards the southwest, and resulted in the proposed sewage treatment plant's location being
close to the sea about 8 km from the western boundary of Limassol.
The original location of the STP situated on the western side of Limassol, was not accepted by the
Communities of the area and due to strong resistance and opposition by those communities, the
project had to be suspended. Due to the great difficulties encountered in agreeing the appropriate
location for the Sewerage Treatment Plan (STP), the implementation of the project delayed and
eventually the loan was canceled in 1987.
1



APPENDIX B
Page 2
In 1989 a new updated Feasibility Study was prepared with a proposed site of the STP at the
eastern side of Greater Limassol Area at a valley called Moni. New project appraisal and
negotiations started with the Bank which were completed in May 1990 reaching an agreement for
financing part of the project with a loan of US$ 25 million. The project was designed to meet the
sewerage and priority drainage needs of the area up to year 2010 and to be constructed in two
phases.
Implementation of Phase I of the Project was planned to start in 1991 and would last for seven
years, i.e., up to year 1998. In 1991 when implementation of the project was about to start, new
problems have emerged relating once again to the location of the STP. The Govemment of Cyprus
in an effort to resolve the problems, agreed to cover the additional cost for the relocation of the
STP and the Board has agreed to change the site. The new site of the STP was relocated at a
valley of about 1500 meters eastwards of the previous site.
Implementation of the project started in April 1992 and another problem has emerged with respect
to the alignment of the main collector and antiquities at Ancient Amathus Area. Alternative
solutions have been examined and studied and it was decided to adjust the route of the main
collector in order to bypass some deluxe hotels on the coast which opposed to the placing of the
main collector, next to their leisure and entertainment infrastructure. In addition, it was decided to
construct a tunnel in order to avoid damaging the antiquities of the old city of Amathus, situated
along a stretch of the main collector of about 800 meters length.
On the basis of the revised implementation plan of 1989, a new target was worked out in 1991 for
completion of the project within a construction period of 30 months, setting the end of 1994 as a
new target for operating the sewerage scheme. Actual completion of constructed works took place
in 1995 and the system was put into operation in stages, as major parts of the project were
completed and taken over.
The first stage of operation has been launched on December 7, 1995 and it covered about 30% of
the project area. By March 1996 100% of the system is in operation and connection of properties
to the system is progressing satisfactorily. By the end of June 1997 out of about 9500 house
connections, 24000 have already been connected to the system. According to the Master Plan,
connection of properties should be completed in four years time after operation of the system, i.e.,
by 1999.
ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
According to the Staff Appraisal Report of May 14, 1990, the main project objectives are:
(i)    To provide a safe, reliable system for the disposal of human, commercial and industrial
waste water and thereby eliminate the nuisance and health risks, including the threat to the
areas water supply and important tourist industry, that arise from the present unsatisfactory
disposal arrangements.
2



APPENDIX B
Page 3
The project is in operation as from July 1995 and by this time most of the properties
situated along the touristic coastal area have been connected to the system. Nearly all
major hotels and tourist resorts and other residential complexes have been connected and
there has been a considerable improvement in health and hygienic conditions in the area.
The general situation in the tourist area has improved considerably with nuisance problems
being effectively eliminated. The average flow of effluent in the system is about 6000- 7000
cubic meters per day.
(ii)   To provide key elements of a stormwater drainage system in areas subject to severe
flooding during the rainy season, which causes damage and disrupts commercial, industrial,
and other activities.
The key storm water drainage network has been constructed and the flooding problem
experienced in those areas in the past has been eliminated. A storm drainage Master Plan
has also been prepared and distributed to all interested local authorities and Government
Departments which is now used as a general guideline document. On the basis of the storm
drainage Master Plan, storm drainage works shall be constructed of about 12 millions in
the area. Detailed designs and tender documents for these works have been prepared and
construction works have started in 1996.
(iii)   To contribute to improved environmental management by identifying and promoting the
optimum use of sewage effluent and sewage sludge in the project area.
The environmental aspect of the project objectives has been promoted and implementation
of long term environmental projects has also started.
The government has covered the cost of construction of the Tertiary Treatment Plant which
has been constructed by the Board and it is now in full operation. The tertiary treated
effluent is of an excellent quality and is now reused at a neighbouring valley.
A number of studies have been performed under the project including an Environmental
Study for the Location of the STP, a study for the Optimal Disposal of Effluent, a study for
the Effluent Reuse, etc.
Implementation of other associated projects of conveying the treated effluent in other areas
of reuse, have also started.
The quality of bathing waters of the beaches, adjacing the Limassol Greater Area has also
been improved and compliance with all criteria set out by the relevant national and
international regulations has been secured.
The addition, as a result of the operation of the system along the Coastal Touristic Area, the
volume of septic sewage disposed under the old system at the Vati disposal area by tankers,
has been reduced by more than half and it is expected that as the house connections to the
system continue to increase, the volume of effluent disposed at the area shall be reduced
3



APPENDIX B
Page 4
even more dramatically and this resolving a considerable environmental problem n the area
and the nearby Polemidia Dam.
(iv)   To strengthen the institutional capacity of the SBLA, which at present has only a nucleus of
staff.
The institutional development of the Board has also been promoted and most of the staff is
in place. Procedures are now in progress for recruitment of additional technical staff
required for the maintenance and operation of the system. The situation with respect to
staffing of the SBLA is shown in Table AB- 1.
The twinning arrangement with Thames Water International has been conducted with
success and the SBLA has obtained valuable guidance and assistance, especially during the
initial stages, in areas of staff development and training, institutional development, etc.
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
The Borrower, i.e., the Sewerage Board of Limassol - Amathus (SBLA) is a public utility
established by the Council of Ministers Order 248/80. The SBLA is managed by a Board
consisting of the Municipal Counselors of Limassol Municipality and Mayors or Representatives of
other Municipalities or Communities.
Recruitment of SBLA core staff started in 1990, after the loan agreement has been signed. Since
then a number of employees have been employed in order to implement the project and operate the
scheme after implementation. Presently, SBLA staff comprises 33 people and it is expected that
within the near future an additional 18 people shall be employed. A Schedule of staff employed by
SBLA is shown in Table AB-1.
Training of staff is very highly ranked in the organization and it is received by a number of ways.
Through the twinning arrangement which has been agreed with Thames Water International (a UK
Water Utility), a number of training attachments have been organized where the staff was trained
on the spot on practical implementation of technical and/or administrative matters.
Training is also being obtained through the Contractors. In particular the SBLA Chemist has had a
number of short term attachments at other sewerage treatment plants abroad operated or
constructed by our contractors. Similar attachments are planned for other technical staff.
Subcontracting of services is also extensively utilized by SBLA by obtaining services from the
private sector. Project management and supervision has been subcontracted to an international
foreign firm in associated with local associates. About 25 people have been employed for the
project management and supervision.
Other technical services and or "Ad hoc" assignments are also obtained through the private sector
either on a medium term contract basis or on a temporary basis. The policy of private sector
involvement and subcontracting is to be continued in the future.
4



APPENDIX B
Page 5
The SBLA has invited tenders from private Security companies in order to obtain guarding and
security services for the treatment plant or other basic infrastructure of the system.
The sludge management and disposal services are also obtained though private contractors. In
addition some laboratory tests and chemical analysis are also obtained through a private laboratory.
A continuous process of upgrading the existing management and information technology is in
process. The SBLA has tendered out and awarded a contract for upgrading and development of a
fully integrating computerized management information system for both the financial and technical
departments.  All maps and drawings have been digitized and a GIS System  is now in
implementation. This programme is expected to cost more than 0.5 million US dollars and it is
currently in progress. It is expected that full implementation shall be achieved by July 1997. A
private company of computer experts has also been appointed as a project manager in order to
supervise the development and implementation of the new management information system.
The policy of utilization of subcontractors from the private sector is expected to be continued in the
future.
Furthermore the SBL has already invited tenders from a short list of preselected international
consulting firms for the detailed designs and supervision of the next stages of the project.
STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT
Most studies included in the project have been conducted and their results and recommendations
have been or are at the stage of implementation.
The only study that has not yet been fully completed is the sludge reuse study. Several different
options are being considered and the study will be completed in 1998. This study is to be financed
by the Mediterranean Environmental and Technical Assistance Program (METAP). Detailed list of
the studies included in the project and their status is shown in the Statistical Appendix Table 7.
EVALUATION OF BORROWERS OWN PERFORMANCE
Up to 1989 the SBLA did not have any permanent staff employed. Administrative and other
services have been obtained through services from other organizations as for example the Limassol
Municipality and the services of the secretary/accountant of the Sewerage Board of Famagusta.
The project design and construction supervision has been contracted out to an international
consulting firm, associated with a local firm of consultants.
During the implementation period (1991 - 1995) a number of problems have been faced which have
been generally overcome successfully. The problems encountered may be classified into two main
categories:
5



APPENDIX B
Page 6
(a)   Technical Problems
The technical problems have generally been overcome and resolved more easily than the non
technical problems. The following are the main technical problems which have been encountered:
(a)   Antiquities have been found in many places during the construction works.
(b)   Temporary roads for traffic diversions had to be constructed in many instances.
(c)   Land acquisition and wayleaves was in many cases problematic causing delays and extra
costs.
(d)   Underground utilities such as electricity, telephone and water caused many technical
problems, additional costs and delays in many parts of the project.
(e)   Relocation of the Sewerage Treatment Plant and realignment of the main collector caused
many technical problems, delays and additional costs.
(f)   System commissioning problems. During the first stages of commissioning of the system a
series of many activities and functions had to be performed which needed a great deal of
planning and coordination between many authorities The initial low flow of effluent caused
some problems of odour and nuisance.
(b)   Non Technical Problems
The most important non technical problem was the public acceptability of the project and the
creation of an acceptable public image of the Board. A considerable effort has been put in
maintaining the public image of the Board at relatively high standards. This could be achieved
mainly by reducing the nuisance and inconvenience to the public as much as possible.   A
mechanism has been established for immediate action from the Board in cases of complaints from
the public.
A number of pressure groups have been lobbying and pressing SBLA in a number of ways. In
many instances the interest of these pressure groups did not necessarily coincide and the SBLA had
to make compromising decisions in an effort to satisfy to some extent all parties interests. The
Hotel Association, the Shop Owners Consumers Association, bus and transportation companies are
an indicative list of pressure groups with whom SBLA was in a continuous contact.
Another problem which has been faced during the initial stages of the project implementation was
the acceptability by the public of the new "form of taxes", i.e., the sewerage charges. Sewerage
charges have been considered as a new form of taxation and there has been a considerable
resistance especially during the first two years.
6



APPENDIX B
Page 7
A public campaign has been undertaken by SBLA. Generally, it can be considered that, now the
sewerage charges have been accepted by the majority of the people. The problem with payment
from the hotel owners who resist payment of sewerage charges on the grounds that they are
unfairly treated. The issue has been referred to courts and a judgement favourable to SBLA was
granted. 95% of the people at large has paid their dues. There was also a problem with the
payment of sewerage charges due by the Government, but this problem was settled by change in the
Sewerage Law to explicitly state the Goverrment's responsibility to pay sewerage dues.
Measures taken by SBLA
During the implementation period the policy adopted by SBLA concentrated on the following
areas:
1 .    To maintain a continuous productive dialogue and preserve a framework of satisfactory
cooperation with all interested parties, and
2.    Establish an efficient and effective procedure for solving the day-to-day problems.
These have been achieved through the following measures
(i)   Prepare a CCP Analysis
Before commencement of implementation of the project, the SBLA has appointed an
experienced Engineer from a UK Water Company who has prepared a Complete Critical
Path Analysis (CCP). On the basis of that CPP, the original implementation Plan has been
revised. It was decided that the works should be performed more intensively and the whole
project was divided into six contracts instead of four as was originally planned.
The whole project area has been divided into eight main sectors which have been allocated
into four lateral contracts. All contracts have been tendered out at once and in this manner
the implementation period has been reduced from seven years to thirty months. However,
actual completion of the project took about forty months.
(ii)   Establish a Steering Committee
A Steering Committee was established consisting of Board Members and with clear terms
of reference empowered to make decisions with respect to the project implementation.
Certain authorities and statutory powers of the Board have been delegated to the Steering
Committee so as to be in a position to approve payments up to a certain limit and take what
ever decisions are necessary for solving the day-to-day problems during the project
implementation. The Steering Committee had regular weekly meetings.
7



APPENDIX B
Page 8
(iii)  Press Conferences and Workshops - Press Releases
The SBLA conducted regular press conferences and workshops informing the media about
the latest developments in the project implementation. Regular press releases were also
issued to the media.
(iv)   Daily announcements through all the local radio stations
SBLA has reached special agreement with all authorized local radio stations.
Announcements and advertisements by all local stations were made a number of times daily.
(v)   Close cooperation with the Police Department and other Government Departments
Traffic and other road arrangements were tackled on a daily basis. This has been achieved
by establishing a permanent connection link with the Police Department. A person from
both organizations has been assigned with this responsibility.
(vi)   Establish a Complaints Department
All complaints reported were recorded and action was pursued through either the Resident
Engineer or through the SBLA' s own staff.
(vii)  Appoint a Public Relations Advisor
The SBLA has appointed private company as a permanent Public Relations Advisor.
However, there are areas where the SBLA could have performed better and avoid certain problems
which have been encountered.
(i)   Staffing
Staffing of the organization has always been a long procedure and usually there has been
some delay in recruitment of the necessary staff. The managerial and key staff of the
organization should have been employed well in advance before the commencement of the
works during the design stage of the project in order to have a full knowledge of the project
from the very beginning. Employment of the Financial Controller and the Chief Engineer
took place well after the completion of the designs but nevertheless before the
commencement of the works.
(ii)   Public Relations
In the public relations area, some problems with respect to the acceptability of the location
of the STP might have been avoided if a massive public campaign took place in advance
8



APPENDIX B
Page 9
with the participation and cooperation of the Government. The public relations Consultant
although employed before the commencement of the works, could probably achieve letter
results if employed even earlier.
During the discussion for agreeing to the location of the STP to the west of Limassol, the
SBLA could also arrange a short visit (tour) of community leaders and of the media, in
neighbouring countries where similar projects have been operating for many years in order
to see on the spot the benefits of the reuse of treated effluent and the benefits of the
sewerage system generally. Such tour was organized by SBLA only in 1994 and the results
were impressive.
Public perception with respect to the potential hazards or risks from the operation of a
treatment plant in the area, might have been less negative if a more tentative public relations
campaign took place in advance. Of course it has to be stressed that the public at large has
never objected or resented to the need of a centralized sewerage system in the Greater
Limassol Area but due to the objections of the communities in the eastern side of Limassol,
a misconception has been developed with respect to potential risks of having a sewerage
treatment plant near the residential or agricultural areas.
(iii)   Collection record and outstanding sewerage charges
An aspect on which the SBLA should have performed better is the collection of sewerage
charges. In spite, the firm political decision and the enactments to impose rates on all
properties including the Government properties, when time has come to apply the Law, the
civil service mechanism found some difficulties in implementing the political decision.
Better coordination between the Government Departments could have avoided some of the
problems encountered with respect to payment of sewerage charges from Government
Departments.
In addition, the legal framework could have been improved in order to bypass some
constitutional problems which have arisen later relating to the liability of the Government to
pay sewerage charges.
With respect to the relatively low collection rate, faced in the first years of imposition of the
sewerage charges, the situation could have been better if a public campaign was undertaken
well in advance the first years of imposition of the sewerage charges. The public could have
been better informed before receiving the sewerage charges bills.
EVALUATION OF FINANCING ORGANIZATIONS
(a)   IBRD (The Bank)
From the experience obtained during the implementation of the project it is obvious that the
cooperation and assistance of the financing bodies to SBLA was absolute and perfect. With respect
9



APPENDIX B
Page 10
to the IBRD's contribution to the success of the project, it has to be mentioned that, should there
have not been the assistance, goodwill and persistence shown by the World Bank in implementing
this project, it is certain that further delays would happen and the project might not have been
successfully implemented by 1995.
The close and practical involvement of the Bank's staff and specialists, from the very beginning of
the project during the design and the project appraisal stage, has helped the SBLA to overcome
successfiully the many problems encountered. The decisions which have taken place by the SBLA
and the Bank, during the initial stages of implementation, with respect to many practical and
technical problems, has contributed tremendously to the success of the project. At the initial stages
the Borrower comprised a nucleus of staff and the experience and guidance given by the Bank's
staff was invaluable.
It is certain that the active involvement of the Bank in advising and solving practical, technical and
administrative problems, secured the efficient utilization of the funds borrowed. The Bank's
demanding and strict procedures have been used as a guideline and as a compliance standard which
the SBLA staff had to follow, therefore transmitting to the Borrower the required attitude,
motivation and management behaviour and style which contributed to the success of the project.
However, it should be noted that strict and demanding procedures and Bank regulations causes
high administrative costs on both the Bank and the Borrower and in some cases, not the required
flexibility.
It is true though that the application of strict regulations and procedures ensures the proper
utilization of the Bank Funds and the proper implementation of a project which is to the interest of
the Borrower.
In view of the above arguments it might be worthwhile, the Bank considering the introduction of a
system of "credit rating" or "incentive scheme" in order to impose under certain circumstances
more lenient regulations, less documentation, etc.
In order to avoid problems of discretionary or unfair treatment the scheme could operate on a
similar basis as the "Waiver of Interest" scheme which is granted only to the "punctual" borrowers.
At the initial stages of a project implementation the general framework of procedures and
regulations should be applied to all borrowers strictly and indiscriminately.
As the project progresses, however, a system of points or marking could be applied whereby each
borrower should be awarded certain marks according to his tract record of response, adherence to
the rules progress of works, performance with respect to timetables, etc. Certain objective criteria
and procedures should also be established in awarding the points. As the project implementation
time passes, certain relaxations should be allowed to borrowers according to their record or points
of performance described above.
10



APPENDIX B
Page 11
(b)   Social Development Fund of Council of Europe
During the implementation period the SDFCE was not actively involved in the progress and close
monitoring of the works. A brief progress report is submitted to the SDFCE at regular intervals by
the Ministry of Finance.
FINANCUIL OBJECTIVES
Accounting and Auditing
SBLA has developed its own accounting and budgeting system, on the basis of acceptable
accounting principles in accordance with the International Accounting Standards and in line with
the provisions of the Sewerage and Drainage Law of 1971.
Most functions of the Accounting Department have been fully computerized. The Billing System,
General Ledger, Receivables, Collections, Budgeting, etc., have been computerized through a fully
integrated system.
Financial Statements consisting of Balance Sheet, Income and Expenditure Account, Sources and
Application of Funds Statement, etc., are prepared annually.
Annual audits of the Financial Statements and the Special Account are systematically carried out by
the Auditor General of the Republic of Cyprus.
Although actual construction started in 1992, billing and collection of Sewerage Charges has
started in 1991 in accordance with the procedures and details agreed with the Bank.
Billing and collection of Service Charges on water consumption has also started in 1995 as agreed
with the Bank. The SBLA has entered into agreement with the three Water Authorities within the
Project Area of the billing and collection of this charge from all beneficiaries connected to the
system.
Rate Structure and Revenues
The agreed rate structure has been applied and implemented as from 1991. In addition the Board
has approved the introduction as from 1997 of another charge, known as the "Drainage charge"
with the main objective of financing the new Storm Drainage Works to be constructed in the next
four years (1996 - 1999) of total cost of about US$1 1 million.
The main sources of Revenues of SBLA are as follows:
(i)   Sewer rates on property assessed values
(ii)   Sewerage surcharge on water consumption (Service Charge)
(iii)   Drainage rates on property assessed values (To be imposed from year 1997 onwards)
11



APPENDIX B
Page 12
(iv)   Extra house connections requested from the public
(v)   Connections fees
(vi)  Interest received
(vii)  Other income
On the basis of a study, a differential or discriminatory rate structure has been imposed with higher
rates imposed on Hotels than lower rates on industrial areas and even lower rates on other
properties situated in the Phase A project area. The lowest rates have been imposed on properties
situation in Phase II.
As from year 1995 onwards another classification of rates has been introduced as follows:
Project Area B I
This new classification of rates is imposed on properties situated in the area which shall be sewered
in the next five years (which for convenience has been called as Area B 1) and is practically an
expansion of Phase A Area. These rates are exactly the same as those for Phase A.
Project Area B2
This classification covers the area which shall be sewered after the next five years, i.e., it is the area
where construction works are planned to commence on year 2000 onwards. These rates are higher
than the rates of Phase B but lower than those for Phase A and B 1.
Apart from the Drainage rate introduced by SBLA, a number of other changes have been promoted
and enacted on SBLA By-Laws, the most important ones being the following:
Act No. 194/91   Duties and Responsibilities of the Sewerage Boards for submittals to the
Government Regulations relating to personnel management and development
Administrative   Power of SBLA to use alternative property valuation estimated by the
Act No. 259/92   Lands and Survey Director in cases of lack of 1980 valuation
Administrative   Charge in the SBLA By-Laws so as to be able to impose rates within certain
Act No. 86/94    specified limits so as to avoid the need to require the approval of the House of
Representatives of every charge in the rates levels.
Administrative   Increase in sewerage rates for Phase B
Act No. 90/95
As shown in Table 6 of the Statistical Appendix, the sewerage charges have been regularly
reviewed and increased in order to meet the SBLA's financial objetives.
12



APPENDIX C
Limassol-Amathus Sewerage and Drainage Project
Implementation Completion Report
Operational Plan
Objectives: to ensure the boards utilize its assets optimally by delivering services at acceptable quality
standards, at minimum cost, and to its target population.
*      Basis of operation as defined in the Sewerage Law 1971 and all amendments thereof.
*      Mission statement of the board and corresponding responsibilities in each of the following areas:
* maintenance
* environment
* hygiene/health
* investment/expanding services
* public relation and public consultation
* Areas to be monitored in order to satisfactorily discharge responsibility:
* management policy
* management information system
* personnel policy and incentive system
* training policy
* Maintenance Operation Policy
* organizational arrangement/ strengthening
* preventive maintenance vs. investment decision
* spare parts policy
* policing and penalties for illegal discharge/dumping
* emergency measures
* measures to keep satisfactory water quality for irrigation water
* private sector participation policy
* Financial policy
* tariff policy
*  collection policy
* measures against non-payers
*  connection/disconnection policy
* arrears from users
* Investment Policy
* phase 11 project finaced by EIB and CERF
* financial feasibility for future investments
* tourism projection and demand
* affordability for each investment phase
* debt service management



IBRD 22254
/         2                               D~~~~~~~~~~OLEMIDHIAJ i(I/V                                                                /' 4
DAM   '                                                                   YERMA OYI
D'AM
EPISKOPI
KAT
X   _ 1                          2                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~AMATHUS  =       - .                 /           -
.2                 -.                                                            K                                                                                                                                      ,AmO
P  > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ NFW    , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POWERMTTON   
-"-a  -----                                                   P0 iAOA                           .       p        5                                                                                   CEUENT W02CS\P U
OSALIMASSOL-AMATHUS SEWERAG AND DRINAGE PROJECT
7                           ~~~~~~PROPOSED SEWERAGE AND DRAINAGE
'   /  Sb det Ano                                      m
'  04                                                            -         -...,~~~~~~  gTEUMStd4AOYIAd
\           g                                                          >ro~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~por -d F9iw Sbg. 5-w-rog. - sndcri,
AKROTIRI                                                                                   i, UblO          
/SES-g
| ~~~~~~~~~~~~- ~~~~~~M6.i Coll-or tad Fore Mnim
L    eS L                                                                                                          POWERSTAPTIg Sto
-. ~~~~~~~~~~~d69CYPRUS.I
/~'>s Loi Aok                                                          PROPOSED /h SEWRAG  AnD DRAINAGE
/   <  < Alriluld    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----  P-p.ind DF.inn
F;\\,    *   Popmp..d Dog. A-.                                                      /
KILOM.ETERS C o   0         24                                              33n 3Mn
E invi.g MSoahr                              MLES                                                         :-n.
krotu-,                        -              Main Sa,.,anAd1                                                                           3 L7
Pnojoa D--nagip.l U.it.
X                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~------ U.K S- n 1J  BKhM-y                                   ~~\         
I    Prnso n         t Co Fi. Un- r.I ET r 
1  Railt.19aAM33









IMAGING
Report No ..          16786
Type        ICR



