Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 17252
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ALGERIA
FIRST PETROLEUM PROJECT
(Loan 3395-AL)
December 23, 1997
Infrastructure Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Algerian Dinar (DA)
End of Period
Dinars/US Dollar
1990                12.19
1991                21.39
1992                21.84
1993                23.34
1994                35.06
1995                47.66
1996                54.68
1997 (June)         56.95
FISCAL YEAR:         January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram                        = 2.2046 pounds (lbs)
I metric ton (ton)                = 1000 kg = 2204.6226 lbs
1 meter (m)                       = 3.2808 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km)                  = 1000 m  = 0.6214 miles
I cubic meter (CM)                = 35.3147 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 barrel (bbl)                    = 42 US gallons = 1.59 liters
I kilocalorie (kcal)              = 3.9683 British thermal units (Btu)
I British thermal unit (Btu)      = 0.2520 kcal
I thermie (th)                    = 1,000 kcal
I ton of oil equivalent (toe)     = 10,000 th
= 0.9091 tons of crude oil
=1068.4 m3 of natural gas
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ENAFOR:             Entreprise Nationale de Forages
ENAGEO:             Entreprise Nationale Algerienne de Geophysique
ENSP:               Entreprise Nationale des Services aux Puits
GTP:                Entreprise Nationale de Grands Travaux Petroliers
LNG:                Liquefied Natural Gas
LPG:                Liquefied Petroleum Gas
SONATRACH:           Societe Nationale pour la Recherche, la Production, le Transport, la
Transformation et la Commercialisation des Hydrocarbures
Vice President:      Kemal Dervi-
Director:            Jean Claude Villiard
Sector Leader:      Zoubeida Ladhibi-Belk
Responsible Staff:   Hartwin Nickel



TABLE OF CONTENTS FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Preface                                                                 i
Evaluation Summary                                                      ii
PART I: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement and Evaluation of Objectives                               1
B. Achievement of Objectives                                            4
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project                                  9
D. Bank Performance                                                    10
E. Borrower Performance                                                10
F. Assessment of Program Outcome and Sustainability                    11
G. Future Operation                                                    11
H. Key Lessons Learned                                                 12
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
1     Summary of Assessment                                            13
2     Related Bank Loans                                               14
3     Project Timetable                                                15
4     Loan Disbursements: Cumulated Estimated and Actual               16
5     Key Indicators for Project Implementation                        17
6     Key Indicators for Project Operation                             18
7     Studies Included in the Project                                  19
8A.  Project Costs                                                     20
8B.   Project Financing                                                22
9A    Economic Costs and Benefits - Mesdar Secondary Recovery          23
9B    Economic Costs and Benefits - Amassak Secondary Recovery         24
10    Status of Legal Covenants                                        25
11    Bank Resources: Staff Input                                      27
12    Bank Resources: Staff Missions                                   28
APPENDICES
A. ICR Mission Aide-Memoire
B. Borrower's Contribution
and Comnments to the ICR
Map: IBRD 22406
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPCRT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FIRST PETROLEUM PROJECT
(LOAN 3395-AL)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the First Petroleum Project,
funded by Loan 3395 to the petroleum company Sonatrach, in the amount of US$ 100 million.
The loan was approved by the Board on July 30, 1991, was signed on August 2, 1991, and
became effective on April 2, 1992. The original closing date of June 30, 1996 was extended
once, and the loan closed on June 30, 1997. The undisbursed balance of US$ 11.4 million (plus
US$ 0.7 million Special Account balance) will be canceled.
The project is cofinanced by the Eximbank of Japan, Ln. Exim 02790 administered by
the Bank, in the amount of US$ 76.8 million equivalent. This loan was approved by Jeximbank
on June 26, 1992, was signed also on June 26, 1992, and became effective on March 22, 1993.
The original closing date of October 31, 1996 was extended once, to the present closing date of
October 31, 1998. As of December 9, 1997 US$ 29.6 million had been disbursed, and US$ 47.2
million were still available.
This ICR was prepared by Hartwin Nickel, Sr. Financial Analyst, Ahmed El-Hamri,
Economist, Carmen Niethammer, Consultant, and Deborah Davis, Operations Analyst and
Editor, of the Infrastructure Development Group, Middle East and North Africa Region
(MNSID).
Preparation of the ICR was based on material in the project files and on the completion
report provided by the Borrower. The report has been sent for comment to the borower,
Sonatrach.






. 
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FIRST PETROLEUM PROJECT
(LOAN 3395-AL)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
(i)   The First Petroleum Project was part of the Bank's strategy to support Algeria's
economic reform program. Given the sensitivity of the oil and gas sector in Algeria, the
Government and the Bank had agreed on a gradual but incremental strategy for Bank
involvement. This project was meant to be the first in a string of operations, to start a
dialogue with a sector previously unknown to the Bank, in spite of its fundamental
importance to the country's macroeconomic development.
Project Objectives and Design
(ii)   As an initial phase of the medium-term sector assistance strategy (see below), the
project had four main objectives: (a) help attract foreign investments in oil exploration
and development, (b) help improve the efficiency of the Algerian petroleum services
companies, and especially drilling operations, (c) optimize the production of Sonatrach's
oil fields through enhanced oil recovery schemes, and (d) address environmental
problems related to drilling and production activities. These were expected to lead to
substantial and rapid foreign earnings/savings, and thus contribute to alleviating the
country's severe balance of payments difficulties. Moreover, the Bank's involvement was
to help Sonatrach mobilize external funds through cofinancing arrangements with the
Eximbank of Japan, and more generally, to facilitate Sonatrach's efforts at reentering the
international capital markets.
(iii)  The project included four main components: (a) assistance for the promotion of
exploration acreage to foreign oil companies, including basin studies, the setting up of a
modern exploration data base, promotional and contractual assistance, and the services of
full-time foreign experts; (b) technical assistance and training in drilling supervision;
(c) selected enhanced oil recovery subprojects and related studies; and (d) training and
other technical assistance in the area of organization, financial systems, planning
optimization, and environmental protection.
Implementation
(iv)  Implementation of most components has progressed well, with the physical and
financial objectives largely achieved, acquisition of needed equipment essentially



completed, and several studies carried out, except as described below. The groundwork
was also laid for the medium-term institutional objective of restructuring the five
Algerian petroleum services enterprises, ENAGO, ENTP, ENGTP, ENEFOR, and ENSP,
which carry out drilling programs, well services, and civil works in the oil fields.
(v)   Achievement of physical objectives. The two main components, Mesdar/Rhourde
El-Baguel and Amassak secondary oil recovery schemes, have been in operation since
February and September 1995, respectively. The exploration data bank has also been
completed, with all equipment and software operational. The drilling simulator acquired
under the project has been in service since March 1993.
(vi)  Acquisition of computer, and information systems, and laboratory equipment.
Computer equipment for drilling operations has been acquired, as has equipment used to
prepare the Zarzaitine tertiary recovery feasibility study, and computer and laboratory
equipment for Sonatrach's Research and Development Center.
(vii)  Studies. The ZarzaYtine feasibility study on tertiary recovery, the studies on the
restructuring of each of the five petroleum services companies, and the environmental
study focusing on groundwater protection in the oil fields have been carried out.
(viii) Components not completed. The basin studies in key areas of the country (Ahnet-
Timmimoun, Bechar, Chelif, Constantine and Illizi) have not yet started; three of them
may be carried out under the still available Jeximbank funds, and the others by foreign oil
companies under their exploration joint ventures with Sonatrach .
(ix)  Achievement offinancial objectives. Sonatrach has complied with the financial
covenants, i.e. debt service coverage and debt:equity ratio. On the other hand, audits of
Sonatrach's financial statements by international auditors have not yet been introduced,
and the partial audits carried out by local firms have revealed the need for a major
overhaul of Sonatrach's accounting systems.
(x)   Achievement of institutional objectives. The institutional emphasis of this first
hydrocarbons project was on helping Sonatrach improve its efficiency in various domains
and on laying the groundwork for restructuring the five Algerian petroleum services
enterprises. Regarding Sonatrach, the project has helped to improve exploration strategy,
including international exploration promotion, procurement, and financial planning at the
corporate level. For the five petroleum services enterprises restructuring studies have
been carried out. Based on these studies, restructuring plans have been prepared by the
enterprises and are now being examined by the Government.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
(xi)  The one-year delay in completing the project was caused by the eight-months loan
effectiveness delay, several shifts regarding project components, some difficulties in
supervising the smaller components, and the differences between the Bank's procurement



iv
procedures and those of the oil industry which to a large extend rely on the short-list
approach or direct contracting. On the other hand, the turnkey approach for the surface
installations at Mesdar and Amassak was instrumental in the timely completion of these
contracts. Supervision extent was affected by the security situation in the country.
Project Sustainability and Assessment of Outcome
(xii) The project is sustainable. The secondary recovery components will produce
incremental oil volumes over the next twenty-five years or so. The exploration data bank
should make Sonatrach's exploration promotion efforts to the private oil industry more
efficient over many years to come and enhance private sector involvement in Algeria's
hydrocarbons sector. Benefits from the petroleum services restructuring studies will
depend on GOAs decisions on the strategic plans prepared by the five concerned
enterprises.
(xiii) Further efforts are needed to improve the oil and gas sector, including its legal
framework, the corporate structure of Sonatrach, Sonatrach's financial and information
systems, and Algeria's natural gas strategy. Such efforts might be slow in the future, in
the absence of a follow-up operation. The Bank had started to prepare a second loan for
petroleum secondary recovery and overhaul of outdated oil and gas field installations.
The loan has been postponed though, as for the time being both the Government and the
Bank have given priority to the Bank's involvement in other sectors. The Bank's further
approach will be clarified in the upcoming energy sector and Country Assistance Strategy
papers.
Bank and Borrower Performance
(xiv) The Bank. Preparation needed nearly three years, as this was the first operation
with Sonatrach. Several missions were needed to develop mutual understanding and to
develop acceptable loan conditionality. Bank performance was highly satisfactory; the
necessary specialized expertise was available; Bank staff, GOA and Sonatrach
collaborated fully to review and update the hydrocarbons sector strategy and define the
various project components.  At the supervision stage, Bank performance was
satisfactory, with regular supervision missions over the life of the project. Bank staff
assisted Sonatrach in its efforts to implement the project and reach its objectives and also
helped prepare the reallocation of unused funds from the Jeximbank loan. However, the
Bank's supervision would have been more efficient under more normal security
conditions in the country. Also, less stringent budget allocations would have permitted
more technical petroleum sector expertise in the supervision missions.
(xv)  The Borrower. Sonatrach's readiness to work with the Bank increased over time,
in line with its growing familiarity with Bank policies and procedures. Already during
the late phase of preparation of this first project, Sonatrach presented proposals for a
follow-up operation in the area of secondary recovery. Project implementation logistics
were well organized and up to the technical complexity of the project. The enterprise had



v
all the technical, organizational and financial capabilities necessary to achieve the project
objectives. It also has respected the financial covenants. On the other hand, progress
regarding the implementation of the basin studies has been very slow. Also, full-scale
annual audits as an instrument of financial management may not have had the needed
support at the top. Overall, the borrower's performance has been satisfactory, and for any
second operation preparation should be much easier and shorter than for this first project.
Key Lessons Learned
(xvi) The following key lessons can be derived:
(a)   Compared to the ambitious medium term sector objectives, the Bank's
leverage to achieve sector reforms and restructuring has remained limited. The financing
package put together was sizable, but has been modest in relation to Sonatrach's large
investment program. To enhance its credibility and leverage in a large hydrocarbons
sector, the Bank needs to have a medium-term commitment to cooperation, and a string
of substantial operations over several years.
(b)   Procurement and implementation: The efficiency of early procurement
arrangements and turnkey contracts was demonstrated by the speedy implementation of
the main components, i.e. the secondary oil recovery schemes at Mesdar and Amassak
The civil works carried out by local contractors were included in the turnkey contracts
and coordinated by the foreign contractor who had the overall responsibility. - On the
other hand, the project included a considerable number of small components in various
domains, which made implementation and supervision cumbersome.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FIRST PETROLEUM PROJECT
(LOAN 3395-AL)
PART I: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement and Evaluation of Objectives
Introduction/Background
1.    Since the early 1980s, the Government had been implementing economic reforns,
including relaxation of central planning, development of a more autonomous financial
system, promotion of the private sector, improved mobilization and allocation of
resources via pricing reforms. The Bank's strategy had focused on supporting the
country's economic reform program and the government's drive towards improved
resource allocation and productivity. It had supported this reform program in key sectors
and public enterprises. Bank involvement in the petroleum sector intended to be
consonant with this strategy in view of the sector's predominant role in the economy as
revenue generator and catalyst for industrial development.
2.    Confronted with a steady decline in the country's petroleum resource base and a
drop in foreign exchange earnings and fiscal revenues resulting from falling oil prices, the
Government shifted, in the late 1980s, its petroleum strategy towards (i) reinforcing the
role of the private sector through the adoption in 1986 of a new, more attractive
petroleum law for petroleum exploration/development by international oil companies and
through the progressive opening up of the service sector to local and foreign private
contractors; (ii) improving the efficiency of the sector's public enterprises (including
Sonatrach) by giving them more managerial and financial autonomy while exposing them
gradually to foreign competition; and (iii) maximizing gas exports by adopting a more
flexible marketing/pricing strategy in order to regain lost market shares and fully utilize
existing production and liquefaction facilities.
3.    Although the overall direction of Algeria's policy in the energy sector, and more
specifically the petroleum subsector, was appropriate, there were a number of issues: the
needs to enhance the efficiency of petroleum exploration and production, to integrate
natural gas exports into an integrated gas strategy, and to pursue energy conservation.
Project Objectives and Components
4.    The objectives of the project were to help address major policy issues in the
hydrocarbons sector and the energy sector of Algeria in general, as part of the country



2
assistance strategy, in view of the sector's predominant role in the economy as revenue
generator and catalyst for industrial development. Given the complexity and sensitivity of
the petroleum sector in Algeria, the Government and the Bank had agreed on a gradual
but incremental strategy for Bank involvement. The project was meant to be the first in a
string of operations in the oil and gas sector, to gain familiarity and start a dialogue with a
sector previously rather unknown to the Bank, in spite of its fundamental importance to
the country's macroeconomic development. It was therefore designed to address a
selected number of key issues (see below), while contributing to a modest extent to the
mobilization of Sonatrach's financing requirements. It was also meant as a base for
preparing follow-up operations which would extend and deepen the dialogue with the
Government and sector.
5.    There were a number of policy issues in the hydrocarbons sector: first, the need
to enhance the efficiency of petroleum exploration and production through
(i) improvements in acreage promotion   and the legal/contractual framework for
investment by foreign oil companies; (ii) restructuring of state-owned petroleum sector
enterprises; and (iii) development of the local private sector, starting with the petroleum
services subsector;  second, the development of natural gas exports as part of an
integrated gas development and utilization strategy, based on an analysis of the economic
value of gas for different possible uses; and third, energy demand management and
conservation, and to achieve this objective, bringing domestic energy prices up to
international levels.
6.    The Bank's medium-term strategy in the sector has aimed at (i) addressing the key
sector issues outlined above; (ii) mobilizing financing for the sizable foreign currency
requirements of the sector, through direct funding and co-financing arrangements; and
(iii) providing catalytic support for increased involvement by the international petroleum
industry in developing Algeria's substantial hydrocarbon potential.
7.    The project's immediate objectives were to: (i) help the Government and
Sonatrach in their efforts to attract investments in exploration and development by
foreign oil companies; (ii) help improve the efficiency of the petroleum services
subsector, and particularly of drilling operations; (iii) help Sonatrach optimize the
production of its oil and gas fields through enhanced oil recovery schemes; (iv) address
environmental problems related to drilling and production activities; and (v) help
Sonatrach mobilize incremental funds through co-financing arrangements with Eximbank
of Japan.



3
8.    The project comprised four components:
(a) Exploration promotion assistance, consisting of:
(i)   comprehensive basin studies in selected priority areas (starting
with Ilizi, Ahnet, Constantine and Chelif basins) to compile and
integrate all geological, geochemical, geophysical and well data in
each area, with a view to determining its petroleum potential and
identifying new exploration leads which could prove attractive to
oil companies;
(ii)   development and setting up of a modem, computerized exploration
database to assist foreign oil companies and Sonatrach in preparing
exploration plans;
(iii)   technical assistance to Sonatrach's Exploration Division in the
form of geophysical and geological computerized workstations as
well as the services of full-time foreign experts for up to 3 years;
(iv)    consulting services to assist Sonatrach in promotional activities
(organization of seminars, contacts with oil companies, etc.), and
in contract negotiations with oil companies.
(b) Technical assistance and training in drilling supervision, aimed at
strengthening Sonatrach's drilling supervisory capabilities, which had been
weak since drilling operations were spun off (to form ENTP) in 1982. This
included:
(i)    extensive TA and on-the-job training to be provided by a foreign
oil company over a three-year period to train about 40 drilling
supervisors; and
(ii)   acquisition of a drilling simulator and related assistance (including
upgrading of the Drilling Division's data processing facilities).
(c) Enhanced oil recovery and gas liquids extraction, consisting of:
(i)   two subprojects to enhance the recovery of crude oil in the Mesdar/
Rhourde El-Baguel field (through the injection of miscible gas)
and the Amassak field (through water injection) -- in both cases
including the drilling of injection wells as well as the acquisition of
surface facilities (compressors, generators, pipes, etc.)
(ii)   detailed feasibility studies and engineering/supervision of a tertiary
pilot project through the injection of CO2 in the ZarzaYtine field;
and
(iii)  strengthening of Sonatrach's Production Division's data processing
facilities.
(d) Other training and technical assistance, consisting of:
(i)  studies, technical assistance, and training related to implementation
of Sonatrach's Environmental Action Plan;



4
(ii)  development of  a  computerized  long-term  hydrocarbons
development optimization model;
(iii)  the strengthening of Sonatrach's Management and Finance
Training Centers in Arzew and Algiers as well as technical and
managerial training in exploration, production, drilling and
administration/finance;
(iv)  consultant studies and services related to the implementation of
Sonatrach's new organization;
(v)  specialized documentation; and
(vi)  an in-depth study of the petroleum services subsector.
Evaluation of Objectives
9.    This loan provided Bank financing for the oil and gas sector in Algeria at a time
when the national economy was about to undergo profound structural changes.
Objectives were imbedded in GOA's and Sonatrach's strategy for the hydrocarbons
sector, and in the Banks CAS. They may appear to be of limited scope; however, this
project was to open the door for the Bank to the Algerian oil and gas sector, after a
difficult dialogue over several years. As already stated, assistance by the Bank to major
policy improvements and sector restructuring was to be provided over a string of several
operations in the sector. In that sense, the project objectives and conditionality appear to
be appropriate, and reflect what was acceptable for both parties at the time for an initial
operation.
B. Achievement of Objectives
10.  Achievement of Physical Obiectives:  Overall project implementation has
progressed well. The majority of physical objectives has been achieved and mostly within
the implementation timetable. The two main components, Mesdar/Rhourde El-Baguel
and Amassak secondary oil recovery installations have been completed and have been in
operation since February and September 1995 respectively. The exploration data bank has
also been completed.
11.   Mesdar/Rhourde El-Baguel Secondary Recovery (Gas Injection):   This
component was the core of the project, with a cost of US$ 61.6 million for surface
installations for which the Bank has financed a foreign exchange cost of US$ 51.6
million. Construction of the surface installations was finished in November 1994. Start
up took place in June 1995. The wells (the equipment for which was initially to be
financed by the Jeximbank loan) were carried out as part of Sonatrach's overall drilling
program by the Algerian oil services companies in order to meet the start up date of the
surface installations. Gas injection and crude oil production during the first 2 1/2 years
were as follows:



5
Year                    Gas Injection            Crude Oil Production (000
(million ni3)           metric tons)
1995                    72.5                     432
1996                    263.0                    478
1997 (six months)       152.6                    284
12.   These orders of magnitude are in line with the appraisal projections. Gradual but
sizable increases of both gas injection and oil production are expected from about the
fourth year of operation onwards. The reservoir should produce 20.2 million tons over 25
years through gas injection compared to only 2.2 million tons with natural depletion, i.e.
an incremental 18.0 million tons due to the gas injection assisted recovery.
13.   Amassak Secondary Recovery (Water Injection): This was a smaller component
with a cost of US$ 17.5 million for surface installations, and a Bank contribution of US$
10.5 million foreign exchange cost. Commissioning was in February 1995. Water
injection reached 1.3. million m3 by the end of July 1997, instead of the planned 2.7
million m3, due to technical start-up problems with the pumps. Incremental crude oil
production is expected to reach 3.9 million tons over 25 years, i.e. 8.7 million tons total,
compared to only 4.8 million tons without water injection.
14.   Exploration Data Bank: This major system of hard- and software of US$ 16.5
million for international exploration promotion has been implemented. All hardware has
been delivered and commissioned, and all software systems have been installed and are
operational.
15.   Drilling Simulator: The simulator has been purchased for US$ 1.8 million) and
has been in service since March 1993. The required technical assistance and maintenance
is being financed from other sources.
16.   Computer Capacity and Information Systems Equipment: US$ 5.3 million have
been invested under the project in computer equipment other than the exploration data
bank, including for Sonatrach's drilling department, its Research and Development
Center, and equipment specifically for the Zarzaitine feasibility study.
17.   Completed Studies: (see table 6) The study on tertiary recovery at Zarzaitine was
completed at a cost of US$ 0.48 million. This study explored the feasibility of enhancing
oil recovery and gas liquids extraction in the Zarzaitine field through the injection of
CO2. Because of the risks involved, Sonatrach intends to implement the pilot component
based on the study (cost US$ 8.0 million) under a production sharing agreement with a
foreign partner.



6
18.   The studies on restructuring of the five petroleum service enterprises have been
completed under the responsibility of the Government's hydrocarbons and mines holding
and are the basis for restructuring strategies still to be approved by GOA. Also, an
environmental study on groundwater protection in oil producing areas has been
completed and is being used by Sonatrach to device an environmental action plan for
these areas.
19.   Components not yet completed: Originally, four basin  studies (Ahnet-
Timmimoun, Illizi, Sud-Est Constantinois/Chot Melrhir, Chelif/Telagh) as well as two
other optional basin studies (for Bechar and Atlas Saharien Central) were part of the First
Petroleum Project. Only two basin studies in key areas of the country (Bechar and Illizi)
continue to remain in the First Petroleum Project, but even though consultants have been
selected, the contracts have not yet been signed, and the studies have not yet started.
These studies are to be implemented under the still available Jeximbank funds. The other
studies have been launched or will be launched by foreign enterprises under their
exploration joint ventures with Sonatrach.
20.   While the training equipment for Sonatrach's training center at Arzew has been
purchased, procurement for the equipment for the Algiers and Benali-Cherif centers has
not yet been completed.
21.   Training programs abroad for Sonatrach's management and professional staff
initially to be financed by the project were implemented by other financing sources.
Since Sonatrach had already negotiated direct contracts for such training it did not want
to use the Bank's procedures for selection of the providers. Also, the Bank had
recommended that the training programs should be more petroleum industry-specific than
those already selected by Sonatrach.
22.   Achievement of Financial Objectives:  Sonatrach had agreed to annually review
with the Bank its past financial performance as well as its medium-term investment
program and future finances so that the Bank would get an opportunity to contribute to
the design of the sector's investment priorities and overall strategy. Such reviews were
normally carried out as part of supervision missions. Also, Bank staff assisted Sonatrach
to develop a model for financial projections facilitating these reviews.
23.   Financial covenants (spelled out in side letter no. 2) stipulated debt service
coverage for 1991 of 1.3 and for the following years of 1.5; and debt:equity ratio was
less than 75:25 for the years 1991 and 1992, 70:30 for the year 1993, and 66:34 for the
years thereafter. Sonatrach was able to comply with these covenants throughout the
project implementation period, as international oil prices continued to recover from the
1986 low, and it is anticipated that it will do so in the remaining time. Furthermore, the
fiscal regime applied by the Government to Sonatrach (royalties and corporate income
tax) remained stable. It should also be mentioned that Sonatrach's self-financing ratios
for 1994 and 1995 were 47% and 65% respectively. Forecasted figures of Sonatrach's
self-financing ratios continue to range between 45% and 65%.



7
24.   Audits: Sonatrach had the project accounts, statements of expenditures and the
Special Account audited in line with the Loan Agreement, and received clean auditors'
opinions on these.  Regarding Sonatrach's annual financial statements, the Loan
Agreement stipulates audits by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Even
though Sonatrach had the intention to phase in audits by international audit firms over
time after a period of two or three years (as stated in the SAR), such audits did not take
place. Sonatrach had its financial statements, accounting systems and procedures audited
by GIREC, a grouping of three Algerian firms formed specifically to conduct the
Sonatrach audits. GIREC carried out partial audits of Sonatrach's accounts; even these
audits resulted in adverse opinions on Sonatrach's financial statements. This has led to
some efforts on the side of Sonatrach to remedy the important shortcomings in its
accounting systems. Major efforts to overhaul Sonatrach's accounting and information
systems will have to continue for several years before Sonatrach's financial statements
will receive clean auditors' opinions. This will be important for Sonatrach's intention to
regain access to the international capital markets.
25.   Achievement of Institutional Objectives: Long-term institutional objectives for
the sector have included improvements in the hydrocarbons legal framework in order to
further broaden the participation of foreign oil companies in the sector, to improve
Sonatrach's structure and organization, and to restructure the Algerian petroleum services
enterprises. Under this first project in the hydrocarbons sector, the institutional emphasis
was on helping Sonatrach improve its efficiency in various domains, and on the
preparation of the restructuring of the five Algerian petroleum services enterprises
26.   Regarding Sonatrach, the project has helped during both the preparation and
implementation phase to improve among others Sonatrach's exploration strategy,
including international exploration promotion, procurement procedures (e.g., the open
bidding turn-key approach used for the Mesdar and Amassak schemes has been used
subsequently for various other Sonatrach projects), and its financial and investment
planning by helping to develop its first long-range financial model at the corporate level.
- The five petroleum services enterprises ENAGO, ENTP, ENGTP, ENEFOR, and ENSP
carry out drilling programs, well services, and civil works in the oil fields. Their major
client is Sonatrach, and some foreign oil companies now active in Algeria represent a
smaller part of their clientele. A study on each of these petroleum service enterprises has
been carried out, including a diagnostic part, institutional and legal aspects, and
recommendations. Based on the conclusions of these studies, each enterprise has
prepared restructuring plans which are now being examined by the Algerian government.
The medium term objective is to enhance the efficiency of these enterprises through joint
ventures or through the participation of foreign oil services enterprises.
Project Costs
27.   The project is to be completed at a cost of about US$ 200.1 million, or at 17%
below the appraisal estimate of US$ 240 million. At present, total cost can only be



8
estimated as the Japanese cofmancing will close more than one year after the Bank's loan,
i.e. October 31, 1998. Reasons for the lower cost are mostly to be found in the changes
of the project content: financing of the drilling and equipment of wells for Mesdar and
Amassak was taken over by Sonatrach, and some of the basin studies are to be carried out
under exploration joint ventures with foreign oil companies.
Project Financing
28.   By December 9, 1997, disbursements had reached US$ 118 million for both loans.
This represented a disbursement rate of 67 % of the total amount. Regarding the Bank
loan, US$ 88.57 million of US$ 100.00 million had been disbursed, leaving a balance of
US$ 11.43 million undisbursed Bank loans. The Jeximbank loan has been slow to
disburse: as of December 9, 1997, US$ 47 million remained available which Sonatrach
still intends to invest in well equipment for the operations in the southern Sahara.
Initially planned domestic loans of US$ 28.2 million were not utilized. Sonatrach has
contributed US$ 27.5 million to finance local cost.
Project Economic Performance
29.   The economic performance of the two main components, i.e. secondary recovery
at Mesdar and Amassak has been reevaluated on the basis of about two years of operation
out of about 25 years overall life-time of the secondary recoveries, i.e. at a very early
stage of operation.
30.   Revenue streams consist of the incremental petroleum volumes to be produced
due to the gas injection in the case of the Mesdar reservoir (and of water in the case of
Amassak) valued at the FOB price minus domestic transport cost (transport costs were
assumed as US$ 0.4 and US$ 0.25 for Mesdar and Amassak respectively). The long-term
price of petroleum has been estimated at US$ 18.50/bbl in real terms, which for Saharan
Blend (440 API) is a conservative assumption. Benefits of the Mesdar project include
also revenues from the injected gas, to be produced after the end of the oil secondary
recovery period (an estimated total of 10.5 billion m3 gas from the years 2020 to 2027).
31.   The cost streams include mainly the investment in injection wells (drilling and
equipment) and surface installations for the injection scheme. They also include the
economic value of the injected gas and the gas used as fuel for the injection installations,
as well as operating and maintenance cost at the two sites. Given the doubling of
Algeria's gas export capacity since the early nineties and the absence of a recent gas
utilization study, the economic value of gas has been assumed to be about US$ 2.00 per
million Btu in real terms, which is a conservative (i.e., high) assumption and the order of
size of the export prices for Algerian gas.



9
32.   On this basis, the reevaluated economic rate of return for the Mesdar assisted
recovery is 76%, and the one for Amassak is 57%, which compares to the appraisal
estimates of 87% for Mesdar and 44% for Amassak.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
33.   The project was essentially completed by mid 1997, one year behind schedule.
This was partly caused by the delayed effectiveness for the Bank loan. It was approved on
July 30, 1991, but did not become effective until April 2, 1992. Also, the effectiveness of
the (parallel) Jeximbank cofinancing came about one year late, which had an impact on
implementation of some components, mostly the injection wells for Mesdar and Amassak
which in the meantime were drilled by the Algerian oil services companies as part of
Sonatrach's overall drilling program and paid for by Sonatrach.
34.   This made reallocations of loan funds necessary: an additional major secondary
recovery scheme at Gassi Touil of about US$ 30 million was approved by Jeximbank
following a Sonatrach request supported by the Bank, but was later withdrawn by
Sonatrach as it turned out that the project needed additional engineering studies. The
presently remaining funds from the Jeximbank loan will most likely by used for well
equipment to be used in the southern Sahara development program.
35.   Some components were delayed or not implemented under the project because of
the differences between the Bank's procurement procedures and those of the oil industry
which to a large extend rely on short-lists or direct contracting, e.g. training programs
contracted directly by Sonatrach, or the invitations and proposals for basin studies which
went through very lengthy TOR preparation and evaluation processes. The studies have
not yet been implemented. Also, the project included a considerable number of small
components in various domains, such as computer equipment for different Sonatrach
departments, documentation, training equipment, etc., which made procurement and
follow-up cumbersome. On the other hand, the turnkey approach for the surface
installations at Mesdar and Amassak was instrumental in the timely completion of these
contracts. The turnkey contracts covered also the civil works executed by Algerian
subcontractors under the coordination of the main contractor.
36.   Supervision extent was affected to some degree by the security situation in the
country.  Supervision was carried out regularly in spite of the civil disturbances, but
some missions had to meet Algerian officials outside of the country, and others went to
Algiers but had to limit time and scope of the missions to the most essential matters.



10
D. Bank Performance
37.   The preparation/appraisal/negotiations phase was carried out over nearly three
years, from August 1988 to May 1991. Not only did the project include technically
complex secondary recovery schemes which needed thorough preparation, but as this was
the first operation with Sonatrach time and several missions were needed to develop
mutual understanding for the respective positions.  In particular, it needed major
communication efforts all the way into and during negotiations to explain the Bank's
policies regarding loan conditionality and to fornulate covenants acceptable to
Sonatrach.
38.   Bank performance was highly satisfactory. Over this extended time it was able to
make the necessary specialized expertise available in petroleum and reservoir
engineering, geology, petroleum legal framework, training. Bank staff, the Government,
and Sonatrach collaborated fully to review and update the hydrocarbons sector strategy
and define the various project components.
39.   At the supervision stage, Bank performance was satisfactory, with regular
missions during the life of the project. Bank staff advised and assisted Sonatrach in its
efforts to implement the project and reach its objectives. The one-year closing date
extension helped achieve project implementation and objectives. The Bank also helped
Sonatrach to prepare the reallocation of unused Jeximbank funds. It also assisted
Sonatrach in developing its financial and investment planning tools. However, the
Bank's supervision would have been more efficient under normal security conditions in
the country. Also, more generous than the stringent average budget allocations would
have permitted more technical petroleum sector expertise in the supervision missions,
similar to the preparation missions.
E. Borrower Performance
40.   After initial hesitations, Sonatrach's readiness to work with the Bank increased
over time, in line with its growing familiarity with Bank policies and procedures.
Already during the late phase of preparation of this first project, Sonatrach presented
proposals for a follow-up operation in the area of secondary recovery. Collaboration had
been very close, with several visits of Sonatrach executives to the Bank, in addition to the
Bank's missions to Algeria.
41.   Sonatrach's project implementation logistics were well organized and up to the
technical complexity of the project. The Bank's overall counterpart was Direction des
Etudes et Statistiques. For implementation of individual components, direct relations
existed with Sonatrach's various Vice-presidencies (Divisions).The enterprise had all the
technical, organizational and financial capabilities necessary to achieve the project
objectives. It also has respected the financial covenants.



11
42.   Among the matters that might have been more forthcoming were the
implementation of the basin studies, still pending. Also, the use of full-scale annual
audits as an instrument to improve financial management, although welcomed at the
working level, may not have had the needed support at the top decision making levels.
Overall, the borrower's performance has been satisfactory, and for any second operation
the preparation should be much easier and shorter than for this first project.
F. Assessment of Project Outcome and Sustainability
Project Outcome
43.   Overall project outcome can be rated satisfactory, with main components
implemented and performing as anticipated. The enhanced oil recovery schemes at
Mesdar and Amassak are operating, and the re-estimated rates of return are in the same
high orders of size as the ones estimated at appraisal. The project has helped to improve
Sonatrach's efforts to promote oil exploration and development in joint ventures with
foreign companies. On the other hand, the various basin studies have not yet been
implemented, and the restructuring of the petroleum services companies on the basis of
the studies carried out under the project has yet to be decided by the Government.
Project Sustainability
44.   The project is sustainable. The secondary recovery projects at Mesdar and
Amassak will produce incremental oil volumes over some twenty-five years. The
exploration data bank should make Sonatrach's exploration promotion efforts to the
private oil industry more efficient over many years to come and enhance private sector
involvement in Algeria's hydrocarbons sector. Equipment for Sonatrach's schools will
assist its training programs for years to come. - Benefits from the petroleum services
restructuring studies will depend on the Government's pending decisions on the strategic
plans prepared by the five petroleum services enterprises.
G. Future Project Operation
45.   The enhanced oil recovery schemes at Mesdar and Amassak will be operated by
Sonatrach as originally planned; present injection and recovery estimates are in line with
the appraisal estimates. The various computer systems including the exploration data
bank are being operated by Sonatrach, enhancing its exploration promotion, technical
operations, financial planning; no problems are anticipated.
46.   Further efforts are needed to improve the oil and gas legal framework, to
restructure Sonatrach into a holding and several legally separate affiliates (as already
intended by Sonatrach and discussed with the Bank during preparation of this project),
upgrading of Sonatrach's financial and information systems, and review of Algeria's



12
natural gas strategy based on a gas utilization study. Such efforts might be slow in the
future, in the absence of a follow-up operation with the Bank. Following a project
proposal from Sonatrach including several secondary recovery schemes and overhaul of
outdated installations in older oil fields, the Bank had started to prepare a second loan to
Sonatrach in 1994/1995. The loan has been postponed though, as for the time being the
Government and the Bank have given priority to the Bank's assistance addressing urgent
issues in other sectors, including social needs. The Bank's further approach to the
hydrocarbons sector will be clarified in the upcoming energy sector note and Country
Assistance Strategy paper.
H. Key Lessons Learned
47.   The following key lessons can be derived:
(a)   Compared to the ambitious medium term sector objectives, the Bank's
leverage to assist in hydorcarbons sector reforms and restructuring has remained limited.
The financing package put together was sizable, but has been modest in relation to
Sonatrach's large investment program. In order to help implement sector reforms in large
oil & gas sectors the Bank needs to enhance its credibility and leverage through its
commitment and a string of substantial operations over the medium term.
(b)   Procurement and implementation: The efficiency of early procurement
arrangements and turnkey contracts was demonstrated by the speedy implementation of
the main components, i.e. the secondary oil recovery schemes at Mesdar and Amassak
The civil works carried out by local contractors were included in the turnkey contracts
and coordinated by the foreign contractor who had the overall responsibility. - On the
other hand, the Bank's procurement procedures were not always well adapted to the
needs of Sonatrach, as in the petroleum industry short-list approaches even for large
contracts, and direct contracting being used, because high quality, reliability and time is
often considered more essential than least cost. Regarding implementation, the project
included a considerable number of small components in various domains, which made
contracting and supervision cumbersome.



13
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FIRST PETROLEUM PROJECT
(LOAN 3395-AL)
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives      Substantial      Partial     Negligible    Not Applicable
Macroeconomic                                                                      X
Sector policies                                      X
Financial objectives                   X
Institutional development                             X
Physical objectives                    X
Poverty reduction                                                                  X
Gender concerns                                                                    x
Other social objectives                                                            X
Environmental objectives                              X
Public sector management                              X
Private sector development             X
Other (indicate)
Likely                Unlikely               Uncertain
B. Project                      X
Sustainability
C. Bank Performance    Highly Satisfactory         Satisfactory             Deficient
Identification                  X
Preparation                     X
Appraisal                       X             __ _
Supervision                                            X
D. Borrower             Highly Satisfactory        Satisfactory
Performance
Preparation                     X
Implementation                  X
Compliance with                                         X
covenants
Operation (if                   X
applicable)
Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory           Unsatisfactory
E. Assessment of                                        x
Outcome



14
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FIRST PETROLEUM PROJECT
(LOAN 3395-AL)
Table 2: Other Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit                        Objectives               Date of       Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
None
Subsequent Operations
A follow-up operation is
in the 2001 lending
program.



15
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FIRST PETROLEUM PROJECT
(LOAN 3395-AL)
Table 3: Project Timetable
Stage of Project Cycle             Planned Date                 Actual Date/Estimate
Identification                           Aug 1988                         Aug 1988
Preparation                              1988-1989                   Nov 1988-July 1989
Appraisal                               Jan-Feb 1990                      June 1990
Negotiation                             March 1991                     April-May 1991
Board presentation                          1991                        July 30, 1991
Signing                                    1991                          Aug 2, 1991
Effectiveness                            Sept 1991                      April 2, 1992
Loan closing                           June 30, 1996                    June 30, 1997



16
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FIRST PETROLEUM PROJECT
(LOAN 3395-AL)
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Fiscal Year             1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997
Appraisal Estimate-annual  20.00   35.00    35.00    5.00  5.00    0.00     0.00
Appraisal Estimate-     20.00   55.00    90.00    95.00   100.00   100.00   100.00
cumulative
Actual annual           7.68    51.88    12.78    5.51    10.21    4.66    -4.20
Actual cumulative       7.68    59.56    72.34    77.85    88.06    92.72    88.52
Actual as % of Estimate    0.38  1.08    0.80     0.82     0.88    0.93     0.89
Date of Final           31 -Oct-
Disbursement                97
The negative US$ 4.2
million in FY97 represent
the return of the unutilized
balance of the Special
Account.



17
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FIRST PETROLEUM PROJECT
(LOAN 3395-AL)
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Project Component             Implemented by Quarter  Actual Calendar Quarter of
(SAR Estimate; Annex 3.3) Implementation Completion
1. Technical Assistance to
Exploration Promotion
- Basin studies                        1/95                  not completed
- Exploration data bank                2/94                      3/96
- Other exploration T.A.               4/95                    ongoing
2. Technical Assistance
to Drilling Supervision              4/92                      1/93
3. Production/Development
- Ammassak                             2/93                      1/95
- Mesdar                               3/93                      3/95
- Zarzaitine study                     4/93                      3/95
4. Other T.A. & Training
- Optimization model                   3/93               not completed; funds
reallocated to techn. software
- Equipment for training centers:
a. Arzew                             3/93                    completed
b. Others                            3/93                 not yet completed
- Other training                       4/95                    ongoing
- Other studies & documentation        4/94                    ongoing



18
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FIRST PETROLEUM PROJECT
(LOAN 3395-AL)
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
The key indicators for the operation of the main project components, i.e. the secondary
recovery schemes of Mesdar and Amassak, are the projected volumes of injected gas
(Mesdar) and water (Amassak), and the projected volumes of produced crude oil; see the
economic evaluation; tables 9A and 9B.



19
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FIRST PETROLEUM PROJECT
(LOAN  3395-AL)
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Study                            Purpose                          Status (12/97)                     Impact
Basin studies:                   Compile and integrate all existing   study no longer part of this project;   none
geological, geochemical,        to be executed with foreign
(a) Constantine (original appraisal   geophysical and well data in each   partnership
USS 1.6 mill.)                   area, to analyze the petroleum
potential and identify new
exploration leads.
(b) Ahnet (original appraisal USS                                 project has been cancelled under this
2.2 mill.)                                                        project and may be carried out by  none yet
______ ______ ______ _____ _  _______ ____foreign  oil company
(c) Illizi (original appraisal US$                                consultants have been selected,
2.8 mill.)                                                        contracts not been signed          none yet
(USS 3.4 million); to be completed
under Jeximbank loan*
(d) Chelif/Thelag (original                                       study no longer part of this project;   none
appraisal US$ 2.1 mill.)                                          to be executed with foreign
_   =__________________________  ____________________________    partnership
(e) Bechar (original appraisal US$                                replaced Constantine study
1.6 mill.)                                                        (US$ 1.6 million)                  none yet
Bechar to be completed under
Jeximbank loan*
(f) other studies (original appraisal US$                         Canceled.                          none
8.2 mill.)                      l                                l
Detailed feasibility studies for a    Enhance oil recovery and gas  Study completed (USS 0.48 million)  none yet
tertiary recovery pilot project in    liquids extraction in the Zarzaitine  Zarzaitine tertiary recovery project
the Zarzaitine field (original   field through the injection of CO,   (USS 8.0 million) to be executed
appraisal USS 9.8 mill.)                                          under production sharing
arrangement with foreign partner
Data collection and assessment of   Provide information needed for  Completed.                       Execution of
project's impact on groundwater,   implementation of Sonatrach's                                     Environmental Action
and study of altemative          Environmental Action Plan.                                          Plan underway
technologies and comparative costs
for remedial action.
Studies to identify need for     Assist in implementing           Completed by Sonatrach with        Improved management
external assistance to Sonatrach in   Sonatrach's new organization.  extemal assistance for financial  techniques and
human resource management,                                        aspects with Sonatrach's own funds.  strategic planning
financial and managerial systems                                                                     capabilities; Bank
and affiliate holding relations.                                                                     awaiting borrower's
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ rep o rt
In-depth study of the petroleum  Lay the groundwork for           Completed. (USS 0.53 million)      Restructuring
services subsector               restructuring of the subsector,                                     strategies to be
including possible spinning off of                                  approved by GOA
some Sonatrach services to
contractors
* Completion of the basin studies Illizi and Bechar under Jeximbank loan for a total of US$ 5.0 million.



20
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FIRST PETROLEUM PROJECT
(LOAN 3395-AL)
Table 8A: Project Costs
(in millions of US$)
APPRAISAL                             ACTUAL
Foreign         Local     Total       Foreign     Local      Total    Variance
1. Exploration Promotion Assistance
(a) basin study Bechar (replacing Constantine)                1.4            0.2       1.6           1.6        0        1.6            0
(b) basin study Ahnet                                         2.1            0.1       2.2            0         0          0         -2.2
(c) basin study Illizi                                        2.6            0.2       2.8          3.4         0        3.4          0.6
(d) basin study CheliflThelag                                 1.9            0.2       2.1            0         0          0         -2.1
(e) other basin studies                                       7.8            0.4       8.2            0         0          0         -8.2
(f) data bank, exploration/workstations                       8.1            0.2       8.3         16.5       0.9       17.4          9.1
(g) data process. CRD                                         1.5             0        1.5          1.5         0        1.5            0
(h) foreign experts                                           1.4            0.3       1.7          0.1         0        0.1         -1.6
(i) negotia./promotion assistance                             0.5            0.1       0.6          0.1         0        0.1         -0.5
() geological cabins                                         10.3             0       10.3          8.7         0        8.7         -1.6
Sub-Total                                                    37.6            1.6      39.2         31.9       0.9       32.8         -6.4
2. Drilling Supervision Assistance
(a) tech. assist. CFP/TOTAL                                   7.7            0.4       8.1          7.7       0.4       8.11            0
(b) data processing                                           1.2             0        1.2           1.5        0        1.5          0.3
(c) drilling simulator                                          1             0          1           1.8        0        1.8          0.8
Sub Total                                                     9.9            0.4      10.3           11       0.4       11.4          1.1
3. Enhanced Oil Recovery & Studies
(a) water inject. Amassak (surf.)                             7.9            2.8      10.7         10.5         7       17.5          6.8
(b) water inject. Amassak (drilling)                          7.9           10.2      18.1            0         0         02        -18.1
(c) gas inject. Mesdar/Rhourde El Baguel (surf.)             56.2          30.7       86.9         51.6        10       61.6        -25.3
(d) gas inject. Mesdar/Rhourde El Baguel (drilling)           2.9             4        6.9            0         0          3         -6.9
(e) pilot tertiary recovery Zarzaitine                        8.4            1.4       9.8         0.48         0      048          -9.32
(f) data processing                                           1.9             0        1.9          1.2         0        1.2         -0.7
(g) Well-equipment Southern Sahara                              0             0         0            38         0        385           38
Sub Total                                                    85.2           49.1    134.3        101.78        17    118.78        -15.52
Other T.A. and Training
(a) hydrocarbons optimization model                           1.8            0.1       1.9       0.3556         0   0.35566       -1.5444
(b) equipment for training Centers (CPE & Algiers)            1.2            4.8        6           3.6       8.7       12.3          6.3
(c) tech. and administr. training                             2.2            0.3       2.5            0         0         0          -2.5
Financed by the French Government
Drilling executed by Algerian drilling company on Sonatrach's own budget.
Drilling executed by Algerian drilling company on Sonatrach's own budget
Zarzaitine study, only, was completed. Sonatrach intends to implement the pilot component based on a study (cost USS 8.0 million) under a production sharing
agreement with a foreign partner.
Sonatrach is currently developing a drilling project in the South of Algeria instead of the originally planned Gassi Touil which had been financed under the
Jeximbank loan.
6 Instead of the execution of the optimization model, technical software (US$ 0.35 million) was purchased.
7Completed with other financing.



21
APPRAISAL                          ACTUAL
Foreign        Local    Total      Foreign    Local     Total    Variance
(d) other studies                                        2.4           0.3      2.7        0.53        0       0.53       -2.17
(e) documentation                                          1            0         1           1        0          1          0
Sub Total                                                 8.6          5.5     14.1         5.49      8.7    14.19         0.09
Interest During Construction                            29.6          12.7     423          22.9      08       22.9       -19.4
Total                                                  170.9          693    240.2         173.1      27      200.1       -40.1
s No [DC due to absence of local loans.



22
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FIRST PETROLEUM PROJECT
(LOAN 3395-AL)
Table 8B: Project Financing
(in millions of US$)
ADDraisal       I         Actual
Sources of Financing           Local  Foreign I Total   Local  Foreign   Total
Sonatrach                      27.50    0.00    27.50    27.00       0.00    27.00
Domestic Loans                 28.20    0.00    28.20       0.00     0.00     0.00
IBRD                            0.00    100.00   100.00    0.00      88.6     88.6
Japan Eximbank                 13.40    63.40    76.80      0.00    76.809    76.80
French Government               0.00     7.70     7.70      0.00     7.70     7.70
Total            ~69.10   171.10   240.20   27.00    173.1   200.-10f
Note that about US$ 47.0 million of the Jeximbank loan (here included) as of mid December 1997 have not yet
been disbursed but are expected to be disbursed by the closing date of Oct. 31, 1998, mostly for well
equipment and 2 basin studies (see table 8A).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR RE, PUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FIRST PETROLEUM PROJECT
(LOAN 3395-AL)
Table 9A: Economic Costs and Benefits -Mesdar Secondary Recovery
1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  2011  2012  2013  2014  2015  2016  2017  2018  2019
Added Production (m bbl)           3.241 3.589 4.255 5.105 5.528 5.774 6.022 5.948 5.898 5.886 5.836 6.555 6.555 6.529  5.75 4.833 5.626 5.589 5.539 4.845 5.452 4.845 4.957 4.908 4.899
Well-head price (S/bbl)               17 20.93  18.1  18.1  18.1  18.1  18.1  18.1  18.1  18.1  18.1  18.1  18.1  18.1  18.1  18.1  18.1  18.1  18.1  18.1  18.1  18.1  18.1  18.1  18.1
Benefts (million S)
OilRevenue                          55.1 75.11    77 92.41  100.1 104.5  109 107.7 106.8 106.5  105.6 118.6 118.6 118.2 104.1 87.47  101.8 101.2 100.3  87.7 98.69  87.7 89.71 88.84 88.68
Costs
Gas injectcd (mill. M')             72.5  263 305.2 287.5 287.5 287.5 417.9 417.9  465 512.8 512.8 557.7 589.3 643.1 643.1 669.4 669.4 728.4 728.4 757.4 757.4 779.5 779.5 642.3 642.3
Gas consumplion (mill. m')         9.632 34.94 40.55  38.2  38.2  38.2 55.52 55.52 61.78 68.13 68.13 74.09 78.29 85.44 85.44 88.93 88.93 96.77 96.77  100.6 100.6 103.6 103.6 85.33 85.33
Surface Expenses (m S)        61.6
Drilling Expenses (nnS)        6.9
Cost or Export Gas (S/ml)          0.057 0.057 0.057 0.057 0.057 0.057 0.057 0.057 0.057 0.057 0.057 0.057 0.057 0.057 0,057 0.057 0.057 0.057 0.057 0.057 0.057 0.057 0.057 0.057 0.057
Cost of Fuel Gas (m S)             0.546  1.98 2.297 2.164 2.164 2.164 3.146 3.146   3.5  3.86  3.86 4.198 4.436 4.841 4.841 5.039 5.039 5.483 5.483 5.701 5.701 5.867 5.867 4.835 4.83S
CostofInject.Gas(m S)              4.108  14.9 17.29 16.29 16.29 16.29 23.68 23.68 26.35 29.05 29.05  31.6 33.39 36.44 36.44 37.93 37.93 41.27 41.27 42.91 42.91 44.16 44.16 36.39 36.39
Otheroperatingcost(mS)             6.213 6.213 6.213 6.213 6.213 6.213 6.213 6.213 6.213 6.213 6.213 6.213 6.213 6.213 6.213 6.213 6.213 6.213 6.213 6.213 6.213 6.213 6.213 6.213 6.213
Total (nmillion S)            68.5 10.87 23.09  25.8 24.67 24.67 24.67 33.04 33.04 36.06 39.13 39.13 42.01 44.04 47.49 47.49 49.18 49.18 52.96 52.96 54.83 54.83 56.24 56.24 47.44 47.44
NetBenefits(nmillionS)       -68.5 44.23 52.02  51.2 67.74 75.39 79.85 75.97 74.62  70.7 67.41 66.51 76.64 74.61 70.69 56.58 38.29 52.65 48.19 47.29 32.87 43.86 31.45 33.47  41.4 41.24
[RR                           76%



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FIRST PETROLEUM PROJECT
(LOAN 3395-AL)
Table 9B: Economic Costs and Benefits - Amassak Secondary Recovery
1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  2011  2012  2013  2014  2015  2016  2017  2018  2019  2020
Incremental Oil (m bbl)               1.17         1.17  1.17  1.17  1.17  1.17  1.17  1.17  1.17  1.17  1.17  1.17 1.17       1.17  1.17  1.17  1.17   1.17 1   .17  1.17   1.17  1,17  1.17  1.17  1.17
Price (5/bbl)                        18.25 18.25 18.25 18.25 18.25 18.25 18.25 18.25 18.25 18.25 18.25 18.25 18.25 18.25 18.25 18.25 18.25 18.25 18.25 18.25 18.25 18.25 18.25 18.25 18.25 18.25
Benefits (nillion S)
Oil Revenue                          21.35 21.35 21.35 21.35 21.35 21.35 21.35 21.35 21.35 21.35 21.35 21.35 21.35 21.35 21.35 21.35 21.35 21.35 21.35 21.35 21.35 21.35 21.35 21.35 21.35 21.35
Costs (ndtiion S)
Surface Cost                    17.5
Drilling Cost                   18.1
Total Cost                      35.6
Water injectlon (million m3)          0.48  0.52  0.84   1.28  1.28  1.28  1.28  1.28  1.28  1.28  1.28  1.28  1.28  1.28  1.28  1.28  1.28  1.28  1.28  1.28  1.28   1.28  1.28  1.28  1.28  1.28
Water operation cost (mS)             0.06  0.07  0.10  0.16  0.16  0.16  0.16  0.16  0.16  0.16  0.16  0.16  0.16  0.16  0.16  0.16  .0.16  0.16  0.16  0.16  0.16  0.16  0.16  0.A6  0.16  0.16
Other operation cost (mS)             1.03  1.03  1.03  1.03  1.03  1.03  1.03  1.03  1.03  1.03  1.03  1.03  1.03  1.03  1.03  1.03  1.03   1.03  1.03  1.03  1.03  1.03  1.03   1.03   1.03  1.03
NetBentfits(mS)               -35.60 20.26 20.25 20.21 20.16 20.16 20.16 20.16 20.16 20.16 20.16 20.16 20.16 20.16 20.16 20.16 20.16 20.16 20.16 20.16 20.16 20.16 20.16 20.16 20.16 20.16 20.16
IRR                          56.81%



25
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FIRST PETROLEUM PROJECT
(LOAN 3395-AL)
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Loan    Ref.        Covenant    Present    Fulfillme   Description                           Comments
. ________  Type         Status      nt Date*
3395-   3.02        6            C           12/12/94    Carry out Environmental Action Plan   Sonatrach has carried out study
AL      (A)                                                                                  stipulated by the action plan on
groundwater protection, esp. in
Hassi Messaoud and Hassi
R'Mel, with recommendations
for action and investment
programs.
3.02       6             C          12/12/94    Progress review re: Environmental   Study completed; proposed
(B)                                             Action Plan                         components to be included in
possible second hydrocarbons
project.
3.03       2             C          12/12/94    Review of five-year investment plan    Draft 1994-1998 investment plan
(i)                                                                                 reviewed.
5/20/96                                         Draft 1996-2000 investment plan
reviewed.
3.03       2             C          12/12/94    Review of related medium-term       Financial projections 1997-2000
(ii)                                            financial plan                      prepared.
5/20/96                                         Updated financial projections
reviewed.
5/22/97                                         Updated financial projections
reviewed.
3.04       7             C          12/12/94    Onlending of US$500,000 to Fonds    Done.
(A)                                             de participation mines, hydrauliques et
hydrocarbures
4.03       5             NC         12/12/94-   Insurance against risks             Reviewed during every mission.
5/22/97



26
5.01       1            CD         12/12/94-   Audits of financial statements and of   Audit reports received after
(B)                                5/22/97     Special Accounts; statements and   delay.
audit reports to be furnished to Bank
5.01       1            C          12/12/94    Statements of Expenditure to be    Done.
(C)                                            covered by mentioned audits
5.02       2            C          12/12/94    Review of financial performance of    Done.
previous year with Bank
General    8            C           12/12/94    Project progress report.          All reports received on time.
condition
Sidelekter Covenants
SL No. 2   2            C          12/12/94    Debt service coverage > = 1.5      Done.
re: Sec.
5.02
SL No. 2   2            C          12/12/94    Debt equity ratio < 70:30 for 1993,  Done.
re: Sec.                                       < 66:34 for 1994
5.02
SL No. 2   2            C          12/12/94-   Review of compliance with above    Yearly reports received.
re: Sec.                           5/22/97     ratios (taking into account fluctuation
5.02                                           of oil price)
SL No. 2   2            C          12/12/-94-  In case of noncompliance, submit set   n.a.
re: Sec.                           5/22/97     of measures to reach compliance, then
5.02                                           carry out such measures
SL No. 3   9            C          C           Promptly carry out study to improve    Study carried out.
re: Sec.                                       organization, performance and
3.04                                           productivity of petroleum service
subsector
*Date of Form 590 in which compliance first noted.
Covenant Class:
1.      Account/audit
2.      Financial performance
3.      Management aspects of the project
4.      Special conditions relating to the implementation of strategies, criteria, and procedures
5.      General and institutional conditions
6.      Environmental covenants
7.      Flow and utilization of project funds
8.      Monitoring, reviewing and reporting
9.      Sector organization
Status:
C = Complied with, CD = Compliance after delay, CP = Complied with partially, NC = Not complied with



27
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FIRST PETROLEUM PROJECT
(LOAN 3395-AL)
Table 11: Bank Resources -- Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle         Planned          Actual        Planned      Actual
(staff weeks)   (staff weeks)   (USSOOG)    (US$000)
Preparation                                            83.8                       219.6
Appraisal                                              30.2                        79.7
Negotiation through Board Approval                      33.5                       102.0
Supervision                       ______________       114.3                       397.6
Completion/Closing                      8.0             8.0           29.0         29.0*
TOTAL                l                    269.8                       824.5
*$ 15,500 spent to end-Nov. 1997.



28
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FIRST PETROLEUM PROJECT
(LOAN 3395-AL)
Table 12: Bank Resources -- Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of     Month/        No. of    Staff-     Specialized Staff    Implementation                   Type of Problem
Project      Year          Persons   Weeks    Skills Represented   Development
Cycle                                in Field                       status           objectives
Identific.   July/Aug.     1         0.5        TM / Fin. Analyst    n.a.              n.a.        Explore sector issues,
1988                                                                                 dialogue with GOA and
Sonatrach, identify
________                         possible components
Prepar.      Nov-Dec       3         3.7        Financial Analyst    n.a               n.a.        Prepare project/
1988                              Oil & Gas Contract                                 preappraisal.
Specialist
Petrol. Engineer
Prepar.      Jan-Feb       1         1.2        Petrol. Engineer    n.a.              n.a.        Prepare project; meet with
1989                                                                                 Sonatrach technical staff.
Prepar.      July 1989     5         6.5        Financial Analyst    n.a.             n.a.        Prepare project; meet
Legal Analyst                                     with officials from
Petrol. Engineer (2)                              Sonatrach and Ministry of
Energy Economist                                  Energy.
Pre-appraisal  Nov. 1989    5                   Financial Analyst    n.a.             n.a.         Pre-appraise project;
Egy Economist                                     redefine components,
Petr. Engineer                                    discuss conditionality
Petr. Geologist
Consultant
Appraisal    Jan./Feb.     5                    Financial Analyst    n.a.             n.a.         Appraise project; agree
1990                              Egy Economist                                      on components, review
Consultants (2)                                   intended conditionality
Educ. Specialist
Post-        June 1990    3          3          Financial Analyst    n.a.             n.a.         Follow up on preparation
appraisal                                       Petrol. Engineer                                   of key components; reach
Legal Analyst                                     prelim. agreements on
loan conditionality in
preparation for
negotiations.



APPENDIX A
AIDE MEMOIRE OF THE ICR MISSION



pRMIR,PROJET PETROLrER
(PRET NO. 3395-ALG)
MISSION D'ACHEVEMENT
DU 13 AU 26 JUIN 1997
AIDE-ME MOTRE
A. Introduction
1.           Une mission de la Banque mondiale composee de Messieurs. Ren6
Mendon.a et Ahmed El-Hamri a eu des reunions avec les representants de la Sonatach
du 13 au 26 juin 1997 a la residence El-Mithak - Alger pour preparer le rapport
d'achevement du premier projet petrolier dans le cadre de la cloture du pret de la Banque
pr6vue pour fin juin 1997. En ce concerme le cofinancement (credit parallele) assure par
l'Exim Bank du Japon, celui-ci sera cl6ture en octobre 1998 conformement aux accords.
2.           La mission tient a remercier vivement les representants de la Sonatrach
pour leur chaleureux accueil et leur collaboration efficace. Le present aide-mesnoire
resume les principaux sujets discutes et les accords conclus lors de cette mission que la
Banque confirmera par lettre officielle une fois la mission rentree a Washington. La lste
de personnes rencontrees est presentee en Annexe 1.
3.           La mission a confld aux representants de la Sonatrach que, dans le cadre
des directives et accords des prets de la Banque mondiale, les "agences" beneficiant des
emprunts ont la responsabilite de preparer, apres une cl6ture du pret, un rapport
d'achevement du projet conjointement avec la Banque. Le rapport de l'emprunteur
(Sonatrach) constitue la derniere etape du suivi du premier projet petrolier. n devra etre
prepare par la Sonatrach et soumis A la Banque dans un delai maximum de six mois apres
la cloture du pret, c'est-a-dire le 31 decembre 1997. La mission a recommande a la
Sonatrach de saisir cette oppormnite pour faire une evaluation retrospective du projet
qui vient de s'achever et pour presenter son appreciation en termes d'impact du projet sur
la performance des activites de la Sonatrach et de preciser dans quelle mesure le projet a
atteint ses objectifs tout en s'exprimant librement sur la qualite de l'action de la Banque.
La Banque de son cote, preparera un rapport d'achevement du projet qui sera transmis a
la Sonatrach. Le rapport final prepare par la Banque sera transmis aux membres du
Conseil d'Administration de la Banque auauel seront annexes sans modification le
rapport fait par la Sonatrach et ses commentaires sur le rapport prdpare par la Banque.
4.           La Sonatrach sest engagee a preparer le rapport d'achevement et de le
transmettre a la Banque vers la mi-aout 1997. Ce rapport devrait contenir une partie
analytique d'environ 10 pages ainsi que des annexes detaillIes se rapportant aux objectifs
realises.



2
5.           La mission a suggari & la Sonatrach que le rapport d'achevement ci-dessus
mentionne fasse, en plus de I'analyse retrospective du projet, le point sur les realisations
physiques, sur les problemes rencontr6s dans la passation des march6s et sur les
decaissements du pret par rapport aux objectifs envisageis initialement tels que presentes
en Annexe 2. A cet effet, la Banque a remis a la Sonatrach un prototype de rapport
d'achevement fait par d'autres emprunteurs. Il a ete convenu que la Sonatrach ilabore un
seul rapport diachevement concernant la Banque et Exim Bank du Japon en precisant
qu'il s'agit d'une dvaluation jusqu'au 30 JuinD 1997 pour le pret Banque et d'tm rapport
diexecution du projet en cours de realisation pour le pret Exim Bank du Japon.
B. Point de situation du proiet.
6.           Rappel des objectifs essentiels et description du premier projet p6trolier.
Les objectifs du premier projet petrolier ont &t6 defmnis dans le rapport d'evaluation
"Alg6rie, premier projet petrolier" 6labor6 par la Banque mondiale en juin 1990.
Ils devraient contribuer a:
- promouvoir les investissements dans les activites d'exploration par la mise en oeuvre
d'un programme d'etudes de bassins, d'assistance technique et de developpement d'une
Banque de donnees exploration. Ce programme vise a renforcer les capacites propres de
la Sonatrach et permertre de developper le partenariat etranger dans l'exploration;
- renforcer I'aptitude de la Sonatrach aL maximiser la production des champs p6troliers par
la realisation d'etude et de projets de recuperation secondaire et tertiaire a travers des
composantes de recupration assistee a Mesdar, Amassak et Zarzaitine;
- ameliorer les capacites de la Sonatrach en matiere de supervision de forage par la
formation et I'acquisition d'un simulation forage,
- developper les capacites des services fonctionnels de la Sonatrach par I'assistance
technique notamment dans le domaine de planification (modelisation), de l acquisition
d'equipement p6dagogiques et informatiques;
- ameliorer l'efficacite des services para-petroliers par des mesures et des actions qui ont
&d determinees par l'etude diagnostic de I'activitd;
- reduire les effets sur 1'environnement des activitEs de forage et de production des
hydrocarbures par la mise en place d'un plan de protection de l'environnement comportant
la rdalisation d'operations de traitement des eaux de rejets industriels des charnps de Hassi
Messaoud et El Gassi.



3
Ce projet est finance par des credits de la Banque et cofinance par l'Exim Bank du Japon
pour un montant total de 176,8 millions SUS repartis conmue suit:
- 100 millions $US par la Banque
- 76,8 millions $US par l'Exim Bank du Japon.
7.    Obiectifs phvsiques: globalement, I'avancement des differentes composantes du
premier projet petrolier est juge satisfaisant. Les consommations de credits i fin lun
1997 ont atteint 90,2 millions $US pour les deux prets, soit un taux de realisation global
de 51% du montant total du financement acquis (ce taux est de 66,5% pour le pret de la
Banque et de 32% pour le pret Exim Bank du Japon). Seules trois composantes financ6es
essentiellement par le pret Exim Bank du Japon ont accuse quelques retards, il s'agit des
etudes de bassin et des projets de recuperation de Zarzaitine et de Gassi Touil. Le
financement prdvu pour le projet de recupdration des gaz associes de Gassi Touil a &A
annule compte tenu des delais, additionnels necessaires a la maturation du projet, qui
s'averent aujourd'hui non compatibles avec les dilais de validit6 des pr&ts de la Banque
et Exim Bank du Japon. En ce qui conceme le projet de r6cuperation ternaire de
Zarzaitine, celui ci sera realise dans le cadre d'un accord de partenariat
(a) Pret de la Banque: Etat des realisations
14 contrats ont etd imputes en juin 1997 pour un montant global de 68 2 millions S (dont
0,5 million S pour l'etude des services parapetroliers ) soit 68 % du pret de la Banque.
Le total des engagements (y compris les interets intercalaires ai la fin de juin 1997) est de
90,2 millions de $US, soit un taux de 90,2 % du financement Banque. les decaissements
sur les engagements a la fin de juin 1997 s'elevent a 66,5 millions $US, soit un taux de
realisation de 66,5% sur le pret de la Banque. Le montant des interets intercalaires a ete
totalement debourse, soit 22 millions $US. Le montant des deboursements prevus pour la
periode juin a octobre 1997 s'Il&ve i 1,76 million US. Sur les 100 millions SUS du pret
de la Banque, 9 millions $US -ne seront probablement pas consommes du fait de la date
de cl6ture du pret Banque. Ce montant correspond aux credits affectes initialement aux
operations qui ntont pas deniarre a ce jour telles que:
- Etudes de bassins (Ahnet, Bechar et Illizi ): 4 millions $US. Sonatrach introduira une
demande aupres de l'Exim Bank du Japon pour imputer ces contrats sur le crddit Exim.
- Equipements pedagogiques (du centre de formation d'Alger) et inforTnatiques pour le
si&ge de la Sonatrach: 1,3 million $US (contrat non signe). Sonatrach introduira une
demande aupres de l'Exim Bank du Japon pour imputer ces contrats sur le credit Exim.
- ModeIe optimisation: 0.6 million US: operation annulee.
- Recuperation Gaz associes Gassi Touil: 2,3 millions SUS
Les delais plus longs necessaires a la maturation technique du projet siaverent aujourd'hui
non compatibles avec les delais de validite de ces prets.
0.8 million de US$ representent des reliquats dues a la surestimation des equipements
informatiques destines au forage et au CRD.



4
(b) Pr8t Exim Bank du Japon: Etat des realisations
17 contrats ont ete imputes a ce jour pour un montant global de 25,7 mnillions SUS, soit
34% du pret Exim Bank du Japon. Le total des engagements y compris les int6rets
intercalaires a la fin de juin 1997 s'616ve a 3 3,8 millions SUS. Les decaissements a la fin
de juin 1997 sur le total des engagements s'elevent a 24,2 millions SUS, soit un taux de
realisation 31,5 % par rapport au montant du credit Exim Bank du Japon. Un montant de
1,4 million de dollars a ete consomme au titre des interets intercalaires estim6s
initialement a 8 millions de dollars. Les previsions de decaissements pour la p6riode juin
a octobre 1997 s'elve a 2,6 millions de dollars. Compte tenu de 1'entrie en vigueur
tardive du pret Exim Bank du Japon, les credits non consomm6s sur le pret Exim Bank du
Japon concernent les composantes suivantes:
- recupradtion des Gaz Associes Gassi Touil: 29,5 millions SUS. Les delais plus longs
necessaires a la maturaion technique du projet siaverent aujourd'hui non compatibles
avec les delais de validit6 du pret Exim Bank du Japon. Sonatrach en informera l'Exim
Bank du Japon das que possible.
- r6cup6ration tertiaire Zarzaitine : 8 millions $US. II a et decide sur la base des
resultats de l'etude de faisabi1ite technique liee a ce projet que ce dernier sem realise dans
le cadre d'un projet de partenariat. Sonatrach en informera l'Exim Bank du lapon des que
possible.
- int*ets intercalaires : 6,6 millions SUS, soit un total de cr&dits non consommes de
44 millions SUS sur le pret Exim Bank du Japon.
Une demande de r6afiectation de ce montant a d'autres operations sera introduite par la
Sonatrach aupres de l'Exim Bank du Japon, avec copie a la Banque.
(c) demande de reaffectation des credits a adresser iI'Exim. Bank du Jp. Suite a
I'annulation du financement du projet de recuperation des gaz associes de Gassi Touil,
Sonatrach souhaite allouer le solde disponible A des operations entrant dans les objectifs
assign6s au premier projet telles que: le programme d'acquisition d'equipements de puits
(Division Production): 38,7 millions de dollars US. Sonatrach introduira cette denande
aupres de l'Exim Bank du Japon avec copie a la Banque qui, de son c&t, contactera
I'Exim Bank du Japon a ce sujet
8.     Respect des envaaements financiers:  Concernant la situation financiere de
l'entreprise, les etats financiers ont et actualises sur la base des resultats de 1'annees 1995
et de la prevision 1996; les chiffres indiquent une situation fmnanciere satisfaisante et les
ratios dette LT+CT/Actif total et couverture du service de la dette s'averent meilleurs que
les coefEcients convenus dans I'accord de pret. Ainsi, les resultats nets de 1'entreprise en
1995 et 1996 sont respectivement de 69 milliards et 102 milliards de DA (une nette
augmentation de 47.8%). La capacite d'autofmnancement de l'entreprise, en 1996. est
passee de 1 12 a 138 milliards de DA, soit une augmentation de 23% par rapport a l'aFn6e
precedente, repr6sentant ainsi 83% de l'investissement de la Sonatrach. L'analyse des
ratios de l'entreprise montre que le ratio d'autofinancement global etait de 109% en 1995,



5
et 98% en 1996. Le ratio representant la couverture du service de la dette a atteint 4.5 en
1995, et 11.5 en 1996
9.    La disquette contenant les donnees du modele "perspectives finmncitres'
actualisdes sur la base des resultats des annres 1995 et 1996 et des previsions de cl6ture
1997 sera transmise a la Baaque vers mi-aout 1997 . Ce modele retrace les r6sultats
financiers de la Sonatrach sur la periode 1991/1996 et les perspectives sur la periode
1997/2001.  L'audit des comptes du projet pour 1'annie  1996 a 6t6 remis aux
representants de la Banque au cours de cette mission. L'audit des etats financiers de la
Sonatach pour l'annee 1996 sera =nsmis  la Banque vers la fin de septembre 1997.
Alger, le 24 Juin 1997.
Pour la Banque Mondiale:
Ren6 Mendonca



6
AEX1
Liste des personnes rencontrdes
B.ntat  SONATRACH:
Mr. BENAOUDA                    Sous Directeur Financement, (FIB)
Mede BENSALEM                    Charge de mission (FIB)
Mr. BOUKHALFA                    Sous Directeur Gestion PrevisioDnelle (FIB)
iMme ZITOUNI                     Inagnieur d'etudes (EPP)
Melle BENOUGHLIS                S/Directeur EPP
Mr. OUADAH                      Directeur Planification (EXP)
Mr BAKOUCHE                     Chef de departement (EXP)
Mr. SEFFOUH                     Directeur Central Approvisionnement (DP)
Mr. AIT YOUCEF                  Chef de DEpartement (CRD)
Mme OUIGUINI                    Sous Directeur CIED (EPP)
Ir MABROUK                      Directeur Adjoint (RHUT)



7
ANN1FXE 2
Le rapport d'achevement de la Sonatrach devrait analyser et contenir les suets svams:
Evaluation rdrospective
Impact des effets induits du projet
Indicateur de performance technique et de gestion
Realisation physique du projet
Passation des marches et decaissements du pret
Etudes (ex: etude de bassins, compagnies parap6trolieres, protection environnemental,
etc..)
Creances et arrieres: statistiques 1991-1997
Bareme des tarifs 1991-1997
Formation du personnel
Assistance technique - consultants
Echeancier d'investissements 1991-1997 du projet
Echeancier d'investissement 1991-1997 de 1'entreprise
Taux de rentabilite des projets Mesdar et Amassak
Finances: statistiques 1991-1997 et previsions
Inflation et valeur du dollar: statistiques 199 1\1997
Prix du baril du petrole brut. du gaz, et du condensat: statisques 199 1\97



APPENDIX B
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION
AND COMMENTS TO THE ICR



SONATRACH
PREMIER PROJET PETROLIER
PRET BIRD ALG-3395
RAPPORT PRELIMINAIRE D'ACHEVEMENT
ETABLI PAR L'EMPRUNTEUR
08/1997



RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT
DU PREMIER PROJET PETROLIER ALGERIE
(Pret BIRD ALG - 3395)
SOMMAIRE
Pages
INTRODUCTION                                              2n3
PREMIERE PARTIE: ANAL YSE QUALITATIVE                    4 u 16
1) RAPPEL DES OBJECTIFS DU PREMIER PROJET PETROLIER
2) ANALYSE COMPARATIVE DES REALISATIONS PAR RAPPORT AUX
OBJECTIFS
3) ANALYSE DE L'EVOLUTION DES COMPOSANTES INITIALEMENT
RETENUES
4) ANALYSE DE LA PERFORMANCE DU PROJET
5) PRINCIPAUX FACTEURS AYANT AFFECTE LE PROJET
6) ANALYSE DES PERFORMANCES DE LA BANQUE ET DE
L'EMPRUNTEUR
7) PERENNITE DU PROJET
8) PRINCIPALES LECONS
DEUXIEMEPARTIE: TABLEAUX STATISTIQUES                   17a 23
- Resume de l'evaluation
- Calendrier du Premier Projet
- Etudes incluses dans le Premier Projet
- Indicateurs clis de 1'execution du projet Mesdar
- Emploi de fonds et financement du projet
- Evolution des cousts des composantes
- Point de situation des consommations de credits



Le present document constitue le rapport d'achevement du Premier Projet Petrolier
etabli par SONA TRA CH ( en qualite d 'emprunteur) en application des directives
et accords de prets de la Banque Mondiale r a la suite de la cl5ture du prit BIRD
qui a eu lieu le 30 Juin 1997. En ce qui concerne le prit de l'Eximbank du Japon
(EXIMIJ), dont la cloture est prevue pour le 30 Octobre 1998, le point sur l1etat
de son execution au 30 Juin 1997 est egalement presente dans ce document.
Ce document comporte deux parties:
* la premiere partie retrace une analyse qualitative retrospective des
conditions de realisation du Premier Projet Petrolier,
* la deuxieme partie presente les tableaux statistiques lies a
1'execution du projet.
1



INTRODUCTION
Le Premier Projet Petrolier s'inscrit dans le cadre du programme triennal 1989/1991 dont les
actions ont ete arretees conjointement entre le Gouvernement Algerien et  la Banque
Mondiale.
Le rapport d'achevement relatif au Premier Projet Petrolier est etabli a la suite de la cloture
du pret BIRD qui a eu lieu le 30 Juin 1997 . En ce qui concerne le pret de l'Eximbank du
Japon (EXIM/J) , dont Ja cloture est prevue pour le 30 Octobre 1998, ce rapport fera le point
sur lPetat de son execution au 30 Juin 1997.
Le Premier Projet Petrolier a fait l'objet d'un financement BIRD et d'un cofinancement de
I'Eximbank du Japon pour un montant total de 176.8 millions $US reparti comme suit
- Pret BIRD : 100 millions S US
- Pret EXIM/J: 76,8 millions SUS
Le pret BIRD a ete signe le 02 Aout 1991 avec une entree en vigueur prononcee le 02 Avril
1992. Le pret EXIM/J a ete signe le 26 Juin 1992 avec une date d'entre en vigueur le 22
Mars 1993 , soit une annie de retard par rapport au pret BIRD.Ceci a induit des retards dans
le lancement des operations financees par le pret EXIM/J.
Durant 1'execution du projet, et sur la base de l'etat d'avancement a fin Juin 1995 des
difflrentes composantes, un reliquat de financement non utilise de l'ordre de 31, 8 millions
$US a ete degage ( 2,3 millions $US sur le pret BIRD et 29,5 millions $US sur le pret EXIM/J)
suite a la non utilisation du financement prevu pour les composantes suivantes:
- "forages de puits a Mesdar et Amassak" dont le financement a ete prise en charge
totalement par SONATRACH,
- "autres etudes de bassins" dont le financement sera assure par des associes etrangers dans le
cadre d'accords de partenariat dans le domaine de la recherche et developpement,
- "assistance technique experts" dont la realisation s'est averee non opportune.
Apres accords prealables de la BIRD et de l'EXIMIJ, il a ete procede a la restructuration du
cofit global du projet et A la reaffectation du reliquat au profit du projet de recuperation des
gaz associes de Gassi Touil non inscrir initialement . Depuis, il est apparu necessaire
d'actualiser la configuration technique du projet de Gassi Touil a la lumiere des dernieres
informations techniques, ce qui a induit des delais supplementaires pour le lancement de Ia
procedure d'appel d'offres. Aujourd'hui, il apparait que les delais necessaires a la maturation
du projet de Gassi Touil s'averent non compatibles avec les delais de validite du pret EXIM/J.
De plus, en ce qui concerne le projet pilote de recuperation tertiaire de Zarzaitine initialement
inscrit et dont le financement etait initialement assure par le pr6t EXIM/J, ce projet , du fait
de sa complexite technique . sera realise dans le cadre d'un accord de partenariat avec des
associ6s etrangers. Aussi, les credits alloues a ce projet ne seront pas consommes.



A fin Juin 1997, date de cloture du pret BIRD, sur le financement BIRD de 100 millions $US;
90,2 millions SUS sont decaissees. 11 ressort ainsi que 9,8 millions SUS ne seront pas utilises.
A fin Octobre 1998, sur le financement de 76,8 millions SUS du pret EXIM/J, le montant des
engagements realises et des previsions d'engagement est estime a 32,8 millions SUS.
Ainsi, 44 millions SUS restent disponibles. C'est pourquoi, lors de la derniere mission de
suivi effectuee par les representants de la BIRD a Alger en Juin 1997, SONATRACH a
propose une reaffectation d'une partie des credits disponibles sur le prit EXIM/J pour le
financement d'operations nouvelles qui s'inscrivent parfaitement dans les objectifs assignes au
Premier Projet Petrolier, il s'agit des operations suivantes:
- programme d'acquisition d'equipements de puits et de pieces de rechanges destines aux
regions sud (de 38,7 millions SUS),
- programme d'acquisition d'equipements actifs teleinformatiques pour le nouveau siege
SONATRACH (1 million $US),
et d'autre part pour le financement des etudes de bassins (5 millions SUS) financees
initialement par le pret BIRD. Une demande de reaffectation   a ete introduite par
SONATRACH aupres de l'EXIM/J le 2 Aouit 1997 avec copie a la BIRD.



PREMIERE  PARTIE:
ANALYSE QUALITATIVE



PREMIERE PARTIE: ANALYSE QUALITATIVE
I) RAPPEL DES OBJECTIFS DU PREMIER PROJET PETROLIER
Les principaux objectifs du Premier Projet Petrolier ont ete definis dans le rapport
d'evaluation v Algerie, Premier Projet Petrolier o elabore par la Banque Mondiale en Juin
1990.
[ls devaient contribuer a:
- soutenir les efforts consentis par le Gouvernement Algerien et SONATRACH pour V
promouvoir les investissements dans les activites d'exploration , pour renforcer les capacites
propres de SONATRACH et permettre de developper le partenariat etranger dans
l'exploration et le developpement
- aider  SONATRACH a optimiser la production de ses champs petroliers grace a des  v
techniques de recuperation assistee du petrole,
v
- ameliorer les capacites de SONATRACH en matiere de supervision de forage,
- developper les capacites des services fonctionnels de SONATRACH,
- reduire les effets de pollution des activites de forage et de production des hydrocarbures sur  v
1'environnement.
- Au plan institutionnel, les objectifs visaient la restructuration des services petroliers pour
aider la ces derniers en vue d'ameliorer leur efficacite , en particulier pour le forage.
Ces objectifs devaient etre concretises a travers les principaux projets regroupes en quatre
composantes suivantes:
a) Composante < Assistance technique promotion exploration 
Cette composante consistait a mener dans une premiere phase des etudes exhaustives sur les
Bassins juges prioritaires telles que:
. Les etudes sedimentologiques , diagenetiques et modelisation sismique des reservoirs
paleozoiques et evaluation des reserves des bassins de I'Ahnet Timimoun et d'lllizi
. L'evaluation du potentiel petrolier du bassin Sud - Est Constantinois et du Chott Meirhir et
du Bassin du Chelif et du Sillon de Telagh,
. les deux etudes optionnelles de bassins pour Bechar et Atlas Saharien central.
Ce programme d'etudes devait identifier les nouvelles perspectives en matiere d'exploration
pour permettre a SONATRACH de developper le partenariat etranger dans ['exploration.
Dans une deuxieme phase , cette assistance devait se traduire par le developpement et la mise
en place d'une Banque de donnees informatisee relative a ['exploration . Cela permettra a la
Division Exploration de   SONATRACH  d'ameliorer les methodes de recherche et
d'exploration en multipliant le nombre de prospects.



If s'agit de mettre en place un reseau informatique constitue de stations de travail et de
terminaux relies a un serveur central et dote d'un ensemble de logiciels pour le traitement et
interpretation des donnees . Ce svsteme d'informations permet l'acces tres rapide a toutes les
informations relatives a la geologie, la geophysique et aux caracteristiques des reservoirs
traverses par les differents puits d'exploration et de production . Cette Banque de donnees
pourra etre consultee par 1'ensemble des structures de SONATRACH et de ses partenaires
etrangers .De plus , if etait prevu le recours a des experts etrangers sur deux ( 02 ) annees
notamment pour les negociations de contrats avec les compagnies petrolieres etrangeres.
b) Composante if Production et Diveloppement )
Cette composante comprend la realisation d'une etude et de projets de recuperation assistee a
travers les projets de Mesdar, Amassak et Zarzaitine . 11 s'agit pour le projet de Mesdar
/Rhourde El Baguel de recuperer du petrole brut par injection de gaz miscible a un taux de
2,4 Millions m3/jour pour augmenter la recuperation finale de petrole de 13% environ , soit
130 millions de barils .
La recuperation dans le champ d'Amassak devait se faire par injection d'eau a un taux de
3500 m3 J jour et se traduire par une augmentation de la recuperation finale de petrole brut
de 30% environ, soit 19 millions de barils .. Le forage de puits injecteurs a ete egalement
prevu .Enfin une etude de faisabilite detaillee pour la mise au point d'un projet pilote de
recuperation tertiaire par injection de co, dans le champ de Zarzaitine etait egalement prevue.
c) Composante "Assistance technique etformation a la supervision deforage"
Cette assistance devait renforcer les capacites de supervision de forage de la SONATRACH (
les operations de forage etant transferees a l'ENTP ). Ceci devait se concretiser par un
programme de formation de 40 superviseurs de forage par une compagnie petroliere
etrangere (TOTAL/CFP) , et par l'acquisition d'un simulateur de forage avec l'assistance
requise.
d) Composante " Autre assistance technique"
mise en place d'un modele d'un modele d'optimisation des hydrocarbures dans le domaine
de planification ( environ 75 hommes mois environ ) ,
- renforcement des centres de formation de SONATRACH A Arzew et Alger,
. formation aux techniques de gestion dans le domaine de l'exploration , de la production , du
forage et de l'administration /finances,
. acces a une documentation specialisee dans le secteur des hydrocarbures,
. Ia protection de l'environnement: une etude preliminaire sur les eaux usees industrielles et
domestique et la protection des nappes souterraines , surtout pour les regions du SUD devait
itre lancee par SONATRACH,
- renforcement des capacites informatiques des divisions operationnelles de SONATRACH
par I'acquisition d'equipements informatiques et de logiciels.
. Etait prevue egalement la realisation d'une etude des services petroliers pour it compte du
Fonds de Participation Mines et Hydrocarbures qui a concerne les entreprises ENAGEO,
ENTP , ENGTP ENEFOR , ENSP . Cette etude a couvert les domaines suivants: diagnostic,
aspects institutionnels , juridiques et recommandations . Sur la base des resultats de cette
etude, chaque entreprise devait elaborer un plan de redressement a court et moyens termes,
5



2) ANALYSE COMPARATIVE DES REALISATIONS PAR RAPPORT AUX
OBJECTIFS
La realisation des differentes composantes a ete prise en charge par les Divisions
Operationnelles de SONATRACH ( Exploration, Production, CRD et Forage) ainsi que par
les Directions Centrales Ressources Humaines et Etudes , Planification et Prospective dans
leur domaines respectifs.
La coordination avec la BIRD a ete assuree par les Directions Centrales Finances et Budget,
et Etudes, Planification et Prospective de SONATRACH.
Le suivi de realisation de l'etude de restructuration des services petroliers a ete assure par le
Fonds de Participation Mines et Hydrocarbures.
2.11 Realisations /Objectifs phvsipues
Globalement, les objectifs physiques assignes au Premier Projet Petrolier ont ete atteints du
fait que les differentes composantes ont ete dans leur majorite totalement realis&es dans les
delais .
a) Operations achevies:
- Projet d'acquisition d'une Banque de donnees ( EXP ): les equipements sont
totalement receptionnes et operationnels , la reception provisoire a ete signee . Les
reseaux informatiques sont configures et operationnels a 100%, les logiciels sont
installes a 90% , ils sont en phase de test.
- Projets de recuperation secondaire AMASSAK et MESDAR t RHOURDE EL
BAGUEL: en exploitation respectivement en Fevrier et Septembre 1995.
- Projet d'acquisition d'un simulateur de forage ( FOR ): mis en exploitation en
Mars 1993 . Le fournis-seur retenu est Digitran (USA), le contrat a ete signe en Juin
1992 pour un montant de 1 556 294SUS y compris le cofit de la formation des
formateurs. Les equipements sont receptionnes en Mars 1993 et mis en service. Un
contrat d'un montant de 302 072 $US pour la maintenance du Simulateur et
l'assistance technique sur trois (3) ans a ete mis en oeuvre avec le mime fournisseur
Digitran . Les operations d'assistance technique CFP-TOTAL pour la supervision
forage ont ete realisees par le recours a une autre source de financement .
- Projet equipements informatiques ( FOR ): equipements receptionnes . Le contrat
d'acquisition a etc signe avec le fournisseur DIGITAL ( equipements et services )
pour un montant de 1 300 870 $US.
- Projet d'acquisition de 20 cabines geologiques (CRD):   programme d'acquisition
acheve.
- Projet equipements informatiques ( CRD  : installation du reseau et reception de
la totalite des equipements tels que:
lire tranche: reception et installation du reseau et de la majorite des equipements
informatiques, la reception provisoire des equipements a eu lieu en octobre 1994 .
Une partie de la formation du personnel a ete effectuee chez le fournisseur.
6



2eme tranche: Acquisition de materiels complementaires et de logiciels. Cette
tranche a et decomposee en trois volets:
- acquisition de materies complementaires : contrat totalement realise,
- acquisition de logiciels d'application: contrat totalement realise,
- acquisition et mise en oeuvre d'un logiciel de gestion de donnees de laboratoire
(LIMS):  contrat totalement realise .  A signaler l'imputation du projet de
renovation de 03 cabines mud-logging sur le projet informatique : 500 000 US$.
- Acquisition equipements de laboratoire et materiel roulant (CRD): operation
achevee. If s'agit des equipements de laboratoire et vehicules tout terrain (CRD) .
A l'exception de l'offre ROP qui n'a pas abouti ( montant maintenu pour
l'acquisition d'un autre equipement avec un autre fournisseur), les autres
equipements sont totalement acquis .
- Etude de faisabilite de recuperation tertiaire champ Zanaitine: etude achevee. Le
contrat pour la realisation de l'etude a ete signe en aout 1993 avec le consultant
PETRESIM (USA) pour un montant de 476 709 SUS , I'etude est achevee a 100% .
- Acquisition d'equipements informatiques se rapportant a l'etude de faisabilite de
Zarzaitine: le contrat d'acquisition a ete signe avec le fournisseur DIGITAL pour
un montant de 87 512 $US . Les equipements sont acquis, le credit accorde
totalement consomme.
- Acquisitions equipements informatiques ( PED): operation achevee, le contrat
d'acquisition a ete signe avec le fournisseur SPES pour le montant de 1 166 839 $US,
A Acquisition d'une collection de normes sur CD/ROM avec support informatique
operation realisee.
- Modele d'optimisation: deux contrats signes avec les fournisseurs GEOQUEST
(249 600 SUS) et SCIENTIFIC SOFTWARE INTERCOMP ( 106 000 SUS ) ont ete
imputes pour I'acquisition de logiciels destines a la Division PED . Les logiciels sont
acquis, les enveloppes sont totalement consommees .
- Etude diagnostic des services parapetroliers pour le compte du Fonds Mines et
Hydrocarbures   etude achevee.
b) ODerations en cours:
- Etudes de bassins;
. etude de bassin Ahnet -Timmimoun financee initialement par pret BIRD pour 3
millions $US .Le projet de contrat avec le consultant GUSTAVSON est en instance de
signature .
. etude de bassin lilizi financee initialement par pret EXIM/J pour 3 millions $US et
par pr8t BIRD pour 0.4 million $US. Le projet de contrat avec le consultant
ROBERTSON est en instance de signature.
. etude de bassin Bechar financee initialement par pret BIRD pour 1,6 million US$.
Le projet de contrat est en instance de signature avec le consultant GUSTAVSON.
- Projet equipements pedagogiques centres de formation Alger et CPE/Arzew finance
initialement par pret BIRD pour   1,4 million $US et pret EXIM/J pour   1,2
million $US
7



- Centre de formation Benaly Cherif /Alger : 2,0 millions SLJS
evaluation des offres fimaliseee.
- Acquisition d'equipements pedagogiques , CPE Arzew :0,6million SUS
Contrat signe avec ALBM , equipements receptionnes .
- Equipements informatiques pour le siege: 0,5 million S
ce montant de 0,5 Million S correspond au reliquat du montant de l'enveloppe
allouee au centre de formation d'Alger ( 2,5 Millions $), il a ete affecte , apres
accord de la BIRD, i l'acquisition d'equipements informatiques pour le Siege,
evaluation des offres en cours d'approbation par la BIRD.
- Composante documentation: operation qui se deroule normalement.
c) Operations dont le financement a ete annule:
- projet de recuperation de gaz associes de Gassi Touil dont les depenses en devises
etaient prevues etre financees conjointement par les prets BIRD et EXIM/J,
- projet de recuperation tertiaire de Zarzaitine dont les depenses en devises etaient
prevues etre financees par le pret EXIMIJ.
2.2) Realisations/Obiectifs financiers
a) DXcaissement:
Les decaissements de credits a fin Juin 1997 ont atteint un niveau satisfaisant de 114 millions
SUS pour les deux prets, soit un taux de realisation global de 65% du montant total du
financement acquis .11 est estime qu'a fin Octobre 1995, 167 millions $US seront consommees
sur les prets BIRD et EXIM/J, soit un taux de couverture des besoins de financement du
Projet de 82%. Le financement en monnaie locale ( 18% du financement global) n'a pas pose
de problemes particulier.
b) Engaggements financiers:
Les ratios d'endettement tels que prevus dans l'accord de pret ont ete largement respectes par
SONATRACH . Les etats financiers pour les diffierents exercices montrent que ces ratios
sont bien meilleurs par rapport a ceux convenus dans l'accord de pret.
2.3) Realisations/Objectifs institutionnels
Les objectifs institutionnels visent Ia restructuration de cinq (05) entreprises a travers la
realisation de l'etude de rentabilite du secteur des services petroliers en Algerie (
restructuration des entreprises. Une etude executee par CEGOS/BEICIP a concerne cinq
entreprises de services petroliers ( ENAGEO , ENTP, ENGTP  ENEFOR, ENSP ) et a
couvert trois volets: diagnostic , aspect institutionnels / juridiques et recommandations . A
partir des conclusions de l'etude, un plan de redressement a court et moyen terme elabore
par chacune des entreprises est en cours d'examen par les autorites competentes.
R



2.4 ) Realisations /Obiectifs relatifs a l'environnement
Les services techniques de SONATRACH ont effectue. dans le cadre d'un plan d'actions pour
la protection de 1'environnement, une etude preliminaire sur les eaux usees industrielles et
domestiques et la protection des nappes souterraines , surtout pour les regions Sud .
Sur la base des resultats de cette etude preliminaire , des etudes de faisabilite ont ete effectuees
par la filiale CBR et ont abouti a des projets d'investissemente.
3) ANALYSE DE L'EVOLUTION DES COMPOSANTES INITIALEMENT
RETENUES
Depuis 1'entree en vigueur des accords de prets. certaines ajustements techniques ont ete
apportees dans le programme phvsique initialement inscrit.
a) Composante "Assistance Teclnique Promotion Exploration " comprenant
a.1l Les Etudes de bassins : sur un programme initial de quatre etudes de Bassins (Ahnet -
Timimoun ,d'0llizi , Sud - Est Constantinois et du Chott Melrhir , du Bassin du Chelif et du
Sillon de Telagh ) et deux autres etudes optionnelles de Bassins pour Bechar et Atlas Saharien
Central , trois etudes seulement ont ete maintenues dans le cadre du Premier Projet Petrolier.
Il s'agit des etudes de bassins Ahnet -Timimoun , Bechar et Illizi dont les contrats de
realisation ont ete signes respectivement avec les consultants GUSTAVSON pour Ahnet et
Bechar et ROBERTSON pour Illizi. Les autres etudes sont lancees ou seront lancees par des
societes etrangeres dans le cadre du partenariat.
Le retard pris pour le demarrage de ces etudes est dfi essentiellement:
. I 1'entree en vigueur tardive de la convention de pret EXIM BANK JAPAN qui n'est
intervenue qu'en Mars 1993,
. aux modifications apportees au programme initial pour les raisons citees plus haut.
a.2) La Banaue de Donnees Exploration: ce projet a necessite la mise en place d'un contrat
de consultant avec D.C. CRANE pour la definition du projet et pour l'assistance dans l'appel
d'offres internationnal a ete approuve par la Banque en Aout 1992 a ete lance en Septembre
1992. Apres approbation des rapports d'evaluation technique et financiere par la Banque, le
marche a ete attribue A PECC (GB) pour un montant global de 16,5 millions S US; le contrat
est entre en vigueur en Octobre 1994. La realisation s'est deroulee globalement dans de
bonnes conditions; le planning de realisation a ete dans l'ensemble respecte . Le projet est
actuellement operationnel . 11 est ai rappeler que ce projet a enregistre une augmentation de
cofit de 8,5 millions SUS par rapport au montant initial (8 millions USS). Les surcouits de 8,5
millions USS ont ete couverts par les cr6dits destines initialement aux projets de forage de
puits MESDAR et AMASSAK ( rialises deji par SONATRACH anterieurement a la date
d'entree en vigueur des conventions des prets) .
a.3) Les eauinements informatigues destines au CRD: ce projet a ete realise en deux tranches
, la premiere concerne l'acquisition d'equipements informatiques , la deuxieme porte sur
I'acquisition de materiels complementaires et de logiciels .Le contrat pour la premiere tranche
a ete signe avec DIGITAL , il a ete realise . Le contrat pour la deuxieme tranche a ete signe
avec CANSOC . Le contrat n'a pas ete realise dans les delais du fait de la lenteur
d'intervention de CANSOC qui n'a pas fourni toutes les prestations prevues dans le contrat.
La reception provisoire n'a pas encore ete signee.
9



a.4) Les cabines aeologigues de Mud Logzaing: ce projet etait prevu a l'origine pour la
l'acquisition de 20 cabines .Suite a la reestimation du projet, un solde de 2,5 millions SUS s'est
degage par rapport a l'estimation initiale (10,3) . cela a permis au CRD , d'acquerir des
equipements de laboratoires et vehicules tout terrain non prevu initialement . Le reliquat a
fin Juin 1997 a ete estime a 420 000 SUS. La BIRD a donne son accord pour l'utiliser pour ie
financement du projet " renovation cabines mud logging" . La realisation de la premiere
tranche etait prevue pour 1991 , cependant l'operation de mise en place de la procedure de
financement a necessite delais tels qu'il n'a pas ete possible de respecter le calendrier initial (
entree en vigueur du pret EXIM /.I en Mars 1993 ) , cette tranche n'a ete realisee qu'en 1993 .
Malgre la multiplicite des contrats , la realisation de la totalite des operations gerees par le
CRD, s'est deroule globalement dans de bonnes conditions.
a.5) Les prestations d'experts . assistance technique: sur l'ensemble de l'assistance prevue,
seules les prestations d'un consultant (M. CRANE ) ont ete imputees a hauteur de 0,1 millions
SUS , le solde sur les credits accordes ont ete reaffecte a d'autres projets.
b) Composante "Assistance teclhnique supervision forage" comprenant
b.1) L'assistance technique fournie par CFP-TOTAL qui n'a pas ete financee dans le cadre
du Premier Projet Petrolier du fait du retard pris dans la mise en place des credits Ce contrat
a ete realise par le recours a une autre source de financement.
b3.2 Les eauipements informatiques destines a la Division Forage: les equipements ont ete
receptionnes.
b.3) L'acauisition d'un simulateur de forage : le simulateur a ete livre en 1993, le materiel est
installe et fonctionne normalement . La seule contrainte qui pourrait se poser a la Division
Forage est celle liee au contrat de maintenance du simulateur conclu pour trois ans avec le
mime fournisseur. En effet compte tenu de la cl6ture du pret BIRD , ce contrat ne sera pas
realise dans le cadre du financement BIRD.
c) Composante << Production et developpement *
11 s'agit essentiellement de la realisation de projets de recuperation assistee de
Mesdar/Rhourde El Baguel et Amassak : ces deux projets qui representent 62% du
financement BIRD ont etc mis en services respecdivement en Fevrier et Septembre 1995.
c.1 ) Projet de Mesdar/Rhourde El Baizuel: I'entree en vigueur du contrat principal
SOFREGAZ a eu lieu en Octobre 1991 pour une duree de realisation de 24 mois. Les travaux
de construction se sont acheves le 30 Novembre 1994.
Quelques difficultes ont ete rencontrees durant la realisation telles que la suspension des
commandes de materiels suite au retard pris dans l'entree en vigueur de la convention de
financement BIRD qui n'a etc effective qu'en Avril 1992 , la livraison tardive de certains
equipements tels que ballons, separateurs, aerorefrigerants, raccorderies et un demarrage
lent pour des raisons securitaires . Le d6marrage des deux trains a eu lieu respectivement en
Mai et Juin 1995.La r6ception provisoire avec SOFREGAZ a 6t6 prononcee le 04 Avril 1996.
Les productions de petrole brut et les volumes de gaz injectes ont et6 de:
en 1995: 432 121 tonnes de petrole brut avec une injection de 72,5 millions m3 de gaz
en 1996: 478 472 tonnes de p6trole brut avec une injection de 263 millions m3 de gaz
a Juin 1997: 283 644 tonnes de petrole brut avec une injection de 152,6 millions m3 de gaz
in



c.2) Projet Amassak: ce projet a ete realise dans de conditions jugees satisfaisante. son
demarrage s'est effectue en AvrI 1992 pour une duree de realisation de 22 mois , la reception
provisoire stest faite en Fevrier 1994, la reception definitive en Fevrier 1995.
c.3) Les Forazes a Mesdar et Amassak: initialement , le credit EXIM/J devait financer les
equipements pour les puits de forage Mesdar et Amassak ( 21 millions SUS) . Compte tenu du
retard pris par l'entree en vigueur du pret EXIM/J , ces forages ont ete reaiises par les
entreprises de services petroliers dans le cadre de leur programme de forage . Ces credits ont
donc ete reaffectes aux projets " Banque de Donnees Exploration " et "recuperation des gaz
associes Gassi Touil ".
c.4) Le projet pilote de recuperation tertiaire de Zarzaitine: ce projet consistait en la
realisation d'etude de faisabilite de recuperation tertisire, I'acquisition d'equipements
informatiques pour la realisation de l'etude ainsi que la realisation du projet pilote.
L'etude de faisabilite de recuperation tertiaire par injection de fluide miscible dans le champs
de Zarzaitine a ete conflee au consultant PETRESIM .Le contrat a ete signe en Aou1t 1993
pour une duree initiale de 10 mois . Ce contrat a ete proroge deux annees en raison de la sous
estimation au depart de la duree des travaux de laboratoire. L'etude a et6 entierement realisee
selon les termes du contrat .Le rapport final a ete transmis a SONATRACH en Decembre
1995 . L'apport de cette etude s'est avere positif , toutefois en ce qui concerne le projet pilote,
SONATRACH envisage de le realiser dans le cadre d'un accord de partenariat avec des
associes etrangers ( le champ de Zarzaitine figure parmi les projets " promotion en
partenariat ") . Dans le cas ou 1'exploitation du champ de Zarzaitinese se poursuivra avec un
partenaire etranger, la mise en oeuvre du pilote sera conflee a ce dernier ce qui permettra a
SONATRACH de beneficier de 1'experience et de la technologie du partenaire etranger choisi.
c.5) Les epuiiements infornatipues destins au PED : les projets d'acquisition d'equipements
informatiques et logiciels ont e  entierement realises conformcment aux contrats . 11 sont
op6rationnels au niveau de la Division PED . La realisation a ete effectu6e dans les delais aussi
bien pour le materiel que pour les logiciels .
c.6) Le projet de recuperation des Gaz associes Gassi Touil : des difficultes ont e  rencontrees
par SONATRACH pour Ia finalisait du projet de cahier de charges suivant les dernieres
procedures de la BIRD , ce qui a engenre des delais suppleimentaires .En effet I'accord de
prncipe de la BIRD sur le projet des cahiers de charges soumis par SONATRACH en Juillet
1995, n'a ete approuve qu'en Juillet 1996 apres de nombreux correctifs exiges par la BIRD .
Parallelement , en vue d'optimiser le projet, il etait necessaire d'apporter des modifications
d'ordre technique relatives a la prise en compte d'investissements non prevus initialement
dans le cahier des charges ( centrale electrique et installations de recuperation des gaz a basse
pression) non prevus initialement dans l'etendu des travaux soumis a la BIRD .Ces
modifications ont eu pour effets une reevaluation de l'estimation du cout en devises du projet
qui passe de 30 a 50 millions $us et une duree de realisation plus longue ( 30 mois ) . Les
modifications apportees au projet ont necessite la revision du cahier des charges et le
lancement d'un deuxieme appel d'offres. SONATRACH etait donc amenee a solliciter la BIRD
pour une prolongation supplementaire de delais des prets BIRD et EXIM jusqu'en I'an 2000.
Cette demande a ete rejetie . Devant cette situation , SONATRACH a decide de renoncer au
financement BIRD et EXIM /J bien que l'opportunit6 de realiser ce projet ait ete maintenue.
d) ConWmosante "Autre assistance technique etformation" comprenant
d.l) Le modele d'optimisation de Dianification: deux contrats pour l'acquisition de logiciels
destins a ila Division PED ont etc imputes sur les credits alloues initialement .
11



d.2) Les eiuinements pidanogigues destines aux Centres de Formation de i'Entreprise ( CPE
Arzew et Alter : les equipements destines au CPE Arzew ont ete totalement acquis  Pour
les equipements du centre d'Alger, le rapport d'evaluation des offres est en cours
d'approbation par la Banque.
d.3) Les actions de formation technique et administrative: dans le cadre du renforcement de
sa capacite manageriale , SONATRACH a soumis a l'approbation de la BIRD, en Janvier
1993,un vaste programme de formation des cadres superieurs . La BIRD a rejete ce
programme de formation considerant que ce programme s'ecarte des objectifs du projet
petrolier et que les procedures de la BIRD pour la selection des bureaux de consultants nlont
pas ete strictement respectees du fait que SONATRACH avait deja engage avec d consultants
etrangers des discussions avant de consulter au prealables la BIRD.
Compte tenu de l'importance de ces actions pour SONATRACH, le programme a ete realise
avec recours a d'autres sources de financement . De ce fait, le montant de la composante
formation a ete donc affecte a d'autres projets .
d.4) Documentation: I'operation se deroule normalement.
d.5) Autres etudes: cette composante comprend essentiellement de l'etude diagnostic des
services petroliers (0,53 million $US) :cette etude executee par CEGOS/BEICIP a ete achevee
.Le rapport final a etc transmis a la BIRD en Octobre 1993.
11 etait egalement envisage des actions de modernisation du systeme informatique de gestion
de SONATRACH , celles ci ont ete lancees dans le cadre d'un vaste programme d'actions de
i'Entreprise sans recourir au financement BIRD.
4) ANALYSE DE LA PERFORMANCE DU PROJET
La performance du projet a ete mesuree sur la base de la methodologie decrite dans le rapport
d'evaluation; a savoir V' impact des projets de recuperation assistee de Mesura/Hourde El
Bague et Amassa, Banque de Donnees Exploration et cabines geologiques sur les activites de
SONATRACH.
4.1) Impact du projet de recuperation assistee Mesdar/Rhourde El Bague:
Les etudes menees par SONATRACH sur lc gisement de Mesura out demontre l'interet d'une
exploitation par injection degs miscible par rapport a une depletion naturelle.
Cette injection devrait perniFre de porter le taux de rcup  tj9n-glebak--de40 a 25 %.Cette
injection a ete mise en ceuvre en 1995 au rythme deA,8 million m3/JJiIe doit etre
accompagnee d'une augmentation du rythme de production ac6tuel44-300J1 a un niveau de
2 400tlj sur les trois annees a venir notamment par des actions de work over permettant une
mise en gas-lift des puits et l'implantation de drains horizontaux dans les puits ferm6s du
secteur ouest du champ.
Le gain de production de petrole brut par injection de gaz miscible est estime a + 18 millions
de tonnes sur une duree de 25 ans, soit une production cumulee de 20,2 millions de tonnes
avec injection de gaz miscible a comparer it 2,2 million,s de tonnes en cas de depletion
naturelle.
a~~~~~~~~~.~ ~ ~ ,



4.2) Impact du pro6et de recuperation assistee d'Amassak
Une simulation preliminaire du reservoir ordovicien avec injection d'eau a ete effectuae par
SONATRACH en 1988. Elie a montre qu'aux conditions du reservoir, la quantite d'eau
necessaire pour maintenir ia pression du reservoir etait de 3 000 m3/j et a donne un taux de
recuperation finale de 21,6%. Le champ a produit en depletion naturelle jusqu'au 11 fevrier
1995, date de mise en service de l'injection d'eau peripherique.
L'injection cumulee au 31 Juillet 1997 a atteint pres de 1,3 million de m3,au lieu de 2,7
millions m3prevus initialement suite aux problemes mecaniques rencontres au niveau du
groupe de pompage. Le profil previsionnel de production qui resulterait de cette injection
d'eau a ete etabli suivant les possibilites actuelles de production avec injection d'eau et cela en
attendant la finalisation d'une nouvelle etude reservoir (qui tiendra compte du dernier modele
geologique du reservoir ou l'huile en place est plus importante, de l'historique de production
depuis 1988, et de l'injection a partir du 11 Fevrier 1995). Cette nouvelle etude permettra
d'optimiser la repartition de l'injection d'eau a travers le reservoir et le profil de production
du champ afin d'obtenir le taux de recuperation optimal.
Le gain de production de petrole brut par injection d'eau est estime a + 3,9 millions de tonnes
sur une duree de 25 ans, soit une production cumulee de 8,7 millions de tonnes avec injection
d'eau a comparer a 4,8 millions de tonnes en cas de depletion naturelle.
4.3) ImpDact do Proet Cabines g_ologigues de Mud Loggin
L'acquisition de cabines informatisees a permis la modernisation du parc de cabines en
remplacant les cabines standard devenues obsoletes par des cabines plus performantes .Ceci
s'est traduit sur le terrain par une amelioration des prestations rendues , d'un apport
qualitatif aux operations de forage et une meilleure prise en charge de la securite de forage.
Avant 1994, les prestations rendues par le CRD en matiere de Mud Logging se limitaient aux
forages realises par SONATRACH seule . Actuellement le CRD effectue des prestations de
Mud Logging pour SONATRACH et pour les societes etrangeres install6es en ALGERIE. La
part de marche en Algerie est ainsi passee de 36% a 74%.
4.4) ImDact du Proiet Banque de Donnees Exploration
La nise en place d'une banque de donnees informatisee relative i l'exploration va permettre,
a travers un systeme moderne de gestion d'informations , I'acces tres rapide ia toutes les
informations (enregistrees depuis de nombreuses annees.) relatives a Ia geologie , la
geophysique et aux caracteristiques des reservoirs traverses par les differents puits
d'exploration et de production..
Elle devra egalement permettre d'augmenter la fiabilite et le nombre de prospects. Ce systeme
d'informations permettant I'acces tres rapide a toutes les informations ainsi que le traitement
et l'interpretation fiables des donnees pourra etre consultee par 1'ensemble des structures de
SONATRACH et par les partenaires etrangers.
13



5) PRINCIPAUX FACTEURS AVANT AFFECTE LE PROJET
Les principaux facteurs avant affecte la realisation des objectifs du Premier Projet Petrolier se
situent essentiellement au niveau
-  de  la conceDtion initiale des composantes du Projet: a 1'exception des projets de
recuperation assistee, les autres composantes du Premier Projet Petrolier representent de
petits operations de nature tres diverses, ce qui a pose le probleme de mise en ceuvre et de
suivi . En effet, une telle conception a induit des delais plus longs dans la mise en place des
procedures de passation de marche et dans la negociation d'une multitude de petits contrats,
ce qui a necessite des movens humains imp77ortants. Alors que SONATRACH avait souhaite
des les premieres discussions menees avec la Banque inclure des composantes de meme nature
telle qu'un programme de Recherche/Exploration , la Banque n'a pas accepte de financer ce
type d'activite juge a haut risque.
- de 1'entree en vigueur tardive de la convention EXIM/J : le retard d'une annee pris dans la
mise en place de la convention de pret EXIM/J (Mars 1993) a eu pour effet un decalage du
planning initial de certaines operations et un faible taux des utilisations sur ce pret (32%).
- des contraintes liees a I'anplication stricte des nrocedures de passation de marche de la
Banque :sur le plan pratique , certaines lenteurs ont ete enregistrees compte tenu des temps
necessaires pour assimiler ces procedures et des difficult6s rencontrees par les structures de
SONATRACH pour etablir les differents projets de cahiers des charges et projets de contrats
dans le strict respect des procedures en vigueur a Ia Banque Mondiale.
Ces proc6dures nous semblent tris contraignantes surtout pour les contrats qui se rapportent
a des petites operations.  Tres souvent les documents d'appel d'offres soumis pas
SONATRACH a l'approbation de la BIRD devaient etre revus et reajustes en fonction des
remarques et observations de la Banque car ils ne se conformaient pas totalement a ses
directives ( surtout au debut de la periode de realisation ) . A titre d'illustration , nous
pouvons cite le rejet par la BIRD de la demande de financement de l'etude de bassin de Sbad
et du programme de formation manageriale de SONATRACH et le refus de la BIRD de
regulariser les depenses anterieures des forages de puits i Mesdar et Amassak,
- des contraintes inherentes au financement mixte (co-financement ) de certaines onerations:
durant 1'execution du projet, il a ete constate que la realisation d'une operation financee par
le pret BIRD et co-financee par le pret EXIM/J a ete perturbee par les decalages d'entree en
vigueur des conventions de prets. De plus, un projet cofinanee est expose au risque de ne pas
disposer de la totalite des cridits si une des conventions ne peut aboutir pour une raison
quelconque . A signaler, cependant que le fait d'avoir obtenu un delai de validit6
supplementaire d'une annee pour le pret EXIM/J va permettre a SONATRACH de realiser
certaines operations jugees necessaires.
- du faible niveau d'alimentation du compte special pour le pret EXIM /J : l'obligation faite a
SONATRACH de regler les depenses relatives aux operations financees par le pret EXIM/J
par le biais du compte special EXIM/J a pose souvent le probleme de l'insuffisance de la
provision alimentant ce compte, ceci a pose quelques difficultes a SONATRACH pour
honorer rapidement les creances , c'est ainsi que SONATRACH a ete souvent amenee i
effectuer certains paiements sur ses fonds propres . A la demande de SONATRACH, une
augmentation du piafond d'alimentation du compte special EXIMJJ a finalement ete op6ree en
1996.



6) ANALYSE DES PERFORMANCES DE LA BANQUE ET DE
L'EMPRUNTEUR
La performance de la Banque peut etre evaluee au niveau des phases de la preparation et de
la supervision du Projet .En ce qui concerne la preparation du Projet: plusieurs missions de
la Banque se sont derouliees a Alger des 1989, des reunions se sont tenues dans des bonnes
conditions de collaboration entre les experts de la Banque et les responsables de structures de
SONATRACH pour la definition des differentes composantes constituant le projet.
Le Projet a ete supervise par la Banque d'une maniere soutenue sur toute la duree du pret
BIRD. Six (06) missions de suivi ont ete effectuees par la Banque .Durant ces missions, les
experts de la Banque n'ont pas manque d'apporter conseils et assistance aux structures de
SONATRACH pour la realisation des objectifs du Projet . C'est d'ailleurs suite aux missions
de supervision que la Banque a etudie positivement les demandes de SSONATRACH pour Ia
reaffectation des reliquats des prets disponibles et la demande de prorogation d'une annee de
la duree de validite de ces prets. Ce qui a permis a SONATRACH d'achever les operations en
cours de realisation et d'engager de nouveaux contrats . La Banque a egalement soutenu
toutes les deimarches de SONATRACH aupres de l'EXIM/J .Toutefois la position de la
Banque a quelque peu manque de flexibilite en matiere de procedures de passation de
marches . Elle slest montre souvent intransigeante dans leurs application stricte quelque soit
la nature de l'operation..
En ce qui concerne l'Emprunteur, malgre quelques  retards accuses par quelques
composantes au demarrage du Projet dus notamment a 1'entree en vigueur tardive du pret
EXIM/J, SONATRACH a pu reunir toutes les conditions techniques, organisationnelles et
mime financieres afin d'atteindre les objectifs assignes au Projet. C'est ainsi que la quasi
totalite des operations importantes ont ete achevees dans de tres bonnes conditions et dans les
delais prevus . Ainsi, la mise en service dans les delais des projets de recuperation assistee de
Amassak et de Mesdar (qui constituent 60 % du pret BIRD) constitue un bon exemples de
parfaite reussite. En outre, SONATRACH a totalement honore ses engagements financiers
envers la Banque en matiere de ratios d'endettement et de couverture du service de la dette
pour chacun des exercices qui ont ete superieurs aux niveaux convenus dans I'accord de-pret.
De plus, SONATRACH a veille a communiquer regulierement a la Banque les rapports
d'audit etablis par un cabinet d'audit independant (agree par Ia Banque) des compte du
projet et des comptes de SONATRACH que les perspectives financieres et le plan de
developpement A moyen terme actualises et toute autre information demandee par la Banque.
A ce sujet, il y a lieu de rappeler que des 1990, SONATACH a mis en place en collaboration
avec les experts de la Banque un modele informatique de simulation des perspectives
financieres, les applications issues de ce modele ulterieurement developpe et adapte par
SONATRACFH pour tenir compte des besoins de la Banque sont jugees tres satisfaisant par la
Banque.
Au vue de ces faits, nous considerons que l'Emprunteur a parfaitement rempli ses
engagements contractuels et a reuni les conditions necessaires pour mener a terme le projet.
-J'



7) PERENNITE DU PROJET
Au vu des resultats positifs constates a l'issue de la realisation des projets de recuperation
secondaire, de la banque de donnees et les cabines geologiques , nous pouvons considerer la
viabilite du Premier Projet Petrolier comme certaine. L'exploitation future du Premier Projet
Petrolier ne doit pas etre apprehendee en tant que projet independant car il s'insere dans le
cadre du plan de developpement global de SONATRACH resultant des objectifs strategiques
du secteur notamment:
- renouvellement des reserves recuperables par 1'exploration et par des actions d'EOR sur,les
gisements en developpement: les etudes de bassins conflees aux partenaires etrangers et celles
prises en charges par SONATRACH ainsi que le projet banque de donnees exploration
contribuent a atteindre cet objectif
- augmentation des exportations du gaz et des hydrocarbures liquides associes :Ies projets de
recuperation secondaire de Mesdar/Rhourde El Baguel et d'Amassak contribuent a
I'augmentation de la production avec un impact sur 1' augmentation des recettes
d'exportations du petrole brut.
- Renforcement des capacites de realisation et de management pour reduire les delais
ameliorer l'efficacite et minimiser les couts Ales plans de redressement pour chaque entreprise
de services petroliers elabore sur la base des resultats de l'6tude de restructuration de ces
services constituent les moyens devant contribuer a realiser cet objectif .
8) PRINCIPALES LE(ONS
A la lumiere de l'execution du Projets les leqons suivantes sont a retenir:
- ,1 est recommande d'inscrire a l'avenir des composantes homogenes et d'eviter une
multitude de petites operations dont la mise en aeuvre engendre souvent des retards compte
tenu du volume important des dossiers de passation de marches necessitant une mobilisation
de moyens humains pour le suivi et la supervision des fournisseurs et contractants,
- la Banque devrait montrer une certaine souplesse dans l'application des procedures de
passation de marche en fonction de la nature de chaque operation,
- dans l'attribution des marches, a prix /qualite egale , il est indispensable de favoriser la sous
traitante locale.
- la Banque et a l'Emprunteur devraient etablir des contacts directs plus frequents a travers
notamment les missions de suivi; une mission de suivi par an nous semble insuffisante.
16



-   -                                  l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I~               DUIM                           IATE
I~ABEU  STTSTQE






TABLEAU l:                   RESUME DE L'EVALUATION
|A. Realisation des objectifs T Importante i Partielle  Negligeable  Sans objet
IPoliliques ncacrw-o
|eonomiques                _           _
Politiques secioriels
Objecifts financiers           X 
DeLveltoppenenI instimluionnel        i
Olbecuifs materiefs            X 
.4Alhgemeni de la pauvrete
Ouestions relatives aux sexes
A utre objec#ifsociaux
Obhjeciif.s environnementaux    X
Gestion secteur public          X               I
developpemeni secteur priie                     I
B. Perennite du projet   Vraisemblable Invraisemblable  Incertaine
Exploiiation et politique,        X
C .Performance de ia        Hautement          Satisfaisante  Deficiente
Banque                      satisfaisante
Identification                                       X
Assi.stance a la preparation                         X
Evaluation
ISupervisvion                _ _ _   _ _ _ __X               I _ _ _ _ _
D. Performance de           Hautement          Satisfaisante  Deficiente
I'Emprunteur                satisfaisante
Preparation                                          X
Execution                                            X
Cofnformiti aux clauses             X
juridiques                                     I _
Exploilalionfinure                                   X
E. Evaluation des resultats   Hautement   Satisfaisante  Insatisfaisante  Hautement
satisfaisante                              insatisfaisante
17



TABLEAU 2: CALENDRIER DU PROJET
Etapes du cycle de projet  J     Date reelle
Identification               1989/1990
Preparation                 1989/1990
Evaluation             Jan vier /Fivrier 1990
Nigociations                A vril 1991
Presentation au conseil
Signature                 02Aouit 1991
Entree en vigueur             02 A vril 1992
Amendement # I           Restructuration du couit
(1995)
Amendement # 2         Prolongation de dtlai (1996)
Achevement du projet          30 Octobre 1998
Cloture du prit BIRD           30 Juin 1997
Cloture du prit EXIMIJ         30 Octobre 1998
Dernier decaissement          30 octobre 1998
'B



TABLEAU 3:  ETUDES INCLUSES DANS LE PROJET
I NO       Etudes    T    Objectifs definis a l'evaluation    Statut  I mpactde
I  | Etudes de     Mlener des eItudes exhaustives sur les En cours Importante
Bassins       Bassins   dans les zones priorilaires
selectionnis(  Bassins  IliJi,  Ahnet
Constantine el Chelif)
C'e programme d'e;tudes devait idenmifier
les  nouvelles perspectives en matiere
D'exploration   pour   permettre   ti
SONA TRA C'H   de    developper   Ic
partenarial e;tranger dans le domaine
d'exploralion. Des modificalions onl e;e
apporites au programme initial dont une
partie a ete; confiee aux partenaires
ctrangers   de   SONA TRA 'H    . Le
programme actuel porte sur trois etudes
suivantes  Illi( i . Bechar et Ahnet).
2   Etude de       C'eule elude vise la restructuralion des Achevee  Important
rentabilite des  entreprises  de  services petroliers  en
entreprises    Algerie. Elle a porte'  sur  les  cinq
para           enlreprises algeriennes ENAGEO. ENTP.
pe'trofie'ress en  ENGTP. ENAFOR . ei ENSP. elle a &tWdie
Algerie       les domaines suivants: dianostic aspects
in.stilulionnels     juridiques    et
recommandations.
3   Etude sur le    Doit delerminer la faisabilie d'un projet Achevee  Important
pilote de     pilote de recuperation tertiaire au niveau
Zarzaitine    du gisement de Zarzaitine.
19



TABLEAU 4: INDICATEURS CLES DE L'EXECUTION DU
PROJET DE MESDAR
Indicateurs d'exicution annonces          Estimes            Reels
dans le rapport d'evaluation
Projet recuperation secondaire de
Mesdar
Lancemenl des trav'aux ingrnierie el    (Octobre 1991   Octobre 1991
Iburniture des equipemenis 
Achevement des travaux ingenierie el     Aozil 1994      D&cembre 1994
fiourniture des equipe(me(nis
Dibul supervision ( centrale Meocirique eti    Mars 1994  Mars 1994
Usine                                    _ |
Achevement supervision                   'Aoiii 1994     Decembre 1994
Debut passation de marches
Achivemeni passation de marches
Dehbul des travaux de construction       Aoait 1992      Aoui^ 1992
Achevement des travaux de conslruction    D&embre 1993 Juin 1994
B. Projet recuperation Amassak
Lancemenr des Iramaux ingMnierie         Avril 1992      Avril 1992
Achevement des travaux ingenierie         Janvier 1993    Juin 1993
Debut supervision pendant ic dcWmarratge  Seplembre 1993 Fivrier 1994
AchIvemeni supervision pendant Ic        Juillet 1994    Janvier 1995
dimarrage                    .
Debul passation de marches
Achevement pavsation de march/iA
Dibut.fourniture des iquipements          Juin 1992      Juinl992
Achevement fourniture des equipements     Mai 1993        Aoutt 1993
Debut des travaux de construction         Novembre 1992 Novembre 1993
Achevement des travaux de construction    Janvier 1994    Novembre 1994
2C



TABLEAU 5:  FINANCEMENT DU PROJET
(en millions SUS)
Estimation a l'evaluation    Financement reel
I_______________________    (derniere estimation)
SOURCES                  Monnai Devise  Total Monnaie  Devise    Total
e locale                locale
BIRD                         0      100.0  100.0      0       90 -    90.7
EXIMIJ                      13.4    63.4    7                  76.8    6.8    76.8
FONDS SONA TRACH           27.5       0     27.5    36.         0      36.7
CREDITS LOCA UX            28.2      ()    28,2       0         0        0
CREDITS FRANCAIS             0       _                0 __                7
(CFP)
TOTAL             69, 1    171,1  240,2   36,7       175,2   211,9
f     PRET BIRD                90,7
PRET EXIMIJ              76, 8
TOTAL PRETS              167,5
21



PREMIER PROJET PETROLIER
Point de situation des consommations des cr6dits BIRD et JEXIM au 31 Mars 1997
________ _________ _ __  _ -En millions SUS
FINANCEMENT BIRD                                          FINANCEMENT EXIMBANK JAPAN        ___
COMPOSANTES               -FINANCEMENT  UTIIUSATIONS   RESTE A UTILISER         CREDIT    FINANCEMENY  UTILISATIONS   RESTE A UTILISER    RELIQUAt
AU 31/03/1997     AU 3110311997     NON UTILISE                 AU 31103/1997     AU 31/0311997    A REAFFECTER
1- Assist. tech.promotion *xdloration
Etude do bassin AHNET ( EXP)                 3,0            0,0               0,0               3,0          0,0            0,0                0,0
Etude de bassin ILLIZI (EXP)                 0,4            0,0               0,0              0,4           3,0            0,0                3.0
Etude do bassin BECHAR (EXP)^                1,6            0,0               0,0              16           0,0            0,0               0,0
Banque de donn6es expl.et stat.de travail (EXP)  0,0        000               0,0              0,0           16,5           14,6               1,9
Equlpements Informatiques (CRDI              1,5           08                0,7              0,0           0,0            0,0                0,0
Assistance technique ( EXP)                  0,1            0,1               000              0,0            0,0           0,0                0,0
20 Cabines geologlques (CRD)                 0,0            000               0,0              0,0            8,7           7,4                1,3
SlTotal 1    6,6           09                0,7              5,0           28,2          22,0               6,2
2- Assistance technique supervision forage
Equipements informatiques (FOR)               1,5           1,0               0,5               0,0           0,0           0,0                0,0
Slmulateur Forage                             1,8           1,5               0,3               0,0           0,0            0,0               0,0
S/total2    3,3            2,5               0,8              0,0            0,0           0,0                0,0
3- Production /De6vlooDement
Gaz associ6s Gassi Toull ( ENC )*             2,3           0,0               0,0               2,3          29,5            0,0               0,0              29,5
Injection daau Amassak ( ENC )               10,5           9,7               0,8               0,0           0,0            0,0               0,0
injection de gaz MesdarlBaguel ( ENC)        S1i6           51i5              0,1               0,0           0,0            0,0               0,0
R6cuprdtlon tertlalre Z.rziltine ^*           0,0           0,0               0,0               0,0          8e5             0,4               0,0              8,1
Equipements iformatiques 4 PED                0,8           0,8               0,0               0,0           0,4            0,4               0,0
S/Total     65,2           62,0              0,9               2,3           38,4           0,6               0,0
4-Atr assistance technique et formation
Modble d optimisation planif.                 1,0           0,4               0,0               0,6           0,0            0,0               0,0
Equipemnts centres de formation               1,4           0,0               0,0               1,4           1,3            0,0               1,3
Documentation                                 0,0           0,0               0,0               0,0           1,0            0,3               0,7
Autre Etudes                                  0,5           0,S               0,0               0,0           0,0            0,0               0,0
S/Total4     2,9            0,9              0,0               2,0           2,3            0,3               2,0
lIntrits Intercalairs y compris les commission  22,0        22,0              0,0               0,0           8,0            1,4               0,0               6,6
et fuahls enpgamonts
Total GIn6ral    100,0         88,3               2,4              9,3           76,9           24,6              8,1              44,2
*Op6ration maintenue, * financer en totalUt par le pret EXIlUJ
Projet annul6



EVOLUTION DES COUTS DES COMPOSANTES
AU 30 JUIN 1997 en millions SUS
Estimation a 1'evaluation                Cout reel                           Ecart               Variation
COMPOSANTES                                        Devises    Dinars       Total     Devises    Dinars       Total      Dinars    Devises       Total       %
1- Assistance technique promotion exploration
A- Etude de bassin 8echar (en rempl.S.E.Const.)          1,4        0,2         1,6        1,6          0         1,6        -0.2        0,2           0
B- Etude de bassin Ahnet                                 2,1        0,1         2,2          3          0           3        -0, 1       0,9         0,8
C-Etude de bassin Ililzi                                 2,6        0,2         2,8        3,4          0         3,4        -0,2        0,8         0,6
D-Etude de Bassin nappes orientales (en remp.Chdlif)     1,9        0,2         2,1          0          0           0        -0,2       -1,9        -2,1
E-Autres 6tudes de Bassins                               7,8        0,4         8,2          0          0           0        -0,4       -7,8        -8,2
F- Banque de donnees exploration et station de travail    8         0,2         8,2       16,5         0,9       17,4         0,7        8,5         9,2
G- Equipements informatiques (CRD)                       1,5          0         1,5        1,5           0        1,5          0           0           0
H- Assistance technique experts                          1,4        0,3         1,7          0           0          0        -0,3       -1,4        -1,7
I- Negociation /Assistance technique I Expl.)            0,5        0,1         0,6        0,1           0        0,1        -0,1       -0,4        -0,5
J- Cabines g6ologiques                                  10,3         -0        10,3        8,7           0         8,7          0        -1,6       -1,6
S/Total 1                                               37,5         1,7       39,2       34,8         0,9        35,7       -0,8        -2,7       -3,5   -0,09
2- Assistance techniaue supervision forage
A- Assistance technique CFP (pour m6molre)               7,7         0,4        8,1
B- Equipement lnformatique                               1,2          0         1,2        1,5           0         1,5          0         0,3        0,3
C- Simulateur Forage                                       1          0           1         1,8          0         1,8          0         0,8         0,8
Stotal 2                                                 9,9         0,4       10,3         3,3          0         3,3       -0,4        -6,6         -7   -0,68
3- Production ID6veloppement
A-injection deau Amassak (Surface)                       7,9         2,8       10,7        10,5          7        17,5        4,2         2,6         6,8
B- Injecton d'eau Amassak (Forage)                       7,9        10,2       18,1          0           0          0        -10,2      -10,2       -18,1
B-Injecton de gaz Meadar/Baguel (Surface)               56,2        30,7       86,9        51,6         10        61,6      -20,7        -4,6       -25,3
B-Injection de gaz Mesdar/Baguel (Forage)                2,9          4         6,9          0           0          0          -4        -2,9        -6,9
C-Rdcup6ration tertlaire Zeraltine                       8,4         1,4        9,8         8,5          0         8,5       -1,4         0,1        -1,3
D-Equipements informatiques PED                          1,9          0         1,9         1,2          0         1,2          0        -0,7        -0,7
F- R6cup6ration des gaz associ6s Gassi Touil               0          0           0        31,8       10,1        41,9       10,1        31,8       41.9
S/Total 3                                               85,2        49,1      134,3       103,6       27,1       130,7        -22        18,4        -3,6   -0,03
4-Autre assistance technique et formation
B-Modile d'optimisation                                  1,8         0,1        1,9          1           0           1        -0,1       -0,8        -0.9
C-Equipements centres de formation ( CPEet ALGER)        1,2         4,8          6         2,6         8,7       11,3         3,9        1,4         5,3
D-FormTation technique et management                     2,2         0,3        2,5                      0           0        -0,3       -2,2        -2,5
E-Documentation                                            1          0           1          1           0           1          0           0          0
F-Autres Etudes                                          2,4         0,3        2,7         0,5          0         0,5        -0,3       -1.9        -2,2
SlTotal 4                                                8,6        535        14,1         5,1        8,7        13,8         3,2       -3,5        -0,3
0
5-int6rets Intercalaires et                             29,6        12,7       42,3         30           0          30       -12,7        0,4       -12.3   -0,29
(commissions . frais d'engagements)                                                _                                  .            __    _  _        _______
Total G6n6ral                                          170,8        69,4      240,2       176,8        36,7      213,5       -32 7 3 _____  6       -26,7 _-0,11
.,. t






MAP SECTION






IBRD 22406
5'                       I                                                                                         0'dg
sa               A
[LAiN "I /c-harsl                                                                                   M Sia            EaKh,eI          I
OROrC  CCENTRALPCOENA                           N                              /
rX~~~~ BAI STUDIE                                         \                         r-                       B0r 
{:i:'t s.    EXPLORATION PERMITS                                      AT                                                  ,
b1  OIL F-D
o    SELECTED TOWNS ANDVILLA-CFPTOTAL
.pE9abo,    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~THAAR&
---~~~~~~~~~ INERAIOA  BONARE                                                         ;              --ord 0          00     20       0 ,,,dMm,,wlas
30'  '-a--ILOMETER5                                       m rsanmlora qe3
N.,~~~~~~~~~~~~4                                                                                   .,,
A L G E R I A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lML o'h
N  XPLORTION  ERMIT
N,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A 19./eA 
OINIED
Now  ASFED
ITRATLIGENRL BONARE                                                                                                  Ip      20 N,0
EXPLORATION PERMITS        N,                                                                              a-'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILMEER
OIL FIELDS                "N                                                             -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MY 99



