Report No. PIC3995
Project Name                   Sierra Leone-Recovery and      ro) N
Reintegration Project
Region                         Africa
Sector                         Multi-Sector
Project ID                     SLPA40649
Borrower                       Republic of Sierra Leone
Beneficiaries                  Ex-combatants, internally displaced
persons and refugees
Implementing Agency            Ministry of National Reconstruction,
Resettlement and Rehabilitation (MNRRR)
Date initial PID prepared      June 24, 1996
Date of this PID               January 13, 1997
Projected Appraisal Date       January 27, 1997
Projected Board Date           April 1997
1.   Background and Impact of the Civil War.   After five years of civil
unrest, Sierra Leone is undergoing a transition from war to peace. On
March 29, 1996, following free and fair elections, a civilian President
assumed took over power from the previous military rulers. At about the
same time, the principal rebel group (RUF) announced a cease - fire and
began direct negotiations with the Government of Sierra Leone (GOSL).
Subsequent to talks in Yamoussoukro, held under the auspices of the UN
and the Ivory Coast Government, GOSL and RUF signed a comprehensive
Peace Agreement on November 30, 1996. Both sides agreed to a total
cessation of hostilities and since have set up a broad- based Commission
for the Consolidation of Peace to supervise and monitor implementation
of the Peace Agreement. The Government is currently making good
progress in re-establishing its administration in rural areas previously
not accessible, and the prospects for lasting peace are positive.
2.   The social disruption and the economic costs caused by the unrest
have been tremendous. The conflict has claimed the lives of several
thousand citizens. Out of a total population of 4.7 million, up to 2
million have been internally displaced in the course of the conflict,
and approximately 350,000 are refugees in neighboring countries.
Substantive damage has been caused to the productive sectors, in
particular agriculture and mining, thereby greatly reducing the
Government's revenue earning capacity. Significant public
infrastructure has been destroyed, or has deteriorated due to lack of
maintenance. Delivery of basic social services has largely ceased in
rural areas outside the Western Province.
3.   Government and Donors' Response.    The GOSL has clearly recognized
that demobilization and the resettlement and subsequent social and
economic reintegration of ex-combatants, internally displaced persons
(IDPs) and refugees, are crucial for achieving lasting peace, stability



and economic growth. The GOSL, with support from the UNDP Resident
Representative / UN Humanitarian Coordinator, has prepared and submitted
in September 1996 a Program for Resettlement, Rehabilitation,
Reconstruction and Recovery, which was submitted to the international
community at a Roundtable Conference in September 1996. The Peace
Agreement builds on that program and recognizes 'that there is a socio-
economic dimension to the conflict which must also be addressed in order
to consolidate the foundation of peace.
4.   On-going donor assistance is currently focusing focussing mainly on
maintaining food security (USAID, WFP), strengthening the institutional
capacity of the MNRRR which is mandated to coordinate reconstruction and
resettlement activities (UNDP), and supporting efforts to demobilize ex-
combatants. ODA has approved a Pilot Demobilization and Re-Integration
Program for up to 3,000 ex-combatants and their families. However, any
failure within the immediate post conflict period of (about 2-3 years)
to make rapid progress on economic recovery and reconstruction, as well
as and social reintegration, could contribute to a renewed cycle of
violence and destruction.
5.   Post-conflict transition is to be the central theme of the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) over the next few years. (see 1/)
To this end the proposed ERC would be but one vehicle tofor addressing
this issue. At the same time, the existing portfolio has been reviewed
and the lending program modified to provide additional resources for
reconstruction and reintegration. Thus, the Agriculture Sector Support
Project (Cr.15010 Xxxx-SL) is will being formally restructured to provide
additional resources to address the needs of the returnees, while the
transport (Cr.28950 XXXX-SL) and health sector (Cr.28270 XXXX-SL) projects
are flexible enough to take account of the changing situation. The
preparation of a the proposed education project will be accelerated.
6.   Therefore, the proposed ERC is part of a phased strategy, which is
summarized in the following table:
Phases of Intervention in Sierra Leone
Targets                Programs        Instruments              Events
1 Ex-Combatants      Demobilization    ODA and other        Bilateral
donor assistance     assistance,
ongoing
2 Returnees          Reintegration     Portfolio Re-      UNDP Round
/Reconstruction   structuring/ ERC   Table, IDA
pre-appraisal
mission
3 The Poor       Development/Poverty    Investment          CG/CAS
Reduction              projects
The first phase is focusing on creating the preconditions for
resettlement, notably through demobilization of ex-combatants, starting
with the RUF rebels. It is being financed primarily through an ODA
pilot operation, the restructuring of bilateral programs and UN
resources. Donor involvement in this phase is being solidified through
an on-going consultation process in Sierra Leone. The second phase
would focus on the reinsertion and reintegration of returnees (ex-
- 2 -



combatants, the internally displaced, and refugees), based on the GOSL's
Resettlement, Rehabilitation, Reconstruction and Recovery Program. This
will require additional funding of about US$ 231 million from donors
(including the Bank) and was fully pledged at the Geneva Roundtable
meeting. The proposed ERC and the funding coming from restructuring our
existing portfolio would constitute the Bank's contribution to the
financing of this short-term quick action phase. Finally, the third
phase would effect a transition from short-term, transitional programs
to longer-term development and poverty reduction. This transition will
be the focus of the next CAS and could be financed through standard
investment projects.
7.   Rationale for IDA Involvement.   With the signing three weeks ago of
a peace agreement signaling the end of the civil war in Sierra Leone, it
is our feeling that a unique 'window of opportunity' has opened up for
the Government to get Sierra Leone's economic and social development
back on track. But this development has also raised expectations about
the Government's ability to tackle the enormous post-war reconstruction
effort facing the country and to achieve some early successes quickly in
(a) resettling much of the large refugee population encamped largely in
and around Freetown, (b) repairing on at least a preliminary basis key
elements of the country's rural infrastructure, (c) restoring some
semblance of rural health care services and educational instruction, and
(d) providing material inputs as well as financial and other incentives
to Sierra Leonean farmers sufficient to induce them to return to their
fields and to resume their agricultural growing activities.
8.   If, inter alia, because of lack of timely and commensurate donor
assistance, early successes cannot be achieved, we fear that the current
high expectations for and overall confidence in the Government will be
replaced by cynical skepticism and sullen lethargy on the part of rank
and file Sierra Leoneans. Thus, the 'window of opportunity' will have
passed. And the ability of the Kabba government to effect a key element
in the country's recovery and long term economic potential, namely,
motivating the Sierra Leonean people to put the civil war behind them,
and to rebuild their local institutions/communities and their productive
assets will have been made much more difficult, if not impossible. This
is the context in which the Bank's intervention should be seen.
9.   IDA is a leading player in Sierra Leone in the agriculture,
education, health and infrastructure sectors, and has ongoing credits in
all these sectors (with the exception of education where a PPF advance
is in place). Furthermore, IDA is also supporting macro-economic reform
in Sierra Leone with a Structural Adjustment Credit. IDA is therefore
uniquely positioned to support the Government's demobilization and
resettlement effort with the proposed Reconstruction and Poverty
Reduction Project. Also, IDA involvement is favored by the amount of
resources required at short notice, the poverty focus and the need to
monitor the macro-economic impact of the process.
10. Program Objectives. The centerpiece of the GOSL's Resettlement,
Rehabilitation, Reconstruction and Recovery Program is a two-year Quick
Action Program (QUAP) that focuses essentially on demobilization and
reintegration of ex-combatants, resettlement of IDPs and refugees, and
restoration of basic social infrastructure. Other important elements of
- 3 -



the QUAP are peace-building and reconciliation, enhancement of security
measures, sound macro-economic management and support programs that
foster and enabling environment for overall social and economic
stability.
11. Project Objectives. The ERC would support the Government's
Resettlement, Rehabilitation, Reconstruction and Recovery Program. The
project would thereby help those most affected by the rebel war to
return to normal productive life.
12. Project Description. The project is expected to have the following
components:
Support to returnees (ex-combatants, IDPs and refugees) to assist
their resettlement and reintegration through the establishment of
a temporary safety net (food security) coupled with support for
starting economic production and rehabilitation (inter alia, inputs
to farmers such as seeds, tools and training and support for
rehabilitation of housing, physical and community infrastructure);
Restoration of basic social services through labor-intensive small
works to restore critical social infrastructure and the provision
of medicine, vaccines, books and other needed public health and
education supplies;
Support for administration, particularly at the regional level most
affected by civil war, notably through assistance to MNRRR in
efficiently carrying out its mandate. This would include the
establishment of a temporary implementation unit with the necessary
technical expertise for coordinating and managing all resettlement
and reconstruction activities. Additional support may also be
provided to the GOSL to reestablish administration at the District
level.
13. Project Financing. The total in cost of the project over the next
24 months is are estimated to amount to US$ 16.5 million. The IDA
Credit would provide US$ 15.0 million, with the Government and the
beneficiaries providing the balance. The Government would contribute in
the form of counterpart funding and provision of operational
expenditures of the relevant ministries involved, while the communities'
contribution would be exclusively in kind.
14. Project Implementation and Donor Coordination. The GOSL has given
the newly created Ministry of National Reconstruction, Resettlement and
Reconstruction (MNRRR) responsibility for coordinating all related
activities. MNRRR is expected to have a finite life and operate mainly
through contractual employees, and but will not be directly responsible
for implementation. Given the emergency nature of the proposed project,
maximum use will be made of existing implementation capacity.
Therefore, implementation of sub-projects and specific activities will
rest with the implementation partners, mainly non-governmental
organizations (NGOs), but also existing project units and line
ministries.
15. The project coordination unit (Resettlement and Reconstruction
- 4 -



Program Office (RRPO)) to be created would work under the guidance of
the Ministry's Executive Director in close cooperation with the
ODA-financed Demobilization Program Office (DPO), both under the guidance
of the Ministry's Executive Director, and liaise closely with line
ministries. The personnel of the implementation unit would be
competitively recruited on performance based, fixed-term contracts.
16. Overall donor coordination would be provided by the Ministry's
Relief Coordination Unit in cooperation with UNDP and UN-DHA. Overall
responsibility for development planning would remain with the Ministry
of Planning and Economic Development, and line ministries would maintain
responsibility for sector policy.
17. Project Design and Sustainability. The MNRRR has been given
Cabinet rank to demonstrate the Government's commitment and to give it
political clout. However, the 'ministry' itself consists aost
exclusively of contractual employees. The focus of MNRRR is the
management and monitoring of the Government's Program for Resettlement,
Rehabilitation, Reconstruction and Recovery, while implementation would
rest with with the designated implementing partners. The rationale is
that the GOSL has realized that its civil service does not have the
institutional capacity to implement, on its own, a program which is time
sensitive and of great logistical complexity. The successful
implementation of the program will impact greatly on the confidence in
the newly created Government to live up to expectations and, in
particular, to honor the spirit of the peace accord. The capacity of
the different line ministries to implement such an investment program
within a short time period is limited (more so for education and health,
less for agriculture and roads), bringing with it the danger that
existing inequalities between sectors may be perpetuated. Finally,
there is no need to build up permanent capacity within line ministries
for what is expected to be a once in a lifetime exercise.
18. Lessons from Previous Bank/IDA Involvement. The project design is
based on experience gained, and best practices developed, in a number of
IDA financed demobilization and reintegration programs in Sub-Saharan
Africa, most notably in Uganda, Mozambique, and Namibia. Successful
programs are based on the understanding that demobilization,
resettlement and reintegration are not distinct phases but rather a
seamless continuum of transition from war to peace. Also, success
depends not only on the target groups' financial and human capital, but
also on the community's physical and social capital. Essential elements
of a such a program include: (i) strong political will and leadership
and a commitment to national reconciliation; (ii) classification of
target groups to account for their different needs (for example: women
and child soldiers, the disabled, IDPs, etc.); (iii) neutral
international monitors during demobilization to facilitate trust and
confidence building; (iv) a minimum transitional assistance package to
provide a temporary safety net during reinsertion; (v) simplicity in
delivery; (vi) central coordination by one agency with overall
responsibility, balanced by decentralizing implementing authority to the
communities and districts; (vii) timely availability of donor resources
and close coordination between Government, donors, NGOs and communities;
and (viii) a stable macro-economic policy.
- 5-



19. Issues and Actions. Any large scale resettlement and reintegration
exercise depends on close cooperation between the Government, NGOs,
beneficiaries and all major donors. Both in preparing and implementing
the proposed Resettlement and Reintegration Project IDA would link
closely with other partners, in particular AfDB, EU, GTZ, ODA, UNDP, and
UN-DHA, as well as with the NGOs. The identification/pre-appraisal
mission, fielded in August 1996, was a joint mission and, similarly, the
appraisal mission will comprise and/or collaborate with representatives
of the above mentioned organizations.
20. The project design should be flexible to allow the project to
respond to changing demand over time. Furthermore, the project should
take account of existing institutional structures for implementation -
without sacrificing efficiency - and be open for funding from additional
donors. The latter issue is being discussed with ODA and AfDB who both
are expected to actively participate at appraisal. It is anticipated
that the project will be presented to the Board in April 1997, shortly
after the CG meeting, and be effective in May 1997.
21. The detailed disbursement and contracting arrangements for the
project - key to expeditious implementation - are remain to be
determined at appraisal. In Sierra Leone, both the GOSL/EU Micro
Projects Program (attached to the National Authorizing Office) and the
Sierra Leone Roads Authority (SLRA) have been successful in monitoring
and supervising a large number of small contracts, and both share key
features such as a large degree of autonomy, professionalism, and
private sector salaries. The question will be how to repeat that
success: setting up an implementation unit within MNRRR with technical
support from the Public Sector Management Support Project (Cr.
24350XXXX-SL) - the current arrangement for the administration of the
PPF advance - or, contracting responsibility for disbursement and
administration out to the SLRA, or some other arrangement.
22   Environmental Aspects.   The proposed project is not expected to
have any significant negative environmental impact. However, the return
of a large number of IDPs and refugees to their former villages and
farms will undoubtedly pose a challenge in environmental terms. As
pointed out in Sierra Leone's National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP),
an institutional framework for addressing environmental concerns is
currently missing. Therefore, the project has been rated a Category A
project and thus will require the preparation of an environmental
assessment. The detailed requirements will be determined during
appraisal.
23.  Program Objective Categories (POC). The project falls under the
poverty reduction POC. Since the proportion of the poor among the
project beneficiaries would be greater than among the general
population, and since it contains a targeted poverty reduction program
(the support to returnees component), it would therefore also be part of
the Program of Targeted Interventions. Women and child soldiers would
receive particular attention.
24. Participatory Approach. Overall program framework is based on the
results of a series of participatory needs assessments carried out by
the Ministry of Planning and Economic Development. Micro-projects to be
- 6 -



financed under the project would be demand driven, and implementation
would be delegated to NGOs to the extent possible.
Project Benefits.   Direct beneficiaries of the project would be an
estimated 10,000 ex-combatants and their families, as well as up to
500,000 IDPs and refugees, whose resettlement will have been
facilitated. These direct beneficiaries will also have been provided
with assistance such as tools, seeds, materials and training, to
increase their economic productivity and to facilitate their economic
reintegration. Indirectly, via improved social infrastructure, it is
expected that a much larger proportion of the population in the rural
areas would benefit from the project. (see 2/)
26. Project Risks. Security is likely to remain an issue for some
time, due both to the presence of armed 'bandits' and the possibility of
'spill-overs' from the armed factions in neighboring Liberia. To
counter this threat project preparation will be coupled with discussions
with other donors with a view to developing parallel security measures
(the nature of which remains to be determined). Weak implementation
capacity poses another risk, which will be countered to the extent
possible by working with existing agencies with a good track record and
by working through contractual employees under performance contracts.
A third risk is that of poor coordination between actors. This risk is
to be mitigated by working very closely with other agencies (notably
UNDP and ODA). Finally, there is a risk that the peace process will
collapse, in which case the project would be put on hold until the
process gets back on track.
1/   The new CAS for Sierra Leone is scheduled for Board presentation on
June 17, 1997 on February 18, 1997, together with the proposed Sierra
Leone Structural Adjustment Credit II.
2/   Increased security and social stability resulting from this credit
would have the additional benefit of permitting the resumption of
onchocerciasis control operations in Sierra Leone. This is of regional
importance because Sierra Leone is a major source of reinvasion of
infected blackflies, and hence transmission of the disease, to other
parts of the control program area, notably Guinea, Cote d'Ivoire and
even Mali.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending January 24, 1997.
- 7 -



